00:00:01.240 - 00:00:46.335, Speaker A: Okay. All right, so now I'm super happy to be able to introduce David Besanta coming to us from Moffitt Cancer Center. And we're excited to hear about defining selection in somatic evolution by modeling tumor stromal interactions. Thanks, Jasmine, and thanks, Dominic, for the invitation to be here. It's my second time in Toronto, by the way. The first time I left lots of memories here, and I mean that literally because I bought a new brand camera and I left it here before I had to go back to Tampa. So if anyone finds a really old Sony DSC100, it had eight pixels, I think, really good camera.
00:00:46.335 - 00:01:09.067, Speaker A: So, yes, I'm really happy to be here talking about cancer ecology and evolution to an audience that understands all these things together at the same time. Usually I have slides where I talk about cancer ecology and evolution to biologists who know parts of it, but know the math modeling. And sometimes I talk about the math modeling about to math modelers who don't understand cancer ecology and evolution. So this is. This is right. The right audience. I hope you're not bored.
00:01:09.067 - 00:01:34.623, Speaker A: The slides are not necessarily new, so some of you may actually have seen some of these elements of work before, but what I'm trying to do here is try to tell a slightly different story. Yes. And bone cancer, collagen evolution. This is very interesting. I don't know how many of you have really looked into bone modeling before. Bone is really one of the most exciting organs to study. You accept every other organ in the body.
00:01:34.623 - 00:02:20.255, Speaker A: But I'll try to convince you that actually is a really interesting, really rich organ with has like a really rich ecology that drives the evolution of phenotypes in cancer in the bone. And that's very interesting because the bone is not necessarily the sort of organ most people think when it comes to cancer, but a lot of cancers go to the bone eventually. So you think of the worst cancer cancers, the ones that metastasize, lung cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer. All of them eventually find their way to the bones. So trying to understand how cancers work in the bone is really of critical importance. This is something that I had for a long time. You see things like Google, Twitter when I was still Twitter, and I don't know some of them.
00:02:20.255 - 00:02:57.623, Speaker A: But anyway, it's okay to share. So please go ahead and just want to make sure that people understand that this is not my work. I just use some people's work in order to sort of convey ideas. But the people who actually have done this work is people in my group, which include all These lovely people over here and some people who have incorporated into the group more recently, as well as my collaborators. We work very closely with cancer biologists in Moffitt. And a lot of the research today comes from the collaboration we had with the Conor lynch group in Moffitt. So this is not a recent picture either because people have masks and this is something that you probably haven't seen for the last couple of years.
00:02:57.623 - 00:03:26.105, Speaker A: But back in the day when people cared, they went to see the Buccaneers, which were the champions, the super bowl league winners two years ago, or something like that. So cross selection, something that people who in this room probably know about for a long time. People have been talking. It's interesting because this is not how this slide looked before. Let me see if PowerPoint did something interesting. PowerPoint did something interesting. This is the paper from PC Novel, 1972.
00:03:26.105 - 00:04:30.115, Speaker A: Every one of you know, that paper is the paper that basically presented to the biological world that counts as actually the subject to somatic evolution. This is something that had an impact on our community that didn't go farther. Like most people read this paper and thought to themselves, so it's not like they dislike the idea that cancer evolved. It's more like we read this and we just keep doing the things we have done for years. And that was shortly when basically the sort of genetic revolution started. So people were developing all these beautiful tools in order to study ever increasing details about genes and pathways and molecules and everything. So basically this is what people kept doing for the last few decades until Charlie Swanton, Marco Gelinger and company in London in the Cancer Research UK Institute found evidence, clinical evidence in patients that cancers are very heterogeneous and that a heterogeneity is actually very characteristic and very inconsistent with the idea that cancers are subject to somatic evolution.
00:04:30.115 - 00:05:25.425, Speaker A: This paper came out 12 years ago, and while everyone in this room probably was working on cancer evolution before that, or at least aware of it, this is what really kickstarted the search for revolutionary roots of cancer in patients through the entire community of cancer researchers. So now when you talk about cancer evolution to people in any clinic and any hospital in a cancer research center, they'll understand what you're talking about, they understand the importance of it, and they'll keep doing the same tools and studies that they used a long time ago, which is like, what gene is important and what pathway is important. So cancer evolution is at least two things you need to understand this heterogeneity and the source of heterogeneity. And that's mutations. And this is something that cancer biologists, whether they care about cancer evolution or not, understand really well. We know that cancer heterogeneous and we know the source of that heterogeneity. We know that mutations are there.
00:05:25.425 - 00:05:43.271, Speaker A: And people love mutations. Do they? But they, I think, have studied a lot less. And that's something I'll try to explain later. More. What the reasons for that might be is that selection is very important. Selection is the other side of cancer pollution. You don't get cancer evolution just by having lots of mutations.
00:05:43.271 - 00:06:07.503, Speaker A: You have cancer pollution when you have this heterogeneity in the population. And that heterogeneity is selected for and selected is by the tumor ecosystem. So you have seen slides like this before. I have used them in presentations before. And you haven't seen me presenting this. You have seen these other people. You ask cancer biologist, what's the difference between these two modes? And they'll explain, well, I don't know.
00:06:07.503 - 00:06:31.263, Speaker A: Let's do some experiments, let's do some genetics, let's do some analysis here. And they do genetics and find that there's just one second mutation that separates this one from this one. Fine. Okay, so maybe something more important than that. Maybe it's about the phenotypes, because we care about cancer selection. Let's look at phenotypes. They fly at the same speed, they have the same life cycle, they eat as much food, they die as frequently.
00:06:31.263 - 00:07:18.029, Speaker A: So what's going on? Well, what's going on is that the context in which these two species exist is what drives the selection from one over the other. Industrial revolution changed the birch tree in Manchester in the 19th century, which basically led to species that were the white ones to be very obvious to predators. So basically it means that when you're a predator and you can see this, but you don't see the black one, you'll eat the white ones. So basically, trying to understand the context in which these genetic variations occur is not just of some importance, but it's of all importance when it comes to understanding how cancers evolve over time. And there's a number of tools you can use. And obviously I have my favorite. I'm trying to capture the ecosystem of the bone, which is, as I said before, a very important organ when it comes to cancer.
00:07:18.029 - 00:08:10.549, Speaker A: And I'm trying to model the interactions between these tumor cells, which here look all the same, but actually very, very heterogeneous, interacting with all these ecosystem of cells who are doing their own thing. By the way, these cells are actually not Just non playable characters in a computer game, they actually are doing their own thing. And sometimes when a cancers come in, if they know how to talk to them, they know how to persuade them, they'll co opt the functioning in order to do things that will favor the cancer cells. But not every cancer cell, only the ones that know how to talk to this trauma. So we're trying to come with mathematical models that really capture this dialogue in a slightly more exhaustive way. So Eduardo this morning talked about his model and he emphasized, and I completely understand this emphasis and it's supported in most cases about how models need very, very simple and this ain't one. So I'll try to explain why.
00:08:10.549 - 00:08:38.401, Speaker A: But basically the idea is that because we have so many cellular species whose role we want to really understand. Okay, let's go to the cancer. We'll start with prostate cancer. Prostate cancer. If you have prostate cancer, a lot of people will tell you you have to get any cancer. This is probably one of the better ones to get. No one wants the word cancer in their diagnosis, but you have to have one and you're a person with a prostate, then prostate cancer is probably one of the better ones to have just because 90 plus percent of the people who get prostate cancer end up surviving.
00:08:38.401 - 00:09:22.305, Speaker A: Now the ones who don't are the ones who have metastasis. So metastasis to the bone is where you actually can see evidence of a tumor that comes from the prostate that might potentially kill the patient. Not potentially, almost always. So you go from having something like it's okay to I don't know if we'll be able to control this thing. And you have a very limited time span, so start thinking about what you're going to do next. So this is a project that was kickstarted by then two postdocs, Arturo Arojo, which is a mathematical oncologist who is now faculty at the University of Roanhampton in the uk, and Leah Cook, who was a postdoc with Conor lynch, the biologist, but now is associate professor or the equivalent at the nih Intramural research. So we have pictures.
00:09:22.305 - 00:09:51.395, Speaker A: This is not computer simulation, these are pictures. They're quite pretty. He did them. So I'm not taking credit for these pretty pictures, but in order to begin to understand how this bone ecosystem works, we decided to start at least trying to diagram how this interactions happen so we can have a better idea of what the picture is before we start modeling it. Because these inverse models, which as I said before are not very simple, take a while to develop and we wanted to have a very good understanding of what's going on. So you have bone, and the bone is a very dynamic organ. Happens like things happen all the time.
00:09:51.395 - 00:10:13.259, Speaker A: You need your bone to be remodeled every single sort of day. There's a bit of your bone that changes every few years. Your entire bone is very different from the one you had before. So the bone is incredibly dynamic organ. If you just think of it as just one piece of calcium, right? So once in a while you have a microfracture. A microfracture is not like a major incident. It's not something you go to the hospital to.
00:10:13.259 - 00:10:49.055, Speaker A: You just go for a run, or you just go for a walk, and you get this microfracture everywhere in your bone. Same thing that when you go to this gym and you lift weights, you get microfractures in your muscle and the muscle grows back stronger. Having this macro fracture in your bone is completely normal. It just means that the bone needs to be stronger in a particular part of the bone. So basically, the more that you have, the stronger the bone will be over time. So this is completely normal. So when you need a bit of bone to be sort of remodeled, then at some stage this canopy is created and a signal that used to be secreted by cells inside the bone, inside the bone cease to be secreted.
00:10:49.055 - 00:11:19.789, Speaker A: Which basically mean. Let's mean that the stem cell that you can see here notices that the signal is no longer secreted and decides to divide asymmetrically, creating something which is going to be called a precursor osteoblast. This precursor osteoblast will create bone in the future. Right now is just dividing, creating another signal called rag ligand, which calls precursors class myeloid cells. There's a lot of names are going to be thrown in here. Please don't try to understand or remember all of them. But there's a whole ecology here of these cells that respond to the signal of each other.
00:11:19.789 - 00:11:53.221, Speaker A: And this precursor osteoclast myeloid cell fuses, creating this pacman, also called ostoclast, which comzone to secrete sort of resorb bond and as it resorbs on, basically secrete signals, which keeps this precursor osteoblast happy and proliferating until it dies because it has done its job. And this precursor osteoplast become fully differentiated osteoblasts and start creating bond. So now you have a degree of homeostasis. This is very dynamic homeostasis. And this is where we want to start. So we created an Invas model, this AGM based model has all these cells that you described before. You have tumor cells.
00:11:53.221 - 00:12:37.497, Speaker A: We won't talk about them right now, but you have tumor cells, but you also have these stem cells. You have the precursor osteoplast, the osteoblast, the precursor osteoclast and the osteoclasts. All these cells are important because is the interplay within each other, is the communications they keep with each other that keeps homeostasis in the bone. So, okay, three screens that allow us to see the concentrations of different chemicals and molecules that are exchanged between the cells in order to maintain bone homeostasis. Plus this domain over here, where you can actually see the cells, you see the bone itself here, this thing over here is the canopy, which is where the actions will take place. This green blob over here is a pixel of a stem cell. And this is the marrow, which eventually when this cancer things will take place.
00:12:37.497 - 00:13:21.717, Speaker A: So you see, MSE starts dividing, it starts attracting this precursor ostoclast, this hostel class start from forming this fully differentiated osteoclast which secretes Tg beta which secretes bone remodeling factors. The precursor osteoclasts closely follow this fully differentiated osteoclast until the osteoclast dies. And then very slowly, the osteoblasts starts building up bone. This is not hard coded. We just basically measure the phenotypes of every single cell involved, the rate at which they secrete these factors, they average lifespan, and the signals they use to communicate what emerges from this. And it's very well known biology because it's bone biology, not cancer biology. So it's much easier to establish and make for certain is that you have a model that recapitulates this bone homeostasis.
00:13:21.717 - 00:13:36.981, Speaker A: Fine. So we know that this is not necessarily what happens in cancer. The moment you have cancer cells, you have something called the vicious cycle, because tumor cells come in and start disrupting the whole thing and making a mess. Let's see what happens with that mess. Tumor cells come in. You can see a very small black cell here. That's the tumor cell.
00:13:36.981 - 00:14:18.547, Speaker A: And this tumor cell secretes factors that confuses the interplay between osteoclast and osteoblast. So now you see that there's T beta, where there's bone remodeling factors in three different places. Because there's three different events of bone remodeling all at the same time. Doesn't call for. And that's because these tumor Cells just keep messing with the way that precursor osteoblast and osteoblast and precursor osteoclasts and osteoclasts talk to each other. They create a process by which the bone needs to be removable even more aggressively than before, because that secrets factors that helps the tumor grow faster and faster and faster until you have the entire bone taken by tumor. So, fine, you have a model like this, you have homeostasis, you know, you have something that at least to a degree captures the colony of the bone.
00:14:18.547 - 00:15:13.045, Speaker A: You put tumor cells, some tumor cells do what tumor cells do, which is to just grow, taking advantage of the environment. In many of the simulations, by the way, nothing happens because you put a phenotype of the tumor cell that doesn't know how to take advantage of the macro environment, that is, that doesn't secret the right factors, doesn't appear at the right place, doesn't have the right proliferation rates, then they just die. But this simulation is one that actually had heat jackpot. So you have all these different treatments that are standard, not particularly aggressive. They are not necessarily the sort of main line of treatment these days for prostate cancer patients. But we can begin to think, okay, what happens when you apply biphosphonates, which is basically something you apply as a secondary line of treatment, with the idea that they would stop osteoclast vein forming. And because osteoclasts seem to be so important, given our simulations, plus obviously every body of work that has been done before, if we kill the boss with the osteoclasts, as soon as they start to become resorbing of the bond, would you stop the tumor? No.
00:15:13.045 - 00:15:59.455, Speaker A: Perhaps if you actually secrete the rank glycan signal. Well, if you really secrete it very efficiently, that rank like signal means that you don't get precursor osteoclasts coming to space at all, Then you can be actually very confident that you can actually stop the tumor before it becomes aggressive. But it needs to be really efficient. If you don't really sequester a lot of the molecules, you don't have something that really takes away a lot of the signaling, then the tumor will still form itself. And obviously these things are easy to explain a mathematical model, but Frank ligand TF and all these signals I talked about are so important. They form, they make so many functions in the body that just trying to sequester them will have downstream effects in every single important thing that tumor has to a normal cell has to do. So the consequences of having these medications used for long periods of time.
00:15:59.455 - 00:16:18.101, Speaker A: Not great necessarily. So this is just the beginning. So we decided to study something else, which is multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is actually a bone cancer. Actually, this is not something that metastasize to the bone. It's actually emerges from the bone. We thought that we have at least a model that allows us to understand prostate cancer.
00:16:18.101 - 00:16:46.145, Speaker A: So let's move to something else. Why myeloma? Well, myeloma is a kind of cancer that is less likely to happen to you than prostate cancer. You're a person with prostate. But in Moffitt we actually have so many patients with multimyeloma. We basically treat at Moffitt more patients with multiple myeloma than any cancer hospital in the country. So we have high quality data, frequent data. So if you want to study a cancer that is not common, you need to go to a place that has the data and that place happens to be Moffitt.
00:16:46.145 - 00:17:15.557, Speaker A: Multimodeloma is a significant disease that basically we don't know how to cure yet. So clearly it still needs something. So Anna and Ryan, you can see here, were the people involved in this model. This model is not the same model, but it's going to look a bit similar because it's still an aging based model. We still have a bone marrow, we have still a trabecular bone, which is the bone that keeps being resorpted and created. And the population of cells is the same. But we actually created a whole new set of animal model in order to parameterize it.
00:17:15.557 - 00:17:45.947, Speaker A: So there's a lot of more biology in this model. So you have homo homo. We want to start with that. We need to make sure, before we start investigating what cancer is going to do, that the bone cells are actually doing what bone cells are meant to do, which is they need to maintain homeostasis. And they need to maintain homeostasis in a way that is biologically and physiologically realistic, not hard coded. It needs to be something that emerges from these interactions because we believe that these interactions are the things that tumor cells are going to take advantage of. So we wanted to make sure that that was well done.
00:17:45.947 - 00:18:21.277, Speaker A: And when you have that, the next thing is oops. Actually, I think I went a bit fast. Not very important maybe for this conference, because I'm not trying to convince you that the model is okay. We actually got this paper published about six months ago in Nature Communications. So a lot of biologists went over the data and they asked us to do a lot more experiments. I can tell you that from the biological Point of view, this is a really nicely parameterized model. But yes, so homeostatic bone and now with multiple myeloma, so you can see what happens when you have multiple myeloma.
00:18:21.277 - 00:18:50.981, Speaker A: That's fine. That's, you know, you have tumor cells. The tumor cells want to be close to the bone itself and they want to be close to the bone because that's where all the goodies are being secreted by the tumor cells and by the osteoblasts and the osteoblasts talking to each other. All these goodies that come from the BDFs, those allow the tumor cells to grow faster and stronger. So you see higher density and more likely growth near where the bone is. And as we know from multiple myeloma, they usually sort of chew up all the bone. They are osteolytic tumors.
00:18:50.981 - 00:19:29.583, Speaker A: Basically. There's less and less bone over time, which we know is a huge sort of like quality of life issue for people who have multiple myeloma. Well, that's fine. Okay, so more parameterization and more calibration of the model just to make sure that the bone and the different things we can measure, including every single population like mscs precursor class, compare qualitatively with mouse data. We know that each of these populations in a very emergent biodynamic system behave in ways that are realistic and consistent to the ways we think the biology of the bone in cancer happens. What is the treatment for people who have multiple myeloma? There's a number of treatments. I'll talk about some of them in the future.
00:19:29.583 - 00:21:28.965, Speaker A: But one of the more traditional, maybe old fashioned one, is called a proteosome inhibitor. It's applied and basically we know that the macro environment can actually provide protection. So if you're a tumor cell that is sensitive to proteasome inhibitors and you happen to be close to point should be good. So point being that just as you expect, if you are tumor cell that happens to be an environment that is protected by the stromal cells, then the treatment is not going to impact you, even though you're actually a sensitive cell. So you see all these dynamics. Now this tumor is, as long as you keep applying treatment, this tumor is not going to grow because the only place that these cells can actually go to is places where there's protection. So it's just not going to do this residual dis, basically.
00:21:28.965 - 00:22:05.125, Speaker A: But it's not going to grow for as long as you keep applying the treatment. That's. That's the case. Well, so I think that partly is that when the movie finishes, then it starts again I think. But you, we, we just basically let the tumors grow for a bit and then at some point you clearly see treatment. And then in this side, because there's nothing to protect the cells from treatment, they just die in this side because there's things that protect the treatment in very niches. Then those cells that happen to be under the protection of the macro environment continue.
00:22:05.125 - 00:22:44.237, Speaker A: And after that really the, I mean obviously you see the waves of rank ligand and that is because the osteoplast and the osteoplast are still interacting with each other. They're still trying to do bone remotely and nothing stops them. But we have a computer model so we can actually go and switch things on and off and see what happens. So you have no treatment emdr and no emdr. So in one simulation you have no treatment whatsoever. One where you basically this is what you saw before, but now with one inference, which is that now we allow for mutations to occur. This is something we haven't seen you in the previous simulations.
00:22:44.237 - 00:23:08.275, Speaker A: But this cancer choline ablation, you need mutations. Mutations actually is one of the ways by you can enable tumor cells to become resistant in ways that is not dependent on the microenvironment. So let's see what happens now. Oops, not exactly what I expected here. No treatment. So tumors will just keep growing. Here you see these black cells, those are the resistant cells.
00:23:08.275 - 00:23:38.555, Speaker A: Here you see exclusively black cells. So there's no environmental protection. So the only cells they have in this scenario are the ones that come from fully resistant cells. So a mutation occurs at some point. And I can talk about this. Whether this is something that was a pre existing population or is a population that emerged. So the process of applying treatment and stressing cells, they become persistors which become resistors and states that's not what the model is doing.
00:23:38.555 - 00:24:09.693, Speaker A: But the model is assuming that there is a point in which residual populations can emerge. Whereas here you see that these populations are heterogeneous. You have fully resident cells and fully sensitive cells. These sensitive cells are sensitive and living exclusively because there's a macromamma that protects them. So these are two different scenarios. Now you're a doctor and I ask you, so is ENDR environmentally the drug resistance something that we need to care about? And you look at these two scenarios and remember you don't see colors of green and black. You only see tumor, not tumor potentially.
00:24:09.693 - 00:24:47.475, Speaker A: You don't see the visuals, you just see an amount of tumor over time, not over time. And at One point in time, what's the difference? Both of them actually look the same to me. You have a lot of tumor in one. You have all the tumor the tumor came in. Regardless. The difference is that this scenario here is a lot less likely because you need to be unlucky enough that something triggers this resistance, whereas here, this was going to happen, this had to happen because you have myelitative drug resistance. That means that there's going to be tumor cells that are going to be protective treatment.
00:24:47.475 - 00:25:36.621, Speaker A: And if that is the case, you can see these cells are proliferating all the time. They're proliferating, they're dividing, they're dividing the space where there's treatment, so they die. So the cell that actually created that cell in the first place is still ready to go to create another cell next time around, because there's nothing stopping it. So these cells keep proliferating, mutating, occasionally dying, proliferating, mutating, dying, until that mutation hit jackpot, and then you find a fully resistant cell. So this EMDR actually created an environment that for sure had to lead to full resistance eventually. I'm sure that most of you are used to Muller plots. So basically a way to describe how population changes and grows, how many clones appear over time, and how these clones sort of compete with each other and how they fare compared to each other.
00:25:36.621 - 00:26:01.201, Speaker A: So in the simulation, there's no treatment. The one we saw on the left, there's not much to see. You basically have a tumor that grows and just takes over. And clones might appear, as you can see here or here. So the difference between the top and the bottom is that the mutation rate is different because we don't know exactly what mutation rate leads to the emergence of resistance. And because we have a model that allows us to explore all kinds of hypotheses. We tried two of them, by the way.
00:26:01.201 - 00:26:34.849, Speaker A: We actually were asked by the reviewers to come with more realistic values, and we found out that the ones we used at the beginning were quite realistic. But it looks a bit more like this than this. But it's basically a relatively high frequency mutations. Here a clone appears. Here a number of clones appear. None of them have an advantage because they all proliferate the same rate. And because there's no treatment, there's no selection for resistance here, there's no emdr, right? So you have a tumor, you apply treatment, and you have this very thin line here.
00:26:34.849 - 00:27:31.165, Speaker A: That is where the resistant population was. That's all the resident cells you had. And then the tumor starts growing and starts growing and every single cell resembles the original clone because you basically without all the heterogeneity tumor you are down to whatever happened to be the resistant clone. Here the thing is very different. You reduce the tumor by a lot less and what comes back is highly heterogeneous because you have a much bigger pool of cells, each one of them different before you start applying treatment from which different mechanism resistance might be explored experime by the tumor in order to figure out different ways to be resistant. Maybe mechanism resistant might be more costly or less costly or will have consequences down the line in terms of how much more room for evolution there is from there. So this thing is one of the reasons I think it's very important to understand the role of the macro environment because the macro environment dictates selection and dictates the evolutionary trajectories that tumors will follow.
00:27:31.165 - 00:28:36.063, Speaker A: These two scenarios are very different from the point of view of a clinician because the way you treat a cancer that is homogeneous and has one clone with potentially one weakness, it's going to be very different when you have a tumor dyes highly heterogeneous for which one treatment is unlikely to target every single possible clone. Very quickly I'm just going to describe, and just because I was talking about data over lunch as well that proteasome inhibitors which were described before are actually a very old fashioned way to treat myeloma. In fact there's a variety of lines of treatment for multiple myeloma patients these days, many of which include immunotherapies. Immunotherapies is definitely like Moffitt, but every other thing cancer center. I think of the way most people are thinking about cancer, especially because multimodeloma being a plaque or a hem on kind of cancer is not as difficult to treat with immunotherapies as say prostate cancer or breast cancer, bar solid cancer. So basically you have monoclonal antibodies, you have stem cell transplants, you have chemotherapy. Of course you have chemotherapy, you have protozo inhibitors and you also have carti.
00:28:36.063 - 00:29:01.275, Speaker A: Everyone has heard of CAR T. Yes. Not sometimes. It's still used to this day. But not like a main line of treatment. Yes, no, I didn't. And that's completely right because the data we were using is from actually.
00:29:01.275 - 00:29:24.383, Speaker A: Yes, no, no, no, clinically. Clinically is used. Clinically used, that's right. It doesn't have a curative effect, it has a palliative effect. Yes, yes. Clinically speaking is Paul. So just going back to the sort of rounds of reviews that we got for this paper at some point, one of the things is like, we have a simulation which allows us to take away emdr.
00:29:24.383 - 00:29:43.581, Speaker A: Right. So how do you validate that experimentally? And the thing we got close to use is bifosphonates. Bifosphonates actually sort of reduce the amount of protection that the environment produces. So in order to get experimental mouse data to validate the model, we use that. So it's. Yeah. Yes.
00:29:43.581 - 00:30:10.897, Speaker A: So a new way to treat multiple myeloma as well as many other kind of cancers with immunotherapy that is not based on CAR T is called T cell engages or bites. How many of you have heard of this thing before? It's actually very new. Has been used in hospitals for the last couple of years only. It's a bit like CAR T has a very similar amount of efficacy. It's way cheaper. It's way cheaper. CAR T is one of the most expensive treatment you can possibly have, and it fails.
00:30:10.897 - 00:30:56.321, Speaker A: And you can use it once you have one shot because it's so costly that you apply once bites actually something that you just use them to get the T cells to target a particular receptor in the cells, bcma. So it's much easier to produce. It's much easier to generate in huge quantities for lots of patients as opposed to generate one per patient. And it has almost the same amount of efficacy as CAR T. Is that because you just produce small molecules? You don't have to produce. No, you have to produce the cell. I think what really is expensive about CAR T is that you have to go to a particular patient, take away a bit of the tumor, put it in a petri dish, take T cells, find the ones that actually work, take those T cells, clone them, and then inject them to a patient.
00:30:56.321 - 00:31:19.597, Speaker A: This because it's not patient specific. Because what we found, as a general rule, is that happens to be in every single myeloma cell is that you can just basically engineer them for every patient. But I'm saying my device are not cells. Yes, but you do. Yeah, that's smaller, but you still have to create the T cells. So. No, you're right.
00:31:19.597 - 00:31:31.973, Speaker A: The T cells, because. Yeah, exactly. Yes, you're completely right. Yes. I don't know how much that's help with the cost. I'm sure it does help with the cost, but, yeah, you don't engineer the T cells. You engineer the bytes.
00:31:31.973 - 00:32:05.715, Speaker A: And these bytes will find T cells and they will find the tumor cells and put them together, and then T cells hopefully knows what to do with them. So there's A lot of work done by math, which I'm hoping to sort of talk about some other time. I just wanted to give you an idea that this work doesn't stop here. And as I'm running out of time, I started a bit late. So I'm just trying to be more efficient so there's time for questions. Lots of assumptions like basically this, this work still keeps going and. And we're trying to figure out how to increase the compression and modeling ways that is not too complex.
00:32:05.715 - 00:32:56.675, Speaker A: So we. I still understand what's going on. And obviously adding T cells is adding a degree of complexity that is way sort of more than most of the sort of incremental changes we have done in the past where we just go one cell type at a time and trying to figure out how that changes the bone ecosystem. But these cells require a bit more work, especially because they need. We're trying to extract as much of that as possible the helping assistance of regulatory cells and other cells. So this is very preliminary, but basically we have been exploring how to parameterize with patient data from Moffitt the behavior of these T cells so that they model and capture some of the main dynamics that we see that happens with patients as well as mouse models. We also have in the Conor lynch lab and I have three sort of things to discuss just before I finish, which is just like three.
00:32:56.675 - 00:33:48.615, Speaker A: One of them is like we have the AMA workshop every year, as you might know, some of you probably definitely know, which is a very incredible experience, which we get basically some PIs, but mostly PhD students and postdocs to come and be tortured by clinicians and biologists. So you have any student that you know of who wants to be tortured by clinicians or biologists. This is a good place and you have a day or two to apply it because the sort of deadline is coming up very soon. So that's the first thing. And yeah, it's actually something I'm@12.EvanBright.com and second thing is if you think that one week of being tortured by clinicians and biologists is not enough. We also have a PhD program, so you can be tortured by clinicians and biologists for a lot longer than that.
00:33:48.615 - 00:34:24.325, Speaker A: The deadline for applications is the 1st of December, and Connor and I also got recently news that one of our R01s might actually get funded very quickly. So if you want to be tortured as a postdoc for a few years as well, we also have funding for that. So I'll be here the entire week. So please let me know. Either way, we have ways to get you tortured by clinicians and biologists. Once again, I'd like to acknowledge the team that did all this and you guys have any questions, this is probably a good time. And if not, I think I still need coffee because it's this time of the afternoon, but sure, please.
00:34:24.325 - 00:34:33.545, Speaker A: Questions from the audience in person or on.
