00:00:02.250 - 00:00:58.794, Speaker A: Chainlink keepers are a decentralized way to automate functions in a smart contract. Now by default, smart contracts are technically asleep, so they require some individual or some script to come along and execute a function in your contract in order to automate it. Now of course, that requires the maintenance of these scripts, the infrastructure involved, the alerting, the monitoring, and keepers comes in. Decentralize that piece on your behalf so you can worry about writing great code and have keepers handle the rest. Now, the way keepers technically works is this network of keepers will constantly check your contract to see if some work needs to get done, and as soon as that's the case, we'll execute those transactions for you on your behalf. We've seen some really interesting use cases for keepers up to this point, such as yield harvesting, auto compounding. We've seen it used for starting and stopping no loss lotteries, for resolving prediction markets.
00:00:58.794 - 00:02:08.760, Speaker A: The possibilities are pretty much endless. Now, if you're interested in creating a keepers compatible contract, you'll need to include two main functions, the first being checkupkeep. And checkupkeep is used to decide whether some work should happen or some function should be executed within the second performup keep function. Now, checkup keep function will return a boolean value, true or false, based on the logic written within it. So this logic may be as simple as has a certain amount of time passed, or it could check the state of the chain to see if the balance of a certain contract or address is above or below some threshold that you set. You can include some really complex logic that ultimately decides whether this automation should occur. Now the idea here is to do as much work as possible in check upkeep because you can use this perform data to pass information between check upkeep and perform upkeep, so that you're only using as little as gas as possible within that perform upkeep function.
00:02:08.760 - 00:02:48.930, Speaker A: Now, if we look at the high level process flow for keepers, you'll notice this slide is separated into two parts. You've got the work that's happening on chain and the work that's happening off chain. So we'll start here with the keepers nodes. So these nodes are constantly checking your contract to see if some work needs to get done. So they're checking that checkup keep function. And as soon as it's the case that work should happen, keepers are going to send a message to the keeper's registry, which is the contract that lives on chain. And that keeper's registry will relay a message to your contract specifically calling the perform upkeep function which will result in a transaction on chain.
00:02:48.930 - 00:04:08.520, Speaker A: Now, if we take a look at the way alchemics is using keepers today, of course, Alchemics has registered a contract with the keepers network, and that contract is simply having the keeper's network check to see if 24 hours has passed. And as soon as that's the case, the keepers network are triggering a function that's going to harvest yield, it's going to repay debt in the vault and the transmuter, and then it will of course wait another 24 hours to trigger that same function again. Now if we take a look at this same process flow in the context of alchemics, you have our keepers nodes, and the keepers nodes are constantly running that checkup keep function in their contract. And this checkup keep function again is just checking to see if 24 hours has passed. As soon as that's the case, they're going to send that message to the keeper's registry which lives on chain. The keeper's registry will relay the message to the contract that lives on chain and triggering that perform upkeep function, and that perform upkeep function is responsible again for harvesting yield, for repaying debt. And then of course it resets that timer so that the keepers are now waiting another 24 hours in order to trigger this process again.
00:04:08.520 - 00:04:26.490, Speaker A: So today keepers is live on ethereum, binance, smart chain and polygon. If you're interested in learning more, you can always head to chain link slash keepers to read a bit more up on documentation, and then you can head to keepers chain link. If you'd like to register your own contract on Testnet or Mainnet.
