00:00:00.160 - 00:01:15.234, Speaker A: Okay, so what I'll talk about today is an overview of some old and new results related to the distribution of the Frabinius traces associated to product of associated to abelian varieties. And the new results that I'll talk about are in relation to products of non isogenous elliptic curves without complex multiplication. And the new results, when I get to them, are obtaining joint work with Tian Wang, who is a doctoral student at University of Illinois Chicago. All right, so I'll start with some general overview. Okay, so the general problem that we want to address is that of looking at an abelian variety defined over Q. And of course, you can define it more generally over a number field, but we'll actually focus only on abelian varieties of a q. And we want to study the p wave polynomials of the abelian variety as the prime p varies.
00:01:15.234 - 00:02:02.360, Speaker A: Okay, so, I would like to start with the particular case of an abelian variety of dimension one. So, the case of an elliptic curve. Now, I don't know how much I need to say, so if it's too not worth. So, I know some of you, but not all of you.
00:02:02.432 - 00:02:06.784, Speaker B: So there may be students listening to. So it might as well give background.
00:02:06.904 - 00:02:38.504, Speaker A: Okay, thank you. All right, so, particular case is that of p wave polynomials for a billion varieties of dimension one, which are elliptic curves. Okay, so how is it with this document camera? Can you see my writing?
00:02:39.764 - 00:02:40.604, Speaker B: Looks good.
00:02:40.724 - 00:03:43.360, Speaker A: Okay, thank you. All right, so if we are talking about an elliptic curve, then we can think of the elliptic curve in concrete terms as the geometric locus of a Weierstrass equation, defined by the equation y squared equals x cubed plus ax plus b, where a and b can be chosen to be integers, and they have to be chosen such that the cubic in x has a non zero discriminant. So we want this explicit quantity in a and b to be non zero. And we should view this curve projectively. So, we should view it with a point at infinity coordinates or projective coordinate zero 10 as a solution to the curve. So, we want to view this as a q rational point on the curve. Okay.
00:03:43.360 - 00:04:15.970, Speaker A: And now, concretely, what we do is consider primes which do not divide this discriminant. And of course, for people who know much more, we want the prime to not divide the conductor of the elliptic curve. So that's an integer that divides any such biastra's discriminant. And we reduce this equation module of p. So we consider congruences y squared congruent to x q plus x plus p mod p. And if, since we are choosing p to not divide the discriminant. What we get is another elliptic curve defined over the finite field with p elements.
00:04:15.970 - 00:05:56.288, Speaker A: And then we can look at the fp rational points on that, that curve. Alright, so right now I denoted the reduction as a mod b. So this is a smooth curve defined over fb and given by y squared congruent to x cubed plus x plus b mod b, right. And what we do, as I said, we look at the solutions to this congruence and we write them using the Legendre symbol. As with the number of such solutions, we write explicitly using the legendre symbol as p plus one plus the sum over, let's say x mod p in z module pz of the Legendre symbol of x cubed plus ax plus b mod p. All right, and it's a standard notation to name the, the negative of the sum as negative, sorry, as ap. So the negative of the sum is some integer ap, which is what we refer to as the Frobenius trace associated to the elliptic curve a.
00:05:56.288 - 00:07:19.574, Speaker A: In this case, and what we know, one of the results that we know is a particular case of what's called the Riemann hypothesis for curves of a finite field. So in our case for the reduction of the elliptic curve a mod p, which says that this integer in absolute value is less than or equal to two root PI, because so this would be a more general result if p were not to be a prime, but also actually a prime power. So since p is a prime, the inequality is tricked here. All right. And there is yet another theorem, old theorem in the theory of elliptic curves, which says that if we look at the polynomial, which I'll call capital p, sub a, sub little p of x defined to be x squared minus apx plus p. So this is a polynomial with coefficients in z. This polynomial, when reduced modulo any prime l different from the prime p itself, is the characteristic polynomial of the Arten symbol at l under the module l representation associated to the elliptic curve.
00:07:19.574 - 00:10:33.370, Speaker A: It. Okay, so what I said, the polynomial x squared minus apx plus p when reduced module, any prime l different from p is the characteristic polynomial of the Arten symbol at p in the l division field of elliptic curve. When we review this Arten symbol as an element of gl two of z modulus z under the gaur representation, the residual model modulo l representation that can be defined using the l division points of the elliptic curve, which we know as a z module z module, are isomorphic to two copies of z module lc. And we also know that the absolute gallow group of q acts acts on this, on this l division point. So after we fix brackets of l, we obtain this representation and we actually can prove that this representation is injective. So in this sense, the coefficient ap may be viewed as the Frobenius trace associated to the elliptic curve a and to the prime, because it's the trace of this Arten's symbol. Or, I don't know if people are calling Arten's symbol of frobenian substitution.
00:10:33.370 - 00:11:42.512, Speaker A: I'm referring to the conjugate, the whole conjugacy class here. Okay, so this is the, in the case of an elliptic curve, so an abelian variety of dimension one, this is what we call the p wave polynomial of a. And now what we would like when we say we want to study the p value polynomials of a as the prime p varies. In this case, what we mean is there are many questions that we can ask. One of them is to study the sequence a sub b. And there are also many directions in which we can study the sequence of a sub b and say the famous directions over the past, I don't even know right now, seven decades have been to study the sequence a sub b in relation to the modular form that corresponds to the elliptic curve a over q, or to study the behavior of the quotient Ap over two root p, or rather the behavior of the r cosine of Ap over two root p. So that's the direction of the satotate conjecture.
00:11:42.512 - 00:13:50.100, Speaker A: And our focus will be to study how often a sub p equals a fixed integer, which is the direction of the lank Trotter conjecture that was formulated in the 1970s. Okay, any questions? All right, so let's say a few words about the langtrota, one of the Langtrota conjectures about the reductions of an elliptic curve module or primes. Alright, so the conjecture that we want to focus on was formulated by Lang and Trotter in 1976, and says that if we fix an elliptic curve a over q and we fix an integer t. Now, upon assuming either that the endomorphism ring of the elliptic curve is trivial, or that the endomorphism ring is non trivial, in which case it is an order in imaginary quadratic order, sorry, is an imaginary quadratic order of class number one. All right, so if we assume, make this assumption now, we also want to make the assumption that the integer t that we fixed is no zero. Then they predicted that either the set of prime speed for which this integer, the flabini stress ap that we defined earlier equals the fixed integer t. This is finite, or it is an infinite set.
00:13:50.100 - 00:15:05.770, Speaker A: And we actually have an explicit conjecture, an explicit asymptotic behavior for the number of primes p up to x such that ap is equal to t. So Lang and chote put forth an explicit constant which depends on a and t and which is in the case. Okay, I'll put it greater than or equal to zero. But the case when the constant is equal to zero is what we, what we already included in the first situation here, such that the function PI a of xt, which counts the number primes p up to x of good reduction. So let's say p does not divide the discriminant delta e such that ap is equal to t is asymptotically equal to this constant times root x divided by log x. Okay, and in the case, the constant. So this is the second case when the constant is nonzero.
00:15:05.770 - 00:17:16.554, Speaker A: But the two cases can be combined and to include the finiteness of such primes, when the constant for which, as I said, we have an explicit formula equals to zero. All right, so this conjecture, in the case when the constant is non zero, predicts infinite many, the existence of infinite many primes p with this property ap is equal to t, but at the same time it predicts a zero density set of such primes. And the conjecture remains open, and many results have been obtained to support this conjecture over the years. And I mentioned a few of the known partial results. Okay, so in the cm case, this situation when the and the morpherism ring of the elliptic curve is non zero, sorry, not trivial. Using sieve methods and using the connection between primes p such that ap is equal to a fixed integer and primes p represented by quadratic polynomials, one can prove upper bounds for the function PI a of xt of the right order of magnitude, and no lower bounds are known in the non cmk. So the case of an elliptic curve with a trivial endomorphism ring, we have unconditional upper bounds, and I'll state them without being extremely precise in terms of powers of log x.
00:17:16.554 - 00:18:02.084, Speaker A: So what I want to focus on is actually the exponent of x. So unconditionally we know that PI a of xt is bounded from above by x divided by. So I'll put the log here. But one can be more precise than what I'm saying. Log x to two minus epsilon for any positive epsilon. And this already tells us that there is the density of the set of primes p for which ap is equal to t is zero so these results were first obtained, or results of this caliber were first obtained by Ser in 1981. And there are results.
00:18:02.084 - 00:19:17.554, Speaker A: There is work by Datim Wang from 1990, and there is work by Kumar Muti. So I have here what I wrote is 1997. But it might be that there is also earlier work by Kumar Murthy on this problem. And there is more recent work by Jesse Thorner and on an unconditional bound here that tells us that unconditionally, this bound can be refined to the upper bound x log log x divided by log x squared. Conditionally, the best bound that is known. So, conditional upon the assumption of a GIS human hypothesis, the best bound that is known in terms of powers of x is a bound obtained by Rammorti, Kumamurti and Sarada in the late 1980s, which says that again, I'll introduce an epsilon. The upper bound is x two four five minus epsilon.
00:19:17.554 - 00:20:55.224, Speaker A: They obtain something slightly better when they have a quotient x to four over five divided by power of log X. And that power of log X was recently improved by divisive we know. But our point right now is to see how far in the exponent of x we are from x to one two, which is what's predicted by Lang and trote. And there were earlier results by ser, which I'll mention at some point today. Also conditional upon GRh, but which, which are not as good as the one obtained by multimuti and Sarada. Okay, so again, on no lower bound is known when t is different from zero, but when t is equal to zero, stronger results are known both in terms of upper bounds and lower bounds. So when we are still in the non cm case and t is equal to zero, we have stronger unconditional upper bounds of order of magnitude x to three over four.
00:20:55.224 - 00:21:48.074, Speaker A: And we also have lower bounds. They are not strong, but they are impressive, because they tell us, they give us the existence of infinite many primes p in a very sparse sequence of primes. So unconditional lower bound. All right, so let's write it down. Log log log x over four logs, log log x to one plus epsilon. So this is less, less than a constant, depending on epsilon of PI of x zero. So sorry, I need to put zero.
00:21:48.074 - 00:23:26.010, Speaker A: Okay, so these results were obtained by working with the feature that Ap is equal to zero means that the prime p is super singular for the elliptic curve, which has geometric interpretations. So it's not only fixing the flabbinius trace, but having stronger properties of such primes. And this is a feature that was used by non elkies in his PhD thesis in the late 1980s. And then these explicit upper and lower bounds were obtained using his work, and then some work of Canako and ideas of Rammurthy to obtain the upper bound here. And a quantitative approach to alky steel is proof done by ATM, Fuvre and Ramoidi. So this is late 1980s and early 1990s. And other than that, there have been some other partial results for primes p for which a sub p is equal to one.
00:23:26.010 - 00:24:52.414, Speaker A: So those are called anomalous primes, but not much more. Nothing spectacular is known in the direction of upper and lower bounds. Strong evidence for the conjecture of lung and Trotter comes when we look at the asymptotic behavior of dysfunction PI of a XT, when a runs over a two parameter family of elliptic curves. And sometimes people also consider one parameter families. So there are results that were programmed of research that was started by Fouvri and Ram Moorty in the 1990s and then expanded by Chantal David and Francesco Pappalardi, by Stefan Bayer, Igor William Banks and Nathan Jones at the level of constants, and also numerics, say performed by students of Kevin James and I had some undergraduate students perform some numerics, aim to confirm this conjecture for some adiptic curves. So there is a lot of evidence for this conjecture, but the conjecture remains open. So what I want today is to say a few words of what happens when we look at the analog of dysprobenius trace in the case of higher dimensional abelian varieties.
00:24:52.414 - 00:26:52.870, Speaker A: The setting right now is that of fixing an abelian variety over q of dimension g, and fixing an integer t. Now, without being as concrete as before, what we know is that associated to this abelian variety, we have a family of gallery presentations. So we have that, what's called sometimes the absolute color representation that puts together the whole family of the abidium variety, that goes from the absolute gala group of q to g, the germs. Okay, so we are assuming that the abelian variety is what's called principally polarized, which is not. We can always make this assumption without. We can always fall in this case. So in this case, the gallery representation ends up in the general symplectic group.
00:26:52.870 - 00:28:14.674, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, Gsp, two g of z hat. And this is derived by putting together the residual mod and representations that are associated to the m division points of the abelian variety. So we denote this residual representation as rho bar of a sub m. Then their co domain is in GSp to Gfz module mz. And if we move, we take m to be prime powers of some prime l, we obtain what's called the Elliott. So we don't have a bar here in this notation, though today, I don't think I actually use much of this notation. So, these representations arising from the m division points of the abelian variety, which we know form as an abelian group, or isomorphic to g copies of z modulo Mc.
00:28:14.674 - 00:30:32.024, Speaker A: Sorry, 2g copies. When g is equal to one, we obtain two, which is what we wrote earlier. Okay. And similar to what we said about elliptic curves, a beam varieties of dimension one, we know that for each prime p of good reduction. So, for each prime p, the analog of p, not dividing the y stress discriminant of an elliptic curve, there exists a polynomial with coefficients in, in z uniquely determined by the conditions that, when we look at the congruence of such polynomial module, any prime l different from p itself, we obtain the characteristic polynomial of the Arten symbol in the l division field of the abidium variety. Under this representation, rho bar of al, or even more generally, I wrote in my notes, we can work with an integer m co prime two p, and one can write this polynomial concretely in terms of its coefficients. Okay, so let me sharpen my pencil, maybe while I do it, I leave my notes here.
00:30:32.024 - 00:31:50.022, Speaker A: Okay. So we write this polynomial concretely as x to g plus some coefficient a, one b. Well, and I'll emphasize right now that it depends on this capital a x to plus da da da, plus some coefficient a, sub gpax to g. And now we have cuban symmetry among these coefficients, plus p times a, sub g minus one p, capital a x to g minus one, plus da da da, plus p to g minus one times a, sub one p ax plus p to the g, which, as we said, is a polynomial with integer coefficients. All right? And now, so when g is equal to one, this polynomial becomes x squared minus what we called ap times x plus p. Yes. And sometimes, I don't know, maybe I can ask if there is anybody who works with these polynomials.
00:31:50.022 - 00:32:16.576, Speaker A: So, in the literature, sometimes people, people emphasize the sign changes so that when we move from elliptic curves, you know, we have x coordinates minus apx plus p. And since some other papers that I've been reading, other people don't emphasize sign changes. So, is there any remark or comment that anybody wants to make about that? No.
00:32:16.640 - 00:32:17.176, Speaker B: Agree?
00:32:17.320 - 00:32:18.280, Speaker A: What do you do?
00:32:18.432 - 00:32:20.880, Speaker B: No, I would write it the way you wrote it.
00:32:21.032 - 00:33:11.648, Speaker A: Okay. Because Philippe Michel, at some point asked me, why don't I emphasize the sign changes? Because. Yeah. And I don't know, all the papers that I had been reading until that time did not have a sign change. So then the question is, what's the analog of the Frobenius trace? Well, any of these coefficients could be the analog of the Frabinius trace, but we'll focus on the first one, which is actually the trace. Yes, I mean, not, maybe I exaggerated, not any of these coefficients could be the analog at the Frabinius trace, because only Ap is a trace. Yes, but then we only have a trace, we don't have other coefficients to view them as describing anything else about the Arten symbol, the flobenius.
00:33:11.648 - 00:34:51.673, Speaker A: So I want to focus on is this coefficient a one p? Okay, so similarly to what we said about a sub p for elliptic curves, we have a Riemann hypothesis that tells us how this growth grows as a function of p. So this is known again as a wave bound, and it tells us that in absolute value this is less than or equal to 2G root p. So it's generalization, what we said earlier. And we also know have information about the growth of the other coefficients. But as I said, I want to focus on a one p. And there is also, there are similarly to the study of a sub p, there are many directions in which one can study a one p, and one would be the direction of the satotate conjecture. So looking at the quotient of a one p over 2G root p, or a one p over root p, and there are generalizations of the satotate conjecture that, well, as far as I know already were formulated by, by ser, decades ago, and then they were revisited by many others, and right now they are studied by many other people.
00:34:51.673 - 00:36:06.140, Speaker A: And you can also ask, what about conjectures? About what about properties of these integers, a one p, in the style of the studies motivated by the long Trotter conjectures. So these were studies that were already started by Kumar Muti, then they were also revisited by Nikatz, but concrete conjectures. And Kumar, if you are there, you can actually correct me, because I don't know everything very precisely. But when I started looking at this question as a project at the workshop, how can we generalize the long throttle conjectures for a one p? We did not find anything that was actually an asymptotic. And this is what I ended up doing in a project with Rachel Davis, Ali Silverberg and Kay Stang. But I do know that the problem had been explored by you. And as I said, there is a later paper after your work, and actually I think it's more particular than yours.
00:36:06.140 - 00:37:16.420, Speaker A: Yours is more general by Nikatz. But the actual conjecture is not put down not only in terms of the constant, but even at the level of the asymptotic. So what we want is, is to study the function PI a xt, because if I fixed that t and I have not yet invoked it, which counts primes p up to x for the good reduction of for the abelian variety, such that this a one p equals. Yes. And what I'm saying is that we want to investigate this in the style proposed by Lange and Chota. And such investigations have been proposed already by Kumar and others as well. But the first conjecture that's precise that I know of is the one that I proposed with some other people that I mentioned here.
00:37:16.420 - 00:39:37.618, Speaker A: But we may be wrong. So, in a paper that was published in 2017, together with Rachel Davis, Alice Silverberg and Kate Steng, as part of a project that we actually started at a conference, which became much larger than we thought, we made a conjecture on the behavior of this function in the case that t is non zero, and in the case that the satotate group associated with the abelian variety is large, meaning that the abelian variety is generic, similar to the way you think of an elliptic curve, a generic elliptic curve over q being the one without complex multiplication. So instead of saying generic, we said, let's assume that the image of the absolute Galog representation is open in Gsp two g of z hat, which is actually not an assumption if the endomorphism ring of the abelian variety is trivial, and if g is equal, one, two, six, or odd. Okay, and furthermore, assume that, and I'll say here, the satotate law in quotation marks holds for the abidium variety. And I'm putting it in quotation marks, because when we were corresponding with Sara at that time, he was actually upset with us that we are calling it the sato teh law, because that's what he was telling us. It's actually coming from his very far reaching conjectures that includes Sato T. All right, so then what we say is that there exists an explicit, and this is where we put in work to an explicit constant which could be zero, such that the function PI of a xt behaves asymptotically like this constant times root x by log x.
00:39:37.618 - 00:40:24.288, Speaker A: And when the dimension g of the abelian variety is one, we recover the long throttle conjecture. So a lot of the work is put into obtaining this constant. And say, unlike Nickel, who looked at an asymptotic behavior in terms of x, he. So his a was more specialized than ours but he did not put an asymptotic here. Constant times root x by log x. But he rather stated a possible upper bound of x to one over two plus epsilon and a possible lower bound of x to one over two minus epsilon. So we actually went ahead and made this conjecture in terms of the precise asymptotic in x.
00:40:24.288 - 00:40:51.904, Speaker A: But we also have an explicit formula for what this constant should be. And this constant, as in the Langtrota case, contains a part that comes from the satotate assumption, and then a part that comes from what's called the cibotara factors, the cibotar behavior of primes in divisional fields of abiding varieties.
00:40:52.444 - 00:41:01.384, Speaker B: Elena, your satotate assumption is that the semi simple Frabinius classes are uniformly distributed for harm measure inside Gsp 2G, is that right?
00:41:01.804 - 00:41:25.570, Speaker A: Yes, yes. And there was a specific, there is this specific function that occurs there that's associated to usb two g, and that's the one that. So now, again, it depends on how you write that function. When I prepare these talks, I. Yeah, it depends. I was. So it depends on how you write this function.
00:41:25.570 - 00:42:19.144, Speaker A: Let's see, I have my other notes here. Yeah. So we assume that there exists a function phi, sorry, it's here such that for any interval in minus one one, this limit is integral over the interval of the function. Yeah, but you can state, you can rewrite this a bit differently. So the function depends on how you decide what the function is. But that's what the answer is, what you said. And in making this conjecture, we needed to know that the function in our heuristic, actually, to prove something along the, to support the heuristic, we needed to know that the function was continuous and that it was non zero at zero, which were some statements that Nickiat and sare helped us with.
00:42:19.144 - 00:43:55.164, Speaker A: All right, so now, so this will be the generic case. And what about the generic case in the sense of having a large satotate group? And if we want to think of the opposite case when we have a small satotate group associated to the abelian variety, the situation that we could consider is that of having an abelian variety that's isogenous to a product of non cm elliptic curves, which otherwise are not isogenous over q bar. And that conjecture was the behavior of dysfunction PI axt, in that other case was considered only recently, again as part of a project done at Arizona Winter school by how Chen, Nathan Jones and Vlad Sherban. So they, but in order for them to stay state the constant explicitly, they restrict it to the case g is equal to two, even though. So in the case when a is isogenous to a product of non cm elliptic curves which are not pairwise isogenous over q bar, they have a similar, similar expectation. So the function should be root x by log x. But their work lies in proving the convergence of what we expect to be the constant here.
00:43:55.164 - 00:44:59.712, Speaker A: So for that they had to assume that g is equal to two to have less to calculate. So in theory, you could formulate such conjectures for every case of an abelian variety, but to write down supportive conjectures and explicit constant, you have to proceed case by case. And. But it might be a lot of work. All right, so, any comments or questions about that? Because I'm not right, I have time. So there is a recent conjecture by how Chen, who now works at Microsoft Research, Nathan Jones and Vlad Sherban, when so they do not make the assumption of openness. Rather they know that a is isomorphic to e one cross e two, where e one is not isogenous to e two over q bar.
00:44:59.712 - 00:46:11.302, Speaker A: And the endomorphism rings of e one and e two are trivial. Yes, and now they do not need to make a satotate assumption, because that is a theorem in this case. So they obtain a similar, or they propose a similar similar conjecture for which they give supporting evidence, and they say, well, you could in theory do it for a product of g elliptic curves. All right, so already in this work with Rachel Davis, Ali Silverberg, in case ten, we pursued obtaining upper bounds for dysfunction PI axt, unconditional and conditional in the style of Ser from the 1980s. So, using Cebu Taib density theorems in infinite Gallo extensions, whose gallow group is an elliptic lead group. But that is not the approach that gave the best upper bounds, these upper bounds of ramoiti, Kumamoiti and Sarada. So they actually did not work with infinite extensions of erratic lead groups.
00:46:11.302 - 00:47:27.294, Speaker A: They actually worked with finite extension of the ldvision fields, and they got better than what Ser got. So in our approach, in this generic case, we were not able to pursue these techniques, and this is part of working progress with Tian one at this moment. But what we have so far is upper bounds that are as good as these ones when we consider products of non cm elliptic curves. So, providing evidence for this conjecture, and even more, more than this conjecture, because we don't restrict to working with pairs, but rather working with a g topple of non cm elliptic curves, by refining the approach or the approaches of multimulti sarada and the approach of dots in one to prove conditional and unconditional bounds that when specialized with the case g is equal to one. Uh, recover this, these results. Do I have, uh, 1150 or twelve? What? I'm finally. Either way, just.
00:47:27.294 - 00:47:29.694, Speaker A: I don't know. It's 1150.
00:47:29.854 - 00:47:30.910, Speaker B: Yeah. You have ten minutes.
00:47:30.942 - 00:49:05.934, Speaker A: I think I still have ten minutes. Thank you. Okay, so, um, let me write down the theorem with Tian. So, this is something that Tian worked very hard on since the pandemic started, and now we need to. Actually, I want to have it submitted as soon as possible so that we can move on to other projects. So, we have an elliptic, an abelian variety over q, which is isogenous over q to the product of g elliptic curves over q, such that ei is not q bar isogenous to ej for any I different from j, and such that each elliptic curve over eei has trivial as an endomorphism ring. Okay, so then unconditionally.
00:49:05.934 - 00:50:58.444, Speaker A: Oh, so we fix t. And unlike in these conjectures, the later two conjectures about long term conjecture for billion varieties, in which, in order to predict the constant, the work at some point requires t to be non zero. In this upper bounds, we don't require t to be non zero, so it's just any integer. So, unconditionally, what we prove is that the number of primes p up to x, which the frabinius trace associated to a and the prime p equals t, is bounded from above by a constant that depends on the abelian variety times log log x divided by log x squared. And conditionally upon the general hypothesis, and actually also upon the Riemann hypothesis, for the Riemann zeta function, we have that the upper bound for this function is either x to one minus one divided by 3G plus two over log x to one minus two divided by 3G plus two if t is non zero. So this one, when g is equal to one, recovers not only the result by multimotizarada, but actually also the recent refinement in the power of log x by David Zweno. And when t is equal to zero, we obtain slightly better x to one minus one over 3G divided by log x to one minus two over 3G.
00:50:58.444 - 00:52:01.924, Speaker A: So if t is equal to zero. Okay, so what is the main ideas? What are the main ideas in this, in these proofs? So they come from the work of muti muthi sarada. How is it for you to be like a noun? Just a noun? Al kumar. So for me, you know, I just put this label, but I don't know how it sounds when you are part of the label. No comment. All right. So what we do is the basic observation that if we fix the forbenet trace of an abelian variety, this means that its congruence modulo l is the trace of the arts symbol in the l division field of the abelian variety.
00:52:01.924 - 00:53:29.728, Speaker A: So we are prompted to look at the l division field of the alibilian variety. Now, since we are in this special case of elliptic albinium variety, that's the product of non cm elliptic curves, the maximum Galois group that we can acquire here is. So I'll call it g of l is the product gl two times over determinant times gl two of z. So the fiber product of a determinant of gl two cross da da da gl two of z module lz. So one can prove by generalizing the open image theorem for elliptic curves without cm to pairs, sorry. To g tuples of such elliptic curves, one can prove that for l sufficiently large, the Gallo group of q is this product. Okay, and the idea that occurred in the paper by muti Muti Sarada was that instead of looking at this extension, we could actually look at a sub extension q of a of l over the fixed field fixed subfield, the field, the subfield fixed by the Borels, in that case gl two of z module lc.
00:53:29.728 - 00:54:43.370, Speaker A: So we have similar borels in this fiber product. So using some factorial properties of the prime counting function that counts primes p up to x with Frobenius or Arten symbol at p being equal to a fixed conjugacy class, we can move our count from this, this field extension to this field extension, which right now has Galois group, this b of L. And the advantage of working in this subgroup is that we can find normal subgroup, the unitary matrices, and with the property. So if it's normal, then this sub extension is Galois. So it's Galois group. It is the quotient b of l over u of l. And we can prove, as in the case of g is equal to one, that this a torus.
00:54:43.370 - 00:55:43.916, Speaker A: So it's in abelian group. All right. And so now again, using these punctorial properties of Chapotayev counting functions, we move our count of prime p up to x such that ap is congruent to t mod l. From this extension to this sub extension, in which we have a galore group that's abelian. So we have a strong anchovy, because in this case, Artin's horomorphic conjecture is known to hold and so we can obtain, use a stronger jabotire that was proven by muay thi mortisada in their paper. And using various refinements of this strategy, we obtain, we obtain the bounds. So, what I'm missing from all these details is something that I find, in the beginning, I did not, I did not find surprising.
00:55:43.916 - 00:57:09.664, Speaker A: But now, the more I think about it, is, I find it surprising that I don't know. So, it is a lemma. Well, for unconditional case, we have some lemma obtained, written down by Datsun one. And for the conditional case, we have a lemma written down by muti, muti Sarada, which tells us each of this lemma tells us that if we want to look at primes p up to x, such that this provenance trace is fixed. So, as I said, this should relate to prime sp up to x, such that a one p is congruent to t mod l, or some l, that we can choose the parameter, and already this will give us an upper bound. But what I find surprising is that, and I didn't for a long time, so that one can restrict this l to be such that l splits completely in. Well, in this generalized cases, in the Frobenius fields associated to each of the, of the elliptic curves that give rise to the abelian variety.
00:57:09.664 - 00:58:28.514, Speaker A: Right. So, in the paper by mutimoti Sarada, there is, the relation is a maximum over l in a small interval, or, but big enough, plus an error term, which under grh and rh is insignificant. In the paper by datzine one, this is not the maximum is an average over the size of l in some small family, and then again, plus the narrow term that goes to zero. So, in addition to this change of using functorial properties of the Djibouti counting functions in suitable extensions, there is also this lemma, or the conditional unconditional version, which allows us to move from our count in the big extension into this sub extension. And again, for a long time I just thought, okay, yeah, that's true. But right now I actually, I find it most much, I find it surprising, and I don't know actually why. I mean, of course I understand the proofs.
00:58:28.514 - 00:58:32.126, Speaker A: All right, so that's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
00:58:32.270 - 00:58:54.748, Speaker B: Okay, thank you very much. Very interesting talk. Do we have any comments or questions? Quick questions? While we wait for questions, I'll ask one. In the unconditional bound that you've got is the, does the implied constant depend on g at all the number of cross?
00:58:54.836 - 00:59:23.278, Speaker A: Yeah. So that's as you are seeing here. This doesn't depend on g, while this depend on g. Let me think. If the implied constant depends on g, I mean, the implied constant will depend on the, on the primes, on the conductor of the billion variety. I don't know if it depends on g, but this is something. Well, something peculiar at the level of results.
00:59:23.278 - 01:00:04.974, Speaker A: But if you look at the proof, it's not so surprising that there is not much difference between, between what happens in the case g is equal to one and higher dimensional case here, actually. Very nice, if I can say more about that. Yeah, I guess it has to do with, with the choice of this l that. Yes. And in the unconditional case, the choice is so small. Yeah. I'll have to think if there is anything significant about g occurring here.
01:00:04.974 - 01:00:21.474, Speaker A: But the point is that, as I said, in your lemma, you have a maximum. Yes, but in, in the unconditional lemma, in fact, it's not a max. You have. We have to. To actually look at one over the size of this else.
01:00:23.854 - 01:00:30.154, Speaker B: Yeah, but even, even in the conditional version, the way the sum, the estimate comes is by averaging over else.
01:00:30.614 - 01:00:47.030, Speaker A: Right. So in your unconditional. Yes, you average over us, but then using that, the size of l. Yeah. So then you can get rid of the size of us. Yeah. By making the interval sufficiently large.
01:00:47.030 - 01:01:21.542, Speaker A: And that's where you are assuming the Riemann hypothesis that you want in the interval. So l is in an interval, let's say y and y plus u. And you want this interval to have y by log y primes. So you want this interval to actually be big enough. But in here the interval is very small and that's. Yeah. One cannot actually make the average into a maximum, because by making the average into a maximum, you actually make.
01:01:21.542 - 01:01:33.734, Speaker A: Ensuring your lemma that this error term goes to zero. So in the unconditional version, that's, that's. Yeah, the approach is completely different. It's a combinatorial.
01:01:34.274 - 01:01:35.930, Speaker B: Right. That's right. That's right, yeah.
01:01:36.002 - 01:01:51.034, Speaker A: And this one has to remain very small so that it actually doesn't contribute to the average. And that's where you. There will be some g, but. Yeah, I don't know, I'll have to. Yeah, maybe I should highlight it in the. Probably.
