00:00:00.240 - 00:00:46.070, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 18 January 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So today Evan van Ness and Josh Stark published their year in Ethereum 2021 review blog post. Now this is quite a lengthy read here it goes through everything that happened with Ethereum in 2021, from DeFi to nfts to protocol upgrades like ERP 1559 and all that good stuff, stuff there. Now, obviously, I highly recommend going and giving this a read if you haven't yet. I read it earlier today and honestly, as I kept reading, I just kept getting more and more excited, like it's always well and good to kind of like talk about what's happening on from, from day to day as I do on the, on the refuel.
00:00:46.070 - 00:01:43.804, Speaker A: But then kind of like doing a retrospective and looking back at what happened in 2021 and kind of like going through all the metrics and seeing how much success Ethereum had in 2021 just got me super pumped up. And then, you know, towards the end, you kind of like have things about like, you know, what, what's happening this year going forward, stuff like the merge L2s. And I just, and I just came away after reading all of this just like super pumped for, you know, the past, present and future of Ethereum really at the end of the day. So I highly recommend giving this a read. But I just, I did want to talk about a couple of things here. I think what stood out to me the most, just scrolling through here, was things like total transaction fees. Now, I know layer one fees are high and it's kind of like funny how it's the thing that Ethereum is most criticized for, but, but it's also the thing that I think is most bullish when it comes to Ethereum is the fact that last year, in 2021, people paid a total of $10 billion in transaction fees in 2021 to use the Ethereum network.
00:01:43.804 - 00:02:26.680, Speaker A: Now, I'm pretty sure this kind of like most of this kind of, I guess, happened towards maybe the end of the year or kind of like the last six months of the year. The first six months were high, but not as high as high as this. And then you can kind of see here that, how it compares to bitcoin. Bitcoin only did a billion dollars, so Ethereum did ten times the amount of fear of when us bitcoin did. But, and if you kind of like take that as a dollar terms, Ethereum's market cap, sorry, its market cap is, you know, I guess, less than half of bitcoin. And then kind of like, if you kind of like extrapolate that out and kind of do that over all of 2021, it becomes even more pronounced. And the reason why I bring up market cap is because you're measuring this as ETH USD value and Btc USD value.
00:02:26.680 - 00:02:59.570, Speaker A: So obviously BTC's USD value is higher. So the fact that Ethereum is kind of like ten times greater, even though it's, you know, it has a much less, not much less market, but less than 50% of the market, bitcoin is a pretty big deal there. So there's that. And then there's another chart here of comparing kind of like the transaction fees to not just protocols but also defi apps and things like that, comparing it to Visa. So visa does $24 billion in total fee revenue last year. So Ethereum is catching up, right? Ethereum already beats stripe. Stripe does $7.4
00:02:59.570 - 00:04:04.338, Speaker A: billion. And obviously now, you know, I mean, after August, most of that fee revenue is being burned 70% to 80% of it, which is absolutely insane, right? Like this is revenues, um, for visa and stripe, right? That goes, I mean, that's not profit, right? Like that's um, that's revenues that go to kind of like paying for our staff, paying for, you know, equipment, paying for maintenance and servers and all that sort of stuff there. Whereas this kind of like $10 billion, I mean, if you want to say that, extrapolate that out and say, okay, well, 1559, if it was live for the whole year, seven to $8 billion of that would have been burned. So crazy, crazy. And then going down, you can kind of like see some, some L2 stuff here, like cumulative transactions on, on L2 is up at over 500 million here or something like that there. You can go down and see kind of cumulative transactions on, well, I mean, this was, this includes, sorry, this includes Ethereum. So you can see cumulative transactions of Ethereum l one and l two, which is like about 500 million, but maybe over 500 million here.
00:04:04.338 - 00:04:29.978, Speaker A: And then you can see just l two on its own is up to almost 100 million. I think that's about 80, 85 million there. So. And then, you know, really only started in July. As I said, the second half of last year was when L2s really started kind of taking off and they went live and stuff like that. So some really cool stuff there, some stuff around the creator economy and how much kind of like creators are earning on the platform. So you know, artists, musicians, writers and other creators obviously got to do with nfts.
00:04:29.978 - 00:05:07.772, Speaker A: I really like this little picture here that says, who makes a living in crypto? You can see through the years, like, who's making a living now? Well, in 2021, investors, developers, crypto companies and artists, musicians, writers, gamers, all making money in crypto these days, whereas the previous years, it was just like investors, developers and crypto companies. So very cool to see that. Some coverage of core product upgrades like 1559. You can see a nice chart here of 1559 adoption through time. Um, and yeah, anyway, I'm going to let you guys give this a read yourselves. As I said, highly recommend that if you read anything this week, make it this. Uh, and I guess kudos to Josh Stark and Evan van Ness for putting this together.
00:05:07.772 - 00:05:43.028, Speaker A: They do this every year, by the way, for the last few years. Always love reading them. But as I said, this got me super, super pumped today for the past, present and future of Ethereum. So, speaking of 1559, Vitalik shared a paper today that was done by some researchers at Peking University and Duke University of the on the consequences of ERp 1559. And Vitalik says here, I particularly appreciate the confirmation that ERp 1559 has greatly decreased average waiting times for transactions. And then he shares this little chart here. Now, this is, you know, one of the other benefits, or at least kind of like a major benefit of 1559.
00:05:43.028 - 00:06:26.410, Speaker A: Obviously, we had the, obviously we had the kind of like burn that everyone focused on. But I've gone through before the other benefits of 1559, like better fee estimation, um, you know, decrease the average waiting time for transactions because you, because of that, so you don't have to speed up a transaction most of the time anymore. Uh, and there was a few other benefits in there as well. So really great to see some objective data on this. Obviously, you know, there's, um, uh, there's more time that needs to go past before we kind of like say that this is, uh, you know, the, an amazing fix or kind of like does what it says it does. But I mean, I think it's been six months so far, and we can obviously see some, some early data showcasing that it does what it says it's going to do. And, you know, the funny thing is, is that ethereum layer one is mostly bots today.
00:06:26.410 - 00:07:04.060, Speaker A: And like, in the near future, especially as more people migrate to L2, it's going to be basically 100% bots. And these bots are basically going to have like, very fine tuned ways to pay for transactions on the ethereum network. So it really is going to be a thing where 1559 is going to help so much that, I mean, in theory, 99% or even more than that of transactions should never have to be sped up. And people can kind of get their transactions into the next block as long as they pay the correct fee. Obviously, if you pay too low a fee, you're going to be waiting. But I'm talking about kind of like priority transactions to get into the next block. That should, that should definitely get better.
00:07:04.060 - 00:07:48.582, Speaker A: You know, be in a really good place for these bots and things like that as well. On, on layer one, ethereum, I mean, you know, the funny thing is, is that myself and a few of the, I guess, like other ETH ogs and whales that I know in the ethereum ecosystem are now moving most of their activity to L2 as well. So even the whales are pretty much getting priced out. And this is because, like, when you think about it, it depends what kind of, you know, how, you know, what these kind of like whales are and how active they are. But for example, you know, a few of them, I know they love to do kind of like trading nfts and things like that. They love to do putting their stable coins into yield farms and kind of like re upping their, their farms every day and kind of like compounding every day. You know, if you, if you have token rewards coming to you and selling those token rewards.
00:07:48.582 - 00:08:19.936, Speaker A: But the thing is, if you're doing that every day on layer one, it's going to cost you hundreds of dollars in gas fees and it's not even going to be worth it. I mean, obviously, depending on the size that you put in there, but it's not going to be worth it for people who have millions of dollars in there to reup it every day because the gas fees just eat into it like crazy. So these people are moving to L2 as well, because L2s now have more to do, you know, on album optimism. They've got a lot more apps on there, which I'm going to go through in a sec as well. Some, some major apps went live today, but essentially, I think, as I said, 1559. Oh, sorry. Layer one is really not even going to be whales anymore.
00:08:19.936 - 00:09:11.508, Speaker A: Like maybe mega whales, like people who have like a shit ton of money, like maybe tens of millions if not hundreds of millions of dollars. But mostly it's going to be bots doing, MeV staff doing arbitrage stuff. Layer two is obviously posting their core data and proofs to the layer one network, but anyway, if you're interested in reading these research paper, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So three Aave updates today. So Astani is teasing Aave l two strategy, where he says the current Aave Al two strategy is, are their protocol v three? Are they governance v three and Aaver redacted v three? I wonder what redacted v three is, because I know that AAvE is building a mobile, a mobile wallet or a wallet in general, but I don't know if they'd call that a v three wallet because they don't. They haven't even had like a v one or a v two. So I'm wondering, what are they redacted v three is going to be? Maybe, I don't know, maybe it's kind of got to do with the institutional stuff that they're doing.
00:09:11.508 - 00:09:40.594, Speaker A: I don't know. I'm not sure. But this is cool. I'm really loving the fact that avo stepping up on their kind of like l two game lately. And you can see here a related update from Emilio from, from RB here that they've kind of got a proposal up on the governance forum right now to use Snap Snapshot X from Snapshot Labs, which I'm going to talk about soon on Starkware here. So as I said, aave is getting very, very involved with the L2 ecosystem. And that argent kind of defi integration that was being teased was actually Aave.
00:09:40.594 - 00:10:37.812, Speaker A: So you can now earn interest with up to 100 times lower fees than l one by using the ZK sync wallet. So you can see here Gif basically deposit not depositing USDC, but trading USDC for a USDC, which is Aave interest bearing USDC on zksync here using the argent wallet, which I think is really cool. You know, the fun thing is, is that, yes, okay, this isn't like an AAve integration where through your argent wallet, you deposit USDC directly into AAve. But it's the beauty of DeFi is that you don't need to do that. All that needs to happen is that you trade your rv for a USDC. Sorry, you trade your USDC for a USDC, and you still get access to that same yield because of the fact that a USDC is a yield bearing token issued by the Aave protocol whenever anyone kind of like, puts their USDC in there. So this is really what, this is really one thing that DeFi uniquely enables is those tokens that represent different kind of positions and different kind of things within the DeFi ecosystem.
00:10:37.812 - 00:11:23.814, Speaker A: And it makes it really easy to do integrations like this without Aave having to deploy to zksync, you know, as, as kind of like the core protocol and then liquidity having to flow in there, flow into that to, you know, for it to mean anything. What this can do is you can just tap into aave kind of like liquidity anywhere. And this is part of Aave Three's roadmap as well with their portal where they want to have like a tokens flowing from chain to chain, l two to l two, and have, and, you know, no need to kind of like fragment liquidity like that as well, which I think is really, really cool. So awesome to see this from Arjun and Aave. And as I said, like Aave seems to be really doubling down on their l two strategy now. I'm very much looking forward to seeing ave v three go live on both optimism and arbitrum, which has been kind of like teased for a while now. I'm sure they'll be going live relatively soon.
00:11:23.814 - 00:12:04.418, Speaker A: So very, very, very excited for that. So Opensea announced today with a bunch of different partners, the NFT security group group. So this security group has 18 different partners in it, 18 very involved, kind of like apps, companies, services within the, within the NFT space, such as I guess, foundation, Coinbase, makersplace, manifold, metamask, polygon, Opensea, of course, rarible, zora, wallet, connect. You can see all of them here. Not going to list them all out, but there's 18 of them. So. And the NFT security group is basically a group that's come together to obviously tackle security and safety challenges within the NFT space.
00:12:04.418 - 00:12:37.724, Speaker A: Obviously the NFT space is bringing in a lot of newer people and there's a meme going around that a lot of these NFT people give away their seed phrase because they don't know what it is. I've made some jokes about it on Twitter before about the bored ape holders. They seem to give away their seed phrases and lose their bored apes and other nfts quite regularly now. As much as we all laugh and it's a meme and everything, this is a real problem for adoption. You. I like Argent's approach to it where they basically saying, you know, we need to get rid of seed phrases. We shouldn't be showing user seed phrases at all.
00:12:37.724 - 00:14:12.008, Speaker A: And I agree with that approach because at the end of the day, this kind of like seed phrase, a lot of users can get tricked into giving this away, just like they've been tricked into giving away their password for decades now in the web two world. So if we get to a point where we can remove seed phrases, or at least kind of like, have so much education out there that we can reduce the number of people who are just like, willfully giving their seed phrase or secret phrase, whatever you want to call it away, the better. And it's not just that there's a bunch of other kind of, like, security practices for, for nfts and just for crypto in general that are going to be worked on. But I think the, the seed phrase is a major thing, because look, when you think, when you kind of like, just look at the reality of the situation, if you give away your seed phrase, those words, twelve or 24 words have access to all of your kind of like wallets, which means it's basically a private key, right? Which means that anyone you give that to has access to everything, you have not just one asset, all the assets. So if you have an ethereum kind of wallet, whether it be on your kind of like hardware wallet or metamask or some, some other thing, and you have ethan there, you have stable coins in there, you have nfts in there, you have other tokens. As soon as you give away your seed phrase, or as soon as your seed phrase becomes compromised because you put it on your computer and someone's kind of like stolen it, you know, the smart kind of like hackers are going to drain everything instantly, right? And you're going to lose everything with zero recourse. There's nothing you can do about it then, because obviously, once a transaction has been done and confirmed on the Ethereum network, you can only roll it back if you have control of the chain, which obviously is not going to happen.
00:14:12.008 - 00:14:57.614, Speaker A: So from that perspective, again, just a warning for everyone, please, never, ever, ever give your seed phrase to anyone. Never write your seed phrase on your kind of like, computer and write it down and save it in a text file, even if it's password protected or anything like that, never do that. It's one of the most dangerous things you can do, and it's also just bound to get you wrecked eventually. So if you do have to store a seed phrase, because you do get them with hardware wallets and you do get them with something like metamask, always write it down physically and store it somewhere extremely safe. But also, you want to make sure that you kind of, like, go beyond that it, depending on how much you, you have as well. If you have a substantial amount, you can kind of like, split up the seed phrase. Give I don't know, give like half to your parents and keep half yourself to keep, keep safe.
00:14:57.614 - 00:15:54.230, Speaker A: But also keep in mind that you have to trust them to keep that safe as well because not, not that it could get, I mean it could get stolen, of course, but like, I think the bigger risk is that they just lose it or they forget where they're gonna, like they put it or it gets damaged or kind of like it gets thrown out or something like that. So these are the things to consider. But this is, again, why we shouldn't really have users kind of, I guess, like being faced with seed phrases and secret phrases and things like that. It's definitely a big deal that we need to kind of like deal with. So I'm great to see that Opensea and a bunch of other companies and services and ecosystem participants have introduced or launched this new NFT security group to help everyone out here. So as I mentioned, an update from Snapshot today. So they've introduced Snapshot X, which is basically a iteration of Snapchat, Snapchat Snapshots, which is the upcoming on chain voting framework for trustless execution that is going to be deployed to, I guess, stock net.
00:15:54.230 - 00:16:23.222, Speaker A: So this is being worked on in collaboration with the Starkware team. It was previously known as a stark vote. I'm pretty sure I covered it when it was called Stark Vote, but now it's called a snapshot X. So here's a description of what, of what snapshot X is basically, Snapshot X is a voting framework built on stock net. The L2 is a cable up. It will allow a any DAO to run their governance on chain on L2 and execute transactions on Ethereum. That's very, very cool, right? Like I've talked about this before about how people are getting priced out of doing governance things on layer one because of the fees.
00:16:23.222 - 00:16:54.772, Speaker A: So if we can do governance at L2 while still executing it at layer one, that's awesome. And that's exactly what snapshot X wants to enable here. So very, very, very happy to see that. But also snapshot is good on layer one too, because of the fact that you can just sign a message you don't have to actually do on chain transactions. So it's already obviously, you know, free to do because signing a transaction, sorry, signing a message is free. But like if you want to go beyond that, kind of like execute these things on chain and stuff like that, that's when it becomes, you know, expensive. So cool to see this.
00:16:54.772 - 00:17:24.950, Speaker A: Definitely go give this blog post a read. For more information about Snapshot X here. So Polygon, their pos chain is integrated, EIP 1559. So obviously AIP 1559, as I just talked about, brings to, brings with it a bunch of upgrades like better fear estimation, better fee market, things like that on polygon, polygons, pos chain here. And I'm pretty sure they are burning matic as well. But obviously, because fees are much cheaper on the pos chain, the burn is much less. I think they're burning.
00:17:24.950 - 00:17:42.784, Speaker A: Like, I know, I remember that I talked about this on the refuel. There were going back and forth about, like, burning or not burning. Oh, no, they are. Okay. So they landed on burning the matic token. So. But, yeah, it's still cool to see, like, I can't wait to see some kind of, like, dashboard sprung up around, you know, how much matic token has been burned, but I doubt it's going to be much.
00:17:42.784 - 00:18:10.384, Speaker A: As I said, I am sorry, what was I saying? I was saying that, you know, the fear revenue is quite low because of the fact that the transactions are low. And the funny thing is, that doesn't mean the activity is low. The activity is actually pretty high on the pos chain. But don't expect, like, ethereum levels of burn. Right? Like, I mean, I'm pretty sure the pos chain does, like, one to 200k worth of fear of a new, on any given day. Compare that to Ethereum, that does, like, $50 million a day. Yeah, there's, there's just really no comparison there.
00:18:10.384 - 00:18:45.006, Speaker A: But, you know, better than nothing. But also, you get those usability and ux benefits that come with 1559 generally. So very, very cool to see this. And, yeah, I'm, I can't wait to see kind of like, how the polygon fee market evolves from here as well, because they obviously had a bunch of issues with bots and things like that, too, and spam. So I'm curious to see how that gets kind of, like, handled under one five, under a 1559 world for the Polygon pos chain here. So curve finance is now live on optimism. So you can go to optimism, curve fi, and play around with curve on there.
00:18:45.006 - 00:19:19.182, Speaker A: Just another app that's gone live on optimism since they removed the whitelist. They were already live on arbitrum, of course, and I think they were live on ZK sync, or at least had a testnet implementation on zksync. So curves moving fast. They're obviously live on some other kind of, like, EVM chains as well. Makes sense for all these projects to deploy to basically every AVM chain. I'm curious to see long term kind of which ones hold the most usage and the most activity. Obviously, my bet is on L2 is because they're just objectively better from a speed perspective, but like, from a transaction fee perspective, longer term, they'll be better.
00:19:19.182 - 00:20:02.574, Speaker A: But for now, I mean, obviously optimistic roll ups are still a few dollars for a swap and things like that, whereas some of these kind of like cheaper centralized EVM chains are very, very kind of like low, low fees there. But as I said, roll ups are going to get to that point eventually when we have things like ERP 4488 and charting in place, but it's going to be on a kind of like longer term thing there. So just another thing for you guys to play around with. On optimism, though, with, with curve. Both optimism and arbitrum ecosystems are pretty much, I wouldn't say they're kind of like on par with Ethereum l one yet, but they're getting there. Like, if they're getting there very quickly, as I said, rv three is getting ready to be deployed on both of them very, very soon, I'm sure. And then once that happens, there's only a few other things that need to happen.
00:20:02.574 - 00:20:24.310, Speaker A: I mean, uniswap is already live on there, curbs live on there. Now. They have their own exclusive apps, like optimism has stuff like Lyra, arbitrary math, stuff like Dopex. There's their own kind of like, you know, native ecosystems developing like magic or treasure on albatrum as well. And on optimism. The synthetics ecosystem seems to be doing very well. So these things are coming together really, really quickly.
00:20:24.310 - 00:20:51.246, Speaker A: And I did tell you guys, like, it's kind of like a slowly and then suddenly thing where you think it's happening really slowly, but then suddenly there's all these apps available for you, you're bridging across. You can just stay on l two. There's no need to go back to l one. And we also have now, with binance, integrating arbitrary and deposits and withdrawals, that's just the beginning. So really, you know, most of us in, I guess maybe this year even, probably won't be touching l one very much at all, if ever again. And there's no reason for us to. Right.
00:20:51.246 - 00:21:16.168, Speaker A: The l two migration is well on the way. As I mentioned earlier, I have a lot of ETH og friends, you know, both whales and not, and not whales. I mean, depends what you consider a whale. But, you know, both whales and not whales, they're migrating a lot of their stuff to l two s and being like, you know, it's time like l two s are finally where we need them to be. And people are kind of like happy to kind of be on there instead of just being on l one. And, you know, I'm. I've.
00:21:16.168 - 00:21:43.572, Speaker A: The funny thing is with my activity, I notice my activity go down a lot because of the l one gas fees. Like, I only do my kind of like weekly things. Like, I have a few things I do each week. But like most of my activity, I tried to keep to l two s these days as well. But I mean, it is always hard to migrate across depending on what's happening. Because you may have some farms on, on l one that you have to unwind and then re spin them up on l two again. And you have, and you may have to wait for things to be live as well because there may not be everything you need.
00:21:43.572 - 00:22:17.982, Speaker A: For me, the reason why I haven't moved a lot of my stuff off l one yet is the fiat on runoff ramps. I don't use binance. And the exchange that I use for fiat on an off ramps may not be supported for a while. So I may have to use binance if I want to get off l one. I go to arbitram from now or something like that. But, you know, it would, it'd kind of be kind of like, I mean, I would save some money, but what would have to happen is that I'd have to kind of like do my stuff on arbitrary, for example, or optimism or whatever other l two and then kind of like send those funds back to l one so that I could send them to an exchange in order to trade it for fear. And you might.
00:22:17.982 - 00:23:00.472, Speaker A: You guys maybe thinking, why is he going to fiat taxes? Unfortunately, I hate that I have to go to fiat, but I have to for taxes. Like, you know, half of it, almost half of it goes to taxes, which is obviously super annoying, but it is what it is. So that's why I have to kind of like go to, go to centralized exchanges. But I'm hoping more of them obviously support things like optimism and arbitrum so that I can myself get most of my stuff off l one and go to l two because the fees, you know, I mean, the fees, like, I can't. Look, people always have this meme that kind of like the early ETH holders, the people with lots of ETH, don't care about the fees because, because they, you know, they made a lot of money off ETH. They have a lot of ETH, whatever. But this is wrong for two major reasons.
00:23:00.472 - 00:23:19.426, Speaker A: One, I don't like spending thousands of dollars in fees. Like, that's still thousands of dollars. It doesn't matter. Kind of like how much money you have. That's still thousands of dollars that you're spending unnecessarily. If you can do that stuff at l two, which you can do a lot of it now, and two, it's ETH. So I'm essentially giving up ETH, right? Like, ETH that I believe is going to be worth more in the future.
00:23:19.426 - 00:24:12.886, Speaker A: So if I spend $1,000 on gas fees in a month, for example, because, you know, if you're a regular, kind of, like, on chain user, $1,000 in gas fees on layer one a month is on the low end of stuff. Like, you could spend much more than that. What happens if ETH goes, or when ETH goes, like, you know, four x from here or five x from here, that $1,000 suddenly becomes four to $5,000? Like, and kind of like, when you really think about that and you kind of, like, take all the ETH that you've ever spent on fees, kind of, like, over the years, and the price point that it was at that point and what it is today, it hurts. Like, I went back and I looked because for my taxes, I just went back and I looked through it all, and I'm like, holy shit. Like, I spent so much ETH when on gas fees, when ETH was in the one to $300 range, because I was doing stuff on, there wasn't as much to do on chain, but I was still doing stuff. And, and obviously, fees were much cheaper then. But, like, if you were doing a lot of things, you would still spend kind of, like all these ETH.
00:24:12.886 - 00:24:42.402, Speaker A: And then obviously when ETH went higher and like $500 or something like that, the fees started spiking. But even then, like, I look back now, eats over $3,000. So any, any ETH that I spent on fees at dollar 500, it's gone up seven x since then. So if I spent, like, I don't know, $5,000 worth of fees, or it was more than that. It was much more than that during Defi summer. And then defy summer happened when ETH was like around $500. I think when Defi Summer started was only like $300 or something like that.
00:24:42.402 - 00:25:04.774, Speaker A: So between 300 and $600, I spent like tens of thousands of dollars during Defi summer. And you go look back on that now and what ETH is today, it hurts, right? So when people say, oh, the ethojs don't care. Cause they have so much ETH. It's like, well, they do care. They don't want to have to spend, like, all these money on fees. And just because they can afford it doesn't mean they want to do it. And that's why a lot of them are moving to l two.
00:25:04.774 - 00:25:23.230, Speaker A: That's why I'm trying to move as much as my activity to l two. And I think, as I said, like, l one phase, as I've said plenty of times, l one phase, they're not coming down anytime soon. Guys. Like, they're gonna keep getting up there, especially as these l two start competing for block space as well. So. So, yeah, just a bit of a. Not a rant, just a bit of a kind of, like, thing that I've been thinking about lately.
00:25:23.230 - 00:25:40.724, Speaker A: Because I'm just, like, sick of these memes, right? Like these, these memes that people think, like, every, every time, like, I talk about fees on Twitter, I get this, just reply guys saying this sort of stuff to me, it's like, oh, you're a rich ETH og. You don't care. You have so much ETH. You don't care about the fees. It's like, I mean, I do. I do care about the fees. Like, I don't want to be spending these.
00:25:40.724 - 00:26:09.130, Speaker A: I don't want to be, you know, using my ETH, even if I don't, if I don't have to. And yes, I know that it gets burned, right? And that's, you know, in some way contributing to the value of future ETH. But that's not the point. The point is, like, I want to keep as much eat as possible in my pocket because I love ETH. I want to stack more ETH so I can stack more validators. And I think that's the same for everyone, right? It's not just the pain of paying the high fees, it's all the also the pain of paying the high fees in ETH. Now, I know some people replenish their ETH after they've paid it, like, by buying new ETH.
00:26:09.130 - 00:26:34.854, Speaker A: But the thing is, like, when you think about kind of like tax. Tax implications and stuff like that as well, it gets messy depending where you are. But I know some people do that, too, which I guess, like, is a solution ish. But, like, yeah, I mean, if you don't have spare kind of like cash lying on the sidelines and you wait a few days till you have spare cash, then he price goes up. Or is different from where you kind of like where you kind of like spent that ETH, it becomes a bit messy there. But anyway, I'll leave it at that. Last couple of updates to get through.
00:26:34.854 - 00:27:02.958, Speaker A: There was a critical vulnerability in the multi chain, or previously called any swap bridge affecting six tokens with Perry OMT wrapped BNB, Maddox and Avax. So if you have any of kind of like approvals with the multi chain contracts, you need to go revoke these approvals before it's too late because this is still being actively explored. So you can check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. I'll link the blog post for all the details here. If you ever use this. I don't.
00:27:02.958 - 00:27:27.900, Speaker A: I don't even know what these tokens are like, Perry OMT. I know the rest of them, obviously, but I don't know what these two are. But if you're affected by that, definitely go check this out. You know, right now, even maybe I should have talked about this at the start. But yeah, I'm sure, sure if you, you know, you kind of like involved in this, you probably saw it by now, but definitely go check this out. Final thing to talk about, Sam Richards from the ethereum.org team put together some kind of like and some growth stats from ethereum.org
00:27:27.900 - 00:27:49.460, Speaker A: dot. So ethereum.org received 20 million visits in 2021. Huge, right? Five times the traffic it received in 20. 2068 people are contributing to the project on GitHub, with which is two times the 30 contributors. In 20, 23,500 translators joined and translated nearly 3 million words. Seven times the people and ten times words translated since 2020.
00:27:49.460 - 00:28:10.266, Speaker A: That's insane. Like, that, particularly to me, is insane. 3500 translators, man, that just really speaks to how global Ethereum is, right? Like the ethereum.org website is available in many different languages, which I absolutely love, by the way. I hate that so much. Of kind of like, I guess defi interfaces and things like that are only available in English. Ethereum is global.
00:28:10.266 - 00:28:34.430, Speaker A: Crypto is global. Let's start getting these things available in different languages. I know it can be difficult sometimes if you don't have translators on board and kind of like getting things translated can be quite costly. But a lot of these defi projects have massive treasuries, and spending some of that to translate the website into at least the most popular languages, maybe the top ten would be well worth it. But anyway, great to see this growth from ethereum.org dot. As I've said before to you guys, ethereum.org
00:28:34.430 - 00:28:52.186, Speaker A: used to be kind of like basically useless like, I think that's the best way to describe it. I think 2019 is absolutely useless. It was. It was old, outdated, hasn't hadn't been updated since like 2015. Then a new team came together and had been absolutely crushing it. Like absolutely crushing it. The ethereum.org
00:28:52.186 - 00:29:11.098, Speaker A: website is one of my favorite websites in crypto and one of my favorite websites just in general, right? Because it's just such an awesome site to go on. Tons of information and resources there. I love the artwork. I love everything about it. But enough gushing from me. Congrats to the team there, and I think I'm going to end it on that for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:11.098 - 00:29:17.874, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
