00:00:06.090 - 00:00:42.940, Speaker A: Welcome to Uncommon Core, where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. This show is hosted by John Chalbaneau, co founder and general partner of dBA, and me, Hasu, strategy lead at Flashbots and advisor to the Lido Dao. Cool. Welcome to the fourth episode of Uncommon Core. I'm here again with my co host John Chabuno, founding partner of dBA, and Kaspar Schwartz and Anska Dietrich, two researchers at the Ethereum foundation. Hi guys.
00:00:43.790 - 00:00:45.082, Speaker B: Hi, Asu. Hey, I'm John.
00:00:45.136 - 00:00:46.460, Speaker C: Glad to be here.
00:00:47.310 - 00:02:10.120, Speaker A: So you guys recently co authored two proposals that made quite the wave to put it lightly in the Ethereum community, and they both explore what is basically the end game for staking, for how staking works in Ethereum and the economics around that. One of them introduces the idea of targeting a specific staking participation rate in the protocol, including where rates can even go negative. So if, for example, we wanted to target 25% or 50% staked, and we were at 75, then the rates would go negative until, for example, that target ratio could be achieved. So that's a rather new concept. And then the other one was a kind of more concrete proposal to lower the issuance curve for the upcoming electra fork, or possibly the fork after that. Why did you decide to research this area? Kind of. Why are we talking about this right now?
00:02:11.850 - 00:02:53.380, Speaker B: Right. Yeah, good question. I mean, touching the issuance policy is obviously always tricky and for good reason. So question is, why are we talking about it now? Basically, we just looked at the economics of staking today and kind of analyzed where we're headed and kind of looking at it, we felt that it's not really sustainable. And I think one thing to remember is also that this issuance curve is from kind of the pre beacon chain launch days. So I think that's 2020. And so at the time, liquid staking was not really a thing.
00:02:53.380 - 00:03:25.982, Speaker B: Restaking was not really a thing. And so we've learned a whole lot of things since then. And I think it's important to kind of get to a point where we don't actually have to change the issuance policy anymore, kind of the end game of staking economics, if you will. And this is really the intention here. And so we wrote these two posts. One is kind of a possible vision to get to a point where we don't actually have to change the issuance policy anymore. We refer to it as a targeting policy.
00:03:25.982 - 00:03:53.814, Speaker B: And then there's the second proposal, which is kind of a concrete step to get concrete step in the right direction. And so yeah, I would say the goal is precisely kind of to not having to make changes to the issuance policy anymore and to kind of future prove it in a way that I think we're now in a good position to do. And that's actually really exciting, to kind of really see the final shape of.
00:03:53.852 - 00:04:29.598, Speaker C: Ethereum forming and maybe to briefly jump in there. Right. Because I think that last point is really important. In general. If you look at the roadmap for Ethereum over the last few years, there have been a lot of moving parts for a long time. And I think over the last year or two years, we've gotten to the point where we start to really settle a lot of things and start to really have pieces into place that we think are reliable for long term, say the centric roadmap, the modular approach. We're really starting to see basically the final shape or something that gets closer and closer to the final shape of Ethereum.
00:04:29.598 - 00:04:50.060, Speaker C: And so for the first time we were like, hey, instead of just talking about what gets us to the next few years, now would be the time to actually start thinking about what actually would be places that we could, for example, now here with stake economics, that we could leave the protocol in for several decades and could trust that it would actually be in a good place. So that's kind of where we're coming from.
00:04:51.950 - 00:05:47.146, Speaker A: John, can I maybe call on you to kind of paint us a bit of a backdrop? So where are we right now in the kind of the staking landscape? And so, Kaspar, you already mentioned some things. So the current curve is basically from before the beacon chain even went live. And if I remember correctly, there was like an element going into it where we knew we needed some critical threshold of participation in staking so that the chain could be secure. But then there wasn't really a whole lot, I don't want to say like a whole lot of thinking went into it beyond that, because I'm sure it did. But a lot of things happened since then that maybe weren't anticipated. So, John, maybe to start with you, where are we right now? And kind of, what are some of the things that are kind of moving? The staking rate.
00:05:47.328 - 00:06:42.346, Speaker D: Yeah, so the high level landscape of it is the issuance have been touched a few times back in proof of work days, but nothing has changed since proof of stake happened. And basically just over that period of time, what you've seen is just like the amount of ETH deposited for staking is basically just like in a steady kind of lineup. Basically since it was initiated from then through now, driven by a mix of over time, like the market getting more comfortable, the merge happening, and now a lot of it lately is also potentially like restaking driven, that there's more incentive because of that, and people just generally getting more comfortable, lower risk, normal to do it over time. As you'd mentioned, the curve basically, it is highly opinionated in the front end of, okay, we want to be really aggressive with rewards early on to make sure there's some reasonable number of amounts.
00:06:42.378 - 00:06:56.478, Speaker A: Staked to interrupt you really quickly. So in case our listeners don't really know what we mean when we say curve. So in what sense, how does the idea of a curve work?
00:06:56.644 - 00:07:43.040, Speaker D: Yeah, and this one will probably pop up on the screen just to give you a general idea. Yeah, because this is what most people are talking about when they talk about the issuance curve is just this really simple graph of x axis is like the amount of ETH staked going from zero to the maximum amount of ETH, which is like, ballpark, 120,000,000 ETH today. And then the y axis is just the yield that you would earn on staking. So the general idea is, as you're close to zero, we want a super heavily incentivized staking, because we obviously don't want zero ETH staked. That would kind of be a problem. So there's effectively goes to infinite yield at zero, and then it just kind of lowers off over time such that, hey, if we have 99% of ETH staked, we don't really need to incentivize the next guy that much to stake. We don't really care.
00:07:43.040 - 00:08:34.450, Speaker D: The way that the curve works though, is it's really super aggressive in the front, and then it tapers off in how aggressive it goes from that kind of midpoint of where we are now towards the end. So the yield of the incremental staker goes down. But over that point, the amount of ETH being issued is still increasing all the way up until the end, just at a diminishing rate. So the incentive to keep staking always does exist and does keep growing in that context of like, there is always added incentive in that of like the more staked, the more ETH that the protocol will issue ultimately just at a diminishing rate, but is always more on net. So where we are today is a little over a quarter beat staked. So like a little over 30 million. And of that it's ballpark, I think like a bit over 40% of that is liquid staked.
00:08:34.450 - 00:09:25.878, Speaker D: And of that liquid stake, call it a little over 70%, is Lido. So Lido is, ballpark, a little over 30% of, like, total ETH stake. And within that liquid stake, Lido has been going down in share kind of pretty consistently, I would say, over the past call a year or so, particularly as you have more new stuff coming up lately of a number of the sexes having liquid staking products that are growing, like CBE, Binance's ETH, and then also a number of the restaking platforms are going to start growing over time. So that's kind of where we are today. Historically, it has been that kind of simple mix, and now we're at this stage where I would say there's like a number of bigger wild cards coming up that could just radically shift. Like, okay, not just one, the total staking rate, but also the distribution within. Okay, the total amount of each stake.
00:09:25.878 - 00:10:17.710, Speaker D: What does that composition look like? Because as of right now, after Lido, the second biggest is Coinbase is a bit over 14, 15% range. And so there's a big question of how much does this gravitate towards being institutional staking, particularly as someone like Coinbase is likely to be. Presuming that there are ETFs, at some point, they're probably going to be the custodian for these. There are going to be other ETFs like these will presumably stake over time, other sexes are going to be growing their staking products. So how institutionalized this become. And then also in liquid staking, there's finally going to be much more of a diversity, is what early signs seem to look like, at least in the short to medium term, particularly with all of the restaking launching at present. I mean, there's over $12 billion in eigen layer, and probably going to increase a number of that will end up in liquid restaking tokens.
00:10:17.710 - 00:10:50.314, Speaker D: And so this is going to become very clearly like a very large part of the market. Basically goes to say it is a lot of wild cards. And this is also part of what gives me pause of the. So I'm not fundamentally opposed to changing issuance at any point ever. I'm definitely not. I think there's just a very high bar to do it. Now, if you want to be really confident that this is the thing, which is we're pretty much all agreed on this thing, it can last a long time, and there are still just a lot of uncertainties in my mind.
00:10:50.314 - 00:11:03.406, Speaker D: And things are probably going to keep changing pretty drastically over the next year or two with a mix of all the custodial restaking. Like, I'm probably going to change the landscape a lot. So things are changing pretty quickly, which makes it exciting, but it's about where.
00:11:03.428 - 00:11:32.742, Speaker C: We are today and just to jump in. Right. I think that's actually why we thought now would be a really good time to kind of start that conversation. As you said in the beginning, we have these two kind of posts. One of them is really focused, and that's the main one, the much longer one, if people look them up, right. That is the one that just explores, like right now with the information we have now, and that's still incomplete, but at the least, we're starting to see the shape again. That's where we're trying to figure out what direction we think makes the most sense.
00:11:32.742 - 00:12:17.030, Speaker C: There is also like a more short term proposal, but I think we can talk maybe more towards kind of the second half of the podcast, a little more like what we are trying to do there and why we think there's some urgency. But really, as you're saying, kind of like for the main discussion around what should be the end game state, that's definitely a discussion where we think that's not something we can decide now, or even in a month or two months or three months. That's more something that over the next year or so, right. Basically, we would hope that we are on a good path to really kind of make that assessment. And one outcome here could be that we decide that, hey, we believe the path we're on is good enough, or even maybe the optimal one, we should stay on it. That's totally fine. It's more about basically really being intentional about it so that it's long term reliable.
00:12:17.790 - 00:12:40.270, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that point about intentionality is really crucial here. Like the current issuance curve, it's a given thing, but not changing it is also a decision. And so kind of really thinking about the end game vision here is crucial. And so whatever the outcome, I think it should be an intentional outcome.
00:12:41.970 - 00:13:25.502, Speaker A: Okay. I find this very interesting because there's this kind of very famous saying, I think, from Warren Buffett, where he says, if you look at your portfolio, you should just imagine that every asset that you hold, you should be willing to buy it every day. And there's some parallel thing here where you have a certain configuration of rules in Ethereum, you should be able to create them from scratch every day. And I think this is one line of thinking, but I wonder if it's like a good line of thinking as it comes to kind of decentralized systems. Right. Because your portfolio, you should be very loosely held to it. And that's the main idea.
00:13:25.502 - 00:14:06.620, Speaker A: Right. You shouldn't kind of develop a kind of bias around the things that you already own versus the things you don't own. And here it's really that you should have a very high bar to change something that is not clearly broken. And so that's why I think those two things actually diverge. And so my question to you would be, why do you think a, do you agree we should have a certain bar in the decentralized system to change things that are not clearly broken? And if yes, then why do you think the current situation warrants that?
00:14:09.150 - 00:14:33.140, Speaker C: Yeah, so I totally agree. I actually think. And especially something like staking. Right. And that's also when we published the articles, there was definitely some reactions that were like, hey, first instinctive reaction, hey, we should be careful here. And totally 100% agree. And that's why again, the idea is we want to get to a place where really we can rely, that this can remain unchanged for a very long time.
00:14:33.140 - 00:15:19.700, Speaker C: We just looked at the count trajectory we are on, and we do believe that not today, like, today's situation is actually great. I think if we could just freeze the count staking situation in place, we would immediately press that button in a heartbeat. I think it's more about basically us saying that, hey, we are not actually in account equilibrium. Right, John, as you said in the beginning, we are on this very constant trajectory of inflow. And actually the rate of inflow is increasing. If you look at like, how long did it take us to get to the first 10 million staked versus the second 10 million versus the third 10 million, it is an increasing rate. I assume we'll in a second get into kind of our specific thinking around why we think there are strong reasons to believe this will continue all the way to at least a very high rate, possibly approaching 100%.
00:15:19.700 - 00:16:03.278, Speaker C: And then specifically, we think we have very strong reasons to make the assessment that this close to 100% stake case would be very kind of problematic for Ethereum. And so it's not about today's situation, again, it's really about saying if we do nothing, we are on a trajectory, kind of making an opinionated assessment about where the possible equilibrium on that trajectory are and then assessing those. And that's a general problem with Ethereum research, right. At least at the time of recording. Two days ago, we had the Dankune hard fork. We started work on ERP four well over two years ago. Right.
00:16:03.278 - 00:16:19.400, Speaker C: So basically you always have to live in the future, one or two years in the future, basically with these things. So our job is not to look at today and make proposed changes. Right. Today it's about living one, two years in the future and figuring out where are we headed if we do nothing. And, yeah, is that an okay place?
00:16:21.210 - 00:16:54.500, Speaker A: Do you have any tips for us? Like what meme coins are doing well in the future? Casper, maybe kind of to kick it to you. So I want to unpack what Anska just said. So why do you think the staking rate will keep increasing? Kind of, what are the dynamics that kind of keep pushing it up versus. Would also push it down?
00:16:55.350 - 00:17:38.570, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. So essentially, this question is about the supply of stake, right? So at what point are stakers willing to supply their stake? And this supply curve has significantly changed over the time. Right. We've mentioned solar staking and the introduction of LSTs. And I think it might make sense to kind of quickly unpack how this kind of influences the willingness to supply stake, because it's, I think, very core to the whole argument. Solar staking is costly. You need 32 E, so high barrier to entrance, and it's technically not trivial.
00:17:38.570 - 00:18:32.490, Speaker B: So a bunch of people would need to sit down and read a bunch of blog posts and trying to figure out how the hell staking from home would work. And so the pool of possible solo stakers at current rates is relatively limited. And the point here is that, speaking in economics terms, the supply curve of solo stakers is quite steep. What that means is that to get the last possible person to solo stake would require an insanely high amount of yield to convince them to do that. Now, liquid staking protocols really changed kind of that game, as you probably know much better. And so essentially, LSTs are this kind of like one click solution where you click a button and you have access to that staking yield. It comes obviously at some kind of trade off.
00:18:32.490 - 00:19:18.714, Speaker B: You have a bunch of trust assumptions that come with it. But it's this kind of one click, convenient solution, giving you access to yield. And the point here is that this significantly changes how the shape of the supply curve looks like. And so essentially, now you can reach a whole bunch of people that are willing to stake because it's technically easy. You only need one ETH or even less. And so the point here is that the willingness to supply stake is much lower, is much higher, given lower yields. And one interesting dynamic here with LSTs in general is that they have these network effects.
00:19:18.714 - 00:20:29.894, Speaker B: So a liquid staking token becomes more useful if it's more adopted and more used. It's kind of like liquidity attracts liquidity. Defi protocols will start integrating the LST, et cetera. And so, in a way, you can think of it even as kind of, as more staking happens via LSTs, it kind of attracts even more stake because the LST in itself becomes more useful and then on top become kind like we have these kind of, how should I say, kind of the tail risks might kind of be discounted in different ways. If we start seeing kind of 50, 60, 70% of total ease in one LST risk, calculations around those might change because they might be considered too big to fail. Point here is that as LSTs become more adopted, they become more attractive. And, yeah, that kind of has this staking inducing, more staking effect.
00:20:29.894 - 00:21:11.890, Speaker B: And because it's so low barrier to entrance to get that yield, I think if we look at the current issuance curve, we have just a little less than 2% staking yield at 120,000,000 staked. So if all of ETH is staked, you can still earn roughly just less than 2%. And so the worry basically, is that given this yield at those high staking participation levels could mean that we actually reach those levels. It's at least economically feasible and not kind of impossible.
00:21:13.350 - 00:21:20.230, Speaker A: The 2% you were citing at 100% stake, where do they come from? From priority fees and Mev.
00:21:21.610 - 00:21:36.140, Speaker B: It's basically issuance. So, basically, the staking yield you can access is, roughly speaking, the issuance yield. So the new east that gets minted by the protocol, and then, yes, you also have that MeV yield on top of that.
00:21:37.150 - 00:21:49.040, Speaker A: Okay, but at 100% stake, the issuance you can ignore, basically. Right. Because you're paying it in your own inflation, basically.
00:21:49.570 - 00:21:50.640, Speaker C: Well, exactly.
00:21:52.930 - 00:22:25.254, Speaker B: I think we have a whole section on this in our write up. And I think it might make sense to dive deeper into the kind of differences between nominal yield and real yield. We actually make quite a big fuss about it in our write up. But, yeah, essentially, if everyone stakes, it kind of becomes meaningless. Right? So if everyone earns 2%, you're actually not earning anything in real terms because you're also getting inflated by 2%. However, incentive to stake is still relevant from the issuance.
00:22:25.302 - 00:22:32.010, Speaker A: You don't earn any from the issuance, but you earn fees and you earn MeV. And you earn other rewards. Maybe that may exist.
00:22:32.670 - 00:23:07.654, Speaker C: So, sorry for jump, but I think it's important to point out that, as Casper was just saying, even at, say, 100% stake. Yes, your balance goes up 2% everyone else's balance goes up 2%. It's just a nominal thing. Like basically, if you account for inflation, actually at the end of the year, you're at the same level you were before. So you don't earn any money from issuance, you still have your MEV income stream, you still have just the normal 59 burn income stream. But for your decision to stake, you compare of course, your yield if you stake, versus your yield if you don't stake. And if you don't stake, you now get basically diluted by 2%.
00:23:07.654 - 00:23:21.260, Speaker C: So the gap between east holders and stakers, that is this kind of nominal curve that you're familiar with. So basically, even at 100% stake, the gap between not staking and staking is still 2%. So that's where the incentive to stake comes from.
00:23:22.910 - 00:24:02.410, Speaker D: Yeah, and one little thing to point out on too, is like, this isn't technically something you necessarily build a decentralized system around, but one of the reasons that it's arguably really bad for the system as a whole too, is nobody is actually gaining anything, to your point, from this issuance. When you're at 100% of like, yeah, you make 2%, but you're also diluted by 2%, like everyone kind of equally together. The really inefficient part about that for the real world in practice is, but you're probably going to pay taxes on that, depending on your jurisdiction. So now you are inflating and diluting everyone, and then potentially making them pay taxes on half of that. So they didn't make any money, and now they have to pay taxes on 50% of whatever they made there.
00:24:02.560 - 00:24:45.830, Speaker C: It's almost even worse, because I think it's basically almost unavoidable in most jurisdictions for solar stakers, because actually you just have your ETH frozen and it nominally stays the same, but actually just loses in value. So maybe you get some deduction in investment losses, but at the same time you generate paper income that you have to tax. Whereas for LSTs, and especially of course, the centralized LSTs, it is actually relatively easy to structure that in a way where at least, again, not every jurisdiction, but in most jurisdictions, that is shielded from that income. So it's basically an effect that very heavily is disadvantageous for solo stakers, which is one of like basically in our list, it's probably not the most important aspect, but it is yet another aspect in which high staking is just really bad for solo staking.
00:24:47.130 - 00:25:15.486, Speaker D: Yeah, in practice, it does make a big difference. I mean, that is a real reason that again, this depends on jurisdiction and blah blah blah and all that but that is a real reason why a lot of people will hold for example like wrapped teeth or various staking derivatives is because they're the ones where the price goes up as opposed to giving you the income and so you get to defer it as capital gains that matters for a lot of people this is actually one of the best arguments for the burn and reducing issuance in my mind in practices this such is like super tax inefficient on the system.
00:25:15.668 - 00:26:17.314, Speaker C: And just to mention because I think actually there's a bigger really important point here that sometimes a lot of these mechanisms, they're all equivalent but they're equivalent in not obvious ways and it's really important to build up the right intuition so for example, right now we pay for security, we pay for staking with new issuance you could imagine an equivalent mechanism where you just take it directly out of ETH holders balances and you just redistribute it to stakers, right? And if you do it that way it's completely equivalent right but you would immediately understand that hey, as we approach 100% basically there's fewer and fewer ETH holders that you can take it out of the balance for us so basically you get less and less paid out to people, right? So basically this kind of nominal real year distinction which is kind of not obvious and weird to think about in the issuance case if you had the equivalent redistribution model much easier to think about it's a little analogous to the whole dividends versus stock buybacks kind of case with stocks yeah I think it's really important to kind of really kind of look at it from all perspectives to fully understand all aspects, right and.
00:26:17.352 - 00:27:57.590, Speaker B: I think one point here to add to this kind of nominal versus real yield discussion we've kind of briefly touched upon it already is but I think it's very important as a takeaway is that the incentive to stake is the nominal yield protecting yourself from dilution is just as efficient as real yield in terms of incentivizing you to stake that's very important but then the real yield is important to look at when we compare different kind of long term equilibrium and that's basically what we're doing when we compare different issuance curves so today's issuance curve might give us a long term equilibrium x and a different issuance curve might give you a different long term equilibrium and the composition of the net incentive to yield between these two different equilibria is very much relevant because as a staker, you would prefer to live in a world where in that equilibrium you actually earn more real yield. So if you could choose between world A and B, you would choose the world that has more real yield. And that is obviously not a choice that you as a staker have. You don't have it as a staker. But that's basically what we can do with issuance curve. We can try and design a curve such that we actually end up in a world where stakers actually have real yield left at the end of the day. That's just a quick point that I wanted to add to this discussion.
00:28:00.090 - 00:28:35.330, Speaker A: We already talked about the supply curve, and I think you painted this really nice picture. So we had this, what we thought is the supply curve basically is like the relationship between, at what price are stakers willing to supply how much eve. Correct. And so we had in our minds, like what the supply curve would look like. And so we designed the issuance curve basically around that. But then several things happened in the market mainly. I mean, one was the big derisking of people seeing, hey, proof of stake actually works, it's not going to burn all my money.
00:28:35.330 - 00:29:22.606, Speaker A: And so that basically made people more comfortable with the system. It shifted the supply curve. Another big thing was Lsts. It really dramatically lowered the cost of staking. And that, of course, again made it basically possible for more people to stake at this lower price. But then I would say things also happened on the demand side, right. Because when in the past folks were only earning basically like issuance and they maybe were earning some amount of MEV and transaction fees, it seems to me that right now there's a lot of kind of exogenous rewards for being a staker, right.
00:29:22.606 - 00:29:58.730, Speaker A: And that kind of pushes a lot of folks into staking. So to give two examples, I think eigenglayer, kind of the anticipated airdrop that they have. I mean, we mentioned it earlier. I think there's like eleven or $12 billion of eve effectively in the protocol right now. Right. Some of that in various LSTs and others in kind of native stake directly on the beacon chain. And so what this did, effectively was changed the demand curve for staking.
00:29:58.730 - 00:30:15.650, Speaker A: Then you look at kind of others, you look at Ethina or you look at blast, et cetera. It's like various places where you can kind of get additional yield on staked ETH. Right. And so how are you kind of thinking about the demand curve?
00:30:17.110 - 00:30:53.754, Speaker C: Yeah. So you're touching on something really important there, right. So maybe the way we think about this at a very fundamental level is basically, you said it just right. Basically, there are two types of fundamentally two different types of income that you get as a staker. You get that the protocol gets maybe in the first place, that is just the internal kind of rewards. That's basically just issuance, that's just a redistribution of existing money, basically of existing value between different entities in the protocol. So in our case, from non staking ETH holders to stake stakers, and then there's external revenue streams.
00:30:53.754 - 00:31:48.350, Speaker C: And the easiest example of that is, of course, transaction fees. And how after 59, the majority of transaction fees now get routed to all ETH holders and a small portion still goes directly to proposers only. Basically, the way we think about it, yes. Right now, basically we have some existing sources, like MeV, of external yield that already kind of goes only through stakers. And in the future, with restaking, we have basically another big category of this external yield as we approach 100% stake. Basically, this distinction between external revenue going to all ETH holders and external revenue only going to stakers kind of goes away, right? Basically because everyone becomes a staker. So basically, in the end game, all, both 1559 burn and Mev, and everything, everything goes to everyone, basically everyone that holds ETH.
00:31:48.350 - 00:32:31.360, Speaker C: In a way. We already have proposals in the work there. But basically the end game would be that we direct all of these external income streams to all ETH holders directly via some sort of extraction smoothing burning mechanism, right? So basically, like how we did that with transaction fees, we are working on MeV burn. Or basically there's tester proposal separation ideas that would have the same effect. Incidentally, they would also do the same thing for at least some sub portion of restaking income. We can maybe talk about the different categories of restaking yield and to what extent, how easy it is to extract them and smooth them and whatnot. But basically the end game is to have that all be smoothed away.
00:32:31.360 - 00:33:22.790, Speaker C: And that has two advantages. One, basically it removes this spikiness of revenue, especially for solo stakers. So solo stakers, because they only say, for example, any revenue that you get as part of being a proposer, which you only do if you only have a single validator, it's like less than once a month or so, that you propose a block, right? So basically, right now with MeV, there's the source of variance in your rewards that you can get lucky and you can have like a big mev block, or you just don't get any MEV for an entire year, right? And this, of course will get even worse with something like grease, staking and whatnot. By extracting that on the protocol side, we now make yields and incentives very predictable. Right. So we basically bring them under control. So basically the end game here is that all of this kind of goes instead of basically it goes to the protocol first and then gets redirected to all ETH holders.
00:33:22.790 - 00:33:46.900, Speaker C: And that way we only have this kind of very predictable and equally distributed staking yield. That is what directly incentivizes staking. But I think it's really important that we end up designing an end state that is robust against all these different potential ways this can play out.
00:33:48.790 - 00:34:50.042, Speaker A: Yeah, so the reason why I wanted to bring up the demand curve. So correct me if I'm wrong here, my mental model is when you actually do this kind of targeting, then you actually have a mechanism for controlling the demand curve, including all of the external factors kind of weighing on it, right. Because you basically have an oracle that tells you in a way what the demand curve is, which you read it basically from how much ETH is staked, you kind of basically have through the one lever which you control, which might be, for example, the issuance rate. You can say, if I lower this, let me just lower this until I hit the kind of target that I want. And this allows me to kind of compensate for any external rewards that might exist outside the system. You say that's like a fair mental model, right?
00:34:50.096 - 00:35:39.186, Speaker C: Again, I think the end goal has to be to always kind of have these external revenue streams directly captured by the protocol. Because otherwise you're kind of left with this kind of spikiness, which basically makes home staking over time unviable. And by the way, no matter whether we do target like this, kind of this trying to target a specific participation range or we go to 100%, same problem, right, as we talked about, at 100%, there is no real yield anymore in terms of from the issuance side. So all you're left with are these external revenue streams. So if they are spiky, that's even a worse problem. But yeah, so basically the idea is specifically to basically have a mechanism that in a way it kind of works no matter the external factor. Maybe now is a good time to look a little into kind of the mechanism we propose for achieving.
00:35:39.186 - 00:36:21.590, Speaker C: Something like targeting would be basically just an issuance curve that starts out just as the current one does. So basically pays very high rewards as we go close to 0%, but then has some sort of flat part where it pays out similar to today at kind of today's level or something, and then goes very quickly towards the zero, and then even potentially beyond zero if we were to go to exceed that. But by a large amount. And of course almost by definition that means that we end up never going into the range where it's strongly negative, at least in net. Right. Taking external sources into account. But there could be other mechanisms, right? You could imagine more like a 1559 style feedback controller that would also work just fine, same properties.
00:36:24.900 - 00:37:09.520, Speaker A: So why would 100% state eve be bad? So I think I heard previously we are right now on the path to 100%. Yes. Also, some time has passed, maybe we learned some things, maybe we just shipped some important upgrades. So some time to brief right now and maybe think a bit further ahead. So that's like one side of the argument, which is, hey, let's figure out, hey, what should the end game look like? But I also heard maybe some urgency kind of coming from what you said around we don't really want 100% of ETH to be staked. So why is that the case? What kind of risks do you see from 100% being staked?
00:37:10.660 - 00:38:15.540, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe I can take your first dab at it and then ask, you can jump in. So I think there's a couple of kind of negative externalities that we see. One of them probably one of the more fundamental ones, is that in a world where we have 100% staked, just let's use that as a kind of meme value in that world, given some sort of winner takes most dynamics of the LST market, I think you had a whole kind of episode on why you think LST is a winner takes most markets. Essentially. I think the TLDR, you can probably give a much better one. The TLDR is essentially network effects, more liquidity, et cetera. And so if we assume that there's this one dominating LST and all of ETH is staked, then essentially that LST replaces raw ETH as the de facto money of Ethereum.
00:38:15.540 - 00:39:30.910, Speaker B: And that's a very kind of fundamental change to how at least I think about Ethereum. So I think it really warrants us as a community asking the question, do we want to live in a world in which ETH is replaced by some LST that inherently carries some assumptions around slashing risk governance, and maybe some smart contract risk? And I think that kind of the ideal money should be maximally trustless, maximally credibly neutral. And I feel that an LST is, in a way too opinionated to be truly scalable in that sense, in today's world. I think we have basically the following problem. Holding raw ETH is expensive because of the opportunity cost of that issuance field. And the alternative is basically then holding an LFT, at least on that kind of 100% staked range. It's unfeasible to expect everyone to solo stake, as we know.
00:39:30.910 - 00:40:04.650, Speaker B: And so essentially, we live in this world where it's expensive to hold ETH, and it's risky to hold LST, at least more risky than holding raw ETH or than staked ETH. And so money should be cheap and it should be maximally trustless. And so I think that's, I think at least personally, for me, a big reason. Maybe I'll give it, Anska, the opportunity to jump in here.
00:40:06.780 - 00:40:49.872, Speaker C: Sure. Yeah. I feel like in my mind, basically, I have four main reasons. Of course, you primarily mentioned the money. One, I would even maybe on that point, I would word it a little stronger. I think basically, if we decide to replace ETH with an LST or some basket of LSTs or whatever, at 100%, it's not guaranteed that there would be a winner takes most, but doesn't really matter because raw ETH will, by definition, no longer be a big portion of ETH, basically on the chain. I think in that world, basically, it's almost impossible to imagine that ETH would still, or whatever kind of ETH equivalent we have would still be in the competition as a cryptocurrency.
00:40:49.872 - 00:41:19.788, Speaker C: Right. It might still be like a good kind of utility token investment token. You get your revenue share of whatever kind of revenues the Ethereum blockchain produces. You can still send transactions by maybe unwrapping just in time or something like that, that all is fine. But basically, at that point, we would basically just say, hey, if you actually want a new type of currency, go to bitcoin. And if you just want to basically invest into kind of Ethereum's revenue stream, hold the basket of LSTs. Again, all of these things are.
00:41:19.788 - 00:41:45.450, Speaker C: Not to say that that's not a choice we can make, but I personally, part of what excites me about Ethereum is ether the asset. And I basically think we keep talking about things like credible neutrality. There is just no such thing as a credibly neutral LST that has the same type of aura to it as the native asset. Right. Basically, on the point of moneyness. I think basically it's just like giving up.
00:41:47.340 - 00:42:31.956, Speaker D: I'm curious, what is it that you think that you feel that any kind of different version of it is giving up on the moneyness, because analogies are never perfect. But same thing in the real world of the reality is that most of, for example, the dollars that are out there are not, that they're not like physical dollars or any form of base money. They're generally like credit issued by some bank. There's some various M two version of the dollar that's credited by someone else, that, yeah, it's held at your bank or whatever. In practice, I expect the vast majority of V to look like that regardless. And this is one thing that I've gone back and forth with people on. I especially think that taking a roll up centric roadmap and like an L two centric view, I think just fully accelerated and accepted all of that.
00:42:31.956 - 00:43:32.996, Speaker D: For me, just in that world of, realistically, even if everything is not like, even if it's not steep or CBE or whatever, all the ETH that you're using on an L two is always going to be fundamentally this synthetic issued version that's issued by whatever this l two contract is. And this is why we see people like blast and any other native yield, whatever, taking advantage of that. They realize that they are effectively a bank in some sense, they are an asset issuer, and they realize that we can earn yield on our assets that we're holding. So I think that it's always going to be this issued representation. If we expect that the majority of ETH is going to be used on these l two s in the long term. The only counterargument that I think that exists to that is if we think that those people are going to end up l two s. And we take that as the assumption is that you think that there will be a meaningful market of these enshrined Zkevm roll ups with no governance or upgradability or anything, then I think you can make a plausible argument that, okay, there is a credible base ETH alternative in practice.
00:43:32.996 - 00:44:00.310, Speaker D: I just don't expect that to be the majority of ETH usage in L two s. I think we see that it's very likely the majority of ETH that's going to be used on chain, it's going to be used on l two s that are in some form upgradable, using potentially alt all these different things, it's never going to be this perfect one. So I've already kind of accepted that it's never going to be quite the purest version of it. And then anything beyond that is like it's an issued version of it that is effectively very close.
00:44:00.920 - 00:44:51.404, Speaker C: Well, right. And I mean, maybe I might be the most libertarian one here, right? But I personally still very much like kind of the distinction crypto, where this fiat, where with fiat there are intermediaries like banks, and you can choose your bank. And it's kind of hard to live life completely without banks, but at least you have a choice with the government. If I live in the United States, I have to use the US dollar and I cannot choose my intermediary there. It's the United States. Whatever choices they make, or the Fed, basically, like whatever choices they make in terms of how much new dollars to create, like how the prices should behave, all that kind of stuff, I just have to basically, I'm exposed to that. I can't help that, right? And I think that is the main appeal of cryptocurrencies as currencies.
00:44:51.404 - 00:45:47.484, Speaker C: Again, there's a lot of things about crypto that are super exciting, that has nothing to do with the currency side of things. But as a currency, if we want ETH to be an interesting currency, I think that very much kind of hinges on basically no one ultimately being in control. And you can have that thought experiment, right? Like say you have some LST winning out that LST that charges a fee, right? And that charges a fee. And as it becomes like a winner takes most, it charges more and more of like a monopoly fee. And it can basically just choose like, hey, next year I'm raising our fee level by 1%, right? And basically now all my kind of, my currency starts being inflated away at a slightly higher, or basically taxed away at a slightly higher rate, right? I don't want that. I don't want to basically have that intermediation. And I think not only do I not want that, I think basically people will look at this and they're like, hey, why should I trust, say, Lido? But again, that's not about calling them out or anyone, like the lid of the Coinbase governance over the US government or the Fed.
00:45:47.484 - 00:46:13.596, Speaker C: And actually, after all, the Fed is a very competent institution, right? I trust the Fed quite a lot. I'd rather trust no one than the Fed, but I'd rather trust the Fed than any LST governance. And you can always make the governance kind of immutable. You can say, hey, the fees fee is set and you can't change it anymore in the future. But the moment you have that locked in, right, basically you have all the stake in one network. You can always, basically, that always has governance power de facto. You could always fork off.
00:46:13.596 - 00:47:10.144, Speaker C: You could always kind of like say, hey, we just deploy a new one and we all switch over or something like that, right? The moment you have, then those networks affect, for better or worse, you have to follow what they do on your L2 point. Well, I think basically two things, right? One, we are working super, super hard on making L2, the exhibition experience, as trustless as possible, right? That there's no governance in between that can do anything to my ETH, no bridge kind of risk. Of course, my contact risk is always there. But basically minimizing this to the extent possible. And in a way, I would almost say that it illustrates the opposite point right out of all of the problems that ethereum faced to get to the current place and hopefully to get to the future that we want to get to, only scaling ever was a hard enough challenge that it required us to add this one layer of intermediation. Right. Like, out of all the possible aspects and challenges, this one was hard enough that we needed this indirection level.
00:47:10.144 - 00:47:31.510, Speaker C: And now we're working super hard on trying to basically minimize the negative impacts of that. And so just basically now saying, hey, let's add a second one, just capriciously, just because we feel like it. I mean, of course, but making the point here, right, like basically adding a second one, that bar for that should be incredibly high just because it is such a physically problematic thing to do.
00:47:32.860 - 00:48:32.760, Speaker B: Maybe one thing worth adding here is also that these risks compound. So raw e like ease on an L two is less risky than an LST on an L two. And these LSTs fundamentally carry slashing risk. And that slashing risk, I mean, we can maybe get into penalties capping and trying to come up with a construction where trustless LSTs are possible. I don't think, as a caveat, they are the silver bullet that people make them to be, but definitely worth exploring. But point here is that I think the whole point of the roll up centric roadmap is that l two e is as close as possible to raw ETH in terms of trust assumptions. And, yeah, I think what Anska was saying, scaling is so hard that we kind of couldn't do it in a way that didn't require roll ups.
00:48:32.760 - 00:48:50.130, Speaker B: So kind of now kind of just accepting any kind of risk as an artifact of that seems kind of like there should still be a kind of battle for what risks should we accept versus not.
00:48:51.940 - 00:50:48.660, Speaker A: Okay, so, Casper, I hear you say that just because we have L2s doesn't mean we should willy nilly, kind of be accepting of all kinds of risks, right? And there is, I think, the general notion that while eve that's issued on L2 is a derivative, it is stored in this special bridge construction that we work really hard to try to make as trustless as possible. I would say that I think in practice, there's probably going to be a fair bit of trust involved with roll ups for a long period of time. Then you have the element that there's a lot of derivative eve outside of rollups as mean Coinbase. You have ETH on binance, you have in all of these ETFs that are coming, and that number is kind of only going up, right? So I think the amount of this kind of purest eve that, I mean, even if we include the most trustless kind of roll up in the definition of purest eve, I think that was your argument, right? That roll up ETH really should be countered as long as it kind of is below some bar of just assumptions that we would accept. I still think that the amount of purest e will, over time trend towards very low amount, and that's probably very little that we can do. At the same time, I think there's a good case to be made why you can build decentralized staking pools that probably fall like in a similar range as I think the most trustless kinds of roll ups that you can make. I think you can at the very least make it fully noncustodial.
00:50:48.660 - 00:51:40.260, Speaker A: You can fully kind of constrain the amounts of fees that can be charged, I think, where we all agree that probably like some amount of governance, and maybe it can be extremely slow moving, just like some kind of defining some kind of objective function and constraints for what the notorbreater set should look like, right? And that you could even have that changing maybe on a six month or like a twelve month basis or something. But you need some kind of input and some kind of reaction, I think, to what's happening. The nice thing about LST, at least, I personally believe that you can get them pretty trustless to a point there where I would personally be comfortable counting them towards the purest ETH.
00:51:41.960 - 00:52:25.552, Speaker C: Two points on this, right? One is just that I think we don't need purest ETH, right. It's totally fine if your ETH is in a maker contract or something, because you chose to put it there. It's really more about. That's why I tried to make the distinction between the US government and the banks, because by de facto you probably also trust the bank. But you chose to trust the bank, you didn't choose to trust the government, right? And so, same thing here. Basically, we just want to avoid the things that you have no choice but to trust, and then you can put it wherever you want and with whatever trust assumptions you want. And the problem with LSTs is just by their very nature, you can never make them fully trustless, specifically because there is always the slashing risk.
00:52:25.552 - 00:52:59.272, Speaker C: It's almost a catch. 32 otherwise staking would be useless, right? If there's no. That's the whole point of stake, at least in the Ethereum model with slashing, is that there is something at stake. And so inherently it has to be risky. And that's the part of, like, I think very, in the beginning of the podcast, you or John in the intro said that with ETFs coming online and whatnot, I think actually it's really important that we keep reminding people it's not just free yield. The free yield on Ethereum you get is just the income streams that the protocol chooses to directly direct to you. Right? Like the MeV burn, once we have it, that is free yield.
00:52:59.272 - 00:53:28.280, Speaker C: The 50 59 burn, that is free yield. Staking is not free yield. Staking is a specialist activity that you can choose to do yourself or by delegation. But it's actually something where you have to understand the risks you take, and it's very much not free. But specifically to maybe make that point a little more. One thing we are worried about very much, and that's almost kind of like already. The second we're talking the moneyness is like the first thing we are worried about.
00:53:28.280 - 00:54:13.744, Speaker C: The second one that I would say is kind of the outsized influence on Ethereum governance. And so you could create the scenario where people always talk about censorship, right? And in principle, you could have a dominant LST that at some point decides because of regulatory pressure, maybe coordinated regulatory pressure across multiple different jurisdictions, that all the operators will, from tomorrow on, just fork out anyone who includes transactions that are on some blacklist, right. Not just themselves, no longer include them into blocks, but actually fork out anyone who would do that. And that's specifically like in the past, we've always said that's a red line we draw. Like you can do in your own blocks, you can do whatever you want in the future. Maybe we add things that constrain your behavior, but for now it's not. It's your block.
00:54:13.744 - 00:55:11.556, Speaker C: You can do, you're not allowed to just reorg someone out because you don't like their block, right. But in effect, what would happen if people started doing that? Well, we would basically have to have this instrument of social slashing, right, where we're basically like, hey, you either stop doing this or we come in, we take away your ETH, right? And that is right now. I mean, in the future, maybe we can automate that somewhat. There are all these fancy ideas around detecting that in protocol, but because it's kind of hard to detect in protocol right now, we would have to do that manually. Now imagine if that is done by the dominant LST, right? And then now all of a sudden, 80% of all ethan existence is up for slashing, right? Good luck trying to come to all codefs and propose that. But it's completely impossible, right? So in that scenario, basically now you basically just de facto kind of overruled. Like basically now ethereum governance is just that, LST governance, right? Or to the extent that we can still resist that now that ETH again is at risk.
00:55:11.556 - 00:55:23.230, Speaker C: So it wasn't trustless in the first place. This is kind of the inherent tension. You can never have a situation where the staked ETH is not fundamentally at risk, and it has to be at risk, otherwise the entire system no longer works.
00:55:27.350 - 00:56:12.786, Speaker D: So one thing is, I think you can pull apart, and I think there actually is a valid argument for this, of honestly removing slashing penalties for stuff like double signing. One, the penalty is, quite frankly not that high, and you can get away with things that are very clearly profitable even though you are double signing. In practice, that penalty is effectively negligible on any mean. This is part of mean. People are very comfortable with steath or any other staking providers, because in practice, a normal course, there's effectively no slashing risk. It's incredibly rare that anyone would ever have any kind of penalty from this. Fundamentally, you have the stake there such that it can be socially slashed or forked, is realistically where any kind of meaningful penalty is.
00:56:12.786 - 00:57:10.834, Speaker D: Or if it's like an activity leaked out, like you ignore this chain, et cetera. The stake is fundamentally kind of there in either case. But yeah, it's never going to be technically zero risk if you are putting your money there. It's just like, at the end of the day, to me, what a lot of it comes down to is fundamentally, is what are we optimizing for in practice? What do we think that 99% of users are going to go do? Is it going to be go do this thing that has some form of trust trade off, whether that's using an upgradable l two or wanting the staking yield or all these things? Or do we optimize for what we view as the ideal case, but is in practice very possibly the 1%. It reminds me a little bit of. Bit different. But the idea of not having delegation and protocol of it is a little bit purist in the sense of we don't want everyone to go delegate and so we optimize for the system of.
00:57:10.834 - 00:57:49.940, Speaker D: We just don't build around that as a model. And then in practice most people just go do that thing anyway. And then it was like, kind of did it help optimizing for that thing in the first place? The other main thing for me is just like, it's not forced in any of these cases to go use an LST. It's just that currently the incentive to do so continues to increase as there's more stake. Which is why I think the idea of kind of flattening off the curve in the electro one is a more reasonable thing. I don't think that you need to go to the idea of doing a negative issuance curve to do that. Anything form that effectively caps the amount of dilution achieves exactly that.
00:57:49.940 - 00:58:45.198, Speaker D: Anything beyond that's part of the conversation around this is like, there's actually multiple distinct goals in my mind between these two different proposals that are kind of like embedded underneath. It is very different to cap the amount of ETH that's going to be issued versus actually reducing the issuance curve, even those are coupled together or making the curve go negative. And a lot of it is also like it's targeted at. We're trying to make sure that LSTs don't go to 100%, basically, which is different also than making sure that the amount of staked ETH doesn't go to 100%. And that is one of the things that I think about a lot in this conversation is in practice you can limit the amount of ETH staked to some number. But does that mean that LSTs won't still become 100% in practice of what people use? For the simple example of everyone could put all of their money in a blackrock ETH ETF. That is like staking.
00:58:45.198 - 00:59:00.310, Speaker D: And even if rewards level off, at some point, Blackrock can still just extract the maximum number of rewards and socialize them to everyone in there. And that's rational for everyone to do it, even though you're not getting more rewards out of the total structure.
00:59:01.850 - 00:59:54.098, Speaker C: Almost by definition that can't be the case though, right? Because if you go to a targeting mechanism, we say like for example, people always so hung up on the 25%. But it's a good mental model as a target, right? It could be that we end up choosing 10%, 50%, 70%, whatever, but just saying 25, just for a good intuition, by definition, that means that the majority of ETH is Royce. And sure, you could basically have 100% pooled, and then you just give everyone only a quarter of the revenue. Right? But basically, the whole point is that in that level, because the demand is so for staking is so kind of unchanging, is that you just come down to basically zero reward. And at that point, why bother going through the bike road ETF versus holding it yourself, right. The whole point would be that if there's so much pooling demand, then that means there's no yield anymore, right?
00:59:54.204 - 01:00:30.534, Speaker D: Because there is still just the fundamental safety network effects desire to hold this thing. People are going to put their money in ETFs with no staking yield. That is a very plausible, the first ETFs that are approved is very possibly ones that they just don't allow them to stake in the US. And you could very plausibly see just like a ton of people put them in there. And then staking being added after the fact is kind of like a bonus to that. And same thing with steeth of at the limit of if there's anything positive, I'm just going to hold it anyway. And so that is still the optimal thing for them to do.
01:00:30.534 - 01:00:34.294, Speaker D: At the end of the day, it's a diminishing return, but it is still.
01:00:34.332 - 01:00:36.280, Speaker B: Always just going to be positive for them.
01:00:37.610 - 01:01:16.050, Speaker A: Very unlikely that there will be some database ETFs, for example, and staked EF ETFs. What you see in traditional stocks is, hey, ETFs that have all of the stocks there, like in physical backing, they used to be more derivative based ETFs. Now they are mostly physical backed. But all of those still lend out the, they lend out the stocks as well. It's like natural competition. They try to generate some yield on it, so they rehypothecate it, and they compete on the total expense ratio to investors. And so, I mean, the same thing will happen with Eve, right? They may lend out some eve, they may stake some eve.
01:01:16.050 - 01:02:13.446, Speaker A: And if they think that staking ETH is not that risky, which it's not, I think there's no reason why it should be, right? I think, I don't think staking ETH has to be risky. I think all that it does is basically you're just making some economic commitment to the correct fork of the chain. And identifying that fork of the chain, if you're not a malicious actor, is a super trivial exercise. And the only times when that fails is if you make like an operational mistake. But operational mistakes happen everywhere, right? Like banks fat finger like and send money to the wrong counterparty, right. And then they can't get it back. It's like this stuff basically happens everywhere, right? And so yeah, I think the competition from ETFs is going to be kind of a very real one, whether no matter kind of where the issuance curve is.
01:02:13.446 - 01:02:18.806, Speaker A: And it will not make a difference between regular ETH and staked ETH, just.
01:02:18.828 - 01:03:20.006, Speaker C: To spell that out, right. Because basically, in a way that's not conflicting at all with what we're saying, right, because basically the point is right now we're on this trajectory where we get 100%. And then if you think again about this model of like external yield and internal yield, basically it means internal yield would by default go away and you only have the external yield left and it spread equally across everyone. Now basically what you're saying is, well, even if we were to do targeting, we would end up with the same situation, right, because the external yield would be spread equally across everyone and then the internal one basically, again would basically come down to zero because kind of under targeting there would no longer be this two separate classes of the stakers and the not stakers, because they would all be managed under the same entity, right? So basically you're just saying it's hopeless to recover any real yield for staking, right? And that might be the case. I mean, I hope it's not right. But at least in that scenario, staking would also targeting would more be like, basically like a hopeless act, but it wouldn't actually change anything. It would not make things worse.
01:03:20.006 - 01:04:03.962, Speaker C: So basically what we're saying is, hey, the end game inevitable, all the external yield will be distributed across all ETH holders. That is inevitable in either scenario. And now we are just trying to say, let's try to at least, let's do targeting so that at least plausibly there's still some real yield that goes to stakers and that might fail for the reasons you just outlined. I personally, I think actually the competitive dynamics would be that there would always be some entrance to make it so that it would not be sustainable to just smooth over basically your yield across the entire kind of east side. But we can let that play out in any way. Like this situation would not be worse, right? Basically you're just saying, oh, it's completely.
01:04:04.016 - 01:05:00.502, Speaker A: Inevitable to maybe get into some kind of the other side. I think of the argument, if we kind of map out kind of what the arguments roughly are. So I think the idea of targeting in general, I think is a kind of very sound one because for all of the benefits mentioned, right. It kind of internalizes some of the external rewards into the protocol and kind of smooths them out. I think those are all very sound arguments. It gets more interesting, I think if we talk about what is the number to target, right? Because obviously when you target 100%, that's like meaningless, right. If you target 10% versus 50% versus 25%, you kind of, kind of very strongly varying outcomes.
01:05:00.502 - 01:05:39.800, Speaker A: And so I would say one of the counterarguments that I've heard, and this is maybe where we get into some concrete numbers to discuss, if we say kind of 25% target stake rate, how very concretely, like speaking, would that look today? Like, where do you think you would need to put, how negative would the fees, the issuance have to go in order to target that in your mind today?
01:05:42.490 - 01:06:20.646, Speaker C: Well, I think kind of because you also said negative in the intro. Actually, I'm not quite sure. That seems to me to be more misunderstanding. Like, basically the point would be that of course the nominal yield would indeed be lower than it is today, right? By definition. Because at the current nominal yield of, like, if we would get to 100% staked at 2% nominal yield, then the nominal yield would have to come down to prevent us from getting there. But if you talk about the aggregate yield, including MEV income, including staking income, restaking income, that would have to, by definition, still be positive. Otherwise you just unstake, right?
01:06:20.748 - 01:06:37.562, Speaker A: Oh yeah. I'm saying how low does the issuance have to go to kind of keep the real yield at a level where the marginal person is no more likely to stake at 25% versus unstake at 25%, right?
01:06:37.616 - 01:07:25.722, Speaker C: So basically when we have example kind of supply curves, maybe we can put them on the screen of totally, just qualitatively give some examples where basically you could plausibly end up in a scenario where your real yield would be slightly positive, right? It would definitely be lower than today. I mean, the whole point is that unfortunately today we still have inflow pressure which we would have to get rid of, but you could plausibly end up with still 1%, half a percent, of course, depends on the exact circumstance of real yield. And that is basically yield that you would not have if we go to 100%. So it would still be by definition positive. If the total yield is negative, you just unstake. But it would be lower than today. All we can say is it's lower than today, higher than zero, somewhere in between would be the real.
01:07:25.776 - 01:07:29.100, Speaker A: Why do you say you wouldn't have the real yield when you're at 100%.
01:07:31.070 - 01:07:32.650, Speaker C: Issuance yield? I suppose.
01:07:33.790 - 01:07:47.898, Speaker A: But I mean, in order to actually stabilize now the protocol at 25%, the nominal yield would have to be negative already, right. You need to pay negative, you need to charge stakers negative issuance.
01:07:48.074 - 01:08:33.422, Speaker B: Right. So I think in general, for this kind of targeting endgame vision, I think it's a useful mental model, is think we have MeV burn. We have a form of capturing that exogenous yield, because I genuinely think there's kind of no way around it. And the reason is we can't allow reward variability to be too high. Otherwise solo staking becomes unfeasible. So the point is that if issuance yield comes too close, if the real issuance yield comes too close to zero, then the exogenous yield of MeV makes your reward too spiky. And so that is a problem in both the targeting world.
01:08:33.422 - 01:09:08.282, Speaker B: And if we reach 100% staked. And that's also an interesting observation. It's actually a problem that exists in the long run under the current policy, and it would exist in the targeting scenario. And I mean, there's so many kind of ideas around this execution tickets, Mev burn. It makes sense on all sorts of dimensions. So I do think kind of as a mental model, we should just kind of work with some MEV burn mechanism in place. And.
01:09:08.282 - 01:09:22.430, Speaker B: Yeah, personally, I see this as a prerequisite at this point. And then, of course, issuance can't actually go negative because then you would unstake. You're not going to stake.
01:09:23.250 - 01:09:28.674, Speaker A: What I didn't know is that you already assume that we have MeV burn in place. Okay?
01:09:28.792 - 01:09:29.122, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:09:29.176 - 01:09:30.258, Speaker A: Which we don't today.
01:09:30.424 - 01:09:40.478, Speaker B: It's not your fault, but I think we listed it in our open questions, like how to deal with this reward variability.
01:09:40.574 - 01:10:18.900, Speaker A: Yeah, but yeah, in this case, it's very clear. Like, if you have MeV burn, then the nominal yield can never go negative. And if you have Mev burn. Sorry, let me start over. So to summarize, if you don't have MeV burn, then the nominal yield will have to go negative in order to probably fix the staking rate somewhere like where it's now, or it's somewhere where we want to target it. Right? And if we do have MeV burn, then the nominal can never go negative because otherwise everybody would unstake. Because then the nominal yield becomes the real yield in a sense.
01:10:18.900 - 01:11:00.154, Speaker A: Okay. So where I wanted to take, this is basically what is the relationship between different staking ratios, I. E. 10% staked, 25% staked, 50% staked, 100% staked, and the quality of the node operator set and kind of how those two things interact. So previously we talked about the supply curve and for example, how LSTs changed the supply curve by making staking a lot cheaper. Right. Because a, they kind of removed the liquidity penalty, but they also brought professional operators into the mix who can like in the economies of scale.
01:11:00.154 - 01:11:41.306, Speaker A: And so an LST can stake the same funds for a lot cheaper than a solo staker can. And so now in my mind, what happens if you have a target ratio that is too small? Let's say we put it at 10%, okay. And we have the following distribution of note operators. We have 10%, someone who stakes for 0.2% real yield, and then we have someone who does it another 10% at like 0.4 and another one at like 0.6. And those numbers are completely made up.
01:11:41.306 - 01:12:28.700, Speaker A: Right. But that's what it costs just in operating costs basically to run those operators. So the outcome that occurs is like only the first node operator remains and they stake at basically because they're the cheapest right to operate and the other to drop out. And the protocol makes sure of that. And so that is why I think with targeting in general, this is like this very kind of underexploit area right now. How low is too low to the point where you kind of end up with a really cheap and centralized node operator set?
01:12:30.110 - 01:13:07.010, Speaker B: Yeah, right. I mean that's a great point. And I feel like one of the main concerns that has been kind of put forward. And so I think there's like a couple of things that are worth mentioning here. So the first point is we're heading to a low issuance environment under the status quo already. And so that's the first kind of important point. Just because you are at 3% or 4% staking yields today doesn't mean that's going to be the case in the kind of long term equilibrium.
01:13:07.010 - 01:13:09.602, Speaker B: So we're sliding to that world anyhow.
01:13:09.746 - 01:13:14.858, Speaker A: Then because of me burn or just because the number of stakers goes up?
01:13:14.944 - 01:14:14.254, Speaker B: No, because. Yeah, exactly. Kind of assuming that we're sliding into this kind of world where 100% is staked or 80, 90%, as people are getting more and more comfortable, eventually maybe the LST flips ease as the de facto money, it kind of becomes the default. You don't even know what ETH is anymore. Basically, in that world, the issuance yield is not magically going to stay at the current levels. So that's kind of the first important point here. Then the second point is that the underlying relative competitiveness between different staking types, be it solo stakers versus a liquid staking pool, or versus kind of a centralized Coinbase staking solution, for example, these underlying relative competitive, the underlying relative competitiveness exists no matter what the issuance curve is.
01:14:14.254 - 01:16:04.190, Speaker B: That's fundamentally true. And so in a way, you can kind of think of adjusting the issuance curve as a sort of speed running the competition between different staking types, but they're not changing anything that's fundamentally underlying there. The one caveat here is actually that the kind of network effects and economies of scale that more centralized staking solutions can kind of benefit from are actually higher in high staking environments. So if you kind of take this idealized model where a centralized staking provider has one huge fixed cost up front, and that's it, and then maybe like a very low, basically one big fixed cost, then you're going to benefit from economies of scale more than someone that has also variable cost. And so this is kind of actually something that works in the favor of targeting a lower stake participation. You kind of reduce the effect of these economies of scale. And then maybe kind of one solo staking specific kind of comment here is that if you think of solo stakers, I think it's relatively fair to say that the majority, vast majority of existing solo stakers, the vast majority of solo stakers are the ones existing today, meaning that if we slide to 100% staked, it's presumably mostly via LSTs.
01:16:04.190 - 01:17:14.642, Speaker B: These solo stakers have basically put up the fixed cost already. They bought their hardware, they acquired the technical know how to stake, and now just have a bit of maintenance. And they are actually more inelastic to changes in issuance. And the reason is that they've paid already their cost and now they have basically pure yield coming in, as opposed to a liquid staking token holder because they still have to pay their staking service provider fee as they earn the staking yield. So in that sense, I think actually solo stakers benefit more. And I think another point here is maybe that if you think about the kind of relative importance of solo stakers, would you think that solo staking is kind of the share of solo stakers in terms of percentage, do you think that's higher at 2% issuance yield with 40 million ETH staked, or 2% issuance with say 100 million ETH staked? And I would argue probably the former.
01:17:14.706 - 01:17:15.960, Speaker A: Can you repeat that?
01:17:17.130 - 01:17:33.210, Speaker B: Do you think the share of solo stakers is higher at a 2% issuance yield with 40 million ETH staked or 2% with 100 million ETH staked? Point being like, do you think the relative share of solar stake is as higher than the low or high?
01:17:33.280 - 01:17:36.750, Speaker A: Yeah, the relative share is obviously higher. Like the less you have staked.
01:17:37.730 - 01:17:38.480, Speaker B: Right?
01:17:40.210 - 01:18:38.702, Speaker C: Just to make the one point a bit more explicit, right? Because you talked about basically a more harsher yield environment. Maybe if we do the targeting, our point is kind of the exact opposite, right? We say that if we do nothing every month now, basically the environment gets harsher and harsher and harsher until the endpoint where there's literally no intrinsic yield anymore. It's all just at least no real one, right? You only have this kind of counting thing where everyone's balance goes up by 2%, but no one makes any real money. And we even talked about the tax implications of how that's actively really bad for solar stakers. You do get your share of the external yield, right? But the whole point is with MeV capture and these kind of things, you will get that share no matter what, right? Basically the point being that if you own 1% of all Ethan existence, you will get 1% of the external yield that basically is fixed. And then by doing targeting, we are trying to, on top of that, recover some real issuance yield for you. Basically on top, right? So basically the incentive to stake will go down, but the real yield will go up.
01:18:38.702 - 01:18:56.150, Speaker C: So basically you will make more money as a staker under targeting than without targeting. And we have these graphs that kind of really illustrates that basically there'll be more leeway to do kind of maybe slightly less efficient staking under targeting than there's without targeting in the super harsh 100% staked competitive environment.
01:18:56.890 - 01:19:42.840, Speaker B: To make this point a bit, maybe to illustrate that, again, if we assume to get to 100% the issuance yield, the nominal issuance yield is basically worthless. Everyone's getting 2%. So you have 0% real issuance yield. If we, however end up via targeting or whatnot in a world where less ETH is staked, then the composition of the incentive to stake might be composed of real yield again, or not. Might is. And so the point here is that in that world, you actually have real staking yield as opposed to in the 100% stake world.
01:19:47.590 - 01:19:55.860, Speaker A: I still don't get it. That's assuming at 100% there's no real yield, which that doesn't seem why would that be the case?
01:19:57.370 - 01:20:07.130, Speaker B: Mev burn. Again, imagine we're in a world with MeV burn. There is no kind of exogenous yield.
01:20:08.270 - 01:20:25.440, Speaker A: Let's just simplify, okay? Yeah. So I mean, basically you're arguing, let's say there's like 20% staked, 80% not staked. Then it's like the real yield comes from the 80%. Paying the 20% is what you're saying. And that makes it real.
01:20:26.050 - 01:21:21.694, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think maybe one kind of point, because we kind of left off the kind of negative externalities at some unfinished point. I think another thing to note here is that staking is a service, and the protocol demands stakers to secure itself, and that's why it pays for it. And I think kind of this whole notion of 100% staked, we've talked about it a bunch. Staking kind of becomes this kind of useless kind of activity from a financial perspective as a staker. And instead I think as an ethereum user, you should come to Ethereum and not have to concern yourself with these considerations. Should I buy this lst or that lst? Should I solo stake or not? And instead I think staking should be treated as what it is.
01:21:21.694 - 01:21:46.230, Speaker B: It's supposed to secure the chain. And I think it makes sense that this is more of a sort of, let's say, specialized task. It should be someone that is able to make these risk assessments and kind of understand what they're getting into, whereas that's not really feasible in a world where everyone just holds some NFT effectively.
01:21:47.290 - 01:22:12.122, Speaker C: Right. It's a very basic kind of division of labor argument, right? So basically, like, in any case, the ETH holders are the ones that pay for security. This was true in proof of work, right, via kind of dilution. With issuance, this is true right? Now, with proof of stake, this will be true even at 100%. The difference is how you do that, right. And in the 100% world, everyone basically contributes to security because they have to either stake themselves or they have to delegate via LSTs. So basically you are now part of the labor.
01:22:12.122 - 01:22:53.150, Speaker C: Everyone has to be part of participating in securing the chain. And it's plausible to set it up that way. But the alternative, I think, is much more elegant that we have today is a scenario where the majority of people say, hey, I'm not a specialist in this. I just basically pay via inflation, via issuance, for the specialists to do that job. And that does not include only solostaker, that solo stakers and people that understand the risk profile and that delegate via LSTs, but that's the specialist minority, and they get paid by the rest. So I personally think it makes much more sense to basically leave it to the specialists have a division of labor here instead of yield going away and everyone doing it as a duty, if they want to have part of the upside of being in Ethereum.
01:22:56.690 - 01:23:47.790, Speaker A: I see why kind of this line of thinking is compelling. It feels still like a little bit constructed to me in the sense that when I look in the real world, then I don't see people holding physical coins. And I mean, you can go and say, oh, there should be this division of labor lending. It's so incredibly dangerous. And we have example, ABC of banks blowing up because there was a crisis or a depression or whatever. But nonetheless, everybody, it's riskless enough, it's low risk enough, and the risk reward is there still for 100% of money in the economy to be staked. In a sense, that's what you see in the real world, right? None of us hold base money.
01:23:47.790 - 01:24:38.270, Speaker A: We all hold credits, right? And especially if you're saying, hey, we have this vision for Ethereum to become this better money, and we want people to use it as money, et cetera. Then to me, we talk here about a staking endgame, but the end game kind of beyond that is once again ETH just becoming kind of abstracted away. And people trading in some form of ETH based credit where maybe they hold like an ETH deposit, but the actual e on the back end is lent out, right? Because that's what you've seen with basically every currency over time. So kind of I wonder if we're not trying to anchor to some kind of idealized version that maybe doesn't hold up to reality.
01:24:40.130 - 01:25:14.502, Speaker C: Right? But I think actually this comparison exactly makes the points, because it's not, I think, the right comparison, because if you put your money into a bank that is external yield that you're generating, it actually is put to good use. This is like taking your ETH and putting it into defi, right? In defi, actually, you lend it out to other people. It actually generates value, whereas by staking, you basically only contribute to kind of this common duty of the security. It's like almost saying the division of labor between you yourself having to fight in the army versus paying taxes and the government paying a specialist.
01:25:14.566 - 01:25:59.080, Speaker A: But the restaking to fight for you, for example, the restaking, you could argue, hey, okay, we expand staking more and more to add, for example, economic commitments to other services, like a testing, like Oracle updates that come on chain like holding data, yada yada. I mean there's probably a bunch of things that are possible, right? And I think you can also, we now talk about based sequencing, we talk about pre confirmation services, right? I think the range of useful services that Eve staking can unlock and offer to the kind of ethereum community. I think we've only seen that number go up, right.
01:25:59.530 - 01:26:50.694, Speaker C: But I think in the beginning we talked briefly about restaking and we said that there's different types of restaking. So maybe now would be a good time to briefly dive into that because there's a big difference here, right? There's some forms of restaking that have nothing to do with your specific role as an Ethereum validator. It's just like say oracle updates or something that anyone could do. And that in principle you could always do with just having native ETH or any other collateral locked in the restaking protocol as well. Right? There's nothing special about staked ETH as a collateral there basically that in a way, again, that's like putting your money into a defi and generating real productive external yield, and that's fine, everyone should go ahead and do that if they like the risk profile. And then there is kind of types of restaking that very specifically rely on your role as an ethereum validator. And so right now we kind of have this proposing and validation and basically testing as two parts of the same role.
01:26:50.694 - 01:27:33.160, Speaker C: In the future with proposer tester separation, we'll probably have those be split out. So you'll have some, the general task of all validators will just be testing to blocks and then you'll basically have some sort of bidding mechanism where you become the proposer, but it's a specialist role. And then there might be some AVss on restaking that basically specifically give you extra duties if you're the proposer, there might be even some with special duties as a tester. But again, those then are much more basically those types of restaking activities you should think of as identical to MeV, right? You can do the same thing they do with MeV, you can smooth it out. Everyone, that's just protocol income that we just haven't captured yet and that we will capture and we will distribute to everyone. So if you hold ETH, no matter whether you stake or not, you will get access to that.
01:27:35.610 - 01:28:06.270, Speaker A: Yeah, the whole idea of making all the validators equal is a kind of really interesting rabbit hole to go down, right? Because in some sense it's saying, hey, the Ethereum government is like taxing all economic activity at 100%, right. And in practice it won't be 100%. It will just be like whatever is kind of the maximum or like the minimum price that people will do the activity at. And all of the rest is basically captured by Ethereum.
01:28:06.870 - 01:28:11.506, Speaker C: But it's not all economic, just to be clear, right? It's not all economic activity if you want to build some project on top.
01:28:11.528 - 01:28:18.070, Speaker A: Of L2 in terms of validator services, like things that validators can do.
01:28:18.220 - 01:28:59.810, Speaker C: Yeah, exactly. So basically, instead of, in a way, it's almost weird, right? Basically that you have, even in today's world, in a way, you have this kind of indirect extraction, because basically the more attractive it is to be a validator, the more validators come in, the lower the yield for the validator becomes. But it's a very indirect mechanism. And all we're doing is basically we're making it more and more direct, and by making it more direct, we can smooth it and so we can remove this disadvantage that solar stakers have. So I think basically, if we want to have solar staker survive in any of these worlds, we have to find a ways to smooth externally. Otherwise it will become completely uncompetitive to be a solo staker.
01:29:00.630 - 01:29:25.500, Speaker A: When you say smooth, I hear that used a lot, but I never hear weirdly like, okay, so it's charged in the form of MeV burn, but then it's pooled and paid out over time to the same parties. I guess that's not what you mean, right? It's taken and given to all the e folders. Right. And not the actual solar stakers or the stakers in general.
01:29:26.510 - 01:29:42.830, Speaker B: The key point here is to have some in protocol mechanism to capture mev. If you then burn it or redistribute it to everyone, doesn't really matter. But it's more about being able to, in protocol capture MeV.
01:29:44.070 - 01:30:06.406, Speaker C: Right. Those are equivalent, right. Basically because especially in the targeting, whether you smooth it and then everyone gets 1% extra out of that mechanism, then you can pay 1% less on the base and that would add up to the same level. Or you just directly burn it, and then you can pay out 1% higher at the base kind of equivalent mechanisms. It's cleaner to burn it. Yeah.
01:30:06.428 - 01:30:14.186, Speaker A: In a targeting world, I would definitely agree. If you don't have targeting and you just use MeV burn, then you just lower the yield basically for everybody.
01:30:14.368 - 01:30:51.160, Speaker C: But then again, same thing, just because the mechanism is different, but same thing because now everyone stakes and so everyone gets access to it anyway. So basically our point is, basically either we don't target and then we go to 100%, and then everyone gets access to that yield, or we do target and then we smooth and then burn, and then everyone gets access to that yield. So basically, it's inevitable that however much external yield there is coming via this validator role that will be distributed across all Ethereum like ETH holders. At the same time, those ETH holders will then pay whatever incentives necessary to have sufficient staking. Right. But that is an inevitable outcome no matter whether we do targeting or not.
01:30:53.850 - 01:31:00.460, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, so what are the next steps from here? What's next for you with this research?
01:31:01.230 - 01:31:30.610, Speaker C: Right. And I feel like, because so far we've been exclusively kind of talking about targeting, and I think that's good because our main intention was to really kick off this debate. And if we take a step back, it's not even, you hear, at least I hope we are trying to be very transparent about kind of where we still have uncertainties as well. Right? Like a lot of this is like us just being, hey, there hasn't really been that much work on this. There hasn't been a lot of people writing about this. So here's how we see the world, how we see kind of the future for Ethereum. Please disagree with us, basically.
01:31:30.610 - 01:32:02.358, Speaker C: And so it's great. I think in this conversation already we had some productive disagreements. At least that's how I perceived things where I'll go back now and I'll think about, wait, what if ETFs stakes and smooth it out across everyone, these kind of things. Right. And that's exactly kind of what we wanted to, we wanted to basically say already it's a little overdue already that we kind of take this serious as a topic. The point here is not to make any rush decisions. It's really more about basically making sure we figure out what is a stable end game is 100% stable.
01:32:02.358 - 01:32:48.150, Speaker C: Would we like 100%? Do we maybe need to do targeting? Do we want to do targeting? What kind of ranges would be possible for targeting? That is basically the base conversation. Now, in the very beginning of the podcast, you also mentioned we had a second proposal. And I think in a way that was the more maybe controversial one, because we did make a proposal for a change in the upcoming fork that we will have in roughly a year on Ethereum. And maybe for the last section of the podcast we can talk about that as well a little bit. So basically, the problem we see today is that basically right now we have this continued inflow of stake. Right. The next time we can make a chain on Ethereum is this upcoming Prague electro fork that will be in nine to twelve months, roughly.
01:32:48.150 - 01:33:09.906, Speaker C: We never quite know when, but roughly something like that. So we will have at least nine to twelve months of continued inflow. That'll get us depending on. Of course we now have like a maximum inflow rate that we introduced with the recent hard fork. So the maximum inflow now would be something like 20 million additional ETH staked per year. Of course we don't have to quite have inflow at that maximum level. It could be less than that.
01:33:09.906 - 01:33:38.726, Speaker C: But to give you an idea, so right now we had 30 million ETH staked. Within a year we could be at 50 million staked if we don't do anything in Electra. And basically our thinking is any electra change would have to be finalized in the upcoming months. We won't get to a agreement whether targeting is even the right thing to do, because again, that's perfectly fine that we don't have agreement on that yet. And maybe that's actually the wrong thing to do, for all I know. And the specification, everything implemented within the next few months. Right? So we will not do targeting in Electra.
01:33:38.726 - 01:34:15.910, Speaker C: Now the alternative is basically doing nothing and then means like, okay, what's the next hard fork where we could maybe optimistically have targeting ready for. That's like another year in the future. So now we're talking two years in the future. That's up to 40 million ETH inflow now we would be at 70 million, right? Up to 70 million. Maybe we need one more hard fork to figure out all the details of targeting. Then we are up to 90 million, right? So basically we looked at this and we're like, by not doing nothing, it feels like the much more committal choice. If we do nothing, we very likely end up with a lot of ETH staked, more than half, very plausibly, right? We see all these effects already.
01:34:15.910 - 01:35:05.782, Speaker C: You mentioned last year, these L2s that are already thinking about natively just taking the ETH in the bridges and staking that you have ETFs that might at least consider staking. If we kind of at least plausibly move towards this world of 100% stake, then of course all of those are rational choices. I'm not criticizing anyone specifically for these choices, but of course that kind of creates more and more of this inflow pressure and we might choose to then go to 100% and then that wasn't a problem, then we just keep going on that path and then we go to 100% and everyone is happy and great. If we choose to actually to end up doing targeting, it will be an incredibly painful process to come back down. Right. You basically now not only do all these protocols that just started to enshrine their kind of native staking, now they have to undo all of that, but you also have to basically push them out by actually having really harsh yield environments for quite a while until they're all out. Right.
01:35:05.782 - 01:35:54.914, Speaker C: That is a very, very painful process. I mean, of course if that ends up happening that way, look, we will find a way to make it as comfortable for people as possible, but it will be painful no matter what, right? So basically what we felt like is we are on a path where we have two doors in the future that we see, and if we do nothing, we make one door really painful to go through and the other door basically almost the default. What we are proposing is, hey, in the next possible moment where we could make a change, which is electra, let's just try to slow this process down so that we can decide which door to choose, right. So let's basically have a one time small adjustment. That's basically we don't propose to do targeting. We have like a colleague of ours, Anders, who for independent reasons, he has his own kind of independent line of research around minimum viable issuance. He came up with a really kind of elegant set of curves.
01:35:54.914 - 01:36:37.718, Speaker C: We picked one of those and we're like, hey, it so happens that this curve would also just slow down the net inflow because it would basically, just to give you an intuition, it would just cap the maximum amount of total ETH issued. So as there's more stakers, it would be distributed across more and more stakers, so that basically the yields would come down faster as we slide to the right. Hopefully that would slow us down, so that by the time we actually choose which door to go through, both of them are still viable options. And it's not like one of them becomes really painful. So we looked at this and we're like, hey, doing nothing seems really committal. We propose to do something that just leaves our options open. So that's the thinking we came to with a specific proposal just to bring them back together.
01:36:37.884 - 01:37:15.140, Speaker D: Could you just kind of concretely summarize one more time, just bringing the two proposals together of, okay, so this one of the potential electric curve that would basically effectively just caps the number of ETH that would be issued, and then after that there's no additional ETH issued. So the yield goes down. That achieves a lot of the goals that you were talking about with targeting. So what concretely would be the additional incentive beyond that to potentially do something, like we discussed earlier with targeting, where the ability of them potentially it would drop off to negative and people wouldn't actually do that. So what would be the added benefit of doing that? On top of the, hey, we've already capped the amount of ETH issued anyway, right?
01:37:15.510 - 01:38:34.566, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, basically, as you like, the proposal for Electra already has a lot of great properties and is kind of a stepping stone in a way, if you want to see it that way. But the thing that it fundamentally can't get you is any sort of guarantee about the staking ratio that you end up achieving. Essentially, the curve proposed for Electra, still in its shape, looks very similar to the one that we're accustomed to. It just levels off a bit more aggressively because you don't have that monotonically increasing issuance, but basically it peaks and then even slightly goes down. And so the whole point about a targeting policy and why we believe that's kind of critical for any kind of viable endgame where you really don't have to touch anything anymore is to be able to make a precise kind of guarantee that we're going to be staying in a range of staking participation. So say anything between 20 and 30% is fine, and then after that the reward curve goes down dramatically all the way to negative infinity. Same for very low participation, just positive.
01:38:34.566 - 01:38:56.770, Speaker B: And so you basically have like a guarantee that you're going to be in this window of stake participation. And the fundamental difference is basically having this guarantee versus just having slightly better properties, or better is I guess, opinionated, but we believe better properties with the electra curve.
01:38:57.510 - 01:39:26.714, Speaker C: And the more conceptual difference is just at what point do we say, hey, we think this is a set and forget solution and we basically start signaling and guaranteeing a strong web. It's basically committing to this never changing in the future again. Right. And for now at least, it could even fall out. It could be this way. And I think actually Anders, who proposed these curves, actually has arguments for why these could be long term durable. And if we end up agreeing on this, we might never have to change it again.
01:39:26.714 - 01:39:58.534, Speaker C: The point is that we don't propose it with that in mind. We don't say, hey, this would be the one time, change that afterwards, we don't have to touch it again. I think it's really important that we, and again, maybe this is also why what we didn't do perfectly in the past, right. We should have been more proactive in communicating. The current issue might not yet be the end game state. And so now basically the point was just like with this curve, we could not yet promise that that would be the end state. And as Kasper was saying, Kasp, and I think there's good arguments for why this would not be the case.
01:39:58.534 - 01:39:59.720, Speaker C: But yeah.
01:40:02.410 - 01:40:42.210, Speaker D: Specifically. Sorry, I just want to make it very clear, because we talked about a lot of things over the last 2 hours just to bring it back together. So what specifically are the properties that you want from this? We guarantee that we stick to whether that number is 25%, 50%, 5%, whatever, because a lot of the properties that we talked about being a benefit of that are achieved by, they are properties of just saying, if we just cap the amount of ETH that's being issued, then beyond that point, you aren't being excessively diluted anymore. So what specifically are the properties? Just to make it very clear, again, sorry, of if we keep it at 25% versus if we just say that that's the amount of ETH issued.
01:40:43.670 - 01:40:44.034, Speaker C: Right.
01:40:44.072 - 01:41:47.430, Speaker B: I mean, I think fundamentally the question is why are we staking in the first place? Right? Why do we have an issuance curve? We have it to secure the protocol, recruiting validators essentially to secure the protocol. And so that's the main reason why we are staking in the first place. And so honestly, to me it's kind of funny that any issuance policy that's kind of supposed to be long term sustainable doesn't take this kind of fundamental staking ratio into account. Like how much economic security do you actually want? So right now we have a curve where we honestly can't even like is it going to be 25 or is it going to be 100%? I mean we're above at 25. So I guess we know that. But the point here is like why are we staking for economic security? So let's make a precise statement about what kind of security level we actually want to achieve. And so that's why targeting is kind of so important for the end game, so that we can finally not touch the issuance curve.
01:41:49.850 - 01:42:40.166, Speaker C: John, you asked, which does not address maybe we're a little unstructured in the earlier section around kind of the downsides we see with 100%. The way I would summarize them would be four points, right? Like one, the kind of the monetary aspects, kind of replacing ETH with the worst money. Two, being just kind of the governance risks around Ethereum, kind of having this external governance that is too big to fail and potentially can kind of influence ethereum governance decisions. Three would be solar staker viability, and four would just be kind of worse yield in general for stakers. And the analysis, what it makes better is the kind of the yield situation, right. Because you don't have as much of this negative, the dilution kind of doesn't get so bad. So more portion of the overall incentive to stake comes from actual yield versus just kind of dilution protection.
01:42:40.166 - 01:43:15.758, Speaker C: But a lot of the other ones it leaves untouched. Right. Because we can still go to 100%, there's still the same problems around replacing the dominant money of the protocol. There's still the same problems around governance risks and too big to fail. There's still kind of the same worries around solostaker viability. So again, to the extent maybe that people disagree with these downsides, maybe then they go away and this curve is good enough, but it very much depends on kind of continuing this research path around analyzing it and figuring it out in which dimensions to compare these models.
01:43:15.934 - 01:44:11.446, Speaker D: Yeah, that's helpful. And that's what I wanted to bring it back to because of those, basically those kind of like four points. The yield one is the one that I think is concretely quite well addressed by the curve proposal for electrode. That one is actually, I have a much easier time getting my head around of, like, I could see myself getting there, which is also separate from, I would note that included in that was also a reduction in issuance. But you don't have to reduce the issuance. You can just decide to cap the amount of ETH without reducing the curve, which I think is actually more viable. But putting that aside and then, yeah, some of those other benefits of doing the actual targeting are then further, at least to some extent, rely on some assumption that, okay, we keep the staking at 25%, and then the synthetic representations of stake don't just blow beyond that anyway, because if LST goes to 100%, it didn't really buy you much.
01:44:11.446 - 01:45:15.130, Speaker D: So that is part of the question, too, is like, okay, if we keep it at 25%, like hard capped, how much does this actually stop the representations of stake on top of it? That's the part where I'm not super convinced, but, yeah, that is part of what a lot of the fun discussion will be. But I realized one of the other points I mentioned, there is something that is worth noting, is that for the electro one, there are two different points in there. One is effectively, like, capping the amount of ETH that would be issued. Another part of it, which is opinionated, is reducing the issuance, which are separate things like you can decide to set a curve that basically caps the amount of ETH without bringing down where the current amount is. And that is something I view as probably more viable of basically leveling off the increase in issuance that we haven't actually gotten to yet. Feels like less of breaking a promise kind of, to the community, as opposed to bringing down the issuance where we are today. If we tell people that, hey, that issuance that you would have gotten when we went to 100%, we're getting rid of that, but we're not touching the amount of issuance that's happening now or anytime soon.
01:45:15.130 - 01:45:59.894, Speaker D: I think that is much more palatable because I think there is a gigantic problem. Risk of if you actually do something that meaningfully reduces income, like so many staking businesses, so many LSTs, so many defi protocols, whether it's Athena or whatever, do get kind of rugged by this. And that is going to be a big problem. I think it was like, Frankie, who had like a funny tweet, like a couple of weeks ago, it was like broke Athena USD. The risk is like that. The stable that it deeps and it was like woke is like, no, the risk is like, issuance goes negative, which is very funny, which is actually a reasonable summary of this. It's difficult to do that kind of thing.
01:45:59.894 - 01:46:32.722, Speaker D: I don't know that that is a palatable thing to do. And this does get into the other speculative part that you were touching on. And this was, I feel like probably what will be our last conversation. So what is the right amount? This is a completely speculative. I don't think anyone has a great answer to this, but the idea that you're expressing is we want to take some view of what is the right economic security that is like a sufficient amount. That is supposedly kind of the fundamental reason for this. I have expressed a number of times.
01:46:32.722 - 01:47:28.130, Speaker D: I actually don't think that the economic security is like. I think this number is sort of made up, and I don't know how representative it is. The basic two components here are, what is the security budget that we are spending on a given year of. This is the amount that's being paid out. And then for that, what is the economic security that we get for that of dollars, of ETH staked? And the kind of analogy in the proof of work world is the security budget is again like, how much are we paying out in a given year to miners? And then the parallel to the dollar staked is just like, all right, what is basically the cost of all this equipment and stuff like this, what's the hash rate? All of that, because that's what you're kind of getting rid of. The difficult part for proof of stake is when we're saying these numbers around economic security. This is a conversation that's been had a bunch of times, but all of this stake is delegated.
01:47:28.130 - 01:48:23.682, Speaker D: Do you in practice, really feel more economically secure if Coinbase is running all the validators and they have like $100 billion staked or they have $10 billion staked? There is some reasonable point. Once you're beyond, you just don't want someone to be able to trivially go buy up literally a bunch of stake and go take over the network. Beyond that, the risk is really the operators themselves. What is their loss? What is Coinbase and figment and whatever p to P, all these other different companies, what do they lose if they just say, screw it, go rogue, and it's like, fork the chain, go start extracting Mev, et cetera. And fundamentally, that is what we're paying them. At the end of the day, that is the security budget. So I think at the end of the day, the security budget is fundamentally, at some level, kind of what your economic security actually is, because the incentive for these validators not to go screw the chain is whatever you are paying them in the future, that is what they are losing.
01:48:23.682 - 01:48:39.740, Speaker D: That is their future business. But yeah, I'm just curious how you think about, because this is something that we talk about a lot of, we're overpaying for security at the moment. What do we really mean by that? And what feels intuitively kind of in the right area for you guys?
01:48:41.470 - 01:49:10.706, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's a great question. Maybe let me just finish with two quick last comments on the kind of the electoral proposal, and then I'll speculate. Because I just wanted to make sure people fully understand that one just being that oftentimes when researchers propose a change, often the idea is it just goes through the governance process largely unchanged, is accepted. I think people saw this and were like, hey, wait, you can't just push this very opinionated change through the governance process. This was not the intention. Right? Like the intention was more, we wanted to be like, hey, this is one thing we could do. Please give input.
01:49:10.706 - 01:49:38.974, Speaker C: Right? This will not by itself just move ahead. Right? Like this is very much meant as something we need to get to agreement to with the community. Also, timeline wise, there's still a couple of months before we would have to lock this in. And the other point, just that you're definitely right that basically it's almost, you can think of it as two changes, the shape of the curve and then kind of the height or the extent to which that also comes with a direct issuance reduction. There's a bit of a trade off. The more of an issuance reduction there is this, the more it actually achieves the goal of slowing down inflow. Right.
01:49:38.974 - 01:50:07.354, Speaker C: But yeah, again, basically design space there, we would want to come to agreement with the community. It's not like just something that will just, on its own, just go ahead through the governance process. Coming back to how much security is enough security, how much do we want? Right. I think of it in my mind much more as like, what is. I find it's. It's a harder defined range. Like, I think there's arguments where I say even at 5% staked, we could probably be fine.
01:50:07.354 - 01:51:12.720, Speaker C: And I'm not convinced that 5% would have bad properties, but I assume 5% is something most people would not like. And so to me, basically, it's more of a question, at what point do these other kind of, these downsides of a high staking rate become large enough so that we should stay away from that range? So basically more like, what's the upper bound? What's the upper bound for what we could reasonably do? And in my mind, basically, again, this will require a lot of further work. But some rule of thumb is that to me, it feels like we would want to stay below 50%. And I did probably not like. Right at 50% either. So it's not impossible for me to imagine that 40% is fine, or 30%, right, 25%, 20%, something like that, the further away from 50% we are, the more of a safe feeling I would get. But basically because a lot of like, say, for example, on the yield side, right, if it's a small, relatively small set of people being paid and a large set of people being paxed, that just fundamentally is economics that work out quite well, right? Because you have much more real yield than the dilution that's happening.
01:51:12.720 - 01:51:50.490, Speaker C: You also have a much bigger kind of portion of unstaked ETH that would still make sure that governance doesn't just take into account the needs of staked ETH and kind of social sizing would still be possible and these kind of things. So to me, in my mind, basically, 50% seems like basically a boundary where if we stake very comfortably below that, things seem to be roughly fine. Rule of thumb wise, above that, I would start feeling more and more uncomfortable. But again, this is of course, just like, just to people understand this is really speculation at this point. I don't know, Casper, what's your feeling?
01:51:51.070 - 01:52:53.190, Speaker B: Power of two. But yeah, I guess if you want to stick to the powers of two, you have one 8th, one fourth, or one half. I think what you said basically agreed. Then I guess obviously you need to be high enough for economic security, right? And so then you can start thinking about certain costs of attacks and how much ETH you would need to be able to pull them off. Essentially, you would want it to be hard enough for any kind of one single entity to control, enough ease to pull off some sort of 51% style attack. Although in proof of stake, obviously you have this accountability, so you actually get slashed, unlike in proof of work. So especially because of that, the argument for having an incredibly high security budget is tricky.
01:52:53.190 - 01:53:39.600, Speaker B: I mean, I think right now, if I remember correctly from a couple of weeks ago, Justin had this ten x bitcoin economic security flipping tweet where ETH is at roughly 100 billion today and bitcoin at ten. But yeah, I think it's inherently subjective. There is no d answer, but one four or even one eight sounds like a reasonable economic security budget. Now, is that then obviously it's still kind of debatable if that's desirable as a kind of target. But in terms of economic security, that seems reasonable to me.
01:53:41.170 - 01:54:26.682, Speaker A: So I think my general view, and I would say at this stage, it's still developing. So I kind of only started thinking about this, I think, more recently than maybe some of you guys. But to me, the impact on the validator set is the relationship between kind of the number of stake that we're targeting and also the kind of demand curve, I. E. Like how much money we're paying Valdata and the quality of the val data set. For me, that still remains kind of very underexplored because Valdata sets are not the same. And we talk about economic security and we are trying to kind of make the quality of a velded asset really one dimensional through this number.
01:54:26.682 - 01:55:11.066, Speaker A: And then we can say, oh yeah, clearly it levels off at some point, so we should target some lower amount. And if that was an accurate representation of reality, then I would agree. But I feel like that raw economic security is very overrated. Geodistribution and political distribution of validators across different jurisdictions and countries and some level of civil resistance on top, I actually find very underrated. And so to me, it's not nuanced enough to say, hey, just staking. Is this kind of service. It's those guys, they do something for the protocol, and it doesn't really matter who it is, because there's actually a huge difference in who it is.
01:55:11.066 - 01:56:45.830, Speaker A: And kind of different incentive systems produce very different outcomes. And to me, this throws some level of shade on ideas like targeting, but also Mev burn, which I see in some ways as very similar mechanisms, because they both try to internalize external rewards mev, and try to basically set some target level of real yield for staking. When I think in the limit, if you kind of take the two cases, and I think it was you, Anska, who said this previously, that there's no difference between all money is paid to e folders and no money is paid to stakers versus no money is paid to stakers. All the money is paid to stakers versus no money is paid to e folders. You said like in the limit, those are the same, if I kind of understood you correctly. I think the more I think about it, the more I think they are not the same, because if all of the money is paid to the e folders, then there's no statement about what that does to the validator set. I think if you just have some base amount of real yield to e folders, even accepting that, that might make the staking ratio go up to 75 to like 100%, which it probably will, right? If you have some meaningful non zero real yield, then I still think this buys you something very significant, which is the ability to have decentralized staking protocols and.
01:56:45.830 - 01:57:00.286, Speaker A: Yeah, like pools, like rocket pool pools, like Lido, that basically are just like more decentralized kind of derivatives of Eve, and they exert some very positive pressure, I think, on the quality of the.
01:57:00.308 - 01:57:44.186, Speaker C: Value that I said, well, there's several points there, I would say for one, I think in terms of the actual staker yield, like my intuition is actually, because I've heard people say that my intuition is actually, the real yield for stakers is probably the highest at something like 5% staked. And then it just goes lower if we target like a higher value. And I think people seem to have the opposite intuition. So this is something we just have to keep kind of diving in and figuring out. But my prediction is that it's actually the opposite kind of relationship, that actually, if you want to maximize yield, because that enables for less efficient stakers to still exist, that actually, I think that happens if we limit the amount of people staking. So that's kind of. .1
01:57:44.186 - 01:57:49.274, Speaker C: I actually think basically my intuition there is just the opposite so we have to kind of keep kind of diving into that topic.
01:57:49.322 - 01:58:10.180, Speaker A: But how can this be true? If you target 5% staked, effectively, it almost doesn't matter what you target, but you always end up, it's just like you're basically saying, are there like 5% who can do it extremely cheaply? And then you basically enshrine, like that 5%.
01:58:13.350 - 01:58:43.198, Speaker C: I don't know, really needs a whiteboard. So basically, if you think of them, it is just income streams, right? Like, I think it's physically inevitable that all the transaction fees, all the MEV, all the restaking basically ends up going to everyone and everyone. Basically here just means that if we don't do it via MEV burn, via targeting or something, it'll just implicitly go to everyone because everyone will stake. Right. So basically, if you have 1% of the assets of the network, you will get 1% of that external yield. I think that is inevitable. Okay.
01:58:43.198 - 01:58:47.310, Speaker C: Right. So basically then we can exclude it from the analysis. Right?
01:58:47.460 - 01:58:49.280, Speaker A: I don't agree with. No.
01:58:51.250 - 01:58:52.450, Speaker C: How do you not agree with that?
01:58:52.520 - 01:59:27.306, Speaker A: Yeah, because that's what I mean, exactly. Like you're saying all the money going to e folders and none to the stakers versus all the money to the stakers. Yes, but it still produces very different validator sets. I think the distinction between those two, because when you have all the money paid to the e folders and none to the stakers, you end up with a very poor validator set. And if you have the same money paid to the stakers, even if they are the exact same set as the e folders, then you end up with a significantly stronger validator set.
01:59:27.408 - 01:59:39.006, Speaker C: So then what you're just saying is basically you think the only way to have a strong validator set is at 100%. So that's basically you're saying the argument is because otherwise there is no, there.
01:59:39.028 - 01:59:45.170, Speaker A: Will always be like 20% of folks who don't stake. But. Yeah, right.
01:59:45.320 - 02:00:24.974, Speaker C: Okay. And I disagree just because I think at 100%, basically, these kind of competitive pressures on solo stakers would be so high that we would not have many solo stakers left. And also, again, say, if you compare Coinbase and lido, it's a little unfortunate, because I think right after we published these posts, there were some people that tweeted things, like all these ETH researchers, that they must hate Lido and whatnot. And nothing could be further from the truth. I mean, look, I also like Coinbase, of course, as a company, but I would sleep much better if most of the staked ETH is via Lido and not via Coinbase. Right. Because just Lido is so clearly more decentralized, like has all these great properties, nothing else.
02:00:24.974 - 02:00:57.766, Speaker C: And I would sleep even better if it's all solar stakers, of course. Right. So there's like a cascade of kind of preferences, definitely. But I think basically if we go close to 100%, it's just that the entity that only has to run one big node and then this basically has no variable costs on top of that will just win out that competitive dynamic. That to me is just very clear. Whereas if we basically limit the scale of staking, there's much more room left. And again it's worth kind of again taking out a whiteboard and actually diving into this.
02:00:57.766 - 02:01:20.330, Speaker C: And that's why we just want to start the conversation here. But I really don't understand. To me, basically, in my mind it's clear again, these external revenue streams, whether we want it or not, they will over time go to everyone equally, no matter what scenario we are in, and to everyone hopefully equally in a smooth way where there's no variance that could affect things. Right. So that's kind of. .1 the only other income you will have as a staker is from issuance.
02:01:20.330 - 02:02:02.830, Speaker C: And issuance yield is only meaningful if not everyone gets it. And so basically the more we have this distinction between the group that gets it and the group that doesn't get it, basically the more you actually still have issuance as a meaningful contribution to kind of your staking income. And the story basically, in my mind, again, I think it's just really important to basically take out a piece of paper and really kind of draw different plausible endgame scenarios and then compare them. And definitely we are still also at the level where a lot of this is also still intuition based or some hypothesis, some assumptions we've made that could be wrong. And I think some of them will be wrong. Right. So I would love to be corrected on this and I think we have to, over time iterate on our views.
02:02:02.830 - 02:02:59.354, Speaker C: I would really love if over the next few months we start seeing more people being like, hey, here's my specific counter proposal of the alternative world we could get to and how the incentives look like this. And this is our argument for why for these specific groups of people it would be preferable, right. Because there's not only, I think by the way, one distinction that is important to make is, say, on the yield side. For one, there's the yield that's going to stake us, but then in terms of, say the feasibility of something like Lido, right. That is not only dependent of the pass through yield that they give to stakers, but also of the revenue that Lido or whatever other SSP there is themselves, can generate. Right? Because of course in order to pay the operators, the operators are not the capital providers, right? So there's one, there's the staking yield itself, and then there is, how much revenue can you generate? And so those might be different. Like for example, I think the staking yield will be optimal at a very low ratio.
02:02:59.354 - 02:03:48.410, Speaker C: But of course I think the SSP revenue will be higher at something maybe like 25. My intuition would be that SSP revenue peaks at 25% stake or something, because then they have the, like, you know, then there's still a lot of real yield generated. So you can actually charge a fee, a meaningful fee that adds to your revenue, but then you also have enough assets under management that it's like in a sufficient amount of time, maybe something like that would actually. But once you kind of cross into 50, 70, 80, 90%, then basically because all the real yield goes away over time, the competitive pressures would just erode the fee that the SSPs can charge, maybe, except for the dominant winner takes most. Like basically there's one world where one LST runs away and basically just becomes the dominant one. And then that one can charge monopoly prices. So that's one way of keeping an SSP competitive, even if it's less efficient, maybe more decentralized.
02:03:48.410 - 02:03:59.620, Speaker C: But I think that one is just such a high price to pay. If the only way we can keep lido competitive is by basically enshrining it as the replacement money for ETH, I think that would be too high of a price to pay.
02:04:00.550 - 02:04:48.254, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's fair. I think my main hang up, I would say, in a lot of ways, is like with the idea of kind of MeV burn and kind of targeting in general. I fully acknowledge that solar staking is harder without smoothing, but I think there are better solutions than what we have seen. Right. And my feeling is that rocket pool already does a lot basically to smooth MEV for solar stakers. Lido by end of the year wants to have, I think, a thousand independent node operators. So there are modules kind of being worked on for solar stakers, et cetera.
02:04:48.254 - 02:05:13.260, Speaker A: Right. And those might include also MeV smoothing. And I just feel like I have a better feeling about the velvet asset with kind of the real yield not being internalized and then turned into issuance, but rather kind of going to the stakers and addressing the volatility problem another way.
02:05:14.030 - 02:06:01.058, Speaker B: I guess the point though is that when 100% assume MEV burn, right? There is no exogenous yield from MEV under the current issuance policy or under the electra curve or under a targeting policy. Now, if you stake 100% there is no real yield. All of the issuance everyone gets. And so there's no real yield. What we're saying is that if we move to a world where less is staked, say 25% or one eight or whatever, there is actually redistribution possible between stakers and east holders that is meaningful. And so that's where we say there's actually real yield to be gained by stakers.
02:06:01.234 - 02:06:06.570, Speaker C: I think has disagreement was with assume meth burn. I think the whole point was like, what if we don't assume?
02:06:07.150 - 02:06:22.660, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I'm just not a fan of the idea, I think of Meb burn in general. But to your point, Casper holding Eve in this world is not also equally attractive, right?
02:06:23.990 - 02:06:24.980, Speaker B: Why not?
02:06:25.510 - 02:06:45.640, Speaker A: Yeah, you can say like, hey, we give this one party real yield because we have real inflation on the other side. But in the other example there is the real inflation, but also real yield. And it kind of canceled each other out, right? I guess I'm saying it's like do you want to be in the 80% that's kind of being inflated or do you want to be in the 20%?
02:06:47.310 - 02:07:42.460, Speaker B: I guess the argument here is that this kind of separation between the kind of specialized parties that are kind of. You can see as an ETH holder in this 25% state world, you can see holding ETH, you have a tiny amount of inflation that is basically a fair tax, if you will. This is your kind of share that you pay for getting a secure chain. And the whole point is to make ETH kind of this cheap to hold money, but at the same time making sure it's maximally trustless. The money that we want is maximally trustless and very cheap to hold. Obviously it can't be free because then we have no security. But the whole point is to find something where we think it's secure enough, but we're not overpaying for no reason in terms of security.
02:07:42.460 - 02:08:37.260, Speaker B: And so ETH is just fundamentally maximally trustless on Ethereum and more credibly neutral. And I think, just to speak to your point about the kind of stake distribution that different issuance policies might induce, I think that's a very important point. I guess a question that I would have for you is the point about basically underlying competitive pressure between different staking types existing under any issuance curve. So lido relative to Coinbase, relative to rocket pool, relative to solar staking, they have fundamentally different cost structures. And these cost structures are true for any issuance curve. And so I think right now we have a market that's clearly not mature, like Coinbase charging 25%. I don't know.
02:08:37.260 - 02:09:06.790, Speaker B: Again, also echoing Anska's point, like, I feel much more comfortable holding something that is on chain, like Lido, Steve, or rest, or solo staking. But the point here is that I would like to better understand why you think these competitive underlying kind of dynamics don't play out under the current issuance curve, but would play out in a kind of lower issuance curve.
02:09:07.610 - 02:10:01.320, Speaker A: I think that you basically have to assume what Anska said, that I think the dynamics are different if, like, 80% to 100% are staked and there's no med burn. Right? So I think in this world, you can assume just like, a higher kind of real yield for all participants of the staking market that has less competitive pressure. Right. I think the less revenue there is to distribute overall, I think the stronger the competitive pressures get, if my intuition is correct, and the more revenue there is in the staking market overall, the more kind of safe spaces there are also for, I would say, decentralized providers. Nonetheless, it's very important that you're shaking your head. You don't agree.
02:10:03.130 - 02:10:29.210, Speaker B: I guess my question would be, if the market was competitive and one staking solution is so much more efficient than another, then you can price out the less efficient one. Even at, I don't know, we can double issuance. The whole point is one entity is more competitive and can offer more competitive yields. That's the fundamental.
02:10:29.370 - 02:10:54.358, Speaker A: Always the case. Absolutely, yeah. I mean, the data between what different providers can offer is bigger than the perceived difference, in a lot of ways, is bigger than a half a percent and 1%, than, like, two and a half percent and 3%. And I think this is a thing that really happens. So I think that's more what I'm saying.
02:10:54.524 - 02:11:08.778, Speaker C: But again, I think it's important, at least our thesis or our conclusion, is that the harshest yield environment out of all the possible ones is the one where we go to 100%. That is at least how we understand.
02:11:08.864 - 02:11:11.142, Speaker A: The situation with MeV burn.
02:11:11.286 - 02:11:57.500, Speaker C: No, no matter what. Because, again, at 100%, I think basically, whether we have MeV burn or not becomes completely irrelevant, other than for, let's say, ideally, we still have some sort of smoothing, but it doesn't matter whether you pay it out to stakers or to ETH holders, because those are exactly the same entities at 100%. So again, interesting. I think if we take a step back, I think what's happening, what I think is happening is more that unfortunately, proof of stake in a mature system, in the end game, in an equilibrium state, is really, really hard to make work in ways that do not collapse into these kind of monopolist situations and all this kind of stuff that is inherent in proof of stake. People always like to point out how proof of work is so much simpler, so much easier to reason about. And that's not wrong. I think the payoff is worth it.
02:11:57.500 - 02:12:33.510, Speaker C: I think all the struggle we are going through right now, that is worth it for proof of stake. But it is fundamentally, I think, just really hard to get to any good place. And I think by basically being the first ones that describe a specific place we want to go to, it's very easy to point to all the things that are wrong with this place. And I agree, a lot of these things are, especially compared to today, clear downsides. Now, the problem is, I think today we just can't, again, I would press the button in a heartbeat to just freeze. Today we can't, like, we will not stay today. So I think the problem is the moment people start to actually write out the specific counter proposals, we will have the same situation of being like, oh, but this is wrong.
02:12:33.510 - 02:13:13.750, Speaker C: This and these and these and these things are wrong with that alternative proposal. And after looking at this, the one we propose, basically the kind of the targeting at some, they call it 25%, whatever we think out of all the equilibria, that is the one that has the least downsides. And we could be wrong with this, but at least basically, I think the problem is it sounds so bad because it's the first concrete proposal and you compare it to today and it's worse than today. Which acknowledged. Right. That's what I think is happening here. But that's why I really would love to start seeing other people kind of like write out their specific kind of endgame equilibrium state that they think is achievable.
02:13:14.650 - 02:13:57.380, Speaker B: And maybe just to add on this, I think intuitively why these proposals seem so kind of counterintuitively, or they just seem bad for stakers, right. Is because you look at the current yield and you're like, oh, it's going to go down. Right, but that's the mistake. You should not compare the status like the current issuance level we have at 30 million ETH. What we should instead do is compare long term equilibria and then understand which equilibrium is actually better for our staking set. And I agree, the stake distribution should be fundamentally part of the equation and not just economic security. Like, I 100% agree.
02:13:57.380 - 02:14:35.070, Speaker B: Should it turn out that the only way we can keep solar stakers around and more decentralized on chain versions of staking providers is like high issuance and 100% staked. I'm happy to be convinced, but I just personally don't see the arguments for why this is the case. And in fact, I think because of the economies of scale of different staking types, actually limiting them and making the yield sustainable is actually net benefit for stakers.
02:14:36.050 - 02:15:06.230, Speaker A: Yeah, I think you make a lot of really good points. I think this is probably like a good kind of general tone to end it on. So don't compare the proposals with the status quo, because it's not meant to replace the status quo. It's like meant to paint kind of an end game vision. And I would love to see more analysis on where do we see the current equilibrium end up. Right. So what is the current equilibrium? What is so bad about it that kind of warrants.
02:15:06.230 - 02:15:26.014, Speaker A: This is kind of admittedly like pretty dramatic change. How is it impacted also by proposals like Meb burn, which I think when Justin goes on stage and says all of the eve should be burned, it sounds very good.
02:15:26.052 - 02:15:26.206, Speaker C: Right.
02:15:26.228 - 02:16:16.222, Speaker A: But it has all of these nuanced effects, I think, on the staking set that maybe haven't been explored in kind of all the detail that is warranted. So, yeah, I think those are generally to our audience and anybody who's listening, who's on e free search, who cares about this topic. Yeah, paint us your kind of endgame scenario. Right? Like where do you think, what's the kind of path that you see us on right now? What is the path that you want to see for Ethereum long term, right. In general, like starting from the value data set that we want to see and then reverse engineering kind of what do we need today? What do we need to do today in order to get there? I think that's the right way of thinking, yeah.
02:16:16.276 - 02:16:48.246, Speaker C: And maybe two closing comments for me there. One, I think it really is unfortunate, the timing basically around this is unfortunate where basically, ideally we should have this conversation. This should be a research conversation. We should have it for two, three years, figure out everything, make sure the community is involved, and only then even start thinking about how to move there. Right. That is the proper way of doing these things. I think a lot of kind of the pushback came from this kind of electro specific proposal, which it's like, hey, let's change the issuance mechanism in six months or like nine to twelve months, which as a rule of thumb, you should not do.
02:16:48.246 - 02:17:10.400, Speaker C: Right, I agree with that. Right. And so it really just happens to be that I think we are very unhappy with kind of this default drift that we are on right now, which kind of makes this entire thing on this unfortunate accelerated timeline, which I am not happy about. And I don't think anyone is. Right. And so that's kind of just unfortunate. And then the other thing is, yes, we don't think we have figured this out yet.
02:17:10.400 - 02:17:35.640, Speaker C: We have some rough understanding. We want to see other people's positions. There are some aspects that we haven't touched on at all. Right? So for example, I think some pushback came from the DBT people who are like, hey, you don't mention us at all. You're talking about solo stakers as the lowest, kind of the most decentralized part of this, but we could even decentralize further than solo stakers. What if you have ten people running one validator, right? So totally valid. Right? Expand the analysis, really kind of dive into all of this.
02:17:35.640 - 02:18:10.274, Speaker C: It will take time. That's why, again, we don't think it's at all feasible to jump to the end game anytime soon. What do we do in the meantime while we figure this out? Right. These are topics that I think the more people look into this and look into this, hopefully soon ish, share their opinions, kind of, so that we can hash this all out. I think that would be super, super important. And I'm very happy that you had us on the podcast because I think this is a good, great venue. And I think, yeah, you guys also pushed back quite productively today, pointed out quite a few things.
02:18:10.274 - 02:18:25.830, Speaker C: I think our thinking is also still quite kind of raw and not fully reflected, which it isn't. And I think that's super important to acknowledge and to then take as prompts for further work. And I think this was super productive.
02:18:27.470 - 02:19:01.300, Speaker B: Yeah, it was amazing. Thank you so much, guys. I think one thing that basically yesterday would have been the best time to talk about endgame staking economics. And I guess the second best time is today. And so here we are. Unfortunately, in Ethereum land, often things get thrown at the protocol and then we kind of try and figure them out. But, yeah, super good to have this conversation and productive pushback, as Anska said.
02:19:02.310 - 02:19:52.994, Speaker D: One last quick thing that's probably worth noting. I remembered it when you were talking about the, like, you're bringing up the proof of work differences. And I was thinking a lot about proof of work yesterday when I was preparing and thinking about this episode. And one of the things that I was thinking about, and again, to the vein of like, actually there are plenty of fair criticisms from proof of work of like, yes, a lot simpler to reason about. The other one that is always a criticism is like, oh, it's like proof of stake is token holder governance. And while I obviously do not agree with that, it has given me more appreciation thinking of it over the past day of while it is not directly token holder governance, it is very clearly a lot more politically complicated to do this in a proof of stake system. And you saw this very clearly and we just reduced minor salaries multiple times and then literally fired them.
02:19:52.994 - 02:20:28.654, Speaker D: And it was totally fine and no one really cared. It's just like, all right, your employees, you're fired, we're cutting your pay. It's fine doing that in a proof of stake system when there are many different stakeholders in that system, whether it's literally stakeholders, the asset holders themselves, and then a lot of Defi protocols, businesses, et cetera, that are very directly built off of these cash flows. Now, it is a much trickier, obviously political environment to navigate and have that discussion, which is just an interesting thing to kind of observe and think about more, which I've definitely appreciated more like thinking about.
02:20:28.692 - 02:20:28.798, Speaker C: Yeah.
02:20:28.804 - 02:20:35.600, Speaker A: And in the light of that, strong shout out to Mike Nuda, right, and his article on set theory, which I think exactly makes this.
02:20:36.050 - 02:20:36.642, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah.
02:20:36.776 - 02:20:38.050, Speaker B: Amazing article.
02:20:38.390 - 02:20:50.070, Speaker C: And proof works great. I mean, I'm a big fan. I feel like these days the Ethereum community is way too harsh with mean. I'm very happy we moved beyond it, but it's still great. And I hope bitcoin stays on it forever.
02:20:52.410 - 02:21:46.230, Speaker A: Also, not to forget, I mean, proof of work has also very strong centralizing forces around like in the end game, it used to be more around the price of energy, but that was always kind of going to change as we kind of move to more and more kind of capex savvy machines. And then it becomes all about the cost of capital. And it's like no surprise that every year the amount of publicly traded hash rate goes up because it just gravitates to markets that have the cheapest cost of capital. And already we have like 55 60% hash rate in the US. And unless the US collapses, that's never going to reverse. There's no forces that could change this. And so like proof of work while being easy to reason about doesn't make it the better solution.
02:21:47.210 - 02:21:53.722, Speaker C: Well, luckily we only have to fix proof of stake and make it work. And we can leave that to the bitcoiners to figure out.
02:21:53.856 - 02:21:59.966, Speaker A: Yeah. Division of labor, FTV okay, maybe one.
02:21:59.988 - 02:22:43.610, Speaker B: Last point to John's comment on the differences between kind of miners and stakers. Completely agree. Right. So obviously there's this notion of stakers being fundamentally aligned with the underlying protocol, and that's certainly true. But I think, again, for me or for us, I guess the takeaway of our proposals is that we're not rugging stakers, we're actually trying to help them. I think that's like a foundational misconception or again, this very natural intuition that, hey, issuance is going down must be bad for stakers. We're saying.
02:22:43.610 - 02:22:57.920, Speaker B: It's actually not. It's actually just less stakers, but at least that portion is earning sustainable, real yields. And then. Yeah, now I forgot my second point, but.
02:22:58.290 - 02:23:04.100, Speaker C: Right, anyways, probably a good point to end.
02:23:05.110 - 02:23:16.930, Speaker A: Okay, guys, thank you so much for doing this debate. This has by far been the longest episode, I think, of the four that we did. So, yeah, this has been a blast.
02:23:17.830 - 02:23:18.994, Speaker B: Thanks so much.
02:23:19.192 - 02:23:21.138, Speaker C: Likewise. Thank you so much for having us.
02:23:21.224 - 02:23:40.230, Speaker A: Thanks for joining us today. As always, nothing we say here is invest or legal advice. The views expressed by the course are their personal views alone. Please see our podcast description for more disclosures. If you enjoyed this episode, please feel free to subscribe and share it on Twitter. Thanks and goodbye.
