00:00:00.160 - 00:00:37.714, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Nathan Susano, and today's the 13 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some massive news out of gnosis safe today they announced that they have raised a $100 million strategic round led by one Kx. And you can see here a bunch of other contributors. So there's 60 plus contributors. Some familiar names here, such as Tiger Global, Blockchain Capital, parafire capital, lightspeed, a lot of people here and a bunch of different kind of like angels that you can see here as well, such as Hazu and a bunch of like other familiar names here.
00:00:37.714 - 00:01:01.824, Speaker A: Eva from the graph, Anton from one inch. You know, I'm sure you're recognizing some people on this list. Now this is a huge raise, $100 million. I mean the valuation would have to be what? A billion dollars on this kind of like raise here, which is, which is quite crazy. I mean, it was less crazy back when I believe this raise was done. I think this raise was on a few months ago, obviously probably at the tail end of the bull market. So probably less crazy back then given the relative valuations.
00:01:01.824 - 00:01:42.836, Speaker A: But today this seems like a very big raise given the fact that valuations have come down a lot, not just the public markets, but also the private markets. And the private markets do tend to lag the public markets in terms of valuations, but they have been coming down. But this is a kind of like massive raise, guys. $100 million for notice safe. And for those of you who don't know what Nosis safe is, it's basically a kind of like entire suite built of kind of like products or I guess like applications built around the core product, which is a smart contract or a multi Sig wallet. I've used it a bunch with kind of like a bunch of different things that I do. The ETH hub actual kind of like treasury wallet is a gnosis safe, multisig back from the early, early days, actually from the old interface.
00:01:42.836 - 00:02:04.714, Speaker A: But the new interface is awesome. Like you let you do things like batch transactions. The multisig lets you kind of like just assign instead of having to submit a transaction so it's cheaper on gas and things like that. So it's an, it's an awesome product. They have tens of billions in assets under management. It's a really, really great product there. Now I was discussing with some friends about this raise and thinking, you know, where like this is a huge raise, obviously, huge valuation.
00:02:04.714 - 00:02:26.016, Speaker A: Are they gonna do a token? I mean, of course they're gonna do a token, right? Like, I feel like it's a given at this point. Like, you guys know my rule. Every protocol is gonna do a token eventually, I think, or every project is gonna do a token eventually. And I think that, you know, no, ssafe is no exception here. But, like, what would the token do, right? What is the value capture here? Obviously, it would be a governance token. Okay, that's fine. Like, everything's a governance token, if you.
00:02:26.016 - 00:03:01.634, Speaker A: If you think about it. But outside of that, what else would it do? Would it be a staking token? Would it be a kind of fee token? Would it accrue value from fees generated on a platform? Would it be a curation token? You know, there's many different roads that could go down, but let's just say, for example, it was a. It was a kind of, like, staking token, and then stakers could earn some fees generated by a platform. Okay, well, where are those fees coming from? And my friends and I kind of like. And I saw some people talking about this on Twitter. Well, they could charge fees on Aum. And I was like, well, I mean, they could, right? Like, say they got $10 billion in Aum, and they charge, like, a ten bits fee or something like that.
00:03:01.634 - 00:03:30.218, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that, like, there is a certain point where it gets to where people like, well, I'm getting charged too much in fees, so just have my fund sitting here. I'm going to remove my fund from here and go put them somewhere else. There isn't that much competition in the smart contract wallet slash multisig wallet space. But that doesn't mean that there isn't going to be more competition. It doesn't mean that no, ssafe has a monopoly, but obviously, it's the biggest today and it's the most trusted. But it's not like they can just charge 5% fees on the Aum, and people will be like, oh, it's fine. You know, I'm with a trusted platform.
00:03:30.218 - 00:03:44.170, Speaker A: I'm happy to pay 5%. Not that they probably ever would go to that, or I don't even know if they would charge an Aum fee, but I don't think that is something that would drive a lot of value to. To the token. Right. For example. And a governance. I mean, governance is a bit of a meme, I think, these days.
00:03:44.170 - 00:04:26.864, Speaker A: Like, I I've told you guys before that I think the only way Daos are really going to work is if they have, like, a core leadership team at the helm of it. Usually that's the core team, but they can transition over to a community role, and then you have a bunch of kind of, like, pods that sit around it or sit within the dao that kind of, like, all work on various things, and. And maybe the token accrues value like that because people want to hold it, they want to have a say in what goes on and things like that. But I don't know. I'm not convinced that much value flows to tokens because of the governance rights are like, at least it hasn't traditionally. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe it will in the future, but I'm just not feeling it on that front. And the staking for fear of a new, you know, as I said, even if they're not going to be able to charge ridiculous fees, or if they do an Aum fee, they're going to have to charge very, very minimal fees, because if they don't, they're going to end up losing people.
00:04:26.864 - 00:04:48.770, Speaker A: People are just going to basically leave the platform. So let's say they were to charge, you know, 0.1% fees on their $10 billion of kind of like Aum. And now if I'm doing my head math correctly, that would be $10 million a year, because 1% is 100 million of kind of like 10 billion. So, you know, if they. If they did 0.1%, it would be 10 million.
00:04:48.770 - 00:05:34.394, Speaker A: Now, $10 million going to kind of like, I guess, gnosis safe token stakers each year on a yearly basis. It's really not that much, of course, though you would expect notice if to grow over time. So let's say it grows to 100 billion or a trillion dollars in AUm. Well, then if it goes to 100 billion, it's a ten x, so it's 100 million a year, and if it goes to a trillion, it's another ten x, so it becomes a billion dollars a year. And I can see at that point, it starts getting really, really juicy. Right? I think if the protocol is making $1 billion a year just from that, those aum fees, and it's kind of like sending those fees directly to notice safe token stakers, then, yeah, I can see the value accrual there. But this is like a long, kind of like kind of a long time away and something that's in way into the future.
00:05:34.394 - 00:06:48.284, Speaker A: I mean, for noice to save to get to a trillion dollars in. In Aum, it's gonna take a while. Like, maybe it happens faster than I think maybe it can happen in, in five to ten years or something like that, but it's still a long ways away. I'm not sure on the exact figure they have today, but you also have to count liquidity of these things too, because a lot of it, like if you just count like the most liquid aum in no Sif nosis safe, such as kind of a wrapped bitcoin and ETH and stable coins, and you don't count a lot of the other things that are in there, like just random tokens and stuff like that, then the aum kind of comes down from there as well. So there is kind of tricky parts around there, but they, there are other ways that value could be driven to the token as well, such as curation token, which is similar to a governance kind of like token, where people could, could kind of like stake tokens on apps that they want to see in gnosis safe, or kind of like change the rankings of apps within, in the NOsa safe ecosystem. I mean, I'm not sure how much value would be flow flow to the token because of that, but it is a small value driver, maybe, you know, and then there are kind of like some other things. Like there could be other premium services that are charged by the Gnosisafe protocol, and to get access to those premium services, you would have to either stake the token, or maybe you kind of like pay in ETH or stable coins, and then that goes to buy tokens off the market and.
00:06:48.284 - 00:07:31.710, Speaker A: And burn them or put them into a treasury or something, whatever it is, right? So there are different ways that this can, this stuff can kind of like go down, and different paths that we can go down here. But like, just thinking through it, I mean, it's kind of like hard to reason about, like how anything really directly drives value to tokens other than direct fee capture, because it's something people can tangibly see, it's something that you can measure, you can do all your fancy pe kind of like analysis on it, whereas governance rights, curation rights, other kind of things like that. It's a lot harder to model around. So I just kind of like, had been thinking a lot about this. And that's not just exclusive to the gnosis safe token, of course. It's got to do with pretty much every token out there. No other token is like ETH, and we shouldn't expect it to be, because I don't think it can be.
00:07:31.710 - 00:08:11.794, Speaker A: ETH is its own beast and its own unique asset. But if we're talking about like the optimal or a token design that we would like to kind of like, see, that would drive a lot of value to it. I just can't look past anything except just having direct value accrual to it. And the thing is, is that even if it doesn't have direct value accrual to the token, if the project or the protocol was doing really well in terms of product, market fit and revenue and stuff like that, it could still drive second or hand volume to the token in the hopes that they'll turn on that fee, take one day. So something like a uni, right, uni token has come down a lot, but it's still worth, it's still worth a lot in terms of market. Cap still has a, has a relatively high valuation. So there are different things to kind of consider here.
00:08:11.794 - 00:08:40.926, Speaker A: And when you talk about tokens, it can get pretty deep into the weeds. And everyone has their own view on these sorts of things. You know, there are people that think that tokens should all be worthless or it should be worth very little because they're just not kind of like something that's investable for a lot of people. But I disagree with that. I think most tokens obviously, will go to, you know, zero, go like down 99%. Like, 99% of tokens will go down 99%. But the big winners, the, the tokens attached to protocols that have product market fit that are in for the long term, that are sustainable, that actually serve a needle.
00:08:40.926 - 00:09:28.824, Speaker A: I can imagine these things being worth a lot one day when the market gets smarter, when kind of like this obviously direct value accrual and the kind of like change, there's a change of tune around these sorts of things because right now, the crypto markets are still very inefficient, very immature. So we can't really expect them to reflect something like the stock market, which, you know, the stock market itself is not exactly, you know, super efficient or mature, but it is a lot, or like fully mature, but it is a lot more mature than crypto. By like, I mean, it has a huge head start on crypto, so it's not even worth comparing the two at this point in time. But I think as the crypto market matures more, there will definitely be a re rating of tokens that are attached to good protocols. But at the end of the day, like, there needs to be value capture for these things as well. They can't just be useless governance tokens forever. They need to be some kind of value capture.
00:09:28.824 - 00:10:10.430, Speaker A: And the project that they're part of has to have at least have product market fit or at least have sustainable usage, which most projects don't. That's what I think a lot of people get stuck up on. They buy these tokens, they don't realize that the only reason they're going up is because there's a bull market. And the only reason the protocol is getting any use is because the bull market and then like six months later or six months into the bear, like we are right now, or I guess like seven months in, if you're counting kind of like November as, as kind of like a top there. A lot of people realize, wow, all these projects that everyone was really bullish on, you know, end of last year, total shit. They don't make any sense, they don't work, they're not sustainable, and then just not going to recover because the team's going to run out of money to build it. The, you know, the team's probably going to try and pivot.
00:10:10.430 - 00:10:30.366, Speaker A: It's not going to really do anything. So like, and then the tokens obviously go, not nothing ever really goes to zero. I mean, the funny thing is, not even Luna went to zero. Like, there was Luna classic, and now that's not even at zero. But I think that, I mean, it originally went to zero, but outside of that, like, it's kind of hard for something to actually go to zero. It just. Fates were, relevancy goes down 99%.
00:10:30.366 - 00:10:58.254, Speaker A: No one talks about it again. It just kind of like zombifies, right? So there's all that kind of like, that feeds into it. But maybe I got a little bit off tangent there, but I just wanted to have a deeper discussion about tokens a little bit because I think that is very topical for a lot of people. And I also think it's something that we need to think deep, more deeply about. And there is a change that can be affected from you as a community member. You can go to these protocols or your favorite projects and be like, hey, guys, like, I made a new token model for the token. Or I think we could do, we could be doing this better or, or just discussing it with friends.
00:10:58.254 - 00:11:27.734, Speaker A: Like, we need more experimentation around token models, we need more discussion around it. Because at the end of the day, like, I don't think that tokens are going to be anything more than the same thing as kind of like equity or stocks, just with DeFi protocols instead of kind of like, I guess, real world, real world companies. So from that kind of like, lens, they need to be viewed as that. They need to be valued as that. And they need to be rated as that at the end of the day. So yeah, anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. I've got a bunch of other things to get through here today.
00:11:27.734 - 00:12:21.584, Speaker A: So Ashin from Oval network here has started a discussion on the ETH research farm around an extension to the Beacon API that would allow validator clients to produce aggregations as part of a distributed validator cluster. So if you don't know what I just said, because there's a lot of words in there, a lot of things in there got to do with the core protocol, never fear, it's fine. You can go read this ETH research post here that has a much bunch more details. But look, I read this, I'm not going to say that I understand it fully and that kind of like I'm fully across it. This is getting into technical weeds of protocol stuff. But I think from, from what I can see and from a high level here, this is obviously something that would be needed to be kind of like implemented in order for distributed validators like oval network to work. And we'll add kind of like more decentralization, more overall security, and a better user experience for just everyday kind of like people.
00:12:21.584 - 00:12:47.762, Speaker A: And from it, from everyday people to institutions to stake on the beacon chain. So this is definitely something that we want to see. And I think you should go give this, this kind of like post a read if you're interested in that. Just wanted to highlight it for you guys. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so another thing I wanted to highlight was this interesting blog post from Knox here. And they kind of like share the blog post on Twitter by saying how flashbots altered the shape and structure of the mempool to to change the MeV game forever.
00:12:47.762 - 00:13:02.194, Speaker A: A deep dive into the mempool, the flash flash boss, flashbots auction, the history of Mev Geth, and a peek into the future with MeV boost. You do not want to miss this one. Ainon. This is a good read. It's dense. It's very dense, actually. It's very technical.
00:13:02.194 - 00:13:37.838, Speaker A: But if you are very, if you are interested in MEV, if you want to get like really into the weeds of MeV, how it kind of like works, how things like kind of like flashbots have changed the game on Ethereum with, with regards to mev and all the stuff surrounding that, especially, as I said, in the more technical side of things, you should definitely check out this post. As I said about the distributed validator thing, I'll say the same thing here. If you don't understand things because they're too technical for you, don't worry, guys, like, like, this sort of stuff is really low level. I mean, there's code in this blog post here. Like, you can see it right here. Like, you know, I can't read this code myself, right? So don't. Don't fret about that.
00:13:37.838 - 00:14:05.806, Speaker A: I think, you know, I've had some people message me sometimes and be like, oh, my God, like, how, you know, how do you understand this stuff? Like, I feel so dumb. It just goes over my head. It's like, guys, like, I don't understand everything. Like, I have a high level, kind of, like, knowledge of a lot of things. If you had, if you asked me to kind of, like, dive deeper into certain things, there is no way I'd be able to. I mean, I try to keep up to date with core protocol developments and things like that, but it's not like I'm in the core dev teams coding up a client. Like, I couldn't do that.
00:14:05.806 - 00:14:29.406, Speaker A: I'm not a coder. I. I mean, I used to try and do programming back in the day, but it's just not something that I was ever good at. I have trouble focusing, and I think as a programmer, you need to be able to focus, and I have a lot of trouble focusing. My mind just doesn't work like that, so I'm just not that kind of person. But it doesn't mean anything. Just because you don't know how to read code or you don't know the nitty gritty technical details of it doesn't mean you can't learn it and doesn't mean that you need to know it to begin with.
00:14:29.406 - 00:15:08.866, Speaker A: Like, you can have a high level understanding of things in order to kind of, like, get the, I don't know, alpha that you need or get the understanding that you need without having to dive deep into everything. And I think there's a lot of people in Ethereum like that. I mean, a lot of educators are like that, educators like me, who do this full time. We don't actually have the time to sit down and learn every little nitty gritty thing. Like, there's no way. I mean, there's very few people on the planet that would be able to do that. So what we try to do is we try to get the high level understanding of it, try to dig deeper when we feel like it's warranted, especially when it's interesting, I guess, as well, but make sure that we're kind of like putting in this information out there and highlighting the information for people to kind of read themselves and learn about themselves rather than me.
00:15:08.866 - 00:15:43.136, Speaker A: Kind of like just explaining it all, all to you, especially when I don't fully understand things myself. So just a little I guess, tangent there, but just something very relevant, I think, because as I said, I get people messaging me all the time about it and I really don't want people feeling like they're, you know, they, they're stupid or they're dumb or anything like that. Guys like, it's got nothing to do with that at the end of the day. And I've had people in my real life actually talk to me about just general crypto stuff. And, you know, when I talk to them about crypto and what I do in Ethereum and stuff like that and all the success that I've had with it, they're like, oh, I could never do that. I'm nowhere near smart enough. I'm like, I say to them, like, I'm not smart.
00:15:43.136 - 00:16:01.890, Speaker A: I'm not that smart. I don't have like a high iq. I'm not like some giga genius or anything like that. Like the way I kind of like, do things is that I'm just passionate about it. I just spend time kind of like looking at things, getting the high level overview of it and making sure that I understand it from, from that view. But it's all about just putting in the work to understand things. Like, you don't have to be a genius to be across these sorts of things.
00:16:01.890 - 00:16:34.828, Speaker A: So hopefully that encourages you guys a little bit then and makes you feel kind of like more confident in your own abilities. As I said, there's no reason to get worked up about not understanding things, especially on the first read through, the very technical things. Like, even the people that work on this don't understand everything. There's a reason why there are teams. Like, no one person can do everything. One of the most impressive things that I've seen seen was kind of like some indie game developers able to develop an indie game on their own. But you can tell the difference between a game that's developed on someone, you know, someone's own and a game that's developed as part of a team.
00:16:34.828 - 00:16:57.590, Speaker A: Like the original. For example, the original version of Minecraft that Notch created, he created basically on his own. And it was extremely limited. They didn't have all the fancy features that Minecraft has today. And then obviously they built a company and then more and more features came online and then Microsoft bought it and put like a massive team on it. And there's all this stuff going on with Minecraft now. So, like, an individual can only do so much.
00:16:57.590 - 00:17:20.642, Speaker A: So you just have to kind of, like, contextualize that and realize the limits to your own kind of, like, abilities as they exist, exist today. And if you want to get better at it, if you want to be a better programmer, if you want to learn programming and coding, if you want to dive deeper into things, well, you just got to put in the effort to learn it. At the end of the day, it doesn't matter if you feel like you're too dumb or, you know, you're not smart enough to do it. Don't tell yourself that. Tell yourself, yeah, I'm going to learn this thing. Like, I. If you actually want to learn it, then go and learn it.
00:17:20.642 - 00:17:52.024, Speaker A: Don't let anyone tell you otherwise, but I'm going to leave it at that. Got a bunch more things to get through here today. So arbitrum is now on dune analytics, so you'll be able to create your own dune dashboards using data on chain for arbitram one. Now, I'm sure we'll be seeing our favorite dune analytics kind of analysts that I highlight a lot on the refuel Hill dobby putting out arbitrary dashboards for us soon. So I'm looking forward to that. But if you are an aspiring arbitrary doon analytics wizard, I should say, and you want to play around with arbitrary data, you can using dood analytics platform. So definitely go check that out, if that is you.
00:17:52.024 - 00:18:27.974, Speaker A: And they're also running a little contest for this as well, which you can find details in the thread for. All right, so I mentioned the other day that aztec network, aztec protocol released their Aztec Connect feature, which is that privacy feature where you could do private transactions at L2 using layer one liquidity, and bring it back to L2, of course. And it'd be fully private. Well, Aztec shared, kind of like they're thinking around their new look, so they have, like, a new art style and new kind of like, brand look, which I think is really, really cool. It reminds me of the ethereum.org branding and look here in that it's kind of like very, I guess, like futuristic. And it looks.
00:18:27.974 - 00:18:49.680, Speaker A: It looks kind of like hand drawn here. And it speaks to, obviously, kind of like the values and the mission and kind of like the ethos of Aztec, which is very similar to the ethers of Ethereum and Defi and things like that. So. So I just wanted to highlight this little thread. If you haven't seen it yet. You can go visit the site yourself anyway to see the whole thing. I mean, if you go to ZK money here, sorry, ZK money is going to have its own look.
00:18:49.680 - 00:19:07.238, Speaker A: This is for aztec.net work. You can kind of like see their new new thing here. Yeah, you can see new branding, everything here. This is just so co. I love this shit, guys. Like, I love like crypto art and I love Ethereum art, especially in this style, because this is kind of, I guess like what we're going for in terms of Ethereum.
00:19:07.238 - 00:19:36.346, Speaker A: Like we're all about building a better future, building a more regenerative regenerative future, building a more sustainable future. That's really at the core of what Ethereum is about. And everything built around Ethereum is trying to kind of do that as well. Especially the L2, because they're basically an extension of Ethereum when you really think about it. So I just really love this branding. You can go check out the website if you want to, to check out all the cool designs here. So status have published an update that they have made one of the fastest BLS signature implementations in the world.
00:19:36.346 - 00:20:18.526, Speaker A: Now for those of you who don't know, BLS signatures are used within the beacon chain. They're the reason that we're able to have so many validators active on the beacon chain at once because of the fact that we have BLS signature aggregation, which means that the network can handle 400,000 plus validators without breaking a sweat here. So status have created a new implementation of, of a very fast BLS signature, sorry, BLS signature implementation here. So you can check out the blog post for full details on this. Again, it is technical. When you start getting into technical math here, like elliptic curves and stuff like that. Definitely stuff that I do not understand, but I do understand that this is a very big deal and this is something that could be brought to the beacon chain, I believe, to improve it even further, which would be very, very cool to see.
00:20:18.526 - 00:20:47.722, Speaker A: But yeah, you can definitely give this a read if you want to learn more details about it. Very math heavy, very technical. But still, for those of you out there who are into that sort of stuff, you should definitely check this out. Alright, so Zappa v two beta testing has now started. You are eligible to participate if you hold any Zappa NFT from seasons one or two, and you hold a pipe from the Zappa community, call number 36. And this thread basically says how you can join and join the fun and start exploring. It's a little kind of like mini thread here, but this is really cool.
00:20:47.722 - 00:21:08.938, Speaker A: Zappa V two has been a long time coming. I actually got a sneak peek of this the other day. It looks very, very, very cool. Obviously, you can try it out for yourself if. And kind of like, enter the beta here if you are eligible there. I like how they're doing this with this kind of like, NFT gating here. I think that's a really cool, because the power, obviously, on this upper community call it would be their core community members.
00:21:08.938 - 00:21:38.358, Speaker A: And if you hold the any zap NFT from seasons one and two, I mean, there'd be a lot of speculators in there. But definitely probably the people that are still holding it are kind of like regular users of Zappa, which is very cool. So obviously trying to target those people who are heavy users of Zappa, or at least kind of like active on the. On the kind of like Zappa platform here. So if this applies to you, you can go try out Zappa V two beta and kind of like, let the Zappa team know what you think about it. Let me know what you think about it as well. I thought it was really cool when I looked at it, I thought it was.
00:21:38.358 - 00:22:04.850, Speaker A: They kind of like focusing on this exploration aspect where they're trying to aggregate different kind of like things, such as finding kind of like apps for you to play around with. Obviously, there's so many apps these days, you want to have like a curation service for it. And I think that's what Zappa V two is trying to go with. And they also have a new NFT implemented implementation, too, which looks really, really cool. So, yeah, if you're a regular Zappa user, like I am, definitely go check this out. I mean, you guys know I'm a zapper investor. I'm just going to disclose that again there.
00:22:04.850 - 00:22:29.104, Speaker A: But it's cool to see v two beta has. Testing has started. All right, so a pretty massive kind of, like, announcement from GameStop today, or from Matt Feinstein, who works at as head of blockchain at GameStop. So Gamestop Nft is now live in beta. It is a non custodial ethereum l two marketplace where the community can truly own the digital assets that they love. You can go to nft dot gamestop.com to participate.
00:22:29.104 - 00:23:06.716, Speaker A: Now, I believe this first iteration is live on loop ring with the immutable x iteration coming later. So if you go to NFT dot gamestop.com, you can go check out everything that is available there for, for you. You can connect your wallet, of course, and you can kind of, like, scroll through all the kind of collections here and everything that's, that's, um, that's going on, and then you can kind of see immutable x is coming soon and all the collections they have there. This is, this is really cool. The GameStop crowd is very big. They're very, I guess, excited about this sort of stuff and very active within the community, and obviously, they kind of, like, bled into the loop ring community, and, and they're very excited about that.
00:23:06.716 - 00:23:37.304, Speaker A: Things got to do with, with loop ring as well, and so am I. I mean, loop ring is, is an incredible l two ecosystem. And I think that the fact that they're having such a big partner in GameStop kind of on board here with their NFTs marketplace is very, very cool, very, very forward looking. And I think that it's funny because, like, NFTs got a lot of hate from, like, quote unquote normies. But honestly, guys, I feel like they're just like, there's a lot of hate out there. There's a lot of people who don't like it. But I feel like a lot of those people have, like, very weakly held beliefs towards nfts.
00:23:37.304 - 00:24:24.184, Speaker A: They're basically influenced by some Twitter shit posts that they sell, some YouTube videos that they see, or maybe some Reddit comments, but they're not really going to, I don't know, boycott NFTs or not participate in them until, like, maybe they won't participate in them until there's something for them to participate in, but they're not. Like, I just feel like the comments aren't reflective of the reality because the comments are really easy to upvote and like, and retweet. But if there is something that you want to purchase or if there's anything you want to purchase, or if there's a game that you want this really cool skin for, or this really cool gun for, or a gun skin, or does you look like the cosmetic item for, then you're probably gonna buy it. Like, there's a reason why companies have gone down this road of in app purchases. Pay to win. Like, as much as I like as a gamer, I'm not a huge fan of it. It makes a shit ton of money.
00:24:24.184 - 00:24:56.588, Speaker A: That's a multi billion dollar industries, and this isn't gonna slow down anytime soon. So this stuff's gonna be huge. And I think that loopring, NFT, Gamestop, NFT, immutable x as well, and all that, those ecosystems, they're going to be very big in the future. And I think that they're going to add a lot of value here as well. So definitely kind of like go check this out if you haven't yet. I think it's really cool to see that this is now alive. All right, so there's a new, I guess, like DeFi primitive out today from liquidy, or at least they announced it today, called chicken bonds, which is self bootstrapping liquidity.
00:24:56.588 - 00:25:26.830, Speaker A: So they've said here, after half a year of intense research and development, we're excited to unveil an unprecedented and defi mechanism enabling projects daos to bootstrap protocol owned liquidity for their token at no cost. Now, protocol owned liquidity was a very big theme of the quote unquote defi 2.0 trend. It was one of the only things that came out of the DeFi 2.0 trend that I actually thought had merit. And now liquidity has taken this a step further with something called chicken bonds, which I'm not going to bother explaining on the refill. You can go read their thread to kind of like get an understanding of this.
00:25:26.830 - 00:25:56.972, Speaker A: It is not something that you'll get an understanding of with your first read. I don't believe it took me a couple of reads to kind of like get a, an okay understanding of it. I don't understand it well enough yet to explain it like I'm like I'm five or to give a high level overview, but it seems like a pretty cool, cool primitive from what I've seen so far. So you could definitely go check this out. It's not deployed yet, it's just in research phase still. And I think there's kind of like a white paper coming and all that sorts of stuff. So you can definitely check this out and check out kind of like what it means for, for DeFi and see if you can wrap your head around it as well.
00:25:56.972 - 00:26:36.822, Speaker A: Like, as I said, I'm still wrapping my head around it and the implications of it. The naming is funny. It reminds me of when cow swap came out, where kind of like the chicken bond naming is actually in line with what these kind of like, bond, or this, this kind of like thing is, or this mechanism is just like, cow swap was in line with what it was. It was, cow stood for coincident coincidence of once, which was the kind of like whole game theory behind doing a mev resistance decentralized exchange. So that's why it was called cow swap. And they really leaned into the cow branding, which, which I thought was funny. It worked because people still kind of like I guess talked about it and remembered it and kind of like thought it was funny and cutesy.
00:26:36.822 - 00:27:09.828, Speaker A: But yeah, just ignore the branding if that's turning you off and just kind of like focus on the mechanism itself because I think it's pretty interesting. All right, last up here we have an update out of Argent. So your Argent X account just got easier to fund with layers of integration. So you can instantly transfer funds from your favorite exchange like Coinbase or binance to your argent x wallets. Quick, easy and secure the way it should be. I've talked about layer swap before. It is a centralized bridge service that basically allows you or relay service, I should say that basically allows you to go from centralized exchange to various l two s.
00:27:09.828 - 00:27:43.434, Speaker A: And now you can basically go directly to your argent X account. And the full list of supported exchanges are pretty much all the popular ones. Coinbase, FTX, FTX US finance hobby okay x K on bit for Ku coin, Bitfinex and, and Kraken. So yeah, I'm sure you pretty much, I mean most of you would probably use one of these exchanges. So if you're looking to onboard cheaply or cheaper than layer one, onboarding to something like Argent X or any of the other layer swap integrated l two s, you can using their products here. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:27:43.434 - 00:27:49.474, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
