00:00:00.170 - 00:00:31.510, Speaker A: Like why deploy to Eclipse? Or in particular, our SBM l Two on Ethereum. I think that the number one reason is to access Ethereum users who in general are less price sensitive. So if you want the cheapest, absolute cheapest transaction, then you'd probably want to be on the Salana L One. But you get this free bridge and Ethereum users are really going to like the idea of immediately benefiting from this highly paralyzed virtual machine, which is the same as Salana. But you to borrow a lot of those great innovations that Tolle and the team have made, but then they also get to be within the ecosystem that they're comfortable with.
00:00:31.580 - 00:00:34.646, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Jito. Jito is the easiest way to start.
00:00:34.668 - 00:01:01.760, Speaker C: Earning mev rewards on Solana through Liquid Staking. Get your soul, stake it with Jeeto and get instant access to liquidity through their Liquid staking. Token jito Soul get started today at what's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we are joined by Neil Somani, the founder of Eclipse, and Nick White, the COO at Celestia. Neil and Nick, welcome to the show.
00:01:03.090 - 00:01:03.886, Speaker A: Thanks for having me.
00:01:03.908 - 00:01:04.960, Speaker B: Thanks for having me.
00:01:05.410 - 00:01:25.302, Speaker C: Yeah, pumped to have you here. You probably know a lot of our listeners are from the Solana community, so they probably have heard the debate modular versus monolithic, which we now call integrated. And we're going to get into why. But let's start on what a modular blockchain is and by doing that, let's break down what a blockchain is into the four main functions. And Nick, do you mind starting there?
00:01:25.356 - 00:01:25.862, Speaker A: Sure, yeah.
00:01:25.916 - 00:02:31.910, Speaker B: And I think integrated is a good rebrand. I think brands are really important. So credit to you guys for making that pivot. So the main difference between a modular blockchain and a monolithic or integrated blockchain is that in a modular blockchain or in a monolithic blockchain, you have coupled all the different functions that a blockchain has to perform into one single protocol and all the nodes in that protocol have to perform all those functions. And in a modular blockchain, actually, you kind of like boil it down into you distill it into those separate functions and then you say, okay, which ones need to be bundled together and run in a given like a separate protocol? And then you can actually stack those protocols on top of each other and you can build and have the same functionality of a fully complete blockchain, but with, in my opinion, lots and lots of benefits. So the three layers that are most important are data availability, consensus, and execution. And so data availability is often misunderstood.
00:02:31.910 - 00:03:28.298, Speaker B: Concept is not data storage, it's about publishing data. It's making sure that everyone in the network can actually see the transactions that are taking place. Consensus is about ordering all those transactions and then execution is about like, okay, now we have these transactions that have been published, so everyone knows what they are, they're ordered. Now we need to interpret those transactions and execute them and compute what is the actual state, like the final state of the chain, given that all these transactions have taken place? And in our world, Celestia is a consensus and data availability layer on which people can launch their own custom execution layers as roll ups. And so the advantage there is that you can customize the execution layer. You don't have to bootstrap an entirely new consensus network every time you want to launch a new chain. And you get this inherent sort of parallelism between these roll ups.
00:03:28.298 - 00:04:17.310, Speaker B: They don't end up sharing the same sort of state with each other. So you can actually sort of fragment things in a way that is beneficial. And also another part of this that's really important, like kind of like a corollary, is that modular blockchains use data availability sampling to scale block space in a trust minimized way. And they also use fraud proofs and ZK proofs, which makes it possible to prove execution in a really scalable, trust minimized way. So modular blockchains also inherently have this very powerful scaling property that you can achieve in a monolithic blockchain, but you have to implement those things in a monolithic way. So that's kind of like the TLDR of modular versus monolithic integrated.
00:04:18.130 - 00:04:46.566, Speaker A: Yeah. And to add on to what Nick is saying, like he was saying at the end, there's nothing that's inherently not possible to build into salana as an L1. But the difference when you break all these pieces apart is now one you get to share infrastructure. Maybe I have an execution layer. I don't have to worry about building the remaining parts of the blockchain that I want to see. So I can use Celestia as a module, I can use Ethereum as some other module, and I can share some of the security properties of these blockchains. And the second part is just for developers as a whole.
00:04:46.566 - 00:04:59.370, Speaker A: This is good because when you have separate modules that are forced to compete with each other, then these teams that are working on just sequencing or just data availability can focus on that one part, and they can produce the best part for all developers to consume.
00:04:59.870 - 00:05:38.866, Speaker D: That all makes sense. Thanks for the explanations. There one thing that I think people get confused about, which Nick alluded to as well is what exactly is data availability? Right? I think consensus and execution are relatively well understood. Data availability seems to be not so well understood, right? Like, you'll often hear Tolle or solana or integrated. Proponents will say, DA is the ultimate bottleneck, right? The bandwidth is the ultimate bottleneck. Can you guys explain from first principle what exactly data availability is, how data availability sampling comes into that, and just for people who are completely unfamiliar with the concept.
00:05:38.978 - 00:06:34.774, Speaker B: So data availability, a lot of people think like, oh, well, Rweave or Filecoin are data availability solutions because it sounds like the same thing as data storage, but they're very different things. Data availability is the point of it is that it protects from a specific kind of attack that validators of a blockchain can execute, which is called a data withholding attack, which is that they can basically say, hey, I produced this new block and this is the new state of the chain. But I'm actually not going to tell you what transactions took place. And so you're just going to have to believe me. Basically, in a normal monolithic blockchain, the way that you solve data availability is that every full node downloads all the data in the chain. And that works because now, you know, like, okay, the data has been published, it's there. I'm not just trusting the validators that they produce this block, but the problem with that is that it doesn't scale.
00:06:34.774 - 00:07:32.034, Speaker B: Because now if you want to increase the size of the block, every node in the network has to download that much more data and so they need that much more bandwidth. And so the resource requirements in that scheme just don't scale well. So you'll end up maxing out on the total number of transactions like the data throughput of the chain very quickly. And the approach that was like a revolution is this thing called data availability sampling, where you can actually verify that all the data behind a block was published without having to download all of it. So instead you erase your code. The block is actually like solana does some similar things in the way that they do shredding of the block, but that's more for gossiping, at least the way that it's currently designed. And you sample, you take a bunch of different samples of that erasure coded data and then you get this very high probabilistic guarantee that all the data has been published.
00:07:32.034 - 00:07:42.110, Speaker B: So all of a sudden now you can increase the size of the block without forcing people to increase the node requirements. And so it's a really powerful thing.
00:07:42.180 - 00:08:17.190, Speaker A: And the first thing to note about data withholding attacks is that it's really hard to prove. So if someone's asking me to give them a block and I don't give it, they can't show like, hey, I asked Neil and he didn't send it. They could be lying or I could be lying. So either person could be dishonest. And that's what makes it so. So like why would someone want to do a data withholding attack? And Nick mentioned optimistic roll ups. So just to put it a little more concretely, in one blockchain construction you might have this would be a really efficient construction, where you have one node that receives transactions, it produces the state route, or it produces the result of executing all those, and it writes that result somewhere.
00:08:17.190 - 00:08:42.770, Speaker A: And they say, okay, if anyone can prove that's invalid in the next week, then we'll wipe it. Otherwise that state route is going to be finalized in one week. And the critical assumption there is, how do you prove that something was invalid? And it's exactly what Nick was saying, which is you actually need access to those transactions to say, see, like, Neil ran this transaction and the result is not what he said. So that's the key idea behind Data withholding attacks and that's why data availability is necessary.
00:08:43.830 - 00:09:23.038, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a really good explanation. You may have hit on this a little bit, but I think it's really important to frame it as like light clients as well in this conversation because like you said, in a regular blockchain, the full validators are going to download all of the blocks and all of the transactions. So this data availability is not really a factor. It's just when you want to have end users be able to verify that those transactions have been made available. And I think it's probably also good to know this took me a while to figure out that just because the data has been made available, it doesn't mean it's going to always be there. Retrievable those are two different things, right? You want to make sure that's been published and that's what something like Celestia does. But then some people are like, well, why don't you just do it with Filecoin? Filecoin is where data can be stored there and you know it's going to be there later.
00:09:23.038 - 00:09:36.530, Speaker C: But the whole point is without Celestia or data availability solution, you don't know that it's been published at all. So you never know that it's actually even made it to something like Filecoin. So maybe if you nick, just describe Light clients really quickly and the minority trust assumption.
00:09:37.510 - 00:10:20.990, Speaker B: Absolutely. I just want to quickly give an analogy. I think analogies are really useful in explaining all this stuff because it's very easy to get lost in all the terminology and just it's nuanced and very confusing. But one way to understand data storage versus data availability is that data storage is like canning food and packing it away on shelves or putting in a freezer and it's like, okay, well, I know it's there and I can get it later. I'm not going to eat it right now. Data availability is like a buffet. It's like, hey, all the food is out here and it's fresh and you can go and sample and take anything and verify that this dish is there, available to be eaten by everyone that's here, but they're not going to then store that food necessarily.
00:10:20.990 - 00:11:28.150, Speaker B: That food can get stored by a different function. And data availability is important for the safety of the chain, the security, the validity of the state transitions, whereas storage is sort of different, is relevant more to liveness. But anyway, to your question about Light clients, right, this goes back to the root of what blockchains are about, right? And what blockchains are is a tool for scaling trust among people, right. And there's different ways of scaling trust. We have written law and we have police force and things that these rules that we agree to so that we can all cooperate. And what makes a blockchain unique is that you don't actually have to have a court system or a government or something, or like a trusted third party in the middle intermediating your sort of cooperation with other people. And the way that blockchains do that is they make it so that everyone that's participating in a blockchain network knows what the rules of the blockchain are and they actually enforce it directly themselves.
00:11:28.150 - 00:11:55.330, Speaker B: So it's like a peer to peer cooperation technology where people directly, like the users directly enforce the rules and they do that by running a node. So a node basically has a copy of the blockchain's rules. Like in bitcoin. It's like, hey, we can't spend coins you don't own and you can't have more than 21 bitcoin, 21 million bitcoin. And if anyone tries to break those rules, everyone's going to see it. Everyone that's running a full node will see it and reject it. That's kind of how rules get enforced.
00:11:55.330 - 00:12:57.442, Speaker B: The whole concept, the whole goal is to remove these intermediaries and these trusted third parties. Now there's kind of been a trend where people have kind of lost sight of that as sort of like the North Star or the core value blockchains. And we've kind of moved towards this world where users actually kind of delegate trust to validators or people who run RPC services. Users were always meant to run full nodes and verify the blockchain themselves. And now we've kind of shifted away from that because it's kind of impractical because monolithic blockchains, the way that we've been building blockchains just inherently doesn't scale and it's too technically complex for an average user to do. Very few people, only the most hardcore people run an ethereum full node, for example. I'm sure it's the same with solana full nodes, right? And the issue with that is then people reintroducing trust back into the system.
00:12:57.442 - 00:13:40.034, Speaker B: That's supposed to be sort of like a peer to peer trust minimized thing. Because now you're trusting the Validators to do the right thing, or you're trusting that the full node person, the person who's verifying the chain on behalf of you, not to lie to you. So core to Celestia's vision and the vision of the modular movement is this idea that users should be first class citizens of the network and users should be able to verify the network directly themselves. And the way they do that is not instead of running a full node because no matter what, there's no way if you have to download every transaction and verify every transaction yourself, that's just never going to scale. So instead there's a new node type. So then there's light clients, by the way. And light clients assume that validators are being honest.
00:13:40.034 - 00:14:36.254, Speaker B: They just verify the signatures and they're like, oh okay, this is safe, I trusted. The validators aren't lying to me. But that's not trust minimized. So now what modular blockchains do is they introduce a new node type called a light node. That's why I've been tweeting and trying to meme light nodes so hard is because the light node gives you almost the same security guarantees as a full node, but it has almost the same resource requirements of a light client. So it's like this amazing sort of optimization and it reaches a highly new point on the trade off curve between sort of like social scalability, like how much can people verify and technical scalability which is how much work, how expensive is it to run this type of node. And so the vision is basically that everyone in the world using their phone can actually verify the chain directly and that's going to make the chain so much more decentralized.
00:14:36.254 - 00:15:28.040, Speaker B: And like a last point I know this has been a long rant, is that in a data availability sampling network, running a light node is not just covering and protecting yourself, it actually contributes to the scalability and security of the overall protocol. Because in a data availability sampling network, the more nodes that are sampling the data, the bigger the block size can be safely. And so users aren't just like these passive recipients in a modular network. They actually become like active participants, verifying and contributing to the scale and security of the network. So it's like a really powerful shift into a new way to think about what blockchains can be. And I think it's really important that we make this shift if we're going to deliver the full value and potential of this technology.
00:15:29.130 - 00:16:13.780, Speaker A: Yeah, it's kind of like if we lived in a country where the government makes a bunch of decisions but people, ordinary citizens have no visibility into the political processes that are happening or the laws that are being passed. That's the current state of blockchains. Whereas with like nodes now the citizens can directly verify and see, oh, this was the voting process that went into this decision, this is why this law exists and they can directly see what's going on. So it introduces this concept of verifiability. I do think that the word light node is a little bit confusing because light client and light node sound really similar and also in Ethereum land it's like when you run a client then you get a node. Whereas that's not the same relationship with light clients and light nodes. But maybe we can think about the naming a little bit.
00:16:14.890 - 00:17:07.682, Speaker D: Yeah, so a few interesting points there. I think the shift towards light nodes in the modular framework is an interesting one that obviously makes a lot of sense. I'll also say that even integrated chains like Solana are trying to come up with their own versions of this. There's new client types being worked on and so I think it's definitely a worthwhile goal. One thing I'll push back on, and this is I'll put on my tolly hat. So we've talked about, know, maybe the point of blockchains in Nick's point of view is users should be able to run these nodes and validate everything. And whatnot I guess maybe we're all pushed back is I'm not too sure if it matters if the incentives are not enough, right.
00:17:07.682 - 00:18:03.174, Speaker D: So what Tole would probably say is, okay, you can run a node, but why would I want to run a node? What's my incentive here? And maybe you can kind of see this with things like solana full node count versus Ethereum full node count. Ethereum is much more light on the node requirement aspect, right? You can run a node on pretty much any laptop, I would say, whereas Salana, you're not going to be able to do that, right. Depending on if you're running an RPC, you might require maybe even a terabyte of Ram. Yet it seems that Salana has about 3000 ish nodes versus Ethereum's. Ethereum has about two to three times more. But the trade off is that Salana is about 200 x cheaper on average in terms of fees. And obviously scale does more TPS, which kind of is a misleading metric because it's capacity on Ethereum, but it's demand on Solana right now.
00:18:03.174 - 00:18:11.862, Speaker D: So I guess all that being said, would you agree or disagree with how much do the incentives matter for running these nodes for the users?
00:18:12.006 - 00:18:38.738, Speaker A: The way that I see it, a light node shouldn't be incentivized. And the reason why is because the user as they exist right now is already paying an exogenous cost. And that is a cost that is not explicitly modeled within the system. And the cost that they're paying is a risk of not verifying. So instead they're trading that cost that they're already paying in exchange for the explicit cost of running a light node. So to me, the user should probably.
00:18:38.824 - 00:18:39.662, Speaker B: Run the light node.
00:18:39.726 - 00:18:59.542, Speaker A: And I think most people, if they were choosing between running a really lightweight light node in their browser and making sure that everything is functioning properly on the blockchain they're using versus not running that and instead saving like a penny per megawatt hours, they're going to save like nothing. I think they probably choose to run it assuming the light node is light enough.
00:18:59.676 - 00:19:06.490, Speaker D: Basically my point here is that it seems that Ethereum nodes are obviously much lighter to run for any regular user.
00:19:06.830 - 00:19:11.930, Speaker A: Yeah, full nodes I think should be big in my opinion, as long as everyone's running a light node.
00:19:13.470 - 00:19:24.890, Speaker C: So Neil, at Eclipse you've taken essentially the SVM. I know you've gone beyond that and made it where you can basically spin up a roll up pretty easily. Can you say what Eclipse is and how it plays into this whole modular framework?
00:19:25.050 - 00:19:55.770, Speaker A: Yeah, right now Eclipse, I'd say our primary flagship product is an SVM roll up and we're actually going to be launching one on Ethereum pretty soon. And historically that was difficult because the way that we were doing or approaching settlement required doing some stuff that wasn't really possible on the Ethel One. But now the approach is that we're doing that part of the compute in a zero knowledge way and then we'll settle that zero knowledge proof directly on Ethereum. And that's what we're going to be launching over the next few months. So we're pretty excited about that. And actually, we have mert at. Helios running some of the nodes for Clouds.
00:19:57.230 - 00:19:58.906, Speaker C: Nice. Get mert in there.
00:19:58.928 - 00:19:59.066, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:19:59.088 - 00:20:23.982, Speaker C: I think it's really exciting because people obviously the SVM is one of the most optimized paralyzable virtual machines. And now you're making it where you can do that in Roll Up right now. And you'll hear this from Kyle Simani. It's not that he's maybe negative against L2 S, it's the EVM itself just lacking parallel transactions, et cetera. So I think it's really exciting you're doing that. Now, eclipse is a settlement layer as well. How I think about settlement might be different than you.
00:20:23.982 - 00:20:44.742, Speaker C: So I'm curious this just to hear your thoughts on this. So a lot of people talk about L two S as extending ethereum. It's like, this is how we scale ethereum as we have L2 S. To me, that's not really true. L two S, what they do is a settlement, right? You have this bridge on the L One that's trust minimized with the L two. And what it does right now, for the most part, is people just have L One assets. They put it on the bridge, they take it to the L two and they play around.
00:20:44.742 - 00:21:13.294, Speaker C: There's a whole lot more assets on the L One than the L two. The L One, I think Roll Up is really the only scale ethereum in the sense that they scale ETH. They don't scale ethereum. So you get trust minimized access to liquidity, which is ETH, which is right now what most people want to use other than USDC. So I'm curious with Eclipse, what's the reasoning for having this settlement layer that doesn't really have a base asset potentially, that people are going to get access to? Because I see that as the main benefit of using ethereum as a settlement layer.
00:21:13.422 - 00:21:13.762, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:21:13.816 - 00:21:42.762, Speaker A: So to me, there's a few reasons why you need to settle. One is that for bridges, you need to have some canonical route that everyone agrees on. So that's the main reason why you would need to settle somewhere. Our reason for having a separate settlement layer was just because it just seemed very cumbersome to settle on Ethereum. But we'll actually likely be getting rid of our settlement layer just for context. So that's a little bit of alpha. Not that anyone was heavily using the settlement layer to begin with, but yeah, that's something to keep in mind.
00:21:42.762 - 00:22:09.560, Speaker A: And yeah, I agree that you get to scale Ethereum liquidity in some sense. But I think to me what a roll up is doing is it's scaling some of the security properties of Ethereum. And depending on what the modular architecture is that you're using, you might be scaling some of those properties and not others. So you might be scaling just the reorg resistance but not the liveness or something like that. And that just depends on the construction. But curious to get Nick's thoughts on that as well.
00:22:11.690 - 00:23:22.678, Speaker B: Well, so settlement is an overloaded term because it can be used to mean a lot of different things and sometimes it's not always universally necessary when building a roll up to have a settlement layer, right? So there are certain constructions like interactive verification games where it's helpful to have a blockchain to sort of actually conduct this sort of fraud proof game. But there's a lot of chains. Like if it's a ZK roll up, for example, they don't need to post their proofs anywhere. They can actually just send their proofs over the peer to peer network to all the light nodes or full nodes and people can verify it directly. So it doesn't actually have to be posted on Ethereum to be verified for people to know what's real. But then settlement also has another sort of association with it, which is bridging, right? And so why would you settle to Ethereum? It's because basically what you're doing is you're having a bridge to Ethereum so that people can put assets into your roll up and also have some level of security that they can withdraw those assets when they want to and their assets are safe. So settlement is kind of like a very overloaded term.
00:23:22.678 - 00:24:31.140, Speaker B: And personally, I think what's really exciting in the modular blockchain movement is this idea of sovereign roll ups where the idea is that if you have to settle to another blockchain you kind of give up some degree of control to that other chain by enshrining that bridge in your protocol. And in a sovereign roll up case you actually make the choice to sort of retain sovereignty within your community and not enshrine a bridge contract into the way that your canonical chain is determined. And that gives you it's more like a Cosmos app chain where you have control and you can fork and upgrade and do what you want. Obviously, there's a whole can of worms, there's a whole debate around this and there's a lot of different ways to slice it. But that's my take on settlement. And Celestia made a very conscious decision not to enshrine a settlement layer into the l one because doing so would add execution and state into Celestia. And our goal is to be as minimal as possible, have no execution, as minimal state as possible so that we can be as light and modular and flexible as possible.
00:24:31.140 - 00:25:01.170, Speaker B: And a lot of people that was their complaint is like oh, well, unlike Ethereum, Celestial doesn't have settlement built in. And actually, the upside is that people can then settle wherever. So we have people now building their own settlement layers. Osmosis just announced that they will be running Celestial Light clients, and people might, because of that, will be able to settle their roll ups to Osmosis. People can also settle to Ethereum. We have a quantum gravity bridge. So it's like, I don't know.
00:25:01.170 - 00:25:09.034, Speaker B: That's the nice thing about modularity is it's so pluralistic and people can build whatever they want, even in regards to settlement.
00:25:09.162 - 00:25:54.310, Speaker A: One reason why I like the fact that settlement is overloaded for both like clients and verifying the state of the chain and bridges is because they're inherently doing the same thing. So it's kind of nice to point that out and say, actually, what a bridge is really doing is the same exact work that a like client is doing. So a sovereign roll up really isn't so different than a smart contract roll up other than you've written that like client. As a smart contract, it's receiving the same information and verifying the same information and then on that sovereign roll up versus smart contract roll up point. My only concern is just that when you have a bridge that has a ton of assets in it then that ultimately does have some say in your sovereignty as a roll up. Like, you don't want to fork away and make all those bridge assets useless or something. So that's the one last consideration.
00:25:54.470 - 00:26:10.398, Speaker C: Hey, everyone. Quick break to tell you about Jito. Jito is the number one liquid staking provider in Solana. Jito has been known for their mev software, and now they're the fastest growing liquid staking provider in the Solana ecosystem. Solana DeFi summer is heating up. And what assets you want to use in DeFi liquid staking token.
00:26:10.494 - 00:26:12.434, Speaker B: Why? Because with Jito, you can take your.
00:26:12.472 - 00:26:38.534, Speaker C: Soul, stake it, and get instant access to liquidity through their liquid staking token, jito soul. You can then use Jito Sol throughout the Solana DeFi ecosystem while earning yields through mev rewards and staking rewards with jeto. And Jito makes staking super simple. You can take your soul, stake it, get instant liquidity, and start earning rewards all within three clicks. And not only do they make it simple, they make it secure. Jito has seven audits. They have more than a million souls staked, and they're one of the most respected teams in all of DeFi.
00:26:38.534 - 00:26:55.034, Speaker C: Jito is for whales who need deep liquidity. It's also for people like me and you who just want to get started with liquid staking. You have your soul. Why not stake it, earn some yield, and start dabbling in Solana DeFi. So go get started today. Check them out at Slash staking. I'll put a link in the show notes.
00:26:55.034 - 00:27:11.542, Speaker C: Use the link so they know that I sent you, and go get started today. Everyone, we'll get back to the show. In a minute, but I want to let you know that we got our permissionless conference coming up. Start conference with Bankless. That's the biggest and best conference in DFI. It's going to be in Austin, Texas this year.
00:27:11.596 - 00:27:11.826, Speaker B: Yep.
00:27:11.858 - 00:27:41.690, Speaker C: I know you love it. They Got Tacos barbecue Barton Springs We've got it all September 11 through the 13th. If you've been in crypto for a while, know that the bear market conferences are the best conferences because those are the ones where all the alphas had. The people that are still in crypto all really want to be there. It's going to be great for building a network, for learning a lot. And look, we've got a phenomenal lineup of speakers that include people like Hasu Stani, Christine Moy, and Kyle Simani talking about ZK tech roll ups, account abstraction, mev, app chains, and more. Look, I'm damn excited because you're a listener of Lightspeed, you're going to get a special discount.
00:27:41.690 - 00:28:08.354, Speaker C: Type in discount code Lightspeed 30, and you'll get 30% off your ticket. That's right. Just type in Lightspeed 30 when buying a permissionless ticket and get 30% off. Click the link at the bottom of this episode and go get it now because prices are going up every two weeks. All right, back to the show. I've got one more question I was going to bring in later. But on Celestia's decision to be credibly neutral, when it comes to not having an enshrined settlement layer like Ethereum has, and you do, that one reason to be credibly neutral.
00:28:08.354 - 00:28:41.066, Speaker C: It's also like state management, et cetera. How do you think about that decision, though? Because I've seen a proposal, for example, to support ZK snark verification on Celestia so that you can have this two way trust minimize bridge. But to do that, you have to support certain ZK schemes, which means you're kind of picking a favorite, whether that's like Starkware or ZK Sync or someone else. So you start getting to these decisions where it's like, well, maybe for the adoption of Celestia, it's best for us to actually start. It's almost like Cosmos Hub, for example, did the credibly neutral. We're not going to really support one chain versus the other. We're not going to have a Dex on the Hub.
00:28:41.066 - 00:28:58.120, Speaker C: But then they launched a Dex and then they took it back, and now it seems, again, they're actually being less credibly neutral by picking like, ten chains that they're going to support, and they're almost like, crowning a Dex, for example, doing that. So I'm just curious, what are your thoughts on staying incredibly neutral? Do you think that was the right path? And I don't know. How do you see that going forward?
00:28:59.550 - 00:30:01.954, Speaker B: 1000% the right path? I think blockchains are especially like a base layer. I think one of the most important things, aside from all the actual technical features and everything, is this deep commitment and alignment to be incredibly neutral. Because if I were building a roll up. Right? And I was thinking about, okay, which stack am I going to build on? If I felt there was any kind of favoritism or unfair competition or whatever, I would be like, okay, well, screw that. I'm going to build somewhere else where I know it's going to be fair and open. And so Celsius deeply, deeply committed to this idea of credible neutrality. In regard to the ZK opcode thing, what's important to clarify is that the reason that we want to have some form of very minimal settlement is so that we can actually bridge the Celestia token up in a trust minimized way to roll ups.
00:30:01.954 - 00:30:42.986, Speaker B: We don't want to be used as like, a settlement layer. Like, oh, people should start posting all their proofs there just to get final security. It's more about that feature of, like, we want to be able to take the token and bridge it up in a trust minimized way. And so we're going to keep that very minimal and be very clear that that's our goal and we're not trying to compete in the settlement domain necessarily. And you're right that choosing whichever proof system we choose to support could sort of crown a winner or whatever. But also there's another way of looking at it, which is that a lot of these proofs can be proven within each other. So let's say you're using a different kind of proofing system.
00:30:42.986 - 00:30:59.470, Speaker B: You could wrap it in that other proof and then post it to Celestia, but I think it's going to be a huge upgrade. The idea somewhat stems from Bitcoin, actually, where people have been talking about adding an Opcode into bitcoin to do the same thing. And you could have ZK roll ups on bitcoin.
00:31:02.210 - 00:32:00.398, Speaker D: So one thing I want to touch up on is, while we're on the topic of maybe credible neutrality, l Two S on Ethereum have been sort of interesting lately. And what I mean by that is you have the launch of Base and the Bald coin or Token, but then Base itself doesn't necessarily have it's at, like, stage zero from L two B.Com, right? And then you have actually much more further along roll ups like Arbitrum, and then you have Optimisms of the World, ZK sync stocknets and then Polygon. Of course, you have all these kind of different options. Some of them are further along than others. What is your mental framework for looking at these roll ups in the state of the Ethereum L2 kind of roadmap? Do you think it's executing well? Do you think they've gone right so far? What is your general thoughts? Neil and then Nick?
00:32:00.494 - 00:32:45.780, Speaker A: Yeah, my personal view is that OpSec pushed adoption a little bit too fast, too early, just because I don't think the state of their tech is in a position to be trying to convince people to use it at the scale that they're pushing it. And then the other thing that I think is a little bit misleading is just that a lot of the apps that I think they're pushing people to use on Op stack don't actually economically make sense to run on Op stack, at least as it exists right now. But I also recognize that Op Labs has been working toward fault proofs and I think that they've been doing some really good work in that direction. But I think it's also important to recognize the great work that Arbitrum has done. They recently enabled fault proofs or Fuel Labs who has had fault proofs for God knows how long. So I don't want to discount that.
00:32:48.870 - 00:33:59.514, Speaker B: Yeah, my perspective on it is that look, one thing about modular blockchains is that they are technically extremely ambitious because data availability sampling is super hard to build in practice and scale roll ups and like, fraud and ZK proofs are really hard to build and there's just so much work that still has to be done. And so yeah, roll up tech is still very early. That the whole modular stack is very early. And I think we have to be careful of not obfuscating the risks and being very upfront and transparent about the actual security of the system. So I think that's that's what's really important. I think that's part of what people are kind of like getting up in arms about is feeling like, hey, you're not being intellectually honest about your tech. And I think that's actually a very healthy thing and we need to keep each other honest because otherwise we have a responsibility because the users are in some ways trusting us to do our homework and to secure these systems in the way that we say.
00:33:59.514 - 00:34:52.898, Speaker B: And overall, I think one of the surprising things is that the speed at which ZK roll ups have come onto the scene, like polygon, ZK, EVM, what Starquare has done, and even ZKsync are all super impressive and way ahead of schedule in my opinion. And kind of the selling point of optimistic rollups was like, oh well, fraud proofs are going to be so much easier to build and Arbitrum obviously has really great tech. The stuff that optimism is doing around bedrock and making the proof system super modular so they can even actually adopt ZK proofs is really inspiring and so it's not zero sum and I think people should just give it time and just be intellectually honest and we'll be fine in the long run.
00:34:53.084 - 00:35:28.274, Speaker C: It's a really good answer. Nick, I've listened to a number of your podcasts. You're way too nice all the time, but also insightful, so you're honest the whole time, so I appreciate it. I think a good analogy for me, which you see probably on Twitter, is how crypto is building software, but with hardware responsibilities. I've worked at two different tech startups and if people using our products saw what was going on every day, there's no way that they should or would pick to use it, but with crypto, it's kind of the same thing. It's just there's actual money on the line in smart contracts, so it feels different. I do want to touch on Kyle Simone's piece on just a few of the critiques of modular blockchains and maybe things that are looked over.
00:35:28.274 - 00:35:49.366, Speaker C: But before I get to that, I just want to give you the opportunity of maybe say, why would a developer go with the modular approach? It's obviously very difficult to build. I've heard about Celestia for a long time now and I've been really pumped up about it, but I don't think we're on main net yet. So it's almost like all this work up front, but there's a reason you're doing it. So from a developer's perspective, why is it exciting that you could have access to these modular parts?
00:35:49.478 - 00:36:21.378, Speaker A: Well, first, I want to start by acknowledging the merits of Kyle's piece because I think there were some uncharitable interpretations of it. I like that it looks like he did his homework and I think that that's really cool. And modular blockchains don't really make things faster. That's true, they don't necessarily make things cheaper. And these were some of the points that he raised in his post. I think the parts that he misses is he talks about what's theoretically possible on an L1, if a developer works around the constraints of it. But to me, it really comes back down to ownership.
00:36:21.378 - 00:37:04.722, Speaker A: And it's like when you own the blockchain yourself, you don't need to jump through hoops or you don't need to work with the core developers. You can just push a change to your execution layer because it's yours. You're the one who now gets that functionality and you don't have to worry about convincing other stakeholders other than your community or another example. He talked a lot about MEB as being a new monetization opportunity and how that's not really true. One is that some of the approaches he mentioned seemed a little bit cumbersome to implement in practice. But two, it seems to miss a really obvious point, which is that, and I think Kyle himself would have to admit that L1s have some business model outside of mev, whatever that business model is. If you're an app and you have your own app chain, now, you also get that business model.
00:37:04.722 - 00:37:44.426, Speaker A: So unless it's really true that apps can capture all the value from the L1 or L two, at which point any L1 or l two investment would be very bearish. And I don't think it's true. The great example of that is if you just look at Base, for example, they launched officially just earlier this month, they've already earned millions in revenue base. If they deployed to Ethereum or to Polygon, they would not have accrued that value. They wouldn't have been able to capture that. And the reason why they did is because they're a big enough organization that they were able to draw developers around them. And it's like the ability for an app to actually turn itself into more than just an app, but also an infrastructure and an ecosystem where they can accrue the value that they're actually driving.
00:37:44.426 - 00:37:54.530, Speaker A: So that's the way that I would probably reframe the piece. And I think that there's someone on my team who's actually writing something up more thoughtful. But yeah, that's the synopsis.
00:37:57.270 - 00:38:47.042, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll jump in and say that, like Neil said, Kyle definitely did his homework. And when I read through the piece, I was are these are solid points and solid arguments. I wrote a thread kind of as a response. And some of the things that I want to push back on is first, he claims that modular makes it way more complex for developers, and that's just not true. And in fact, the long term, one of the things that we've believed in Celestia since the very beginning is we want to make it as easy to deploy your own blockchain or your own roll up as it is to deploy a smart contract. And at first, that really seemed like a pie in the sky vision, frankly, because everything was so raw. But we're actually really close approaching that very quickly.
00:38:47.042 - 00:39:36.126, Speaker B: And you can even go online. Try like Conduit or Caldera or Vistara that there's all these roll up as a service companies where it literally is like one click and a minute and you have your own roll up. And so the point is, in the modular stack, it doesn't inherently increase complexity, but it gives developers sort of the ability to go into more layers of the stack and customize, and that becomes more complex. So you can actually write your own virtual machine or you can customize the EVM with specific pre compiles or whatever. So you have the ability to customize if that's what you want to do. But if you don't want to, you can literally just deploy an EVM roll up or SVM roll up out of the box. And it's really not much harder than deploying a smart contract.
00:39:36.126 - 00:40:14.194, Speaker B: And so it really doesn't increase complexity unless you want complexity. It gives you the choice. And that's why we always say at Celestia, build whatever. Because one of our core beliefs is developers will be able to build better apps if they have more freedom, more freedom to choose from different components, more freedom to go and customize. And so I think that's like a really major one. And he also tried to claim that mev is something that apps like smart contracts, you don't need to build your own app chain to capture mev. I'm not saying that it's not possible to do that.
00:40:14.194 - 00:41:20.740, Speaker B: I think there's clever ways of building a smart contract so it can capture mev. But inherently mev arises from validators or sequencers, which are kind of like outside of the protocol. The deeper into the stack, you can go to customize things, the more you're going to be able to actually design the system to capture mev. So a really great example of this is what Skip is doing in the Cosmos ecosystem, where they've developed this thing called protocol and building, which is more for app chains, but can be modeled very well to actually application specific roll ups. And what that is, is basically that there's validity rules within the chain state transition itself that enforce what kind of Mev can be captured and then how the Mev profits are distributed. Or even there's things like, okay, well, we're going to choose an entirely new execution model where the transactions let's say I'm a Dex, instead of having all the transactions be processed in serial, they're batched together and it's all done at once. But you need to go deeper to customize to get there.
00:41:20.740 - 00:41:34.602, Speaker B: Mev being one of the biggest value capture sort of avenues for applications, at least as of now. I think that's really important to give builders and communities access to that.
00:41:34.736 - 00:42:14.918, Speaker A: Yeah, so Kyle's response would be, give me a specific application, an MEB example, and I will give you a specific smart contract construction that captures. So, like, in the case of one of the auction situations you mentioned, you'd impose like, a sealed bid auction, and then you do like a Dutch auction off of that, and then you return the value back to the application. Technically, you could still capture it if you internalize. Of course, it has longer block times if you do it that way, but theoretically you can still capture it. I just think it's very cumbersome, too. And I just also think it misses the fact that there's more monetization opportunities than just mev. It's just like too narrow of a.
00:42:14.924 - 00:42:15.480, Speaker B: View.
00:42:18.570 - 00:42:56.920, Speaker D: That'S well put. One thing that I'll say is I think he's also specifically referring to app developers as well, just people who want to deploy maybe a consumer or payments app on top of the blockchain, as opposed to maybe like a pure blockchain developer. But it actually brings up a point that I want to touch on, which is kind of towards the end of the piece, he talks about the fact that stuff like this is possible, but he hasn't seen many examples of it so far. And then he references Cosmos, the Cosmos ecosystem. What are your guys'thoughts on kind of the Cosmos ecosystem modularity versus kind of L two S and roll ups as a service? And how should people who are not familiar with this think about it?
00:42:59.450 - 00:43:46.278, Speaker A: So I guess my view on it is that for an L1, you need to have a bunch of validators. Those validators must all run full nodes, so you're burning some amount of money every month, and this can often be like millions of dollars per year, whereas for a roll up, you just don't have that same fixed cost. But the trade off you're making is that when you had your own L1, then there is no marginal cost. You're not paying rent for each of those transactions that's processed on your app chain. Whereas when you're a roll up and someone runs a transaction, you do have to write that to a layer one, whether that's to Celestia or whether that's to Ethereum or somewhere else. So that's a marginal cost that you have to pay, but you have way lower fixed cost. So what this means is that apps that were previously uneconomical to run as their own app chain can now run as their own app roll up.
00:43:46.278 - 00:43:48.360, Speaker A: So to me, that's the fundamental difference.
00:43:50.570 - 00:44:44.322, Speaker B: Yeah, Neil hit the nail on the head. Well, first of all, I just want to say that Cosmos has been extremely influential in the entire sort of, like, modular vision of Celestia and beyond. And we use the Cosmos SDK, we use Tendermint or now it's Comet to build our chain. And Cosmos was the first people who realized, actually, you can decouple consensus from execution, but they did that at the software level, right? So they kind of modularized the software stack for building a blockchain. And that made it really easy to customize the state machine of your chain and build an app chain, for example. And then Celestia kind of took that a step further and said that, hey, actually, we can modulize not just at the software level, but at the protocol level itself. So now instead of having to you take Tendermint or Comet and get a bunch of validators and launch your chain, it's like actually Celestia can act as your shared tendermint network.
00:44:44.322 - 00:45:21.886, Speaker B: And what Neil said that. So there's a couple of big advantages. The first one is you just get to share by sharing resources, you can dramatically save on costs. Like, running an app chain is extremely expensive for a lot of different reasons, just like the actual infrastructure, the social cost of actually coordinating everything and maintaining everything. And all of a sudden, you can just remove all that and just pay transaction fees to run your chain. And so that's like a massive, massive leg up on the economics. And also it removes the need for you to issue your own token when you want to launch a new blockchain.
00:45:21.886 - 00:46:11.566, Speaker B: And so I think that's really huge. And then another part of it is that when you share a common consensus and DA protocol under the hood, your app chains get a superpower, which is they can interoperate in a more secure way because they can actually verify each other's data availability, and they can actually reason about the ordering of the other chains blocks. And so you get this fundamentally new level of security when it comes to interoperability. They're almost more like even though they're separate chains, they're almost more like they're kind of between smart contracts on a shared blockchain like Ethereum or Solana and fully separate chains. They're separate but then they're sharing this underlying security that they can actually talk to each other, not atomically, but they can interoperate super securely.
00:46:11.678 - 00:46:22.582, Speaker C: Why would you build on Eclipse versus the Swana? L1? And that might be because you have something that will motivate a specific use case. So curious, your thoughts as far as.
00:46:22.636 - 00:47:06.974, Speaker A: Why deploy to Eclipse, or in particular our SVM L2 on Ethereum? I think that the number one reason is to access Ethereum users who in general are less price sensitive. So if you want the cheapest, absolute cheapest transactions, then you'd probably want to be on the Salana L One. But you get this free bridge. And Ethereum users, I think, are really going to like the idea once we launch our main net of just immediately benefiting from this highly paralyzed virtual machine, which is the same as Solana. And we get to borrow a lot of those great innovations that Tollia and the team have made, but then they also get to be within the ecosystem that they're comfortable with. They can use Eids to pay for gas, they get a lot of the stuff that Ethereum users are used. So and then we have some collaboration with a major Solana wallet where we're building a MetaMask snap.
00:47:06.974 - 00:47:18.520, Speaker A: So this is like a MetaMask, it's kind of like an extension to MetaMask, where you can use your MetaMask wallet on the Eclipse chain or on SVM chains. So that's going to be a really big unlock for the Ethereum community.
00:47:19.530 - 00:47:47.030, Speaker D: Awesome. Yeah, I agree. I'm super bullish on the SVM and Eclipse, not financial advice. One thing that I'm curious about, which is kind of unrelated in a sense, but I thought it was an interesting take on Twitter, FUBAR recently tweeted that decentralizing sequencers isn't really the point of L2 S and maybe it's maybe not even worth the effort. What really matters is getting rid of multisig control and proofs.
00:47:47.130 - 00:48:46.386, Speaker A: Yeah, there are some cases where so what are you really giving up when you have a centralized sequencer, you don't give up safety or liveness in the formal sense. Of course you give up liveness guarantees in the short term because usually the way that you regain liveness theoretically is through some sort of forced inclusion through the L One, which probably has longer block times and blah, blah, blah. So you don't really give up anything from a security perspective, is my point. But what you do give up is that single sequencer has the freedom to reorder things as they see fit and they can continue doing that indefinitely. So that's the way that I see it. And for some DeFi applications, I think that'll prove to be really difficult because you don't want the sequencer to be trusted in doing that and it'll end up being like a really profitable avenue assuming that one sequencer has a lot of really high value order flow. But I think that it's true that for a lot of apps, like Games, for example, they probably just want the lowest latency or the shortest confirmation time, at which point a centralized sequencer makes a lot of so.
00:48:46.386 - 00:48:48.580, Speaker A: But I wanted to hear Nick's take too.
00:48:50.250 - 00:50:04.330, Speaker B: I think Neil did a good job of explaining like the way that a roll up basically what FUBAR is saying is that roll ups are supposed to be trust, minimized and ensure the state validity or the rules of the roll up are followed. And until you have fraud proofs and ZK proofs and all that stuff, they're fundamentally not secure. Like that roll up operator could actually just steal all your money, right? And I do think that is actually far more important than what decentralized the sequencer gets you in the sense of what decentralized the sequencer does is it makes it so that you have better censorship, resistance and liveness depending on the construction of how the roll up is sequenced. Because that sequencer could just decide like, hey, I don't like you, I'm not accepting your transactions. All of a sudden you're kind of screwed. Or they could just decide, hey, I'm just going to or maybe wherever they're running their node, there's a power outage or something and all of a sudden the whole chain just halts. Censorship, resistance and liveness are really important features of blockchains, but I don't put them in the same level of priority as just straight up validity and verifiability of the underlying execution.
00:50:04.330 - 00:50:21.278, Speaker B: Now, for a long time that was kind of an issue, an open issue. It's like, okay, well, one of the benefits of running a roll up is that you don't have to bootstrap a new consensus network or sequencer network, right, because that's a lot of overhead socially, and then you have to run all these nodes. It's kind of like, oh man, that's.
00:50:21.294 - 00:50:21.666, Speaker A: A lot of work.
00:50:21.688 - 00:51:28.360, Speaker B: And if you have to do that for every single roll up, it's like we're not really getting the full benefit of these systems. And that was a problem that was constantly bothering me for a really long time up through last year. And then Evan, one of the engineers on our team, had this idea for and we had this concept of like, okay, how can we have a shared sequencer, right, so that you can actually deploy a roll up that has all these benefits without having to actually bootstrap the sequencer yourself. And he came up with this really cool construction of actually how to do it. And now there's a few teams, Astria and Espresso building out and also like fairblock, there's a few radius, a bunch of teams building out these systems so that you can actually have a decentralized sequencer, but without having to add more overhead. Because that's also one of Fubar's points is like, well, why would you even decentralize a sequencer if it's going to just compromise on the value prop of a roll up, which is that you only need one node, basically, and there's less overhead. And so that's the cool thing about a shared sequencer is you get the best of both worlds where you get decentralization censorship, resistance, liveness guarantees while not needing to run new infrastructure for yourself.
00:51:29.370 - 00:52:06.740, Speaker A: Yeah, and what's really cool is that I think there's a place for salana the L One to play in the sequencing space with Neon. Now, it could be the one to order EVM transactions across many roll ups. And maybe multiple Neon deployments could represent multiple roll ups that need their sequencing done. Then you just need something to relay those transactions to the L One that the roll up ultimately ends up wanting to publish their data to. But there's some nuances there. Like Neon uses a specific version of the EVM which is likely not the same as many of the more recent rollups that were built. And we're still thinking through the details of what that would even look like.
00:52:06.740 - 00:52:56.890, Speaker A: But I think that there's some place for Solana to play there. And we were just talking about it with Tolle a few days ago. So that's one thing to note. One other thing to keep in mind is that I think that people get obsessed with the words centralized and decentralized because that's a remnant from l ones where that was a critical property in order for the system to operate in a trustless way to whatever degree trustlessness actually makes sense as a concept because you're always kind of trusting something. But for a roll up, it's possible for a system to exist where a component or multiple components are centralized meaning there is one logical entity that represents them. Yet the whole system is still fully verifiable and it's still permissionless to enter. And I hate using the word trustless, but it's still trustless to some degree.
00:52:56.990 - 00:53:44.130, Speaker D: I have actually two questions, so bear with me here. One is I just want both your takes on Neon EVM and kind of EVM compatibility on Solana, which is an interesting concept that I don't think people have talked about that much. And two, this is kind of unrelated, but I've seen kind of in the modular world multiple futures proposed. There are some futures where people think maybe one, two or maybe even three L two S will kind of just dominate everything and all value or execution will flow through them. And then there are some who say there will actually be many different and diverse kind of L two S and L three S and whatnot? And fractal scaling. Which approach resonates more with you? Which do you think is more likely to happen? Which do you prefer?
00:53:46.790 - 00:54:32.206, Speaker A: I could see the largest K apps and I'm reluctant to say what K is, but maybe the largest 20 or 30 apps having their own chain. So I certainly don't see a world where it's just two or three L two S. And I also feel like there are. Few benefits of the world where there are only two or three L two S versus the one where we have a diversity of execution layers all with different social norms and different types of pre compiles. Because like I was mentioning before, to me one of the chief benefits of modularity is ownership, meaning that you can pass governance proposals and you can modify that execution layer as you see fit. And that's just not possible if you're sharing the chain with many other people. So that's my view on the number of chains.
00:54:32.206 - 00:54:34.420, Speaker A: It's hard for me to put a real number on it though.
00:54:35.990 - 00:55:24.180, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really good question, Mert. And frankly, the jury is still very much out. And actually this kind of also relates to Kyle's Post in the sense of he thinks that composability is so important that literally every app should just live on the same thing. And actually that's not incompatible with a modular world either. The modular world could end up being that there's literally just one massive execution layer that takes up all of Celestia's block. So if that's actually the way that things play out, then that would also work in a modular framework. Where I see things going is that I think there's going to be a spectrum and I think there's definitely going to be general purpose execution L two S in the ecosystem and what people might do.
00:55:24.180 - 00:55:50.774, Speaker B: And this is another thing. In order to build in the modular stack, you don't have to roll your own and deploy your own blockchain. You can build on one of these general purpose L2 S too. So people probably start building apps. There maybe apps that really need a lot of composability, like certain D five things. There'll be like some DFI hub where all those things are there and they get atomic composability. But then if people, they might try out their app as a smart contract on a shared execution.
00:55:50.774 - 00:56:22.502, Speaker B: L2. And then they get some traction. They get some product market fit. And then they're like, hey, you know what? In order to take our product to the next level, in order to capture more value or whatever, we're going to actually have to deploy our own roll up. And then they kind of make that transition and actually build themselves into their own chain. And I think the incentives to building your own chain if you have a successful application are going to be so massive that like what Neil is saying. I think all the top apps, like breakout apps are going to do that.
00:56:22.502 - 00:56:54.762, Speaker B: And there even could be a world where if you become like the Google of decentralized applications, you might even go off of Celestia as a DA layer and actually just maybe build your own standalone chain, for example. Maybe you need that level of customization and it's worth it. The trade offs are worth it. I don't know, but I think there are huge incentives for a successful app to roll their own chain. But a lot of people might just experiment as a smart contract because it will be easier. You'll be able to tap into more like an existing community, et cetera.
00:56:54.906 - 00:57:30.906, Speaker A: That's such a good point raised by Nick that that's also my personal view, that apps should start as smart contracts and start by deploying to a shared chain. And if there's some reason why, whether it's because you want to capture more value or you're hitting the constraints or you're really trying to push the limits of what's possible on chain, then you build your own roll up. And like Nick mentioned, there's some amount of transaction volume where that fixed cost of an L1 now makes sense for you to incur because you've sufficiently amortized it. If you're running hundreds of millions of transactions per year on your chain, it probably does make sense for you to be an L1. So that's one thing to keep in mind.
00:57:31.008 - 00:58:13.986, Speaker C: I want to get into network effects and value accrual. And Neil, you had a speech that I think the title was roll Ups as a Service are going to Zero. So yeah, I'm just curious. In this world where you have ETH as this settlement layer, then you have Solana, which is this global state machine, then you have Celestio, which is DA, you have Shared Sequencers. Where does value accrue in this world? Because I have this smiling curve which you can just think of a smile going up and down that I more or less made up, but it's from Ben Thompson on the left. I'm saying there's definitely going to be, at least in my mind, there's going to be demand for a global state. L1, there's just some use cases for that, probably not number two through 100, but there will be a number one, you're going to have something that's like a settlement layer or store value which would be like Ethereum or Bitcoin.
00:58:13.986 - 00:58:39.114, Speaker C: Today you're going to have these top apps which could be like the 5% top of apps, which would be like Fang that you see in equities. And then at the bottom of the smiling curve where it's like the lowest value is where all the competition happens and things are commoditized, which in my head was like the modular infrastructure and then just the majority of apps. So I'm curious across this whole spectrum because now we have this giant supply chain. It was so easy, we went from Bitcoin to Ethereum and now it's like this giant thing with all these tokens. Where does value accrue and where are the network effects?
00:58:39.242 - 00:59:24.954, Speaker A: I was trying to make sense of the smiling curve but unfortunately I didn't have enough time to think about it. But I was trying to think about what are the economic first principles that led to that smiling curve construction. And I can see why the top of the stack should have some pricing power or should be able to maintain some value accrual because assuming that there's some stickiness there, then the bottom components should be able to be swapped out. That was my thinking, but I wasn't sure about the rest of the it depends on the application too. I'd argue that uniswap as an AMM on the Ethel one to some degree is kind of stuck there. They can't just fork and deploy to their own roll up and bring the community with them and necessarily get that same amount of volume. And I think that's a bit of a misconception.
00:59:24.954 - 00:59:53.750, Speaker A: And the reason why is because the liquidity is on the Etha one and there's a winner there. Whereas if you look at some of these other chains like Arbitrum, GMX is a winner. It's not uniswap, yet uniswap is deployed there there, and Arbitrarium wants them there. They've given them millions of dollars of incentives. So that's one thing. It depends on the type of app. And I think something such as an order book or a perks exchange or something is much better suited to switch the pieces under the hood and just swap their UI.
00:59:53.750 - 01:00:46.342, Speaker A: I think their users are going to be much more receptive to that than trying to convince your LPs who have already put their money into a specific blockchain to now move to some other chain which you control. I think that's less likely to get traction. So it depends on the app, it depends on the stickiness of the given part of the stack, and it also depends on how much that part of the stack is worth. So in that post, roll ups of the service are going to zero. The reasoning that I went through was basically going through the functions of a blockchain that Nick was talking about execution, consensus, DA and then I also threw in settlement because it's popularly cited as a function of a blockchain. And I point out that at least for optimistic roll ups, settlement gives very little money back to Ethereum. And to me that's not really the advantage of Ethereum or the advantage to ethereum of being a settlement layer.
01:00:46.342 - 01:01:22.166, Speaker A: The advantage to Ethereum is that now they've increased the moneyness of ETH and everyone's using it as the lingua. Francois they're using it to pay fees and therefore everyone's sitting on ETH. I think that's what a lot of people do because there's no reason to convert to USDC and then to ETH every time you need to do something. It's just impractical because it's the denomination for so many items that we buy. So I guess that's the store value point that you were getting at, Garrett, when you put that on the far right side of the curve, and I don't know if that's really value capture so much as calling that value capture. I think I have to think about a little bit more. What does it even mean to capture value and to me.
01:01:22.166 - 01:01:51.950, Speaker A: It means when a user pays a fee, how is that fee split across all parties? And ironically, Ethereum itself makes a very little of that fee. Assuming you're using Solastia for a DA and you're using a roll up on Ethereum but the whole fee is paid in Ethereum and therefore Ethereum still benefits. So yeah, we're interested to hear Nick's thoughts but it's something that it might be something that we just need to see in practice what users have the most sensitivity to and where they have the most demand elasticity.
01:01:54.870 - 01:02:25.674, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I was very surprised when Neil He tweeted and shared the thing that Ethereum makes something like $5 a day or something in settlement fees or whatever. I was actually completely blown away. I had a feeling it would be pretty low because you just post some data to Ethereum. That's all you do. Especially this is for optimistic roll ups, but like $5 a day. I was like, wow, that is so.
01:02:25.712 - 01:02:37.920, Speaker A: Minuscule 64 bytes posted fairly infrequently it's two weeks challenge period. Anyway, what difference does it make if you're off by 1 hour? Sorry to cut you off.
01:02:38.610 - 01:03:41.954, Speaker B: Yeah. But anyway, the way that I see, I guess, value accrual and some of the economics of all these chains to work out is that in some ways block space is a commodity but in a lot of ways it's not. And I think what blockspace is to me is like a consumable good where it gets produced by a protocol and then people decide like hey, we want to run our application on that block space. And they'll make that choice for a variety of different reasons. Some of it is just like the raw cost, the security and decentralization of it, like how verifiable it is. There's all these dimensions of why they're choosing to consume certain block space and not others. And the question you have to ask is like well, are any of those dimensions of choosing to use this given block space? Do they have any network effects around them? And I think when you go down that path you realize that there are a few.
01:03:41.954 - 01:05:00.346, Speaker B: But I think the most important one is that kind of what I was getting to earlier, which is that by using a shared DA layer and consensus network like Celestia you're now kind of tapping into a broader ecosystem. So there's actually like this you become more closely aligned and easier and more secure to interoperate with the whole universe of roll ups that are built on top of that same shared DA layer. So as the ecosystem grows you start having a larger incentive to deploy there. And also there's like network effects around the amount of scale versus cost to verify the block space. So the way that light nodes work, sort of in a DA sampling network like Celestia, is that the cost to verify the block scales as the square root of the block size. So as you get into bigger and bigger block sizes, your chain can support more and more throughput for less and less additional marginal cost on users to verify it. So then once you kind of get to scale, if someone else is trying to build a new DA network, those users that want to verify it actually end up having to pay more to verify it per unit of block space.
01:05:00.346 - 01:05:56.110, Speaker B: And so I think you end up kind of getting these economies of scale. And so I think for those two reasons, and there are a few more, there will be strong network effects and block space is not commoditized. I'm not just going to have some random dude like, hey, I made a DA chain, why don't you use my block space? We've also seen that not play out practically even in the monolithic realm where people like you can make a copycat EVM chain, but people aren't going to want to use it for similar reasons. You have this trade off or like these two opposing views. One is like the Fat Protocol thesis and the other is the sort of like Fat app thesis. And Fat Protocol thesis is like, well, the underlying L1 is going to be able to capture all the value because they have the ultimate power over all the mev or whatever. They kind of are like the last buck.
01:05:56.110 - 01:07:08.914, Speaker B: And then the Fat app thesis is like, well actually the applications are the ones that are going to be able to capture those value because they're closest to users. And I actually see the modular world as sort of like a synthesis of those two worlds where there will be value that accrues to the infrastructure layer for providing selling block space. But rather than trying to limit the scarcity of the block space to extract more value from users and applications, it's about actually providing extremely scalable and abundant block space so that people don't have to pay exorbitant amounts, but there's still a healthy margin for selling that block space. And meanwhile, then the rest of the value capture can go to the applications. And I think long term it's kind of like we have all these web two apps who run AWS or Azure or whatever on the back end and they're paying some of the profit of the entire stack goes into the infrastructure layer. But then a lot of it also gets captured by the apps themselves. And I think that's kind of like a good analogy for how to think about how it would play out, at least in the modular stack.
01:07:08.914 - 01:07:10.246, Speaker B: That's the way I see it.
01:07:10.428 - 01:07:38.110, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess we've never seen an l two switch DA layers. Maybe we have. Maybe Nick would know better. But if you just look at the way that these L2 S calculate the gas fee for the user, they have some oracle for the L1 and they take that gas fee or the price per block space that estimate as an input into their price calculation. So that tells you that the L2, at least in the short term, is not elastic in its demand. It pretty much pays what the L1 tells it to.
01:07:38.180 - 01:07:51.838, Speaker C: We'll close up here in a moment. I have one more question that I wanted to ask both of you. In one of Kyle Simani's papers, actually about two to three years ago when he was first talking about Salani, he talks about how if you're an enterprise, it's a big deal to pick the.
01:07:51.844 - 01:07:53.326, Speaker B: Right tech stack because if you pick.
01:07:53.348 - 01:08:35.838, Speaker C: The wrong one, it's very hard to switch, et cetera. You need that consistency and you also know that it's going to be able to scale in the future to support your business. When you think about institutions both from your experience today and also just how you see it over the next ten years, do you see them like Coinbase today is talking about payments on Ethereum, which is extremely expensive and rather slow, when they could be on Salana and using like Salana pay, you have like one dependency layer. Whereas if you go this modular route, do they just spin up their own blockchain, their own data availability committee, where it's like, okay, we get to control everything ourselves, or do they actually use like, we're going to use a shared sequencer and then we're going to use Celestia for data availability. And you have all of these different dependencies I'm just wondering, from a practical perspective and what you're seeing today, where do you think these institutions, which we will need eventually, what do you think they'll use?
01:08:36.004 - 01:09:16.270, Speaker A: Some of the largest players that we've talked to, particularly game studios, I've had the same exact experience where they say we're going to build our game on Ethereum. And in my head I'm like, what are you doing? No one's going to use it because it's going to be so expensive, but they're very risk averse. And then another value add, and this is kind of a benefit of modularity for games, but it's that they don't have to pick a specific vendor if they're on their own roll up. Now they see themselves as derisked because even if the L1 implodes or something similar to what happened to me when I was building on Terra, if you're on your own roll up, then that's a little bit less of a risk for you since theoretically your chain is still running and you could move elsewhere.
01:09:20.610 - 01:10:25.138, Speaker B: My view on this is and I've been saying this for a while and I felt kind of ways I feel like this thesis has been increasingly validated, especially with the launch of Base and some of the newer Op. Stack launches is that enterprise users are actually the perfect sort of customers for roll ups and for modular blockchains because they want the things that roll ups provide. Specifically, they want more control, and they want more customizability, and they have the resources and they have the user base, but they don't have to worry about being fragmented from an existing ecosystem base. Doesn't need know, doesn't actually really need to be part of Ethereum to get users or PayPal. Let's say if they were to do their own roll up, it's the same thing. They have a user's existing, they don't worry about that stuff. They can spend the money to do the development work to build their roll up.
01:10:25.138 - 01:11:16.818, Speaker B: And in return, what they get is this dedicated instance that is customized for their app, providing a really good product experience. And they get more control too. Like they can bake in KYC or they can make it free or have some kind of paymaster thing so that they pay fees on behalf of users, or there's all these different customizations they can do. And so I think personally, and another really important part, but although this is not a differentiator with building a smart contract version of the app, but why wouldn't they build their own L One? Is that if they built their own L1, like an app chain, like Cosmos, they'd have to issue a token. They would have to run more of the infrastructure themselves. And then that's all kind of like this legal gray area. So it's kind of like they'd rather just avoid that.
01:11:16.818 - 01:11:36.310, Speaker B: And that's the beauty of doing a roll up, is like, you don't actually have to issue a token, you have to run an L1. In some ways, there's still risks, obviously, but I think it's less risky. So to me, I think we're going to increasingly see more and more enterprises going the route of roll ups.
01:11:36.390 - 01:11:54.720, Speaker D: All right, so we've done some solid thinking this episode. Thanks for your perspectives. Now we're going to get a little bit more lizard brain. I'm just going to ask brief questions, brief answers in Rapid Fire section, obviously. Feel free to expand. And then we'll just go. Neil and then nick in order every single time.
01:11:54.720 - 01:11:59.486, Speaker D: Okay. How do you explain what you do to your parents?
01:11:59.678 - 01:12:17.286, Speaker A: I don't. My parents have never understood what I do. Even when I was at Citadel, they asked me, what are you doing? And they were so interested in electricity and commodities. They weren't really interested, but at a high level. They were just curious what I was spending all day doing. So I wrote a blog post called explaining to my parents what I do. And I explained the power market.
01:12:17.286 - 01:12:25.722, Speaker A: And I got so many positive responses to that post. It was top of hacker news. People loved it. And then I found out months later, my mom didn't even read it.
01:12:25.776 - 01:12:27.754, Speaker B: She read like the first sentence, and.
01:12:27.792 - 01:12:31.370, Speaker C: Then she gave off neil, you should send that to me and I'll put it in the show notes.
01:12:31.450 - 01:12:33.182, Speaker A: Oh, thank you. Yeah, I'll send it right now.
01:12:33.236 - 01:13:23.040, Speaker B: Okay. Nick yeah. On my end. I remember when I first actually read the laser ledger white paper and was just totally just consumed with passion. And I tried to explain it to my parents, and I must have to them been like the meme of the guy with the whiteboard and all the pins, because they were just like, okay, we can tell you really into this, but it makes no sense. And so I kind of fall back on this idea of what we're building is a way to scale trust for humans using cryptography and that will kind of form a new fabric and a new way for people to interact and sort of cooperate on a global scale. So that's kind of what I say and that's also very vague, but it seems to at least make a little bit more sense.
01:13:24.210 - 01:13:28.030, Speaker D: What are your favorite three apps in all of crypto?
01:13:29.490 - 01:14:50.454, Speaker A: I think that Uniswap is king to me for its simplicity because there were other AMM constructions before it and I thought that it's part of the reason for its adoption is because it's so easy to understand what's going on and obviously they've gone beyond that and it's inspired so many things. I think helium is a great idea and it essentially created an industry of decentralized physical infrastructure networks, which I personally am very bullish on. I recognize it's a bit of a bet and if you look at the economics of it today, maybe it's not super sustainable, but that's the whole idea. I think if people miss the concept of deepins, which is you allow for wild speculation on the token and you can use that speculation to make the network real and it makes it a thing. And it's like a weird type of company where you release a stock on day one and let people buy it and then they pay for your services in the form of the stock. It's just hard to make sense of and people keep comping it to web two stuff and I think it's a completely broken way of assessing crypto protocols and it's not the right way of modeling it. And then the last thing is probably this is like a controversial one, but I think it's a concept of axi reached so many people, and it did more for mainstream crypto awareness than probably the vast majority of what a crypto maxi would call as, like, oh, this is, like a good app.
01:14:50.454 - 01:15:09.200, Speaker A: It's doing good things for the world. I thought Axie overall actually did do good things for the world and what they did was they raised awareness, they're trying something different whether it's economically sustainable or not. They hit the limits of scalability and they were forced onto their own roll upside chain. These are all very bullish indicators to me.
01:15:11.410 - 01:16:09.780, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd say my first two are a little cosmo centric and DeFi centric. But I'm a big fan of Osmosis just because I really love they're sort of like, to me, validating the appchain thesis in the sense of they have really kind of integrated all these pieces and are building the equivalent of a sex experience, centralized exchange experience on a centralized exchange. And there's deposit and withdrawal. And I really like that as an idea. And I think someone needs to build something like that long term where people aren't using binance, they're not using these centralized exchanges, instead they're using a decentralized exchange. But that gives the same thing because we can't have another FTX again, right? We need to learn and evolve and if we can't do that as a baseline, then we've kind of failed in my opinion. Next one is Somalier because I think just it's so clever what they've done.
01:16:09.780 - 01:16:54.974, Speaker B: It's sort of like a yield, sort of like earn vault platform. But instead of building it natively on ethereum and most of the strategies aren't deployed on ethereum, but it's like a dedicated chain and by being its own app chain, it's able to execute strategies and have another layer of security and sophistication that you couldn't do. So I really love that and people should check that out. And the last one I would say, I would have maybe said something like Axie, but I'll just say DeFi Kingdoms partly because I used to be part of the Harmony team and that was a really big breakout app for the Harmony chain. But DeFi Kingdoms? It's just really cool. Gaming in general. I'm very bullish on sort of the intersection of blockchains and gaming.
01:16:54.974 - 01:17:12.200, Speaker B: And I think DeFi Kingdoms would explore a new dimension of that that was kind of like DeFi plus gaming dynamics. And I think there's something there, you know what like in game economies and DeFi, I don't know, someone's going to crack that code at some point.
01:17:13.050 - 01:17:24.330, Speaker D: So you mentioned gaming is a sector you're bullish on. And Neil, you also mentioned deepen, what is the vertical that you're most bullish on in crypto and what is the vertical you're most bearish on in crypto?
01:17:28.030 - 01:18:28.122, Speaker A: Bearish on in the short term or long term? Because I think that in the short term I'm just a little bit bearish on crypto gaming just because the economics of it at least fully on chain gaming, let me clarify, I think there's versions of crypto gaming that make a lot of sense, but fully on chain gaming, the value of the transactions is just too small. So I don't see that ever existing in any version of an actually decentralized blockchain. But that might be okay if you want to use the blockchain as this read only API and you want to interoperate with all the rest of crypto and you get to have assets that can be ported out of the game and stuff like that. And to some degree that exists in web two, like with Steam items API and there are eve online has something like that. I guess my point is that it depends on how you view the purpose of the blockchain for that. But I'd say decentralized, fully on chain gaming, I'm not super bullish on and I'm very bullish on the deep end category just as a whole. And I like that step just partly given my background in commodities.
01:18:28.122 - 01:18:44.340, Speaker A: A lot of those guys come from a commodities background, so we can nerd out on power and oil rigs and stuff like that. And they often don't come from a crypto background. So that's our opportunity at Eclipse to be those infrastructure experts and tell them what's really not needed or what's the right construction given what they're building.
01:18:47.290 - 01:19:31.326, Speaker B: So most bearish, I might say something like Real World assets, not because I actually think that it will. I think that's like a very good use case. I guess what I worry about is it just seems like it's going to have a lot of regulatory sort of headwinds. And in DeFi, in general, the regulatory side of it is going to be, I think, really challenging until we get clarity and we can be above board and then we'll be able to actually onboard people and scale it up. But it's going to be a challenge. And I think Real World Assets are really good within DeFi, are specifically really challenging for that exact reason. And most bullish on, I don't know, kind of like either social or gaming.
01:19:31.326 - 01:20:05.006, Speaker B: I feel like there's something there. There's like a virality in social apps and gaming apps that if someone can crack the code, I think it could blow up overnight. And things like Friend Tech, which is kind of trending right now, is a good example of how there's that built in virality. I mean, most of those apps so far kind of blossom and fade, but someone might actually get it to the point where it blossoms and is able to sustain and continue growing. That's where I feel like mass adoption is most likely to come from right now.
01:20:05.188 - 01:20:30.594, Speaker A: That's a really good point on RWAs. Sometimes I feel like it's kind of like the idea of putting an encyclopedia, like when the Internet was made, taking a meat space encyclopedia and just putting it on the Internet. It's not leaning into what makes the Internet great. And similarly taking real World assets and putting them on chain. It's like there's so many other things you can do on chain that are interesting. You should maybe lean into that. And I feel like people in bear markets always come back to the same concepts.
01:20:30.594 - 01:21:13.060, Speaker A: Whether it's real world assets are formerly known as securities tokens, which was a horrible name, or whether it's assessing web3 companies as if they're web two companies and trying to model out their arr when it's like, that's not the right way to be thinking about it. And in that same vein, I'm very bearish on social applications that don't lean into financialization. That's why I love that French was so. Polarizing people are like, oh, it's the worst parts of crypto. Counterpoint is that it's actually the best parts. It's taking financialization and applying it into this gamified social experience that has built in virality, as Nick said. So I think leaning into those aspects of crypto is going to be much more fruitful than trying to reject them.
01:21:14.230 - 01:21:23.590, Speaker D: Okay, that's a great answer. Last question. What is something you've completely changed your mind on since starting in crypto?
01:21:24.010 - 01:22:01.166, Speaker A: The settlement piece is one thing I used to think because people cite it so often, everyone's like everyone wants to be a settlement layer. Settlement so important. Just over the last six months, just everything that I've looked into and even John Charles piece, all this was very damaging to my concept of I'm just anything that describes itself as a settlement layer, I'm very suspicious of at this point. So that's probably the biggest thing. And then I started in crypto during peak bull market. My first project was on the Terra blockchain. So honestly my views completely changed.
01:22:01.166 - 01:22:05.560, Speaker A: It's hard to even come up with things that were the same from when I first started.
01:22:07.690 - 01:23:25.294, Speaker B: For me, this is particularly embarrassing, but when I was building Harmony and in general when I was first learning about blockchains, I didn't actually go deep enough into fundamentals and frankly, I didn't really even realize that Verifiability was actually the source of the security of a chain. I didn't understand the role and importance of full nodes. And I think this is a really widespread misconception. And some people, even I think when they understand the role of full nodes, they still somehow cling on to this other idea of what blockchains are for and that it's okay to trust the validators because that was kind of my mental model, was like and if you think about it, like sharding itself never solves that problem. It's like you're just trusting the validators on the Shard and you're making this root assumption that all the validators that are participating in the chain are honest and that is just fundamentally not what blockchains are for. And if they were, then why would not just have consortiums and why would we need a blockchain? We just have a bunch of web. Two companies run all these decentralized services, right? So I didn't understand that for a really long time and it wasn't until really getting deep in the weeds into Celestia and lazy ledger and roll ups and everything that I was like, oh wow.
01:23:25.294 - 01:23:45.282, Speaker B: My eyes sort of opened to it and I was like, oh my God, okay, wow. I've been just totally misunderstood what's really going on here. And I think we need to do a lot more work to educate people and kind of reconnect to the core principles of crypto from the very beginning and there's a lot of work to be done in that.
01:23:45.416 - 01:24:06.540, Speaker A: That's a really good point. If you ask a random person on the street or when I started in crypto, certainly before really reading up on this stuff. If you ask them if most of Bitcoin is overpowered, can Bitcoin steal your funds? They'd probably answer yes. They'd probably assume, oh, that's what the honest majority assumption means. 51% attack. That's not possible. That's just not how the blockchain works.
01:24:07.070 - 01:24:33.746, Speaker C: Yeah, it's really funny. I can feel so dumb in this space, but then I can feel like everyone else is so dumb, even though we're so smart, because we're like, oh, we discovered intense. Or like our roll ups real. We talk about these things that seem so obvious and a fifth grade level when you're looking back at it. But obviously it's extremely complicated. And last point on the settlement issue, we just had Anatolian, and he's probably one of the few people that probably even two years ago, was talking about how settlement is not an afterthought, but how it's not near as valuable as.
01:24:33.768 - 01:24:34.610, Speaker B: What people talk about.
01:24:34.680 - 01:24:50.726, Speaker C: He's like, that's not the fun part. But guys, thanks so much for coming on. I think it's really exciting, Nick, what you're doing with Celestia and also Neil building out the SVM and I think together. It's fun how you can work together. But also, not only does Ethereum benefit from this, but Solana can. And then obviously all these app chains in the future. So thanks so much for coming on.
01:24:50.726 - 01:24:51.740, Speaker C: It was a lot of fun.
01:24:53.230 - 01:25:05.120, Speaker B: Thank you guys so much. I have a lot of respect for the Solana community and what you guys are building and looking forward to this modularism, not maximalism thing where we all can benefit from each other, like you were just saying.
01:25:05.970 - 01:25:24.590, Speaker A: Yeah. And we're going to be working hard to push adoption of the SVM to the Ethereum community. We're really excited to be partnering with a bunch of Solana projects on this launch that we're pushing pretty soon. A bunch of infrastructure projects and wallets and stuff like that. So if you're a project in the Solana community, appreciate you reaching out for anyone in the audience.
01:25:25.050 - 01:25:25.878, Speaker B: Sweet, guys.
01:25:25.964 - 01:25:27.060, Speaker C: All right, we'll talk to you next time.
