00:00:00.240 - 00:00:32.018, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray Review, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Zosano. It has the 12 July 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first up here we have a collection of blog posts from the robust incentives group at the Ethereum foundation or the Rig group here. Now, for those of you who don't know what the robust incentives group is, it's an Ethereum foundation research team dedicated to the study of protocol mechanisms with the lens of game theory, mechanism design, crypto economics, formal methods and data science.
00:00:32.018 - 00:01:05.634, Speaker A: So basically the bleeding edge of research on Ethereum when it comes to things like crypto economics and game theory and stuff like that. And they've done a lot of research over the years. You can see here they've collected all of their blog posts from at least the last three years dating back to April 15, 2020, which was their first post, which was ERP 1559 simulations. You can see that there. And then they're all linked here. And then you can even go back further down here. I believe there's earlier posts as well, down the bottom of the page of, of talks, sorry, I should say earlier links to talks there.
00:01:05.634 - 00:02:04.258, Speaker A: If you're at all interested in this sorts of stuff like crypto economics and game theory and mechanism design and things around kind of like MEV and, and PBS and all that sorts of stuff, then these posts and talks and everything that have come out of the robust incentives group are probably the thing to watch and read and pay attention to because a lot of this research informs what actually ends up going into the protocol in the end. So it informs things like PBS, as I mentioned, things like MeV. Generally it informs things like the issuance curve for Ethereum, proof of stake, you know, that was determined by, or in part by the robust incentives group. They basically said, they basically did like a bunch of modeling around this, a bunch of research around this and said, okay, well, this is what the issuance curve should look like on, on proof of stake, Ethereum. And away it is, right away it goes. And of course that research takes a while to do before it gets specced out and clients start building it and things like that. And then it's not just set in stone, it can change over time as well.
00:02:04.258 - 00:02:41.406, Speaker A: And there are a lot of people working on these sorts of things at the Ethereum foundation as part of this group, but also as part of wider groups. I think, you know, when it comes to research, like each one of these things like proposal builder separation, MEV protocol development, consensus resource pricing, all these sorts of stuff. Each of these things is like a massive rabbit hole that you can go down and never come out of, basically. And the reason why is because it's all bleeding edge stuff, right. This is not stuff that has, well, mo, I think like a lot of it doesn't have any, any kind of comparison to tradfi, but there are kind of things that do such as like MeV. Right. Mev exists.
00:02:41.406 - 00:03:05.494, Speaker A: I mean not just in tradfi. MEV exists all around us. You can boil MeV down to its like core primitive, which is basically someone extracting value off of the, the, you know, the, the work of someone else without that person necessarily realizing that that's happening. Right, right. And you know, it's just extractable value. At the end of the day, MEV is minor extractable value or maximally extractable value, whereas EV, I guess, extractable value. So just from anywhere.
00:03:05.494 - 00:03:44.244, Speaker A: Right. And some examples of this would be if someone buys something from a retail store and there is some middleman getting a fee from that, such as a payment processor, but the customer doesn't necessarily know that that's baked into the price. Well then technically, if you really want to boil it down, the payment processor is performing MeV on the customer because the customer doesn't know that the, that the fee is baked into the price. The customer doesn't even know, may not necessarily know that there's a fee at all. And then the payment processor is, is extracting value that way. Right. But I guess that is obviously stretching the definition of something like MeV or EV generally.
00:03:44.244 - 00:04:32.732, Speaker A: But that's how I kind of think about it. And that's why I said these sorts of things are deep rabbit holes. Then you can go down the rabbit hole for pros of builder separation, or PBS, which includes all sorts of things that have got to do with Ethereum consensus and beyond that, and how pbs would actually affect ethereum censorship resistant properties. So when you look at that and you kind of go down those rabbit holes, yeah, it's kind of hard to get out of them. But on that note, I definitely suggest reading these, some of these posts if they interest you and listening to the talks, because it'll help you stay on the bleeding edge of these things, if that's what you're interested in. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, so Erp 1153 has been long anticipated and it is an EIP that needs to be implemented on the Ethereum network in order for Uniswap V four to launch.
00:04:32.732 - 00:05:12.156, Speaker A: Because Uniswap takes massive advantage of this EIP. Now, as I said, this EIP has been around for a while. It was tentatively slated for the last upgrade being the shapala upgrade, but it was it was punted to den Koon because they wanted to keep Chappella kind of lean right with withdrawals. But it is happening in Denkun. It is slated to be included so far, and it doesn't seem like it's going to get dropped or excluded or anything like that. And the Uniswap labs account on Twitter today did a tweet thread all about 1153 and explaining what it is. So basically what it introduces is something called transient storage or tea store for short.
00:05:12.156 - 00:05:47.986, Speaker A: Instead of writing to storage and clearing it before the transaction is over, smart smart contracts will now be able to use transient storage, which is cheaper and enables some exciting use cases. So the TLDR you get better gas, I guess, like efficiency here. It's cheaper overall to do to do these these transactions, and it enables some exciting new use cases. A lot of them got to do with uniswap v four here. Now, I'm not going to read out the Twitter thread, it's not that long, so you can read it for yourself. I'll link in the YouTube description below, but there's also a website dedicated to 1553, sorry, 1153 at AIP 1153 dot. You can check this out for yourself.
00:05:47.986 - 00:07:01.288, Speaker A: You know, it's kind of funny whenever I see websites dedicated to different aips, because there's an EIP 4844 website as well, and there was one for ERP 1559. I think that if you're someone who submits an AIP and you really do think that it's going to add a lot of value to the Ethereum network. Possibly the best thing you can do for getting people to rally around your EIP is setting up a website for it and breaking down exactly what the benefits of the ERP are, what maybe some of the trade offs are, what value people are going to get out of them, what new use cases it could possibly enable, and why the Ethereum network as a whole needs this EIP, or needs this upgrade, so to speak, in order to become a better network. And obviously there's not that many people who write eips, and there's even fewer people who write eips that actually make it into the network. But it's all about making sure that your voice is heard right, that's a, that's how the Ethereum governance process works at its core is that you need to basically rally people around your upgrade. And in doing so, you can do, you can do that as like a no name person, someone who no one's ever heard of before, or you can do that as like Vitalik, right? There are different levels to this. And obviously if you're Vitalik, you could very easily get attention on something over, on an EIP over some, some kind of like unknown person.
00:07:01.288 - 00:07:43.482, Speaker A: But that doesn't stop it from going in. If it is a good idea and if you are able to just rally a little bit of, of kind of excitement around it, then other people will take it the rest of the way like you. All you need to do is create an EIP and create an upgrade to the Ethereum protocol that people actually get excited about and it actually makes sense to implement and then get it on the radar of some people that have maybe more of a voice than you. Maybe if, as I said, you don't have much of a voice, and then you can take it to the next level, because anyone can post on the ETH research forum, anyone can go into the different discord channels where the core devs and researchers are and suggest these sorts of things. So it's not like your ERP is going to get ignored. You just need to put in a little bit more effort just to get it, get it noticed. But as I said, it probably doesn't apply to any of us, really.
00:07:43.482 - 00:08:18.564, Speaker A: I think most people, if not everyone, watching and listening to the refueling, including myself, is not going to ever write an Eip. But for us, I guess as community members, the most important thing we can do is put our way behind eips that are good for the Ethereum network. And that's why I'm bringing up 1153 here, because it is definitely good for the Ethereum network. Not just for Uniswap, but all kinds of different applications on the network. And I'm looking forward to it going in as part of the Denkun upgrade alongside 4844 and a bunch of other eips. But you can read this thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:08:18.564 - 00:09:20.336, Speaker A: All right, alluvial has announced their $12 million series a round co led by ethereal ventures and variant fund here. So for those of you who don't know what alluvial is, they're basically building an enterprise, enterprise grade liquid staking standard. Now what does that mean exactly? Well, when it comes to enterprises and tradfi institutions staking their ETH, they can't just, I mean, I wish this was, that was the case, but they can't just take the ETH that they have and shove it into any old staking protocol. They need to follow a regulatory guideline on this. And there's a lot of regulations on this, especially because it's obviously a custodial thing where essentially these traffic institutions are holding ETH potentially on behalf of their customers in small or large amounts. And if they're going to be putting that ETH to work with staking, then they're going to need to do things like KYC and AML. They're going to need to make sure that the, that where they're putting their ETH has good custody practices, security practices, all that good stuff.
00:09:20.336 - 00:09:55.472, Speaker A: They have to do their due diligence on these things. Otherwise they face massive fines and possible jail time. Jail time is a stretch because this is a white collar crime, and white collar crime in America rarely gets jail time, but, you know, fines and losing business and all that sorts of stuff. So where alluvial slots in is basically they come along and they go to these different institutions and tradfi and they say, hey, we have this framework for you already. You don't have to do all the work yourself. Just stake with us, stake with alluvial. Obviously, they'll take a cut, right? But alluvial will do all the other work for you and make sure that you're fully compliant, make sure you've got the KYC AML done.
00:09:55.472 - 00:10:40.466, Speaker A: And they may stake via Lido, they may stake via rocket pool, they may stake via Coinbase, they may stake on their own, right. But they're basically a wrapper around ETH staking for institutions and enterprises and tradfi generally to go to, in order to stake their ETH. And I think this is very, very important, critically important, because, as I said, there's actually really no other way for these institutions to get involved with staking their ETH because they're regulatory bound to do this. Especially the bigger institutions, the, the ones that are like pension funds and stuff like that. If they ever want to get involved with eats taking, they're going to have to do it through the most regulated and compliant service you ever even heard of. They're not going to just go for Raw, you know, Rockerpool ETH, for example. I mean, as much as I wish that they could, they're not going to do that.
00:10:40.466 - 00:11:11.138, Speaker A: They're probably not even going to go for Raw Steth from Lido because Lido doesn't do KYC AML either for, for that Coinbase. You know, you could probably go for raw, raw Coinbase staked ETH. But at the end of the day, that's still something you have to do due diligence on that. You'd rather just outsource to something else. And that's where alluvial sits in here. So as an explanation of what alluvial is and what I guess, I guess the value prop is, but congrats to them on this raise. It's a pretty, pretty big raise, especially in the market that we're in right now, where really, I mean, crypto venture has fallen off a cliff.
00:11:11.138 - 00:11:29.748, Speaker A: And that's actually very healthy. As I've discussed before, you don't want to see massive deals still taking place in the market that we're in right now, because it means that there's still too much money sloshing around. Too much dumb money sloshing around. Um, and I'm sure you guys have seen a lot of charts around the, the VC money falling off a cliff. Basically. I think it's down like 95 plus percent. That is extremely healthy.
00:11:29.748 - 00:12:14.912, Speaker A: I mean, it may seem like a bad thing, but you might, you, you. What you have to look at is that that's from all time high, right? You have to look at the fact that when the all time high of these private raises was hit, it was really stupid. There was stupid amounts of money going into stupid protocols that made absolutely no sense. Um, and, and that's why it's down so much. But if you take the base case as basically the bear market, essentially, and like the, the raises happening in the bear market, then you get to that nice and steady state, which is exactly what we're in right now. So you may have noticed that the deal announcements or like fundraising announcements have slowed down a bit with some, you know, some big and big raises still happening. I remember probably the last big race I can think of is Eigen layers series a, at least in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:12:14.912 - 00:12:38.260, Speaker A: And I participated, uh, in that round. I believe that the valuation was like, I think it was 500 million fluid looted or something like that. So obviously a huge valuation on a raise there. But there's not that many of those. There's a lot, there was a lot of those in the bull market. And usually VC raises lag by about six months. They lag the bear market by about six months and they lag into the bull market by about six months as well.
00:12:38.260 - 00:13:04.964, Speaker A: But I fully expect them to pick back up when demand comes back in. But yeah, I'm just glad to see that there is still capital out there for protocols like alluvial to keep getting funding. So congrats to them once again on their raise. You can check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Flashbots has a community grants program called the FRP, in case you haven't heard of it. And in this post from Sarah here, their flashbots.
00:13:04.964 - 00:13:59.310, Speaker A: Sarah basically outlines the year in review for FRP, or flashbots research proposals, which is a grants program, as I mentioned. And if you're at all interested in MeV and flashbots generally and all the stuff that they're working on, you can go check out this summary for yourself for this year in review for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but it covers the topics like private mem pools impact, the front running AMM design, auction design, PBS credible commitments, and seven other projects here. So, yeah, I mean, you know what? This is actually really good sister reading. If you're reading through the robust incentives group post that I talked about earlier, if you want to go even beyond that, you can read all the stuff that flashbots, all the research flashbots has been funding, and this will keep you busy for quite a while. I mean, especially in a bear market where obviously the market's not doing much and you've got more, probably got more time on your hands. This is the stuff that I would definitely be teaching myself and learning and reading up on more.
00:13:59.310 - 00:14:32.674, Speaker A: So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Starknet had a big upgrade today. They've codenamed it Quantum Leap, which is an upgrade that is meant to give people speedier transactions on the stark net ecosystem. So you can check out this for yourself. This is coindesk article I came across, and I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But Quantum Leap, I think I discussed last week, was, was launched on the girly testnets back then, and then it's been launched on the, I believe, stock net, main net, I believe today.
00:14:32.674 - 00:15:19.964, Speaker A: So, yeah, yeah. And as I said, this leads to speedier transactions. And I think from initial reports that I've seen, it actually has had an impact for end users. And end users are feeling this, and it feels like Stocknet lately has really been hitting its stride in terms of upgrades that are coming to the network, more buzz and activity around it. I am definitely seeing a lot more activity floating around there, but there is a tweet that I'm going to talk about at the end of today's refuel, about that, about activity and, you know, usage in crypto generally, just to take the other side of that. But yeah, congrats to the Starkware team for putting this live. I think I've talked about Stocknet a lot before on the refuel and about how they are one of the only projects trying to do a non EVM L2 or a non EVM like equivalent or compatible L2, especially like a ZK roll up.
00:15:19.964 - 00:16:12.768, Speaker A: And they're taking a radically different approach to what has been taken by other L2s out there. And because of that their growth has been slower because obviously, one, they're building something completely new from scratch. Two, they have to get developers to build on it. There were things like the transpiler from Nethermind that would transpile code from solidity to Cairo, but it's not an exact science and there'd be that still probably be bugs and you probably wouldn't want to trust the code that's been transpiled without getting it audited again. So all these sorts of things, they slow things down, right? They slow things down, but that's not going to be the case forever. And Starkware has been putting in a lot of effort and a lot of, I guess, resources behind getting developers on board and making sure that the stark net chain itself is speedy and reliable for people to build on and getting integrated with popular things like Argent Wallet, for example. Metamask, I believe has or will have stock net support relatively soon.
00:16:12.768 - 00:16:48.910, Speaker A: So yeah, all this stuff is adding up. It's cumulative, it's snowballing, and it seems stocknet really is hitting its stride, or beginning to at least. So yeah, you can go check out this coin does article, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, staying on the L2 topic, so consensus has launched their linear L2 mainnet Alpha today. So yeah, for those of you who forgot, consensus is actually building a L2 network on Ethereum called Linear. So they, linear is an l two chain utilizing ZK roll ups and is compatible with Ethereum apps. So it's basically a Zke EVM as I've discussed before.
00:16:48.910 - 00:17:08.094, Speaker A: And yeah, they're live in an alpha capacity on mainnet here. So just great to see another ZK AVM live here. It's funny that there's so many of these things now. We have scroll potentially going live next month, I believe. I actually think Scroll ZK AVM from last time I looked at it. He's going live in August. We have Polygon ZK AVM live.
00:17:08.094 - 00:17:24.874, Speaker A: We have linear live. We have Tyco going live, I think, early next year. And there's a few others that I'm forgetting right now. If I go to l two B.com, I can probably check out all of them. Yes. How could I forget zksync error, which is a ZK Evm.
00:17:24.874 - 00:17:46.662, Speaker A: I mean, there's a few other ZK stuff here that aren't. ZkvM's like immutable x, for example, is like. It's like a validium or it's not a full roll up ZkVM, the polygon Pos chain is going to transition to that. So yeah, we are not starved for L2. So we're definitely not starved for ZkVM's out there, out there right now. And L2 just continue to grow. You can see the TVL here.
00:17:46.662 - 00:18:33.050, Speaker A: Even though TVL is an imperfect metric, you can still see it's continued to grow in the bear market. We're at almost $10 billion in TVL here, and activity has continued to grow as well, which is great to see across the l two ecosystem. But congrats to consensus for launching the linear L2 mainnet today or yesterday. I believe I'll be keeping a close eye on this to see how it develops. All right, cow swap has introduced a new feature called, or I guess like they're calling cow hooks, which is intense based defi. Now, what this means is that with cow hooks, you can take multiple defi actions, such as swapping, bridging, staking, depositing, borrowing, and more, and group them all into one single intent. So this is basically an if this, then that for crypto.
00:18:33.050 - 00:19:08.356, Speaker A: So you can select from a bunch of things here, such as, say you want to swap your tokens. Okay, let's say you want to swap some USDC for ETH. You want to buy 100 ETH, 100 USDC worth of ETH, then say you want to bridge that ETH to a L2 network. Then you want to stake that ETH on the L2 network. So you want to maybe swap it for are 8th, for example, and then from there you want to deposit that areth into our. And then you want to borrow against that. Like, you can do all of this now in one action, right? In one intent.
00:19:08.356 - 00:19:57.758, Speaker A: Basically, there's no need to do it all in different kind of, like, transactions and actions. You can do it all in one, in one intent here with these account hooks, which is really exciting, honestly. I mean, the, the thing is, is that when I talk about the UI and Ux of crypto needing to get better and how a lot of things are going to be abstracted away, this is the core part of it, because you can imagine a product offering on a wallet, for example, that says, hey, you know, you've got USDC. Do you want to stake ETH? Right? Do you want to buy ETH and then stake it? And then a user will be like, yeah, of course I want that. Well, the product that they click on with their wallet, they can just say, okay, stake my ETH. But they've only got USDC, right? They're starting with USDC, stake ETH. Well, of course they're, you know, if they've only got USDC, they don't have gas fees.
00:19:57.758 - 00:20:48.784, Speaker A: So what could be integrated in this is a swap in the background in order to make, to get the USDC swapped to ETH in a gasless way. And the way you do this is basically the, the fee is covered by a contract, and then the contract gets repaid, the ethnic once the swap is done. And then what? And then after that happens, the user then gets to stake their ETH by, by either going through the deposit contract or essentially swapping it for our 8th or estate or something like that. Right? And then maybe say that there's a bonus offer there. Say, hey, you know, you can do leverage staking or restaking, and then all of that can happen within one action. So there's no need for the user to do multiple things. They just start with USDC and in the end they get restaked ETH, for example, or restaked a rocket pool ETH.
00:20:48.784 - 00:21:13.222, Speaker A: How cool is that? Like that. That is right there. That is what we have to get to to enable mass adoption. That is the product that needs to, needs to come to market in order to get people involved with this sorts of stuff and to get people to actually use this. And it really needs to be, you know, one to two clicks to probably two clicks Max. One to, to say, yes, I want to do this, and, and to sign the transaction basically, or submit the transaction. And because you only have to do it once, it really is two clicks.
00:21:13.222 - 00:21:49.686, Speaker A: And then you're started staking ETH. And you only started in USDC. You could even take it a step back and say, you start in fiat, maybe it becomes three clicks, because starting in fiat, you'd have to click to convert from fiat to a stable coin and then from the stable coin something else. But you could just go straight to ETH in that case. So I guess from my example you would, you know, I'm just using USDC as an example there, but all of this kind of compounds and adds up together and you can create some crazy intents here, which is, which is very, very cool. So a great product launched from Cowswap today, which you can go check out. There's a blog post that will explain this in more detail for you and will do a probably better job than me at explaining it.
00:21:49.686 - 00:22:14.044, Speaker A: So you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Something interesting that I came across today was this project called Joker Race or Joke Race. I think it's called Joke Race. So what they're doing is they've redesigned their project and this is a v three design of their project. And what they're trying to do is eliminate token holder voting or just vanilla token holder voting.
00:22:14.044 - 00:22:43.026, Speaker A: So their plan is to change the game for acquiring and retaining communities. So an example they give here is that if you have a token or tokenized community, it just got 100 times easier to operate. Say your token is on a main net Ethereum, just pull the list of holders and that's your allow list. Now you can run governance and any kind of contest hackathons, grants games on any EVM chain. So basically they say, here's where it gets fun. You no longer need tokens to run on chain communities. Your community, who is whoever your allow list.
00:22:43.026 - 00:23:11.656, Speaker A: You allow list to make decisions. So you can allow list people to submit and vote based on just about any online behavior you like. So any criteria you like. So let's just say that you allow list certain addresses based on if they've actually interacted with your protocol. So not only do they hold your token, but they've interacted with your protocol. How active they've been with your protocol. Have they been active in other protocols that leverage your protocol to do things right? Do they have an specific NFT community that you want to support? Literally, it could be anything.
00:23:11.656 - 00:24:04.746, Speaker A: And this is cool because as I said, it goes beyond just vanilla token holder voting. You, you start off by, by allow listing just the people who hold your token, but then you go above and beyond and set all these other criteria and parameters and you basically narrow down your governance list to the most engaged users instead of just anyone, right? And then with that you basically exclude just people who buy tokens for the sake of, for the sake of speculating, right? Especially when it comes to things like maybe VC's that have large allocations that don't even use the product, right. When you think about it like that, there's a lot of, I think VC's out there who buy these governance tokens and don't even use the product, and then they have outsized influence on the governance process. Well, they can be excluded. You can just literally exclude them on chain because you just don't include them in the allow list. So this is probably the future of governance. This sorts of stuff, stuff that, that optimism is doing with governance, um, experimentation.
00:24:04.746 - 00:24:23.634, Speaker A: This is what I want to see. I've said it before and I still reiterate my point, that vanilla token holder voting is horrible. I don't like it. It does not work. It is a plutocracy by default. It does not lead to good outcomes. It is definitely ripe for collusion and ripe for looting of treasuries and stuff like that.
00:24:23.634 - 00:25:13.886, Speaker A: So we need to do something different, obviously. And on top of that, even if we do like cool experiments like this and get to a point where we have a really great governance process for different apps and chains, I still wouldn't want it on Ethereum layer one for a multitude of other reasons. I think that the settlement layer cannot have any form of on chain kind of governance, right? Any form of token holder governance for a number of different reasons that I'm not going to get into now, but for apps and for even potentially L2s, I think it's totally fine. But it is a case by case basis as well. But anyway, you can go check out this project for yourself. I'll link the thread in the YouTube description below, and there's a blog post as well for you to read. All right, to round out today's episode, today I put out a tweet where I basically criticized a whole bunch of projects without naming a bunch of projects.
00:25:13.886 - 00:25:30.982, Speaker A: So I said projects. Mistaking airdrop farming for organic usage is so incredibly prevalent in crypto. Some projects genuinely believe that these are real users. Others know that it's airdrop farming bread and brace it because it's good marketing. Look at the flashy numbers. It's also tiring. So I'm not going to name the projects here, guys.
00:25:30.982 - 00:26:02.464, Speaker A: I don't want to start any flame wars. I don't want to start any fights. I don't want to disown any projects. But you can probably think of a few that do this off the top of your head. I mean, I already got a ton in my head that do this. But the reason I put this tweet out is because I don't necessarily think it's a bad thing, even though it's tiring, because it is good marketing at the end of the day, right, let's just say that you have something, it's an app or a chain or whatever, and like 90% of the activity is airdrop farming, right? But let's say you leverage that. Let's say, you know, it's airdrop farming.
00:26:02.464 - 00:26:46.058, Speaker A: You know that these users are mercenaries, but they make, they make the numbers look good. So what you can do is you can use those numbers in your marketing and then slowly over time, if done right, and if it works, I mean, there's a bit of luck here involved too. You can convert the 90%, right? And you can basically change it from 90% to 80% to 70% to 60%. And keep bringing that Laura. And Laura, where essentially those original farmers acted as your marketing funnel, your top of funnel to get the real organic users in. And then really at the end of the day, the airdrop farming and people just using it inorganically ended up being an organic driver of growth for whatever you're trying to promote in the end. So that's the positive case.
00:26:46.058 - 00:27:26.966, Speaker A: The negative case is the obvious one where it all just is airdrop farming. As soon as you drop your token, no one, no one uses your project anymore, and 90% of your activity evaporates overnight. That has happened to some projects in the past, that will happen to more projects in the future. If you don't build any kind of missionary driven community or any kind of organic community, and the only people using your protocol, like let's say 95 plus percent, 99% or whatever, using a protocol, airdrop farmers, then you're not going to retain any sort of activity or growth. And you'll see it drop off a cliff straight away and people will see that. And then it becomes those same metrics that you've been showing for months and months and months as growth of your project, it becomes a FUd vector. It becomes a vector for people to attack you.
00:27:26.966 - 00:28:08.544, Speaker A: And they just say, well, you know, you had 100 million tv outlets, let's just say, and now it's down to 10 million only a couple weeks later. Obviously it was all airdrop farming, and then you get dunked on and then obviously it leads to all these other negative kind of consequences here. So it is a true definition of a double edged sword. If done right, it can lead to organic usage and it can lead to a smooth transition once you do your token, if done wrong, it could potentially lead to your project dying. A slow death over, over time. Right? So, so, yeah, but as I said, like, I'm sure you guys can think of some of the projects that I'm talking about here, but, and, and it's not just a binary thing either. There can be a token dropped and then a promise of future airdrops, which I actually think is an underexplored area here.
00:28:08.544 - 00:28:36.594, Speaker A: Optimism did it. I remember. But I think it's an unexplored area where essentially you do an airdrop and then you say, wait, but wait, there's more, right? And then you do more airdrops over time. You give away more tokens over time. Optimism is doing it with their retroactive public goods funding. And that way you can still keep the airdrop farmers right. And then you have more time to convert the, I guess, like percentage from air heavy airdrop farmers to, to light on the airdrop farmers with organic usage.
00:28:36.594 - 00:29:04.964, Speaker A: And this is just talking about airdrop farming pre token, I'm not even talking about liquidity mining here because I mean, I think a lot of the same stuff applies to liquidity mining generally. But liquidity mining, when used right, is a really great protocol growth tool in my, in my eyes, really great app growth tool. But when used wrong, well, there are a few charts out there that you can go and look at and it doesn't look good, right. It looks pretty brutal. But anyway, just figured that was something worth mentioning to round out today's episode. But that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:04.964 - 00:29:11.124, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
