00:00:00.320 - 00:00:17.750, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dano, and today, 30 March 2024. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So yes, this is a Saturday episode to make up for missing yesterday's episode, Friday's episode. I was just too tired. It's good Friday, you know, spending time with friends and family.
00:00:17.750 - 00:00:54.046, Speaker A: So I basically got home, was like, yeah, no, I'm way too tired. And today's like kind of a day off and then back into it tomorrow and Monday. Obviously all the Easter festivities there. But yeah, that's why there is an episode today. But without further ado, let's jump into the news. So we had some fresh ETF related news in the, I guess like this was Friday, basically from bit wise here. Now, of course, I know you guys pretty much like in the same position as I am right now, where we're basically just playing a waiting game at this point till like May 23 or at least until like mid April to see what the actual kind of thing is going to be with regards to the ETF's.
00:00:54.046 - 00:01:48.530, Speaker A: Like, the market right now, I think is very like, not confident in these things being approved by May 23. And you've seen that basically priced in, I think, on both ETH USD and ETH BTC, just from like a market's perspective. I really do think that the market is, you know, is fading ethically hard right now because of that. But it's kind of funny when you look at the way the market acts because I personally believe that even a denial, like, even if it does end up getting denied on May 23, that would still be bullish. Because if you look at markets and how they kind of price things in like, forward looking, essentially what happens is that if the market has already priced in the denial by the time it gets denied on May 23, then maybe there's like a small sell the news event or something like that. But then from then on, I don't really know who's left to sell, right? If everyone's already sold that wanted to sell before these things are kind of got denied on May 23, it kind of becomes a thing where it's like, okay, well, the price ends up going up and then it's self fulfilling where everyone's like, oh, wow, the ETF denial wasn't bearish after all for ETH. You know, let's, let's go buy ETH sort of thing.
00:01:48.530 - 00:02:23.610, Speaker A: So that's just some open speculation. How I view these things. Um, and I think that, you know, the fact that the market is very kind of, I guess like weary of, of uh, of the ETF approvals at this point, like thinking they're not going to happen if they do end up getting approved. I think that is again, still bullish for a ethereum because essentially it means a lot of people didn't buy ETH because they assumed that the ETF's weren't going to get approved. And then the ETF's did get approved. And then of course we'll see inflows into that which will be positive for the price and then it just becomes a self fulfilling thing again. So I don't think it's opium to think that either a denial or an approval is bullish here, just for very different reasons.
00:02:23.610 - 00:03:04.266, Speaker A: I think especially because, you know, ETH hasn't really outperformed, like if ETH, let's say, was that all time high already and ETH BTC was a lot higher than what it is now, then I would have a different view on things. I'd be like, okay, well, the market hasn't priced in a rejection of these ETF's yet. The market is actually pricing in an approval here. So that's why right now I'm thinking, well, you know, the market's being quite efficient about this. They are. They seemingly do tend to be pricing in a denial on May 23 here, but that could change very quickly too. Like, let's say in the next couple of weeks we get like a lot of back and forth between the SEC and the issuers that begins to look like the ETH, ETF's are going to get approved on May 23, then you will very quickly see the market correct for that, I think because the market is very sensitive to the ETF stuff right now.
00:03:04.266 - 00:03:30.820, Speaker A: It is the main narrative still, I believe, especially, you know, outside of the crypto native market there. But enough speculation on the price side of things. The actual update that I wanted to get to is actually pretty important here. So this was something from bitwise. So bitwise did their own ETH correlation analysis with regards to the correlation between the ETH spot markets and the ETH futures markets here. So you can see here the actual correlation is linked by Bitwise. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check it out.
00:03:30.820 - 00:04:43.372, Speaker A: But what's different about their analysis, as opposed to Coinbase's analysis, is that they tried as closely as they could to replicate the specific methodology used by the SEC in their evaluation of bitcoin and the results here are very encouraging for ETH, basically like very, very similar to bitcoin. And also these results are still heavily influenced by the first three months of trading here. So once that rolls over, because it's done on a rolling basis, once that rolls over, it would, it would seem like ETH and Eats bot and e futures correlation would be basically the same, if not better than bitcoin here. So as I said, the reason why this is important, important is because it's trying to replicate the SEC's methodology that they use for the BTC spot correlation, spot futures correlation analysis here, rather than what Coinbase did, where essentially they had come up with their own way of measuring that correlation. They didn't try to specifically, I guess, recreate what the SEC did. And Coinbase has pretty much came to the same conclusion as what bitwise has come to where the correlation is very, very tight. And the reason why this is important is because people speculate that the SEC is going to deny the ETS based on the fact that the correlation between spot and futures is not very tight, which means that there's is open to manipulation on the, on the spot markets or on the futures markets there.
00:04:43.372 - 00:05:08.428, Speaker A: But it's looking like they're not going to be able to deny based on that. Like it looks like that. If they do that, then essentially, I mean, they're opening themselves up to lawsuits because of that. They're opening themselves up to potentially interagency fights with the CFTC because the CFTC regulates the futures market, the CME futures market for ETH there. And they'd have something to say about that. They would like it. This makes no sense to deny this based on this, when essentially the correlation is pretty much like a mirror of BTC here.
00:05:08.428 - 00:05:41.950, Speaker A: And the other, I guess, speculation people have for the ACC didn't deny these things is on the ETH as a security thing, which I think is even worse than denying based on correlation for a number of different reasons. But I'm not going to rehash all the reasons there. But yeah, you can go check out this analysis for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But another reason why this is important as well is that it just shows that the issuers are not giving up on their ETH. ETF's like they're still fighting, you know, and I don't think they would be doing this if they were convinced that there was like no chance that these things were getting approved. I feel like they're doing this because, you know, they, they do think there's a chance that it's going to get approved here.
00:05:41.950 - 00:06:13.766, Speaker A: And they also want to make sure that these aren't denied, even if they are denied based on just like these frivolous things. So they can have basically a trail of, hey, you know, we provided this information, we did this analysis ourselves. And if the SSC does decide to deny based on a weaker correlation here, they can then have a very strong, I guess, stance against that, whether it materializes as a lawsuit or not. And that works in the favor of all the issuers, you know, even the ones who don't end up suing themselves. The other ones can use this material as I guess, evidence in a court of law. Right. But that wasn't the only update with regards to bit wise.
00:06:13.766 - 00:06:57.582, Speaker A: There was also the fact that bitwise filed their s one for their ETH ETF and they also filed their 19 b four here, which you can kind of see. And I think James had a chart or at least a table of all the ETF issuers and how pretty much all of them has far have filed their 19 b four forms and s one forms. So both of them need to be filed in order for this to get approved here. So all of them, except I believe, hash decks have, have filed for all of this. So yeah, it's just like a waiting game. Now the SEC to either, you know, ask these issuers to remove things like the staking portion of what they've filed here or maybe change a little bit, a little bit of things here and there. But really, as I've discussed at length before, there doesn't seem to be much to change between ETH and BTC.
00:06:57.582 - 00:07:29.100, Speaker A: Right? Like if you look at the Ethan BTC ETF's, they're pretty much like identical. Because if they both just spot ETF's and remove the staking part of it, then they're both using the same custodians. They're both, they both have the same kind of correlation analysis done on it because they're both trading on CME and futures and on the same spot markets. So when you look at it like that, yeah, I mean, it still is a copy paste no matter which way you look at it there. But anyway, as I said, I'll link this correlation analysis that bitwise did in the YouTube description for you to go check out below. All right. Onto some ETH core dev updates.
00:07:29.100 - 00:08:13.690, Speaker A: So Tim Bico put together his usual recap thread of the all core devs call here. This is quite a lengthy one. They discussed a bunch of different things. So I'm not going to kind of rehash all of this, but I think one major aspect of the call was got to do with what I discussed on the last refill, I believe, or the one before that, about the network stability issues we were seeing with regards to blocks route. The relayer basically, not relaying blocks with blobs in them properly, which led to essentially like a fall off on the effectiveness of the network there. Now, there's been multiple different analysis on this from different parties, and there was a post mortem posted today about this from, I guess, like blocks route. And I believe Lighthouse chimed in on this as well, because I think blocks route blamed lighthouse for the issue, when in reality it was block routes.
00:08:13.690 - 00:08:58.224, Speaker A: Blocks routes issue, not just with their relay, but with this thing called the BDN, which is like this private, I guess, mempool delivery network that they use to propagate kind of blocks throughout the network here. And this has opened up discussions around epbs again. So I think I. Yeah, I've got this tweet thread here from Michael Sproul, who basically discusses everything that I was just talking about, as well as why we need epbs. Now, for those of you who don't know any, EPBS is stands for enshrined proposal builder separation. Essentially what it's trying to do is get rid of the role of relayers as part of the Ethereum network. And the reason why we're trying to do this is because the MEV boost pipeline, as I've discussed at length, is a sidecar, right? It's a sidecar to Ethereum, which means that the core devs do not have a good view over what's happening there.
00:08:58.224 - 00:09:48.184, Speaker A: And the mev boost developers do not really have a good view of what's happening in core Devland. So there are these two separate things that are essentially very important, obviously, to the network, both on. On different sides here, but they're not really talking to each other, because one, I mean, flashbots is the creators of MeV Boost and a bunch of other things like suave. They're, as far as I can tell, a for profit entity, right? They're definitely, you know, trying to monetize certain aspects of things. And then you have Ethereum development and Ethereum core developers, which is more of a, I guess, like public goods style of development here, where you're basically trying to build a neutral protocol. So there is this kind of odds incentive, kind of incentives at odds here with each other. So that's a major reason why the core devs really want to integrate PBS into the network or do epbs? Because it essentially means that it's all enshrined in the protocol and it's easier for them to reason about here.
00:09:48.184 - 00:10:22.952, Speaker A: But don't let me bore you with my ranting there. Please go read this thread from Michael Sproul, who is working on Lighthouse at Sigma prime here. He does a really great job of explaining what happened, you know, with regards to the post mortem, as well as how it wasn't a lighthouse issue and what this all means for epbs. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out, as well as Tim Biko's recap thread on the core dev call for you for you to check out there as well. All right, so speaking of core dev related stuff, Josh Rudolph has another update for us on the latest Verkle implementers call. So this is call number 15. They were talking about a bunch of different things.
00:10:22.952 - 00:11:05.132, Speaker A: There are updates about from different client teams that were testing updates and updates as part of the cryptography performance improvements, summary of discussions from ETH Taipay and a Testnet relaunch here. So yeah, I mean, as usual, you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But just great to see continued work happening on verkle trees. You know, it seems like we could potentially get verkle trees in Osaka, which is the upgrade that's coming after Pektra or sometime next year there. It is a pretty big undertaking here, but it's also something, as I've discussed before, that's really needed within the network in order to enable other things. And as you can see here, there's a little kind of graphic here of what this is kind of enables, you know, this is the, well, I mean, it's showing you like where the Ethereum scaling bottlenecks are.
00:11:05.132 - 00:12:01.910, Speaker A: And then with vertical trees we can enable things like history expiry and statelessness and state expiry, which is one of the scaling bottlenecks. You know, the history growth and the state growth is definitely a huge bottleneck for the Ethereum network here. And I believe paradigm had their blog post about this recently that you can go find that I believe I covered with regards to, you know, where is the growth happening on the Ethereum chain, and what can we do to reduce growth in certain areas while still obviously keeping the trustlessness of the Ethereum chain alive there? But anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Eigen layers whole sky testnet with dual quorum support for dual quorum support, I should say for Eigen DA has launched so restakers operators and roll up sequences along with full nodes are able to test this launch. And this is one key step more keep step towards Mainnet here. So dual quorum is basically something that introduces robustness and decentralization by using two quorums to secure a proof of stake network.
00:12:01.910 - 00:12:27.354, Speaker A: For now, wrapped ETH is the second staking asset. Future plans include native tokens for ABS's and roll ups. And here's an explanation of how this works. It's called Joule staking. I've talked about this on the refill before, but essentially dual quorum addresses several challenges for new proof of stake networks, including easier bootstrapping, price volatility mitigation, and as well a variety in consensus design. And yeah, you can learn more about this in this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:12:27.354 - 00:13:03.056, Speaker A: But this is exciting because I believe that Eigenvalue DA is targeting launch for like May or something like that. Like April or May, I believe so it's not too far. I mean we're almost in April, right? But I believe yeah, may they want to target kind of main net launch here. And there's going to be a lot of AVss going live with this, I believe. Don't know how many Eigen DA is obviously going to be the first AV's live, but there are others out there that, that are, that are in the pipeline. I mean, I've lost track of how many there are at this point. And I think what's going to be interesting is to see like what the AV's landscape looks like, not just from the use cases, but also from where the stake is actually going to be placed.
00:13:03.056 - 00:14:20.908, Speaker A: Because you've probably seen a lot of tweets from some of these restaking protocols lately, like Etherfy and swell, basically saying, oh, we're going to put like the ETH that staked with us against this AV's, you know, when they launch, and then we're going to be kind of lending our economic security to them. So it's going to be, as I said, curious to see where all of that lands because I think it's going to be basically done on a, maybe a two pronged process. Like the short term, you're going to see people doing it on Avss that basically say, hey, you know, if you kind of put your stake with us, we'll give you points or token incentives, right? So then essentially becomes like this huge thing of, well, you can farm the LRT points, then you can farm eigen layer points, and then you can farm, I guess, like these AV's points on top of that which eventually all get turned into tokens which may, you know, maybe airdropped or pretty much certainly be airdropped there. But that's the short to medium term kind of stuff. But then we look at the long term and that's okay, well, what is the actual natural yield that these protocols are, you know, supplying for the people that are restaking with them or for the protocols that are rest taking with them? And what I mean by natural yield is basically just like user demand. Like what's the fear of a new for these networks? What, you know, what are they generating there? Yes, they can pay out token inflation, but that's not a, you know, a natural real yield. That's a, you know, that that's a yield, but like it's being paid out of tokens, right? So it's very different.
00:14:20.908 - 00:14:57.890, Speaker A: We all know that token inflation is not, you know, long term sustainable. You know, it just basically bringing forward the future and you pay for it later. So I'm just very curious to see how that all plays out. But it's probably going to take like twelve to 18 months from when these Avss launched to see what, what, what kind of happens there. And I think in terms of like what's going to generate the most revenue, it's going to be really hard to tell because as I've said before, you know, Da is a race to the bottom. So when you look at Eigen Da, you know it's going to be really, really cheap when you get started and they're targeting ten megabits per second, I believe, or megabytes per second throughput, which is a huge amount of throughput. I mean, it's more than Celestia can currently handle.
00:14:57.890 - 00:15:24.106, Speaker A: It's definitely more than ethereum l one, right now. And if you actually look at the amount of revenue celestia is generating, it's very, very low right now. It's extremely low. And that's because one, it's very cheap because they have so much capacity and two, that capacity is not being filled. So things like priority fees are not kicking in here like they did for blobs on ethereum l one, right. So it's going to be very interesting to see like how long it takes for that to fill up. Obviously we expect it to fill up, but then they're going to keep scaling that out and keep increasing that.
00:15:24.106 - 00:15:55.346, Speaker A: So then it becomes a question of, okay, what's the aggregate fees look like? And then what is the net yield for people after that? So I'm curious to see what happens there. But Da isn't the only thing that's launching here. There's going to be like shared sequencer networks launching. There's going to be Oracle's launching. So we're going to see what the revenue kind of looks like over time against these things there. All right, so there has been an all time high hit for monthly uniswap volume on l two. So you can see here that this is really only tracking arbitram, base polygon and optimism.
00:15:55.346 - 00:16:29.244, Speaker A: Now, I believe this is Polygon's pos chain, which isn't an l two. But even if you take out the Polygon pos chain here, you can still see that just base optimism. Arbitrum alone still make it that it's an all time high. And you can see the growth of base here has just been absolutely massive, like even compared to last month. And obviously this is because we have a bit of a base season going on right now where a lot of people are bridging over to base to do a bunch of things. And when it comes to defi, I mean, a lot of this volume has got to do with some of the base meme coins that have been kind of popping off on there. So I guess that's only natural there, but arbitrary, you can see, has remained dominant pretty much all throughout.
00:16:29.244 - 00:17:02.144, Speaker A: Like arbitram has had a healthy defi ecosystem for a very long time now. And that's translated obviously into swap volumes on, on uniswap. But so as polygon, I mean, obviously, as I've said, polygon Pos is in a L2, yet they are going to be a L2 when they convert it to a ZK volidium. But, you know, that would basically be the same if there were a validium or the pos chain here you probably see more volume because as a valid, I'm. They're probably going to be cheaper to use than they are as a PoS chain. So the volumes would still be the same whether they're an l two or not. So I think that even if you include them or remove them, it doesn't really make much of a difference here.
00:17:02.144 - 00:17:36.839, Speaker A: But this is great to see. You know, I remember putting out that tweet that I highlighted the other day that I put out in like August where I said that I thought we would be getting like a L2 summer within like six to twelve months from that date. And we pretty much smack bang in the middle of that. We're pretty much like at nine month mark since I said that. And that thesis was based on really mostly around EIP 48 44 and base. And obviously with blobs going live, the cost came down for all the l two s. But the reason why I focused on base in particular was because I think that there isn't just like an, you know, the real users onboarding from Coinbase and obviously coinbase putting their weight behind it.
00:17:36.839 - 00:18:14.628, Speaker A: But there is a narrative as well. Like base has kind of become a shelling point right now for people to come into the ethereum l two ecosystem because everyone's like, well, you know, Coinbase is the one behind base. And, you know, base has a lot of stuff happening on it already with like far cast and nfts. So let's kind of do meme coins on base sort of thing now, whether that's sustainable or not. I mean, I don't think it's going to be long term sustainable. But the way that meme coins can kind of be sustainable for ecosystems is that if there is already a really strong ecosystem there, or one can develop over time after the meme coin maniac subsides here. And I think that right now you can point to basically arbitrum and base as having both of those ecosystems.
00:18:14.628 - 00:18:30.876, Speaker A: I believe base has a very strong ecosystem outside of just meme coins. Same with arbitrum. And I mean, optimum base falls into optimism for me. So I'm kind of talking about it as if it's like the, you know, a similar thing here. And I think the same is true for polygon as well. Even though the pos chain is in a L2 right now. I think the same thing is kind of true there.
00:18:30.876 - 00:19:05.340, Speaker A: And you guys know me, I'm all about sustainable demand, sustainable revenue, sustainable everything when it comes to these networks. So I really do think that we have that, you know, right, right now with a lot of these major l two s now obviously bit too early to tell, like, what this is going to look like, but we'll see. We know we'll revisit in a year or something like that. You guys know, I'll keep covering this stuff, but we'll see how that all shakes out there. But I guess, like, kudos to everyone who stuck through it. You can see what the growth has been, look, has been like for these l two s. There has been some quiet periods, but then really since basically, I guess like August last year, it's been up only as you can see here of these volumes.
00:19:05.340 - 00:19:38.094, Speaker A: And it's only getting stronger and stronger over time, which has just been insane to see here. All right, speaking of l two s, Jesse Pollack from base tweeted out this nice little chart here that shows the gas limit used slash price on base. So you can see here that the gas plus transaction capacity went up, which is the blue line. The gas plus transactions usage went up, which is the purple line. But the base fees went, went way down, which is the yellow line. And they're going to be incrementally scaling based in a thoughtful, methodical way as time goes on. But this is awesome.
00:19:38.094 - 00:20:07.240, Speaker A: You know, you can see here what the yellow line looks like, what the fees were like before they actually kind of did it. So you have those massive spikes there, but then there was another spike, but then they raised their gas limit up to, what is it? Whatever it is, 37.5 million, I believe. And then after that, like the transactions and the gas used was still going up. You can see from the purple line, but the cost dropped because obviously they increased the gas limit. So there was more capacity now and that capacity hasn't been filled up yet. So the fees drop.
00:20:07.240 - 00:20:44.756, Speaker A: Now once that capacity fills up again, you're going to see the fees go up. But this is basically, I think, a really nice graph that illustrates what scaling is in a nutshell. It's basically increasing the available capacity without, you know, I mean make making the user experience worse with lots of failed transactions and things like that. Making sure that that purple line keeps going up because that is obviously usage going up, demand going up, but that yellow line needs to be going down or needs to be kind of, you know, if it goes up we scale some more and it goes back down. So that's the cat and mouse game that I've talked about a lot. We're basically chasing that, that yellow line. Every time it goes up we need to make sure that we are increasing the capacity so that can go down again.
00:20:44.756 - 00:21:17.988, Speaker A: And then we kind of monitor from there. And then once it goes up we do the same thing again. So that's the, I mean, I'm not going to say it's a forever cat and mouse game, but it is something that's going to be played for many years to come. There's going to be so, so much more demand coming in, guys. Like, it's actually insane. I don't think people realize how much demand is going to come in there's so much demand on the sidelines, like the very, I guess, like, definition of induced demand is in this chart here. Because every time you increase the capacity, more and more people are going to be able to do more and more transactions and more and more transactions are going to be able to be done because it's cheaper and cheaper, and then you just have to keep kind of increasing it here.
00:21:17.988 - 00:22:08.024, Speaker A: And this is why I said before that it's all about like the aggregate fees, not so much the individual fees, because I described this last time when I was trying to do like on the fly math. But essentially, if you have like millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, billions of transactions a day happening, but they all cost less than a century, that is worth much more, I think, than, you know, doing one transaction that is worth $100 on Ethereum, l one mainnet, for example, because essentially that one transaction is being done by one entity, one person or one bot. And that one person or one bot has a bit of ETH to do that with, right? Has a bit of exposure to ETH do that with. But if you extend that out to the l two s and there's millions of people doing this, or tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people doing this every day, then ETH is in a lot more people's hands. And that really is the bull case for ETH to increase its network effects and to make sure that it's in as many people's hands as possible. Not just people, but bots as well. Of course.
00:22:08.024 - 00:22:38.776, Speaker A: You know, I don't like thinking of bots as second class citizens on the network. I believe that, that bots and human users are both equal on the network. You know, they're both first class citizens in my mind. But I also believe that there needs to be a healthy balance between bots and humans where the bots shouldn't be pricing out the humans, and the humans should be able to do their transactions in a, you know, fast and nice way. But at the same time, humans are going to do 0.001% of all the transactions on these network. The vast majority of the transactions that happen will be from bots.
00:22:38.776 - 00:23:11.136, Speaker A: And we want to make it so that the bots are servicing the users rather than the users servicing the bots. And I think that that would be the nice symbiotic relationship to, to kind of eventuate here. But it's going to take us a while to get there because the bots main incentive right now is mev. So we need to basically purge a lot of this negative mev from the network so that the bots just don't go haywire and do negative stuff that affects users, such as censorship. Right. We've seen this play out with MeV Boost on layer one, Ethereum, and also a sandwich attacks, right, like front running, all that sorts of stuff. We want to make sure that users are protected from that and aren't getting wrecked by that.
00:23:11.136 - 00:23:29.934, Speaker A: But at the same time, we don't want to treat bots as second class citizens, because they do add a lot of value to the network. They do things like arbitrage, right. They keep prices in check. They add a lot of security to the network as well by keeping transaction fees kind of high. This is for l one. And they also add to the deflationary nature of ethanol. So there's all of that playing into it as well there.
00:23:29.934 - 00:23:52.926, Speaker A: But anyway, enough about that. Moving on to the next piece of news here. So I put out a cast on firecaster where I said, ag layer plus shared sequences. If you're not paying attention to these things, you should be. This tech will further supercharge the already dominant ethereum l two ecosystem. Now, you guys know about the polygon ag layer. I've talked about that plenty of times in the past before, as well as shared sequences.
00:23:52.926 - 00:24:33.496, Speaker A: But I think that from what I've read and the people I've talked to, this is basically the holy grail here, and I'll explain why. And this is my understanding of it. You know, I might be wrong on things because these things are still quite early, but let me just kind of spell it out here. So, for those of you who don't know what the ag layer is, it's this technology that polygon is building, which is essentially a neutral layer that sits on top of ethereum, where all these assets can be stored. And then any l one l two l three side chain, whatever you want to call it, can tap into this and basically have a nice shared asset layer that becomes interoperable between all of these things. So, obviously, that's a huge unlock, right? That solves fragmented liquidity, basically. And it's an opt in thing.
00:24:33.496 - 00:25:08.538, Speaker A: And as I said, like, it's not just a polygon thing. It's like, polygons building it. But the ag layer is meant to be for everyone. It's meant to be, like, more of a public good than just, like, a locked in a kind of polygon thing there, which is great. Like, I love polygon for doing that, but that's just for the assets. So people will then ask, okay, like, then how do we kind of, I guess, fix the fragmentation of execution, of actually doing the transactions with those assets? And that's where shared sequencing comes in, where essentially you basically have, again, this is an opt in thing, but you have the l two s or whoever opt into these shared sequences. And they could use, you know, the l one validators as shared sequences as well with, with base sequencing.
00:25:08.538 - 00:25:43.498, Speaker A: But, you know, let's say they opt into them. And then essentially what happens is that they can all interoperate with each other on the execution side. So from my understanding, you would be able to do a trade from arbitrary and optimism. From arbitrary to optimism, like, so, for example, let's say you want to trade a coin that's only on optimism and has all the liquidity on optimism there. Essentially what you do is you initiate the trade on arbitrum, and then you can do the trade through the shared sequencer using optimism's kind of liquidity. And then the assets are all part of the ag layer, of course. And then essentially you get, the transaction gets executed.
00:25:43.498 - 00:26:11.498, Speaker A: But everything's done on arbitrary. Still. It's not, it's not like you have to bridge to optimism or anything like that. So basically eliminated the need for bridging here. And we've solved the two biggest problems, the fragmentation of liquidity and the fragmentation of execution. Because I think that the first thing is talked about all the time, and I don't think that's as big of an issue as the fragmentation of execution, of basically being isolated from being able to execute something on arbitram. Sorry, initiate a transaction on arbitrary, and that executes on optimism and then settles back to arbitrary.
00:26:11.498 - 00:26:35.540, Speaker A: And there, that's what these things, like shared sequences enable, at least from my understanding. But still, early days for these things, I believe, but they're coming much faster than people think. You know, people used to say, oh, it's early days for zkvms. They're going to take forever to come to market. Well, they didn't. I think the original timeline was like five years from when people were saying this, and then ended up being like two years. So if people are saying the same thing about the AG layer and the shared sequences, I believe it's going to happen a lot faster than that.
00:26:35.540 - 00:26:54.522, Speaker A: I actually do believe within the inside of the next twelve months, this stuff's all going to go live. And it's. And, you know, as I said, it's opt in. So it's going to rely on these l two s to actually opt into this stuff. But I think that the incentive is there to opt in because you're basically increasing the pie for everyone by doing this. And it makes the user experience much, much better. But we'll see how that shakes out.
00:26:54.522 - 00:27:20.506, Speaker A: But the tech itself, I have no doubt works. You know, we've had shared sequences live on Testnet for a long time now. You know, espresso, I think, is the leader here, but there's also Astria and a bunch of other projects. And then the AG layer, I don't think it's on testnet yet, but it's very, very well documented at this point. You can just search Polygon AG layer and read all about it. I think Tim Robinson from the deadly way community had a really great blog post about this. You can just search his name and ag layer.
00:27:20.506 - 00:27:43.454, Speaker A: It should come up there. But yeah, I do think that this is like the holy grail here, guys. And I do think it's coming a lot, lot sooner than people think. And then once it's live, you see what happens when things are actually alive and they're not just talked about anymore. When things become reality, people very quickly catch on to it. The same is true for blobs, where we were talking about blobs for years and saying, hey, al, two fees are going to come down with blobs. And people would laugh at us and say, no, it's not, you know, you know, show us what you got, sort of thing.
00:27:43.454 - 00:28:53.078, Speaker A: And it's like, okay, well, fair enough, you know, we're just talking about this stuff right now. We'll show you what we've got. And then immediately following blobs going live, everyone's suddenly like, oh my God, the l two s are actually cheap and they're fast and oh my God, like Ethereum is actually scaling. So you can see how quickly the narrative changes here based on the reality. So as soon as these things alive and working, like the aglay and the shared sequences, and people do start doing transactions where essentially they don't have to bridge anymore, they don't have to, you know, worry about like fragmented liquidity, you're going to see that narrative very quickly change. And then I think that the fight maybe turns mostly to like the centralization of the l two s, like the centralized sequences and, you know, potentially like multi seqs, things like that, which is the better stuff to, like, not fud, but like, talk about, because all this other stuff is more of a technical implementation, whereas when it comes to the centralization of l two s, it's a lot more political and social, where essentially, the, it is, there is technical aspects to it, but what I mean by political and social is that they want to decentralize, but they have to do it in such a way where the Dow isn't given too much power so the Dow can't run, you know, amok. And they also have to consider like security implementation, you know, implications from a social perspective too, because there are multi sigs on here.
00:28:53.078 - 00:29:33.230, Speaker A: But, you know, I argued this in the, in the data Gwei discord channel the other day. These multi sigs are huge, like the ones that can do instant upgrades. So the security councils, like, for example, the polygon one, I believe, or the arbitram one or both of them, they're like a nine of twelve multisig. And all of the multi SIG signers are doxxed completely. So essentially when I look at that, I'm like, okay, well, yeah, okay, it's not decentralized. I'm not going to call it that. But when you look at the actual kind of incentives at play here, the reason it exists is because if there's a major bug on the chain and we need to, or a major exploit that could be exploited, we need to be able to react to that quickly because you can't fork an l two like you can fork an l one to kind of fix that.
00:29:33.230 - 00:30:06.468, Speaker A: You can fork an l two, but it's very different to an l one. You would have to basically move all the liquidity across and you have to worry about the asset. I mean, it's a very big mess here. But what I mean, and I'm not trying to defend multi six here, but what I mean is that, like the, let's say there is nine people that need to sign a transaction for it to happen. The chances of them all colluding. Right. And the chances of them doing that, given that they're doxxed, and the chances of them doing that in order to do something malicious on, on the network and not be caught before they even try to do it, is so incredibly small because as I said, they're all doxxed.
00:30:06.468 - 00:30:47.772, Speaker A: Most of them are independent from each other. It's not in their best interest to do this at all because I, you know, we've already seen precedent of people getting arrested for doing stuff like this. Like there's just no incentive at all here. So I guess for the short to medium term, I'm fine with, with these things because there are security concerns here, especially with zkvms where the ZK circuits are very new or untested. There is a very strong argument to be made that that is the lesser of two evils. Having a multi seq is the lesser of two evils and the other evil is basically not having a multi sig and then it being like fully decentralized from day one and there being a bug and you can't fix the bug and that means that everyone's assets get drained and then there's no recourse from that. So I think it's a lesser of two evils.
00:30:47.772 - 00:31:16.526, Speaker A: It's not decentralized. Don't get me wrong, I'm not, not saying it's decentralized at all. It's still very centralized, but it's not that big of a deal, at least in the short term, medium term in my eyes here. And it's also not that big of a deal because I believe that those things are going to get removed eventually, but we have to keep pushing on that there. But anyway, enough on that last couple of things to talk about here. Just a dashboard that I wanted to highlight for you guys. So if you're interested in keeping up with everything blob related, Hill Dobby has an amazing dashboard here that I think I've shown on the refuel before, but just wanted to give it another shout out.
00:31:16.526 - 00:31:44.332, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. He tracks a lot of things got to do with blobs on this, and you can track along with, you know, who's posting the blobs, you know, what the blobs look like over the past five days, all those kind of things. So check that out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And last up here. I know I've gone over 30 minutes. I just wanted to highlight a really important blog post from Vitalik where he basically titled it ethereum has blobs. Where do we go from here? So this is essentially Vitalik laying out the, I guess, post blob era ethereum.
00:31:44.332 - 00:32:19.382, Speaker A: Because I remember I said this like a few weeks ago and blobs went live, that we're now in the post blob era ethereum, which essentially means ethereum is in a very different place to where it was before blobs. Essentially. We have scaled ethereum out, you know, a lot at this point with blobs, and we're going to continue scaling with blobs. So now focus needs to kind of point or shift to the application layer because the infra layer or the infrastuff is done or in the process of being done. And we know what this kind of looks like with Das and data sharding and stuff like that. But when it comes to the apps themselves, we have. He kind of argues this in his blog post.
00:32:19.382 - 00:32:39.246, Speaker A: He says, we have no reason now not to build better apps because the fees are so cheap. Like before, we could say, okay, well, it's expensive to use, the transactions are slow. You know, it's clunky ux, but the UX is getting rapidly better on, like the wallet front. The fees have come down, the transactions are fast. So really we need to be experimenting at the app layer at this point. Like the infra layer. There's a lot happening there, don't get me wrong.
00:32:39.246 - 00:33:09.446, Speaker A: But we need to just shift over back to the app layer because there's no point having all of this infra if we don't have the apps to use it. And I don't think that we don't have the apps to use it. I think we do. But Vitalik's basically doing like a call to arms where he's like, let's make Ethereum cypherpunk again, and let's make sure that we're focusing on the apps that are uniquely enabled by blockchains. And let's, you know, not talk too much more. I mean, not focus so much on the infrastructure now, but focus more so on the app layer stuff there. But anyway, you can go give Vitalik's blog post a read for yourself.
00:33:09.446 - 00:33:19.014, Speaker A: But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to your newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
