00:00:00.440 - 00:00:55.063, Speaker A: So today was a pretty big day for Ethereum and the broader EVM L2 ecosystem with the long awaited Dencun upgrade going live. The key benefit of the Dencun upgrade is actually making the cost to transact on L2s significantly cheaper for users by making data availability easier and cheaper for devs to tap into. With the Dencun upgrade going live earlier today, this did cause Blast to experience about 30 minutes of downtime, but the chain is back up and producing blocks. And quite frankly, if you've been paying attention, one thing is clear, Blast just keeps getting more bullish. Blast just recently hit 2.9 billion in total value locked or TVL and is now the third largest L2 by bridge TVL and the second largest L2 by DAPP TVL. With over a billion dollars in capital deployed across Blast Dapps.
00:00:55.063 - 00:01:55.671, Speaker A: After only being live on Mainnet for about two weeks, Blast is already significantly ahead of numerous L2s that have been on the market for a much longer period of time, including Coinbase's L2 base. I really find the sentiment around BLAST to be super interesting. I'm seeing a lot of people like either mid curving or just having like really bearish takes and I have mixed feelings about this. I think when we're measuring where attention is going, obviously volume on meme coins and NFTs is generally a good indicator. The reality is though, we haven't really seen that type of activity on BLAST yet. But there have been a handful of plays like pacmoon, Baja yes and others that have captured attention on the timeline as well as some volume. And in the end the question is, is the volume and noise on the quieter side? When we compare this to the meme economies that we're seeing on Ethereum base and Solana, 100% totally is.
00:01:55.671 - 00:02:20.463, Speaker A: But my guess is that attention and volume is going to come to BLAST in due time and here is why. With all of the points, incentives and farming that's happening on Blast, there are going to be several capital injection events including the first Blast airdrop itself in May. And what I think is going to keep people on BLAST is this insane high yield environment that the Blast team and devs are all building towards.
00:02:20.559 - 00:03:17.063, Speaker B: I want to kind of share our high level philosophy. On any sort of incentive program we never think of incentives as a, you know, ongoing forever thing. The way we view it is we're building infrastructure that is the highest yield environment for any user possible on any L2. That is the end goal in terms of creating like the most efficient market for the end users and the entire purpose of the incentives is to basically accelerate the market, becoming more efficient. So once the users come onto BLAST and are able to experience the different dapps that are able to take advantage of the native yield, that alone is actually that more efficient market is actually the main selling point of blast. The entire purpose of the incentives is not to be a long term thing, but it's actually a short term stimulus to basically make it easier for users to migrate over to blast. But the thing that gives BLAST longevity, it's never any sort of incentive program.
00:03:17.063 - 00:03:34.805, Speaker B: Incentive programs are always, always temporary. The only thing that gives BLAST longevity is that what we are working to create is the highest yield environment of any L2. Basically an L2 that provides end users and DApps with more value than any L2. That's the sustaining thing and that's what we're working to create.
00:03:34.965 - 00:04:19.880, Speaker A: Things are just starting to heat up on the DAP side of BLAST as well. As of today, there are over 50 different protocols that you can interact with and explore across a variety of categories including lending perps, GambleFi, gaming and SocialFi. Again, Blast is now the second largest L2 by capital deployed on their Dapps. And it's only been two weeks and many of the protocol teams are actually still in the process of releasing features and different product integrations. So when you consider that and you zoom out, it's actually pretty wild to see some of the Blast on chain metrics. We're looking at 2.4 million in total ETH volume, which is roughly around $9.5
00:04:19.880 - 00:04:50.457, Speaker A: billion. There are roughly 279,000 unique wallets with 5.6 million transactions. And we've already seen over 67,000 smart contracts deployed on blast in the last two weeks. These numbers are only going to grow exponentially over time. I know it's cliche to say, but it is early. We are literally all here in the first two weeks of this chain being live, before there's even like a Blast chart on Coingecko for us to be looking at.
00:04:50.457 - 00:05:22.341, Speaker A: Like we are really just getting started. So with that said, there are actually a few updates from BLAST that I want to take some time to dig into. And some of these updates will include insights from the developer AMA with Pac man. And then we'll go through some of the other key takeaways from that ama. Let's start by breaking down two of the core features that make BLAST an incredibly unique L2. The first is Gas revenue share. So in case you didn't know, on Blast, gas Fees are programmatically sent back to devs.
00:05:22.341 - 00:06:26.519, Speaker A: This basically operates on about a 30 day cycle and it's particularly interesting because it opens up new revenue streams for teams and if they want they could even actually choose to subsidize gas fees for for their users. The second thing is native yield on blast, ETH and USDB natively earn yield. It just sits in your wallet and you see number go up without you having to do anything. For ETH, it's about 4% native yield that comes from Lido and staked ETH for usdb, the native yield comes from Makerdao and as of earlier this week USDB on blast went from earning 5% to 15% native yield thanks to Makerdao's recent update on their DAI savings rate and stability rate. Let's double tap on that real quick and break down where this 15% yield comes from. I think this is actually important to know because our funds on blast are affected by this. So for those of you who don't know, Makerdao is the decentralized protocol that developed and issues DAI the stablecoin.
00:06:26.519 - 00:07:34.825, Speaker A: And what makes DAI unique is the fact that it's not backed by US dollars in a bank, but rather DAI is minted when a user deposits crypto assets like USDC ETH staked ETH and Bitcoin and RWAs like tokenized T bills as collateral to borrow against. DAI itself ends up being backed by this surplus of collateral. And I know there are some people out there that are going to be like oh Jen, this sounds like a Ponzi, but I think it should be said that DAI is probably one of the most battle tested and proven models for for an algorithmic stablecoin. So that's MakerDAO and DAI. And just understanding this is pretty important because the native yield for USDB on BLAS comes from the DAI savings rate also known as dsr. And DSR is funded by DAI Stability Fee which is the interest rate borrowers are willing to pay to mint and borrow dai. And this change from 5% to 15% native yield on USD beyond blast comes as a direct result of a proposal passed by Makerdao to increase their DSR and stability fees.
00:07:34.825 - 00:08:55.613, Speaker A: This came about as an accelerated governance proposal to protect DAI redemptions against a possible liquidity crunch. Because remember, DAI is backed by a surplus of crypto and RWA collateral and over the last several weeks DAI has remained well over collateralized but there have been a lot of concerns about how rapidly their reserves and their PSM which is responsible for handling DAI redemptions was being depleted. The supply of USDC and dai's PSM has been significantly shrinking over the last several weeks and months in comparison to the other collateral that are held in reserves. And the thing about having RWAS partially backing DAI is you don't ever want to be in a situation where you have to rush to liquidate the RWA collateral to fulfill redemptions. Right now, things like tokenized T bells aren't assets that can easily and quickly be liquidated. And basically the TLDR on why the reserves were being rapidly depleted is because degens are degening. Everyone is aggressively trying to long crypto and a good portion of folks were actually taking advantage of the very cheap 5 to 6% interest rate to borrow DAI and creating loops where they would go sell the DAI for USDC and then go lend that USDC on a different lending platform.
00:08:55.613 - 00:09:58.383, Speaker A: And you might be wondering like why were they doing that? Well, it's because interest rates across the board to borrow USDC shot up through the roof with users willing to pay anywhere from 26% to over 100% to borrow for a multitude of reasons that I'm just going to summarize as degenning. So this caused some supply shock and MakerDAO needed to make adjustments to basically bring their various rates in line with the market to incentivize borrowers to repay and hopefully prevent a rapid supply shrink in the future. And the reality is with the market conditions that we are in, people are willing to borrow diet 16%, which is what funds the 15% DSR rate that is the source of our native yield on USDB on blast. This rate can change in the future. It's going to fluctuate with market demand. But to speculate, I think it's very likely that this rate will remain high until the overall market sentiment turns bearish. All in all, I'm pretty bullish on this.
00:09:58.383 - 00:10:44.137, Speaker A: The one thing I do have to say though is if you are interacting with lending platforms, just check in on what this native yield increase means for you, especially if you are borrowing like USDB and taking it off chain, et cetera. Now let's dig into a topic where everyone, including myself, has questions about blast points and blast gold. Let's go over our baseline first. We know that the first blast airdrop will be in May. 50% of this airdrop is allocated to blast points and 50% of this airdrop is allocated to blast gold. I want you to think of blast points and blast gold as two completely separate buckets. Blast points are directly correlated with your ETH and USDB balance on Blast.
00:10:44.137 - 00:11:37.641, Speaker A: These points are allocated to you directly every single block. And most platforms are actually allocating the Blast Points that they earn from user capital being deployed on their platform right back to their users. You'll be able to see that more and more as more platforms start to integrate the Blast Points API. Blast Gold, on the other hand, is much more valuable than Blast Points. Blast Gold is what Blast is going to use to basically supercharge developer incentives. This is something that the Blast team is manually distributing to the apps and projects on Blast every two to three weeks, and how this is distributed is really up to the discretion of the Blast team. So that's our baseline and I will say if you're on a platform that hasn't committed to giving Blast Points or Blast Gold back to you, the user, I would honestly look at other places to deploy capital.
00:11:37.641 - 00:12:29.007, Speaker A: I fully expect this to become the standard and the norm, especially during this heavily incentivized time. I think the big biggest question marks are really around Blast Gold. So here is a little bit of a breakdown and summary based off of the information I found in the docs talking to developers and from Pac man during the developer ama. In my mind, Blast Gold is going to be the equalizer between power users and whales. The whole point of Blast Gold is to make sure that dapps are rewarded based on traction and contribution to the Blast ecosystem system. And it should be said that traction isn't just about TVL but rather it's about usage, retention and volume etc. So we know that winners and participants of the Big Bang competition were allocated a portion of Blast Gold as a reward for being an early builder in the ecosystem.
00:12:29.007 - 00:13:55.433, Speaker A: But the vast majority of Blast Gold is going to be distributed throughout mainnet. Being live for devs to get Blast Gold and by extension for us as users to get Blast Gold is really going to be dependent on the platform's performance Performance on mainnet so how projects and platforms are evaluated for Blast Gold comes down to subjective factors like does this platform or project take full advantage of the Blast native features like native yield, gas fee sharing and how well did they integrate the Blast Points API? Is the platform building in a way that aligns with the long term vision of Blast. This goes back to how can apps or projects help create the highest yield environment and things like how thoughtful are the user incentives, et cetera. On the flip side, there are objective factors and criteria to show traction both through on chain metrics and social metrics depending on the category that the team is building in. This goes back to my point earlier that it's going to come down to metrics like usage, retention, volume, et cetera. So if we take that framework and apply it to the different categories of apps on Blast, we can start to get an idea of how to best engage with these platforms to help them help us get max Blast Gold. So for Spot Dexes, consider how much volume you as an individual are pushing through.
00:13:55.433 - 00:15:00.889, Speaker A: How frequently are you using the platform because that signals user retention. Other things that the platform should probably be aware of and consider are things like user count and the depth of their liquidity. For perp Dexs, think of metrics like open interest, volume and how frequently you're going back to leverage trade. On the lending side of things, I like to think of things like outstanding debt, quality of collateral, total users, and how borrowed assets are being utilized in the Blast developer docs, they actually break down some of these metrics for illustrative purposes for some of the categories. But how NFTs, gaming and the other category of Dapps will be evaluated for Blast Gold is probably something that the team is going to need to do at an ad hoc basis. So that's the gist of how Blast will be awarding Blast Gold, and it's going to really be up to the platforms to tell us how they are distributing that gold that they get back to us. I think these incentive plans will probably be made much more clear after the first Blast Gold airdrop which is coming up here.
00:15:00.889 - 00:15:41.611, Speaker A: I think like in the next week or two. I think both users and teams alike are still trying to wrap our heads around how exactly is this going to work because we haven't really seen it in practice yet. So I think it just needs some time. A little bit of like trial by fire. I will say, though I do think it is super important to choose platforms that you have a genuine interest in using. The winning strategy is going to be what can you do consistently? And if you're using a platform that you have genuine interest in, then it becomes a lot more fun. And to wrap up this video, I actually want to go over some of the key takeaways from the developer AMA this morning.
00:15:41.611 - 00:16:59.379, Speaker A: So this is related to points, specifically the point multipliers you can get by interacting with specific Dapps. This was slated to go live on March 12, but has been delayed to April 1 due to wanting to have wallet delegation for secure security purposes, which makes a whole lot of sense to me. So this means users on Blast will be able to delegate different wallets to interact with apps to earn the point multipliers without having to risk their assets in their main wallet. This update actually resulted in another thing being changed, namely the point bonus for users who deposited before the mainnet launch. This whole situation is kind of confusing, but basically if you had deposited on blast before mainnet launch, you qualify for a 10x point boost on your total points earned from being an early adopter. Originally, the way you would fully get the point boost was by having roughly the same amount of capital on Blast mainnet that you had prior to mainnet launch and unlocking all of the point multipliers that comes from interacting with those dapps. Since point multipliers have been delayed until April, Blast is actually making adjustments that will basically make sure you're able to passively earn your bonus without having the max multiplier.
00:16:59.379 - 00:18:22.339, Speaker A: There are also a slew of bug fixes and UI improvements especially related to the way points are displayed and earned that are going to be rolling out over the next few weeks. Some of the things we can expect to see include fixes around the USDT deposits a full dashboard of all the apps on Blast that showed the exact point distributions for each project, and it sounds like we're going to have a revamped user experience when looking at our Blast dashboard in general to help make tracking our points much easier. We will also see a Blast mainnet upgrade at some point in the coming weeks that will fully take advantage of the Eth Denkun upgrade. Another thing on the topic of NFTs specifically that I found really interesting was Pac man mentioned that Blast will be putting a lot of effort into building up the NFT ecosystem on Blast. There are no explicit plans that can be shared at this point, but I think it's pretty obvious that there's a lot of speculation that we can make around this, especially given Pac Man's contributions to both Blast and Blur. The Blast team knows that there's not any robust L2NFT ecosystem and I think they see that there is a pretty big opportunity here to do something dope. Another topic that was also touched on are Blast long term revenue plans since Blast shares GAS revenue back to developers.
00:18:22.339 - 00:19:16.255, Speaker A: So this was pretty interesting and I think it should be said that none of this is solidified and what was shared was more thinking like long term down the line. But the idea is that the foundation or DAO that operates Blast in the future could could potentially charge a take rate on the native yield as a way to equal out the missed profits from the gas sequencer and another update for those of you who are interested in building on Blast. Blast is going to be opening up their developer Slack channel more broadly this week, so it should be easier to get in contact with the team and to bring us home. I'm going to iterate this again because it was iterated multiple times on the ama. The vast majority of Blast Gold is going to be distributed over time to apps that are performing well on mainnet. Big bang or not, it sounds like the playing field is evened out. So that's all I got for you guys today.
00:19:16.255 - 00:19:19.155, Speaker A: Bearish or bullish? Keep farming and keep building.
