00:00:00.200 - 00:01:00.744, Speaker A: Thank you very much for the introduction. So I'm going to talk about that. There's a very general theme in number theory which seeks to interpret the values of zeta functions and l functions in terms of motives or cohomology and so forth. But the overarching theme is to interpret them as periods, period integrals on algebraic varieties. Um, so I'm going to be very specific in this talk and focus on the case of, um, just an elliptic curve. So let's take an elliptic curve over q for now, um, associated to it is its l function, which is very famous, and we are interested in the values of this l function, um, at integers n greater than or equal to two. And specifically, I will focus on the case n equals two in just a moment.
00:01:00.744 - 00:01:59.656, Speaker A: So in this case, of course, there's this huge web of conjectures on special values of l functions. In this case, the relevant conjecture is Balinson's conjecture. And Balinson predicts that the value of the l function at two, for example, is a certain period of something, of some extension constructed out of the cohomology of the elliptic curve. And I will explain very concretely what that means. In this case, the conjecture is a theorem. It was proven in the case of modular curves, and in fact for modular forms of all weights by Baylinson and later by Tony Scholl. Okay, so I'm going to begin with an extremely concrete example to illustrate the sorts of questions that one runs into.
00:01:59.656 - 00:02:33.024, Speaker A: So this example is from a joint paper with a physicist, Claude Duo. The purpose of the paper was actually to come up with a counter example to a different conjecture. And so this example is not perfectly adapted to this situation. I've kind of repurposed it, but I think it does the job. So here's the equation, oops. Of a plane elliptic curve z y squared equals x cubed plus z cubed. It's very concrete.
00:02:33.024 - 00:03:47.374, Speaker A: I'm going to set rho to be this particular cube root of unity. And the first thing one realizes that, though it's not completely essential for, what I'm going to say is that this elliptic curve has a modular parameterization. So that means if you remove a finite set of cusps c, which are given explicitly where the coordinate y takes these five values, then that open locus is isomorphic to a particular quotient of the upper half plane h by this congruent subgroup gamma of six. So this map phi is completely explicit. And what you find is, if you take a particular choice of holomorphic differential on this elliptic curve dx over y, normalized suitably. Then when you put it back along this map, you get a cusp form f of tor of weight two for this modular group. And this cusp form has a Fourier expansion sum a n q to the n, where q is e to the two PI tor divided by six in this case.
00:03:47.374 - 00:04:24.244, Speaker A: And here's the beginning of the four expansion. It's very concrete. And the Fourier coefficients a n go into defining the l function. So here's the l function l f of s. It's the sum, it's the directly series formed out of the coefficients of this module of form. Out of this l function, we form what's called the completed l function by multiplying by a suitable gamma factor. In this case, just a single copy of the usual gamma function, some powers of PI and a conductor to the power s.
00:04:24.244 - 00:05:30.782, Speaker A: And this function satisfies the functional equation lambda f comma s equals lambda f of two minus squared. Now, the proof of this is very easy. You can just interpret this completed l function simply as a Mellon transform of this modular form. It's basically an integral along the imaginary axis of the modular form times tau to the s minus one. And the modularity of this function f, more precisely, with respect to the inversion tor goes to minus one over tor immediately gives the functional equation. So the question, the homework question is, how can we interpret this, the value at two of lambda as a period? Of course, to consider the value two of lambda of l is essentially, you know, it is a trivial to get between the two. So how do you interpret lambda f comma two as a period? Well, you might think that this is trivial because it's already an integral.
00:05:30.782 - 00:06:24.594, Speaker A: It's just an integral of this modular form along the imaginary axis. That's a period integral, right? But that's completely false, because this integral does not admit an algebraic interpretation. In fact, when s is greater than or equal to one, this integrand cannot be interpreted as a section of an algebraic vector bundle on the modular curve. So that is not correct. And the whole business is to interpret this number correctly. So, to do this, I want to sort of start from first principles and see how far we get without any sort of magic ingredients. So here's a picture of the affine elliptic curve in the affine space z equals one.
00:06:24.594 - 00:06:57.226, Speaker A: It looks like this, and it naturally comes. So it's just y squared equals x cubed plus one. And it naturally comes with two coordinates, x and y. So more precisely, those coordinates are maps to affine lines. A projection onto the x axis and a projection onto the y axis. Now as you can see from this picture, these projections are not et al. Where at certain points, so the projection onto the x axis is not et al.
00:06:57.226 - 00:07:54.204, Speaker A: Here at this point where the curve, the tangent becomes infinite, becomes vertical and two other points we can't see solutions to x cubed plus one equals zero. And similarly, the projection onto the y axis horizontally fails to be a tad at plus one and minus one where the curve becomes horizontal again. So those are bad loci and we shall remove them. So on this picture I've removed all the fibers where the coordinate projections fail to be et al. So now we have an elliptic curve in objective two space, if you like, and we have a bunch of lines which are marked in red. So actually we don't need all these lines. So I'm going to get rid of one of them and just retain these two.
00:07:54.204 - 00:08:54.998, Speaker A: Here x equals rho and x equals rho bar. So now what we have the geometry as follows. We have an elliptic curve in blue in p two, and we have four lines, four hyperplanes in red and the red hyperplanes I'm going to call d. Okay? So we have a configuration in p two and the proposition is that the value at two of the completed l function times some explicit factor PI four times PI times square root of three is given by a very explicit integral. Now this integral is naturally associated to this geometry as follows. So there's a chain of integration that I will come to in just a minute. The differential form is something very natural.
00:08:54.998 - 00:09:50.914, Speaker A: So we have omega of x defined down here, which is the unique, um, logarithmic differential form which has poles along these vertical red lines and, and residue one at one of them and minus one at the other, I think. Similarly, um, the form omega y is the unique logarithmic one form with, um, poles along the horizontal lines. Y equals one and y minus one and residue plus one and minus one respectively. So these differential forms are simply, oops, sorry, I've gone the wrong way. Are simply differential forms that are pulled back from the coordinate, from the punctured coordinate axes onto the elliptic curve, okay? Or onto the ambient space. And these are one form. So if we take the wedge product, we get a two form and that two form can be integrated.
00:09:50.914 - 00:10:51.354, Speaker A: And the proposition is that this very explicit algebraic logarithmic to form integrates to give the value of the l function and therefore completes its interpretation as a period. Fine. So now I need to explain to you what this domain of integration is. And so what we need is a two dimensional chain of integration. And it had better stay away from the poles of these differential forms for convergence, obviously, and for other reasons. So how do we do that? Yes, there's a slight technicality, which is that this configuration is not normal, crossing at the point of infinity. So a small technicality is that one should resolve the singularity and infinity by doing a blow up.
00:10:51.354 - 00:11:44.144, Speaker A: But you can just ignore this in the first instance. It's important, but it's not very technically difficult and it's not crucial to this discussion. So that gives us a new space that I call p. But you can just pretend that it's p two for simplicity in your mind, if you prefer. So now we want to construct a two dimensional chain of integration in p or p two, which avoids the red lines d, and with the property that its boundary is contained in the blue elliptic curve. So intuitively we can think of this sort of green shaded region that I've drawn here. This is a region in the real points of projective two space, and indeed its boundary is contained, as you can see, in the blue elliptic curve.
00:11:44.144 - 00:12:35.266, Speaker A: So what we want to do is modify this because this chain of integration, as I've just naively defined it, clearly does not work because it meets the red lines y one and y equals minus one and which is where our differential forms have singularities. So that's too naive. And what we want to do is somehow deform this cycle in such, this chain in such a way that it avoids these red lines y equals one and y one. So when we deform it, it's not going to be in the, in the real points anymore. It's going to be in the complex points of p two. But we can still say what it means for it to be real. It's real.
00:12:35.266 - 00:13:29.574, Speaker A: Of course, if the homology class is equal to its complex conjugate as a homology class, the cycle itself will not be contained in the real points anymore. How do we deform this chain? Well, we do it in two steps. The first step is to view this elliptic curve as a Riemann surface. It's the Riemann surface of the equation x equals cube root of y squared minus one. And therefore we can depict this elliptic curve as a triple sheeted cover of p one with coordinate y. And it is ramified. Well, here you see, it's ramified at plus one and minus one on this affine chart.
00:13:29.574 - 00:14:33.964, Speaker A: So we have this triple cover of the punctured affine line. And the projection I denoted PI y earlier is just the vertical projection in this picture. So what we can do then is consider the following green path on the affine line. So it's the path which goes from minus infinity, travels along or very close to the real axis in the y coordinate, then goes on a small loop to avoid the point minus one, keeps going, avoids the point plus one and goes on to infinity. Now that path is not invariant under complex conjugation. So what one can do is take that green path I've drawn and add to it its complex conjugate. So the complex conjugate of this path is the same, except that as it travels along it goes underneath minus one and plus one the opposite way.
00:14:33.964 - 00:15:18.092, Speaker A: And the sum of those two paths is a homology class which is complex conjugate invariant. And the way I like to think of this is simply a path that goes along the real axis. And when it gets near to the point minus one, it bifurcates into two parts which go both ways around minus one and rejoin afterwards. And similarly, when it gets close to one, it bifurcates into two paths which join again. And that makes perfect sense as a homology class. So there we have a path of which I've only drawn, you know, half on this picture and we can extend it. So think of it as the analog of the boundary along of this green cycle in the elliptic curve.
00:15:18.092 - 00:16:26.084, Speaker A: It's the deformed boundary and we must show that it is indeed the boundary of a two chain. So for that you need a tiny bit of homological algebra. We consider the relative homology of the projective plane, the projective two space minus the divisor d relative to the selective curve that has a boundary map to a two chain associated to one chain which is contained in the elliptic curve minus d. And we've just gone to the trouble of constructing a path in so one chain in the punctured elliptic curve. And using a little bit of Hodge theory you can show that this relative long exact homology sequence has the property that this term here, h one, p minus d actually vanishes. And that's for Hodge theoretic reasons, that group is zero. And that proves that there exists a two chain or a class in this relative two homology group whose boundary is p.
00:16:26.084 - 00:17:06.216, Speaker A: And so that is the definition of our cycle sigma plus, which is depicted in cartoon form here. But of course, in reality it wraps, it wraps around these red horizontal lines in some complicated way which I could not possibly draw. So that's a real two chain on this relative homology group and that's our chain of integration. And so the proposition I recall was that the integral of this very explicit differential form along this, this explicit two chain is the value of the l function at two. Good. Oh, sorry.
00:17:06.240 - 00:17:09.416, Speaker B: Does this uniquely pin down sigma? Like, is that map delta?
00:17:09.520 - 00:17:12.080, Speaker A: No, and it's not. It's up to that. It's the homology cycle.
00:17:12.192 - 00:17:21.004, Speaker B: But, but the. Oh, I mean, up to, up to, like, as an element of homology, does it uniquely pin it down, or does the integral not matter? Which, which pre image not.
00:17:22.104 - 00:17:30.404, Speaker A: You're asking me, what's the kernel of this map? To be honest, I don't actually remember. It's been a while since I've been thinking about this, to be honest.
00:17:30.724 - 00:17:35.652, Speaker B: But integrating the kernel along this two form is zero or something.
00:17:35.748 - 00:17:47.628, Speaker A: Yes, yes, again, for horror reasons, because this differential form sits in a particular class. I think that's right. Yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry. I can't remember whether this kernel is zero or not. That's right.
00:17:47.628 - 00:18:42.584, Speaker A: It may come back to me, but I've computed it somewhat. Okay, so how do you prove this proposition? Okay, so everything I'm going to say should, should make actually no reference to modularity. But the technique of proof uses modularity in a fundamental way. So what do we do? We start with the differential form on the right hand side. And recall we had this modular parameterization of the punctured curve after you remove the cusps, and if you pull back omega x and omega y, you get. So they are logarithmic two forms with poles at the cusps, by definition, and therefore, they are modular forms which have poles at cusps. And you can check that they are precisely Eisenstein series of weight two, which I've called ex and ey tor.
00:18:42.584 - 00:19:45.254, Speaker A: And you can work them out explicitly so we can compute this integral on, on the upper half plane. First step is to replace these differential forms with Eisenstein series. The next observation is that you can actually take a primitive, you can actually integrate one of the Eisenstein series. Now, you can't do that literally, but if you take its real part, you can show that it has a primitive, it is d of an explicit function, which is a real analytic Eisenstein series. Um, and, um. Fine. So if you plug that into the right hand side, you see that this, this, uh, two dimensional integral, um, after playing Stokes formula, reduces to a one dimensional integral along some path in the upper half plane of an Eisenstein series times a real analytic Eisenstein series series.
00:19:45.254 - 00:20:39.164, Speaker A: Okay, so that's what happens if you transport this integral to the upper half plane. Now, there's a bit of jiggery pokery that needs to be done here. So it's a little bit technical, and I'm just going to give the key heuristic idea. And that's the, once you've got an integral along a path in the upper half plane on some geodesic, again, you can apply Stokes formula and essentially reduce this integral, or rather this integral times an integral of a cuff form. And you can compute that by expressing that gdesic path as a component of the boundary of a fundamental domain. And the upshot is that you need to calculate a certain integral of a two form over a fundamental domain. Here, h mod oops, h mod gamma six and a two form in question is this thing.
00:20:39.164 - 00:21:31.802, Speaker A: So the real analytic Eisenstein series times a holomorphic Eisenstein series times the complex conjugate of a cusp form of the same cusp form as before. So you have a couple of steps to do this, believe me. Now, this thing is something very classical. It's essentially a pietzen in a product. And the rank and Selberg, or unfolding technique, computes this for you and tells you that it is a product of two values of the l function of this cost form. And when you put everything together that shows that this integral you started out with is indeed one of these l values of the class form in question. So this, I don't think this has been worked out.
00:21:31.802 - 00:22:39.172, Speaker A: These steps have been worked out explicitly in the literature, but I have done it in the case of level one, in full generality and in all weights, very explicitly. So, in principle, this should extend easily to the high level case along precisely these lines. But anyway, the important thing to remember is the interpretation of this integral I as an integral along a line, along a path. It's a path integral of an Eisenstein series times a real analyst Eisenstein series. And you can reinterpret that as saying that it's just the real part of what's called an iterated integral of two Eisenstein series. So the only thing I want to sort of retain from this technique for computing the integral, um, is, is this slogan that the l function of, um. So the l value at the .2
00:22:39.172 - 00:23:16.434, Speaker A: of this elliptic curve is nothing other than, um, the iterated integral of two Eisenstein series, more precisely its real part. And, and I think that's a very interesting interpretation of this, um, l value. And it's kind of implicit in, in balance, original work on this topic. That's it's in a very different language. Good. So we've understood why the l value is a period integral of some kind. Now we need to explain the extension underlying it to talk about Baylinson's conjecture.
00:23:16.434 - 00:23:57.404, Speaker A: So we've kind of already seen this geometry before when we were trying to construct this relative integration cycle. And so the obvious thing to do is to look at the relative cohomology of projected plane minus the bad red devices where we have poles relative to the elliptic curve. So this is just, sorry. The cohomology of this picture, you know, you delete the red lines and take relative to the blue stuff. It's a very natural thing to do. So that gives us a cohomology group, h two in your favorite cohomology theory. And I'm going to focus on Durham cohomology and Betty homology.
00:23:57.404 - 00:24:55.762, Speaker A: This cohomology group, or motive, if you like, is kind of complicated, but sitting inside it is a sub quotient n. Sorry, I can't seem to highlight this, which has rank three, and it is, um, a, an extension of this thing here, q chi minus two. It's, it's essentially, um, just, just a tape motive. Um, this chi is, is some twisting of some character related to this root of unity. It's a small detail that's, that's not really essential. So it's an extension of something, a one dimensional object that's very explicit by the cohomology of the elliptic curve, which is, of course, a rank two object. As I said before at the very beginning, this example is not brilliantly adapted to this problem.
00:24:55.762 - 00:25:28.296, Speaker A: If one was a bit more careful, I'm sure you could just have q of minus two here on the right if one wanted. But this is the way it came out. This three dimensional sub quotient is, is in each realization is just a three dimensional vector space. So in Durham cohomology, it has two. So we're talking about differential forms. It has two generators coming from the h one of the elliptic curve. So these are one forms of elliptic curve.
00:25:28.296 - 00:26:04.976, Speaker A: So we of course have the holomorphic differential x dx over y. And we have the differential dx over y of the second kind. And this quotient here, q rank one, is spanned by this logarithmic two form we constructed omega x wedge omega y. So we know all the differential forms very explicitly. They're completely concrete. The Betty cohomology, or rather it's dual. The Betty homology is also of rank three, and it's spanned by three chains of integration, if you like.
00:26:04.976 - 00:26:44.200, Speaker A: There's the sigma plus that I explained how to construct, which is real. There's one that is not real. So it's anti invariant under complex conjugation called sigma minus, which I haven't explained explicitly. And there's another sigma zero plus, which is some kind of tubular, it looks like some tubular neighborhood sitting around a point of intersection, one of the corners of this divisor D. So it's like a product of circles. So you have these quite explicit harmonity cycles. And to compute this, you have to use, you have to use a man and drink theorem and some technicalities.
00:26:44.200 - 00:27:45.788, Speaker A: But that's the fundamental reason why you get an extension in this particular situation. Okay, fine. So we've got the duram cohomology, we've got the Betty homology. And the thing to do in this context is to pair them together and form the period matrix, which is the matrix of entries you get by integrating every differential form against every chain of integration. Now, in the top left hand corner, we have a two by two matrix, which is simply the period matrix associated to the elliptic curve here. This group h, one of e on the left here, as is extremely classical, an elliptic curve has two periods, denoted omega plus and omega minus, and two quasi periods, eta plus and eta minus. And omega plus and omega minus are the periods with respect to the holomorphic differential dx over y.
00:27:45.788 - 00:28:52.484, Speaker A: And eta plus, eta minus are the periods with respect to the differential. The second kind, x dx over y. Then we have some zeros down here for horror reasons. The period of this quotient here, q, is just essentially a multiple of two PI I squared. So in fact, it's I PI squared over square root of three. So this character, this quadratic character chi, I didn't mention that, just gives rise to the square root of three here and the period we're interested in, which was the integral of omega x, where omega y, this two form over this two chain sigma plus, gives by the previous proposition precisely the value of the l function of the elliptic curve times some pre factor. And so that basically, that's basically it for Baylinson's conjecture, shown how the l function of the elliptic curve at the .2
00:28:52.484 - 00:29:40.574, Speaker A: is a period integral, which can be interpreted as a period of this very explicit extension of a trivial object, Tate motive, if you like, Tate cohomology group by the cohomology h, one of e, this extension here, and that's what Bayinson's conjecture predicts. Now, the way I've written this, you can immediately see the elephant in the room, which is that this period matrix is missing an entry. All the entries are either zero or very classical or well known numbers. But there's one that's missing. Let's give it a name. Let's call it cf. Two, because it doesn't have a name.
00:29:40.574 - 00:30:49.368, Speaker A: And there is no known conjecture which explains what it is. And so we're led to an obvious question which is at the bottom of the page here, which is how do we think about this missing period cf. Two? And the first remark to make is that the question doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense because this period matrix is not well defined. It depends on a choice of basis of, well, this choice of basis that I've written here of the Durham cohomology and the battle homology. However, the same criticism applies to Bailenson's conjecture, but in fact you can see that this matrix isn't completely, this basis isn't completely arbitrary because there's a lot of structure that it needs to respect. The Durham cohomology has a hodge and a weight filtration, which is this upper triangular structure.
00:30:49.368 - 00:31:26.910, Speaker A: So the basis has to respect that. So in fact, this omega x wedge omega y isn't just a random choice of differential form, it's completely canonical. It's cut out by the hodge and weight filtrations. So this entire column of the period matrix is completely well defined. And if we look on the rows, the homology, in fact, the first row and the last row, sorry, the first row is completely well defined because it's the part of the homology that's invariant under complex conjugation. So this entry, at least up to a rational multiple, makes perfect sense. And that's why beneath conjecture, makes sense.
00:31:26.910 - 00:32:09.724, Speaker A: But this entry here in the missing slot does not make sense, because what you can do to this matrix is you can always legitimately add a multiple of the third row to the second row. In other words, you can change. This goes back to the earlier question. I suppose the cycle sigma minus is not well defined, and you can add to it a rational multiple of sigma minus zero. So the question doesn't make sense to ask, what's the entry here? It depends on your choice of basis. However, you can say, well, let's look at the vector space generated by the two numbers cf. Two q and I PI squared over square root of three.
00:32:09.724 - 00:33:00.722, Speaker A: So that's a two dimensional vector space, and that is completely well defined. So the better question is to say, can we formulate a conjecture that predicts, um, that generates this vector space? And the answer is no. Of course, in the literature there is no such conjecture. I don't think anyone's asked this question before. And clearly this is a very sort of basic invariant of an elliptic curve, because something I forgot to tell you, which is also part of the Benison conjectures, which states that this extension is conjecturally unique. It's supposedly the unique such extension of this kind. And therefore the entries of this period matrix, or the invariants of this matrix are invariants of the elliptic curve.
00:33:00.722 - 00:33:43.954, Speaker A: And so this question, by rights, makes sense, and it should have some intrinsic answer, well, intrinsic to the elliptic curve itself. So there should be some conjecture that there should be a whole panoply of conjectures that describes these kinds of numbers. So the tentative answer, well, in this case, the answer is yes, we can interpret this space using something called mixed l functions. So that introduces the second half of my talk, which will be about these mixed l functions. Hello, sorry for interrupt you. I have my basic question about this n. Do we know that it's genuinely a sub motive, or is it just a sub object? If you consider the two realizations, Betty and the Ram.
00:33:43.954 - 00:34:29.364, Speaker A: So again, I'm a bit rusty on this. I think it's defined only using the weight filtration, if I recall correctly, and some very simple geometry of the elliptic curve, maybe some involution or something, generally actually a sub question in the category of more. Of course, in this case we only care about the category of mixed structures, but I think it's actually, I mean any category, but I'm not 100% sure that I didn't use the hodge filtration or something like that. I don't think I did, but I'm fairly sure that it's true. In your favorite category. Okay, thank you. But I'm not completely sure about that.
00:34:29.364 - 00:34:30.960, Speaker A: I also.
00:34:31.112 - 00:34:41.584, Speaker B: So I was wondering, in your example, your elliptic curve is cm. I think so. I was wondering if the period conjecture suggests that there should be some relationship between the three numbers you're studying.
00:34:41.704 - 00:35:08.834, Speaker A: Absolutely. So that's a total accident, by the way. It's just because for this physics problem, we came up with the simplest possible elliptic curve. That was a counter example. It doesn't need to be CM for this talk at all. Yeah, what it does is the rank, sort of, if you like, the dimension, the transcendence degree of the space spanned by this. The piece of the elliptic curve drops, so there's an extra relation.
00:35:08.834 - 00:35:17.198, Speaker A: The permanent of this period matrix is algebraic, something like that. But it doesn't affect these two guys on the right.
00:35:17.366 - 00:35:19.014, Speaker B: It doesn't tell you anything with the last column.
00:35:19.054 - 00:35:35.830, Speaker A: Cool. No, it doesn't. Yeah, thanks for pointing that. I'd forgotten that. It's absolutely correct. Yeah, but the CM's a complete red herring here. It's irrelevant for this discussion about these particular periods.
00:35:35.830 - 00:36:41.600, Speaker A: Okay, so are there any more questions about that part? No. Okay, so the second part of the talk is to try to enlarge the class of available numbers. Again, they should be defined intrinsically out of algebraic varieties, which could provide the missing, the interpretation of the missing periods. So sort of the theme in the subject is you're given these functions that have been around for centuries and you try to interpret their values as periods of algebraic varieties. But I want to do the opposite. I want to take certain periods of algebraic variety, such as the one we saw, this number c, which is a very explicit integral over an explicit cycle, and we want to interpret it with some new kind of l function. So how are we going to cook up a new kind of l function? There are various definitions of mixed l functions in the literature, but I do not believe that they are the correct thing in this case.
00:36:41.600 - 00:37:37.316, Speaker A: There are degenerate cases where the definitions happen to agree, but in general, I don't think that they are the right answer. So my definition here is a bit roundabout, but it is quite natural if you bear with me. We start off the input data is a bunch of functions, theta one up to theta r, which should be thought of as theta functions. And therefore now any functions on the positive reals to complex numbers, which are just continuous. We assume two properties, one that they satisfy a functional equation with respect to inversion. So theta I one over t is t to the wi, where w I some integer which we think of as a weight times the function. So it's a bit like a modular form, I suppose, or it's restriction to the imaginary axis.
00:37:37.316 - 00:38:25.272, Speaker A: And then we have some asymptotic condition. We demand that the theta function essentially tends to zero. What has a piece which tends to zero exponentially fast as t goes to infinity, and a sort of divergent part that grows at most polynomially as t goes to infinity. So it's a polynomial plus something that's converging to infinity, going to zero very fast infinity. And from that we can define the mixed l function, which is a function of r complex variables, simply to be an iterated integral of Mellan transforms of these theta functions. So you take theta one t one t one to the s one minus one dt one. You integrate that, you multiply by the next theta function et cetera.
00:38:25.272 - 00:38:48.180, Speaker A: And you keep integrating. So that's just an iterated integral from zero to infinity. And it's completely explicit. Now, in general, that doesn't converge when you have these theta, there's this non exponentially suppressed growth at infinity. This diverges. But there's a canonical way to regularize that using tangential base points. It's extremely explicit.
00:38:48.180 - 00:39:42.548, Speaker A: I've written it explicitly somewhere. And it's easy to write closed formula for this, but you can just ignore the regularization in the first instance. So, a version of these functions was considered by manin a while ago, where the thetas were cusp forms specifically. So the first example are modular forms. So, a bit more general than Manning, because I'm going to allow a non castformed Eisenstein series. So, the first example, if you take any modular form of weight w an eigenfunction for the frickinvolution on this congruent subgroup, then if you simply restrict the cusp form to the vertical imaginary axis, suitably normalized, you get a theta function. So, modular forms give a whole panoply of examples, but much more generally.
00:39:42.548 - 00:40:18.844, Speaker A: In fact, if you take any motivic l function, so the l function of any motive. So the motive needs to be self dual. That's a technicality that we don't. Just a simplification for the purposes of this talk, but conjecturally, every motivic l function is a direct series, and it's supposed to satisfy functional equation, et cetera, et cetera. If you make those assumptions, then it was explained by Zaghi and doctor how you can associate to such an l function, a very general theta function. And the theta function is something very explicit. It's just this.
00:40:18.844 - 00:41:02.324, Speaker A: It's an expansion using the same, the same coefficients in the direct series definition of l, and some very explicit function, which you just compute once and for all. And it only depends on the gamma factors of the l function. So, for modular form, it's some exponential, but in general, it's some hypergeometric function. And then the mativic l function, the completed mativic l function, is just the l function of the associated theta function. So, the simplest possible example is where you take the trivial motive cohomology, h zero of a point. In this case, the l function is the Riemann zeta function. Its completion is the Riemann psi function.
00:41:02.324 - 00:41:55.954, Speaker A: And that is just the Mellon transform of the Jacobi theta function here. So, it's interesting that already for the completely trivial motive, you get quite an interesting theta function coming out fine. So theta functions. There's no shortage of supply of interesting theta functions meeting the requirements of the definition. So then if we take this mixed l function, we find that it always defines a meromorphic function on, in r complex variables, which has at most simple poles along very specific hyperplanes. It always satisfies a functional equation where each complex parameter si gets reflected wi minus si. And interestingly, that the orders of the theta functions gets reversed.
00:41:55.954 - 00:42:31.184, Speaker A: And also a general property of iterated integrals immediately implies that these l functions form an algebra. If you multiply two such l functions, it is a linear combination of other such l functions. So these properties are trivial. They follow immediately from the definition once you've set up the regularization correctly. And I want to focus on what I call totally critical values. So for classical l function, you have a notion of a critical value. It's where the gamma factors in the functional equation have no poles.
00:42:31.184 - 00:43:48.750, Speaker A: And so by extension we can define a totally critical value which are the integer values of this mixed l function, where each integer is critical for each corresponding theta function. So we have defined a vast array of numbers that come just out of motor. You give me any bunch of motives, this produces a huge array of numbers. And the question is, of course, are these interesting, and are they relevant to the question that I posed at the beginning? So, to try to answer that question, I'm now just going to give you lots of examples of totally critical values of mixed l functions and try to convince you that these are extremely interesting and that they answer the question I started with. So the simplest thing you can start off with is to look at cusp forms, sorry, not cusp forms, in fact, any modular forms of weight two on a modular curve. So you pick a congruent subgroup, gamma zero of n of sl two z. Take any r modular forms, f one up to fr, including Eisenstein series.
00:43:48.750 - 00:44:43.870, Speaker A: And the functional equation of the, of their corresponding l functions is s goes to two minus s. So there's only one critical value in this case, and that's the point s equals one. And so when you construct the, the mixed l function, there's only one interesting, totally critical point to look at, which is the point. And indeed you can show in that case that these numbers are always periods. They are periods of something called the unipotent fundamental group of the corresponding modular curve. So their periods are very interesting iterated extensions of motives or cohort of the modular curve. And you might think this is a bit limiting, because the, you've only got this one point where you can, you can take these l values, but don't forget that you can.
00:44:43.870 - 00:45:39.354, Speaker A: The f one up to fr can be chosen arbitrarily in any order. So in fact, there's a, there's a huge array of such numbers. More generally, you can take these modular forms to have arbitrary rate, arbitrary weights, in which case you can now take the arguments to be any integer included between one and the weight minus one. So now you have a huge amount of numbers and you can prove that these are all periods of what's called the relative completion of the modular curve, which is also something that can be built out of the cohomology of the modular curve as some kind of iterated extension. Good. So these are all periods. So from now on, to make things a bit more precise, I'm just going to focus on the case of level one, which is the case I've studied in some detail.
00:45:39.354 - 00:46:25.688, Speaker A: So now we're going to focus on sl two z. And so these are periods of some object, which is what's called the relative completion of the fundamental group of m eleven, the moduli stack of elliptic curve. So this is a very, very interesting central object. And these, in this case, these mixed l values are computing some of its periods. So in level one we have the following modular forms. We have Eisenstein series starting from weight four in all, even weights, which are normalized in the following way. They're normalized to have rational Fourier coefficients.
00:46:25.688 - 00:47:11.664, Speaker A: So the Fourier expansion here involves the divisor function sigma two, k minus one. And the first Fourier coefficient is, sorry. The 0th Fourier coefficient is a Bernoulli number, which is rational. So that's the rational, the correct normalization for the Eisenstein series that we want to take already the l function associated to this Eisenstein series, or rather the corresponding theta function, when you restrict it to the vertical imaginary axis, is already quite interesting. It's a product of completed Riemann zeta functions. But interestingly, it has this pre factor, which is a polynomial in s. And this polynomial in s looks completely innocuous, but it does something very interesting indeed.
00:47:11.664 - 00:47:54.826, Speaker A: And what it does is it punches out certain poles in the gamma factors. And essentially it sort of changes the definition of what it means to be a critical value. It enables you to access more critical values in these riemann psi functions. So this is quite a subtle operation, actually, even though it looks completely trivial. And so secretly, if you know about motives, these Riemann side functions are somehow associated to a direct sum of tape motives, secretly. The first cusp form in level one is the Ramanujan cusp form of weight twelve, as is very well known. And it has this very explicit four expansion I've written here.
00:47:54.826 - 00:48:36.114, Speaker A: Okay, so we have some very explicit modular forms on sl two z. We restrict them to the imaginary axis, we get some theta functions, and we can build some multiple l functions out of them. And the question is, what numbers do we get? So here are some examples. Well, the very first example is just the l function of an Eisenstein series. And let's just take its value at one, and then you can show that you always get the odd values of the Riemann zeta function with some explicit rational refactor. Maybe it's rational with some, perhaps some power of PI, perhaps. But it's some explicit pre factor times an odd zeta value.
00:48:36.114 - 00:49:34.734, Speaker A: And if you work out what this means in the case k equals one, then this gives you the left hand side, gives you a formula for zeta of three. And in fact, if you're careful about it, you retrieve a famous formula due to Ramanujan from about 100 years ago, which expresses the Riemann zeta three as what's called a Lambert series, which is an extremely fast converging series. And so already you get something interesting already in this extremely basic example. Here's another example. So if we look at this particular linear combination of double l values of Eisenstein series G. So this particular linear combination gives you the l value of the Ramanujan cut form. So a non critical value.
00:49:34.734 - 00:50:25.892, Speaker A: So this is very interesting, because it means that some non critical single l value is in fact a totally critical double l value. And so these different l values are somehow talking to each other in some very interesting way. And this, incidentally, this is a generalization of the key identity we had in the first part of the talk, where the l value of the elliptic curve at two was a double Eisenstein integral. And this is the generalization of that we have the analog of the l value of the elliptic curve at two is now the l value of this Ramanujan cost form at twelve. And again, it's expressible in terms of double Eisenstein integrals. Okay, so this is exactly the same phenomenon we had in the first part of the talk. Then the corresponding companion period.
00:50:25.892 - 00:51:12.564, Speaker A: So again, this l value of a cusp form sits in some extension, some rank three object, which is a simple extension of motives, same as in the first part. You have some unknown companion period, which has no interpretation, but we can interpret it indeed as a double, as a mixed l value associated to two Eisenstein series. So again, this answers a generalization of the question asked in the first part of the talk. What else do we get? So we actually, we also get multiple zeta values. So here's another example. If I take all value a different one, this time at the .1 comma one, I get a non trivial multiple zeta value zeta three, comma five.
00:51:12.564 - 00:52:16.634, Speaker A: And in fact, this gives you a Lambert series expression for multiple zeta value, which is also something which is new and was worked out by my PhD student Alex Sard. So here's his theorem in his PhD thesis a few years ago, very sadly, he's chosen to leave mathematics. His thesis was magnificent. It's on the archive. And in his thesis, he showed the theorem that all mixtape motives of the integers modular of level one. So, I won't explain in detail what that slogan means, but it has the following very beautiful corollary, which is that every multiple zeta value can be expressed as a linear combination of these multiple mixed l values associated to Eisenstein series. So the upshot is these multiple l functions at least give all multiple zeta values.
00:52:16.634 - 00:53:26.524, Speaker A: In fact, his term is much more precise than this corollary states he gives very precise information about what the weights are and what the values are. Good. Okay, so all of these examples are where the totally critical values are sort of inside the critical strip, inside of the region bounded by the functional equation. So, to test whether these multiple l values are interesting, it's good to go back to the most basic example possible of the Riemann psi function, where the functional the critical strip is between real part of s, between zero and one, and there are no integer points sitting inside it. So let's consider a psi of s, which is, as I said, the l function associated to the Jacobi theta function. And we can construct the double version by looking at two Jacobi theta functions. And these functions satisfy these two functional equations.
00:53:26.524 - 00:54:14.704, Speaker A: The first is the general functional equation. The second is this algebra, this multiplicative structure I mentioned earlier, which is a general property of these multiple l functions. So, for the Riemann zeta function, as I said, there are no interesting points inside the critical strip, which are integer points. But the critical value, the interesting critical values are the even values, where the even, whereas we know that the values of the Riemann zeta function are proportional to powers of PI. So the natural thing to look at for this double Riemann xi function are doubly even values, and I was very curious to see what they give. So, the bit of computation. So, let me state here the answer.
00:54:14.704 - 00:55:35.674, Speaker A: You can show that they have a very explicit expression as these certain nested sums, which look a bit like multiple zeta values, except they have these sort of quadratic, these quadratic expressions in the denominators. In fact, there's a whole literature on these single sums, but these double sums seem to me to be new. Possibly, and you can prove with a bit of work that these numbers are indeed periods, and they're periods of simple extensions of symmetric powers of the h one of a very special elliptic curve. It's the cm elliptic curve associated to the gaussian integers. And then again by Beninson's conjecture, half of these numbers are l values of the Hecker Krosen character associated to the cm elliptic curve. And the other half of these numbers are the companion for the new periods associated that sit in the period matrix of the corresponding simple extensions. So all these examples show that these mixed l functions, at least in these situations, answer the question I initially posed and give lots of other very interesting numbers.
00:55:35.674 - 00:56:30.906, Speaker A: So I have a whole load of slides which I don't have time to cover in the last three minutes. Perhaps I'll just quickly show you something else for fun, if you'll just bear with me just for a couple of minutes. So here's another example of a problem which these functions, these objects solve. And the problem is construct the periods of cohomology, groups or motives which are of a certain type which are a rank three again, but now not a simple extension, but a double extension. And so the simple extensions, it's known how to do that, you just use a Riemann zeta function. So the top left hand block of this matrix is just the period matrix for zeta three. The bottom right hand block is essentially peered matrix for zeta of nine times some power of two PI I.
00:56:30.906 - 00:57:13.482, Speaker A: And there's some number in the top right hand corner. And the question is, how do you find that number? It's essentially unique. And so of course there's this, there's Delene's huge program. He made this conjecture that all mixed tape motives are generated by iterated integrals on p one minus three points, which I proved about a decade ago. And this is the answer that it gives. The missing period entry in this period matrix is this unbelievably complicated combination of multiple zeta values. And the ones I've highlighted in blue are double zeta values which are on their own insufficient.
00:57:13.482 - 00:57:47.576, Speaker A: You have to have a multiple zeta value in yellow here of depth four in order to find this period. There's simply no other way to do it. So it's unbelievably complicated. It's very, very difficult. Use a lot of machinery to come up with this answer. But using this mixed l function, there's a sort of pure thought way to generate all function. And the answer just pops up as this incredibly simple expression is all function associated to two Eisenstein series G.
00:57:47.576 - 00:58:38.074, Speaker A: There's four and ten, and no accidents. It's because we started off with essentially a three and a nine, and that gives you four and ten if you add one. So that's another example of a problem that is made very much simpler using this new machinery. Fine, so I'm really at the end of time. There's a whole other section I'll skip. The conclusion is that there should be a very general conjecture which goes beyond the Baylinson and Deligne and blochato and Tamagawa nama conjectures on special values of l functions, which captures a much more general class of periods. So I believe that such a conjecture makes sense and should exist.
00:58:38.074 - 00:59:29.464, Speaker A: The next part of my talk was to propose a possible definition of multiple l functions, which had some good analytic properties, which should answer the first question. And these, what I didn't mention is that these multiple l functions actually arise in other contexts. They arise in the context of real analytic modular forms. They arise as Mellon transforms of something which is very well studied in high energy physics, some objects called modular graph functions, which arrive in string theory and which are extremely popular in string theory. So there's another way to arrive at the same. At a similar definition. So it looks like, at least in the modular forms case, it's the right definition.
00:59:29.464 - 01:00:46.454, Speaker A: And I tried to convince you by giving infinitely many families of cases where their totally critical values are indeed periods of very interesting motives. So, the next step in this program, which I feel a bit bad because I gave this talk, I've given talks like this ages ago, and I just simply haven't had any time, unfortunately, to make, to look at this. But what would be great is to, as a next step would be to formulate a very precise conjecture in some simple cases. So go back to the example in my first part of my talk. Take a general elliptic curve of a queue and express this unknown period, or rather the vector space it generates, using some multiple l function of the inverse Mellon transform of the l function elliptic curve, and some Eisenstein series. So I hope that there should be some very concrete and explicit conjecture that relates to these numbers in the same spirit as the classical conjectures on L values. So, I'm sorry, a minute over time, and I'll stop there if there are any questions.
