00:00:09.050 - 00:00:54.910, Speaker A: Hello everyone, thank you for coming for this especially crypto topic. So we're going to discuss central bank digital currencies and the crypto ecosystem. And more importantly, the message I would like to convey is what are the opportunities for the crypto system regarding CBDCs. We see often it as a boxing match, as if it was a competition between the two. I think on the contrary, there might be synergies and opportunities that we will try to discuss. So first a little bit on what has been already issued in terms of CBDCs, there are just a few projects that have been launched. So for instance in the Bayamas or in the Caribbean, there is a few projects and we have to be honest, most have not really succeeded.
00:00:54.910 - 00:01:45.182, Speaker A: There has been quite low adoption. One of the reason is that most end bank people are also the one that are the less digital literate. So it's not so easy for them to use this new system. There is a question of communication, a question of designing the interface for people to be easy to use. And we know this in crypto because it's basically the same problem, right? We have these fantastic infrastructures, but at the same time there is still a low adoption and in terms of retail payments, it's not taking on, it doesn't really fit the bill. So one one for the two. Now, if we look at a little bit of what's happening in CBDCs, there is not one type of CBDC project.
00:01:45.182 - 00:02:32.582, Speaker A: There are several very different projects and probably the thing that you want to learn today is that we should be discussing separately the different type of projects. If we look at the digital Euro for instance, so they have published recently, they are a more clear version of what's going to happen. The digital Euro will have three digital Euros projects that are almost independent. One is a pure offline payment, so allowing to pay from one smartphone to another smartphone entirely peer to peer. And so that model should allow us to have fully anonymous transactions. So it's quite innovative compared to anything that happened currently in payment systems. The second version is online payments.
00:02:32.582 - 00:03:45.010, Speaker A: So this is more like a PayPal a little bit more regulated, where payment service provider would onboard you, allow you to have a wallet and then every transaction will be settled by the central bank on special system they would create to be a bit faster. And the third one, it's a world sale CBDC. So in that case, it's a settlement unit that would be used only between financial institution to settle every time there is a debt between them. So they already currently use central bank money to settle certain operations and this is facilitating these by creating new infrastructures, allowing more operation to happen on it, and more importantly probably to potentially create different financial instruments on top of this infrastructure and being able to settle those transactions with central bank money. If we look at the three versions, the first one, so it's what I call more digital cash. So digital cash is something that's anonymous easy to use for everyday payments. There are very interesting experiments that are happening currently in CBDCs.
00:03:45.010 - 00:04:27.550, Speaker A: On the left it's from the Ecash 2.0 paper from David Schum. So the idea is to have blind signature to have some sort of certificate that then you can use to transact. So the central bank certified that it's a banknote because it signed it initially, but it doesn't know who owns which banknote because it's blindly signed. And so this has been experimented by, for instance project tobillon by the BS and they have tried to replicate this. So actual central banks are looking into it seriously. On the left, bank of Ghana is experimenting with European actor that provides currently a lot of banknotes in Europe and they are experimenting on offline payments.
00:04:27.550 - 00:05:05.642, Speaker A: Similarly to what I described just before, there is also online payment. So online payment there are very various different experiments but there are a few that use exactly the technology that we see in Blockchain. So Norway has published on their GitHub, their sandbox that use an ethereum like system and they are trying to look at all the issues like scalability, how they make it resilient and so on. On the left is Cambodia. They use a more dedicated solution that has been a little bit more customized for this model. And the third model I mentioned was World Sell CBDC. So between financial institutions.
00:05:05.642 - 00:05:51.550, Speaker A: So to my knowledge, there is no CBDC that has been issued for this. But the central bank of Brazil has launched a project which, I don't know why I made the rounds in crypto Twitter in the last weeks because it doesn't really concern the regular payment. It's only between financial institutions. They have created basically a protected ethereum ecosystem and they are inviting different actors to come and participate, to do different experiments. So they have invited Visa, local fintechs like Mercado Pay, but also Ave for instance is going to participate in this project. So there is a wide range of different actors that are invited to create that. Basically what they are trying to do is reinvent a little bit DeFi in a more controlled environment, experimenting on the same technologies.
00:05:51.550 - 00:06:43.914, Speaker A: So what can we conclude from this? Oh, first sorry, then there is a next step, which is the world sale international payment. So now we have been discussed only the national options, but at the international level there is also a need, and actually it's the most recent need for cross border transactions are really costly. They are complex because you have different ledgers that need to be settled in each jurisdiction. When you make a foreign transaction, the rates are not super transparent. So there is an idea of creating a new infrastructure to facilitate cross border payments. And for this, the bank of International Settlement has experimented with the bank de France and the bank of Switzerland and the Monetary Authority of Singapore, an automated market maker using the same principle as we all know. Here to settle between the different currencies.
00:06:43.914 - 00:07:24.090, Speaker A: So they are really experimenting with the technology and so much that even in their paper when they describe it, they mentioned that they have used specifically the Curve v two version for a reason. Because it matched their requirements. So not only they are using the technology, we are moving past the area where banks institutions are just using blockchain because it was cool. They are looking in details on the different white papers. And ideas and picking what makes the most sense for different usages. Thank you, Anastasia, for mentioning this. So now how we can compare the advantages and disadvantages from the crypto ecosystem point of view of CBDCs.
00:07:24.090 - 00:07:48.082, Speaker A: The first advantage is compatible technologies. So it's not fully settled. Most of what I mentioned are just experiments. So there is no guarantee that the final production solution will be using the same technology. But currently the standard de facto has become ethereum and other technologies that are more or less similar, but still the reference model is ethereum. They have experimented all with that. They have read all the papers and so on.
00:07:48.082 - 00:08:29.946, Speaker A: And I'm sure there are central bankers that are going to watch this presentation. So they are on top of this idea and that facilitates for the crypto ecosystem to provide then solution because everything is compatible. The IDs have been exchanged and so on. Inspired model that's what I mentioned with the IMM. So the general IDs are shared and more globally, the general vision that is on public blockchain and that is on ethereum to have one settlement layer and then have different layers on which there would be different action and then facilitate a different functional operation. The general view is the same. There is also the advantage of regulatory certainty, because, of course, if a central bank is going to issue CBDC on top, of such infrastructure.
00:08:29.946 - 00:09:28.206, Speaker A: It's going to be legal, and they're not going to be in the mess. We are still not knowing what's the value of this there is also the advantage of the ability to onboard traditional finance actors. Because they can even force them to if they have to. So for instance, in some countries they have made it mandatory to adopt some of the technology or they can just push them with the right incentives. There is programmability which could be an advantage especially if we look at Warsale and between financial institution because you can reuse all the principles that we know and importantly, something I would like to emphasize is the diverse motivations there are. Different actors working in those institutions with different motivation. And one benefit is that there are many people inside them that have been learning the different technologies but also the principles.
00:09:28.206 - 00:10:20.242, Speaker A: The value of open source, the value of privacy. The value of creating something that's resilient by design and so on and that feeds into the papers. And you can tell that sometimes there is some push toward very advanced, I would say ideas also along with the technologies. Because people who are knowledgeable in the technology may tend to align also with some of the values that are shared. Of course, the inconvenience we can imagine is central bank control. By issuing this kind of platform, they would control the platform itself. The privacy concerns that are more relevant for retail action, especially online payments the one I mentioned because Offline could be private if it was chosen to online is most likely to have some privacy issues.
00:10:20.242 - 00:10:46.714, Speaker A: And then for the World sale, it's not so much an issue privacy. It's a different question of more governance. And, yeah, there is a compliance burden. So I know it's a conflicting topic in the crypto ecosystem. How much? Compliance should be applied to crypto in a sense, by moving to the CBDCs. Of course, there will be a need to apply a lot of the compliance rules and that would imply some burden and so on. Not so.
00:10:46.714 - 00:11:18.374, Speaker A: Open. Even if some of the principles infuse there is no way a central bank will create a permissionless infrastructure, allow anyone to participate in it, there will be some control and so on. But the main question is how? Commerceomer do control. It's not something new. I think the Permissionless Vision is a great vision, but we have already existing example of markets that are quite open. We have examples of different places in the public life where you can participate and so on. So here the question for CBC would be how much open it would be.
00:11:18.374 - 00:12:08.354, Speaker A: One example is the question of technical specification. Even if the digital Euro starts to be clear, for instance, and we have legal publication explaining the digital euro. We don't have already any technical elements that could help us start to prepare if we had to develop a wallet or something. It's difficult to know what's going to be used and this kind of transparency would help to open it and provide more opportunities. Programmability I think you are all aware of the potential risk of using Programmability feature to control some usage of the money. The digital Euro claim that it's not going to be programmable but of course it's a little bit of question of definition how you look at it because as there is also compliance and there will be some application of a lot of rules so there will be some drawbacks and diverse motivation. So it was an advantage.
00:12:08.354 - 00:13:16.810, Speaker A: It's also an inconvenience because there are different type of actors feeding into that. There is lobby groups also interacting with CBDCs. And so in the results, it's not so clear that it will result in something that's necessarily aligned with your vision. So what's the future? For the future what I propose to you as an example is the Universal Exhibition of Paris in 19 hundreds, because I think it's a great example of how different private and public actors have come together to create something impressive of a new scale and merging different ideas. It was huge, absolutely huge. So if you know a little bit Paris, you see here highlighted all the areas that were part of the exhibition. So it was more than two kilometer square kilometers, so including all the Petipale, grandpale, avalid, so many touristy places you can look if you're coming here for the first time, and even the trocadero and so on.
00:13:16.810 - 00:13:56.434, Speaker A: The main topic of this Universal Exhibition was technology and advancement. I think it was a time where France was really proud of all the technology advancement they had made and they wanted to showcase a little bit. There were really interesting inventions showed at this event. One example was solar technology already. So unfortunately, it was the time where coal was super popular, so it didn't cut at the time, but they were already designing a system to use the sun to heat something. And on the right there is a moving pavement. So the part on the left was moving faster.
00:13:56.434 - 00:14:45.058, Speaker A: The second tier was moving a little bit slower, so you could leave and go back to the pavement and go faster from one place to another one. It's great that they were edge technology, but also bear in mind that there has been several deaths during the exhibition because they were creating all sorts of crazy building, crazy ideas, and some have failed, burned and crashed. And so a few people died during the exhibition. And the most hyped technology, of course, was electricity. It was the start of electricity. So at night you could see fantastic spectacle and illumination around all those buildings that were made of metal and glass. That was the new attraction also with the cinema.
00:14:45.058 - 00:15:25.986, Speaker A: It was the beginning of the cinema. So you could see projection and you could see how you could fly in a balloon from immersive experiences. The last thing is it was also a moment of national pride, because it's probably the hype of the nationalism in the traditional sense. So every country was proud to show how they had become this state nation, and they have this vibrant culture they wanted to showcase. So every country built a building that represented their culture. They basically each built a castle that represented each country. A lot of those castles have been dismantled and moved somewhere else, either in the Paris region, sometimes back to the country.
00:15:25.986 - 00:15:58.606, Speaker A: So not everything has been lost. But it was absolutely immense, the energy that has been put in this. So why I'm talking about this is, I think the model we have to bear in mind is not everything for this exhibition was built in one day. Everything took years. And actually there has been several exhibitions in the years before that allowed to prepare to create such a great event. And also there's been very different actors that have been coordinating to create this. The FL Torah, for instance, was purely privately financed and was designed for the prior exhibition in 89.
00:15:58.606 - 00:16:36.922, Speaker A: And it took a few years to be built. And also for the FL Tower as a side story, it wasn't dismounted just after as was planned because it was then used as a communication for the war. So they found a useful usage for this and they Papuated. But the really important part is how much different kind of people have coordinated. And if we look at how CBDC and the crypto ecosystem should cooperate, I think the main question is to find the different roles. And we are at the moment where CBDCs are just an idea. There is some implement, some design, some inspirations, but it's the moment where there is a need of technologies to help.
00:16:36.922 - 00:17:13.794, Speaker A: There is a need of public consultation to redesign all the key features. There is a need of laying out all the ecosystem around it. And I think sometimes central banks are not seeing all the scale of what's going to be necessary around it. Either if we talk retail, all the apps that will connect and so on, or world sale, how much all the financial system will need to coordinate around this platform and then join it, creating bridges with existing system and so on. So we can imaging the scale of things for the exhibition. There were, for instance, three major people I just mentioned. So Sara Berna was a theatre woman.
00:17:13.794 - 00:17:52.690, Speaker A: She owned the Theatre in Paris. She contributed to create some of the art events that were around this exhibition. Gustav Efeld, of course was this entrepreneur that financed the EFL Tower and other buildings. He has been successful because it became immediately a financial success for the EFL Tower. But bear in mind that during the exhibition many entrepreneurs totally failed. There were big companies that created huge buildings to promote a new technology, a new machinery. For instance, there was something that would show you the sky and there was a lens that would allow you to project like the details of the moon or the sun on a wall and you could see.
00:17:52.690 - 00:18:37.322, Speaker A: And they went bankrupt at the end of the exhibition because it was too costly to create this thing. And I think it's expected in an ecosystem of different actors participating in the system, you will have entrepreneurs failing. And that's how it works. And finally, there were also politicians. So here is Emil Lubet, the president at the time. And the politicians in France were actually really keen to have this event as a way to show a country that was a little bit more stabilized after some rough year in the prior century that has been revolution and again revolution and invasion by the neighbor and so on. So it was a time of peace, prosperity of the third republic establishing the principle that makes the modern state currently.
00:18:37.322 - 00:19:19.920, Speaker A: So it was a moment of problem and all the factors are needed to cooperate. Currently on CBDC, I think we see some sort of a rush to the gold. So this is a picture from the time showing the defect of capitalism. We see a rush, for instance, of provider rushing to central banks trying to provide them sandbags and so on, but without a clear strategy on how they can continue and maintain the relationship. We see a rush of different consultancy trying to on this. Even central bank among themselves are kind of competing in rushing to publish a new paper showing that they have the best ideas. And I think what we need is a little bit more coordination and be a bit more thoughtful on what's going to be the next step of this.
00:19:19.920 - 00:19:55.870, Speaker A: So, as a conclusion, this is the rosy feature I envision for all of us. So it looks a little bit like one century old, but I still think it looks pretty cool. So one of the Palais that was here with different people that attended it was attended by more people that they were in France at the time. More than 50 million people attending this exhibition. So I think we can consider it a success even if not everything went according to plan. And I think that's what we can expect from the interaction between CBDC and the crypto ecosystem. Thank you.
00:19:55.870 - 00:20:51.010, Speaker A: Do we have time for a question? So if you have any question, you're welcomed. Thank you. Duck. Duck. Duck. Duck. Duck.
00:20:51.010 - 00:20:52.770, Speaker A: Dump. Duck. Dump. Duck. Duck.
