00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.990, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the ad. Great refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is not the 24 June 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today, we have a little bit of eth ETF news. Not too much here, but basically Nate Jurassi here has said that all spot ETH ETF s one amendments are now in.
00:00:19.990 - 00:00:36.716, Speaker A: From all of the issuers here, we only know the fees of two of the ETF's so far. Franklin has a 0.19% fee and Vanek at 0.2%. And now we wait for the Sec. I'm fully expecting to get news around this, this week. I'm not. I'm not sure if they're going to launch this week or not.
00:00:36.716 - 00:01:03.950, Speaker A: I mean, it's a coin toss at this point. It's like 50 50. It could launch this week or next week or the week after. Right? But from what I've read from a bunch of other kind of ETF people and tried five people as well, is that there really isn't anything left to amend. So the ball really is in the SEC's court at this point, and it's up to them to just approve these things and get trading started. So it could happen as early as this week, maybe it happens today, I don't know. But as I said, like, everything's pretty much set for them to.
00:01:03.950 - 00:01:36.174, Speaker A: To go live at this point. Doesn't seem like there's going to be many more amendments from here. But the main question, I think that's on everyone's mind right now, or at least one of the main questions is, what is the fees going to be? What are the fees going to look like for the rest of these ETF's? So far, they've been pretty similar to the BTC ETF's, but I think the big one is grayscale. You know, what is Grayscale's ETH going to drop down to? Because I believe right now it's at like 2.5% or something like that, which is absolutely insane and would result in huge outflows if they kept it at 2.5%, I believe. But they also have an ETh mini trust that they've.
00:01:36.174 - 00:02:09.216, Speaker A: That they're spinning up. That basically is going to have a lower fee than their normal, than the Ethi conversion, just like they did with the GBTC conversion and then had the mini GPTC trust a mini, sorry, mini BTC ETF trust there. But I can't it kind of begs the question, then it's like, okay, well, if they're doing a mini trust, does that mean that they're not going to lower their fees of ETh down to be competitive with the other ETF's? And I don't think so. I think what they're probably counting on is that, yeah, okay, there'll be some outflows if they lower the fees to. I don't know what they're going to lower it to. Right. Just at any point, maybe 1%, 1.5%
00:02:09.216 - 00:02:35.516, Speaker A: or something like that. Maybe lower than that, but it's probably going to be higher than the other ETF. So for them, the calculus is, okay, well, even if we lose half of our aum and that goes to. Goes elsewhere, we can still keep what we have, as, you know, whatever it is, like $5 billion worth of ETh in there at that fee is still a lot of money. And of course, they'll have their mini trust, which will probably have a competitive fee with the other ETF's, which people can buy and funnel themselves into there. But again, that's an open question. Right now.
00:02:35.516 - 00:03:18.450, Speaker A: We don't know what their fee is going to look like. As I said, that's the thing that a lot of people are curious about, because it really is going to determine how much outflows ETH probably, like, as I've described before, I think that the ETH outflows aren't going to be as bad as GBTC, not just because I think the fee is probably going to start off lower than it did for GBTC on conversion, but also because the discount for ETH has been lower than 3% since May 23. I don't know what it is currently. I think it went back to just over 3% because. I don't know. The market's been volatile lately, and people like to be dumb, I guess, because, like, you know, that these things are going live within the next couple of weeks. So why would you trade away your ETH at a discount here? But no, the discount has remained mostly under.
00:03:18.450 - 00:04:12.984, Speaker A: I think it dips. It went to just over 3% on June 14, but since May 23 or even May 20, really? Actually, no, I'm looking at the thing here. Since May 24, it's been under 3%. It's actually been under 2% for the majority of the time. So if you're waiting to sell your ethic, if you're desperate to get out of ETH, as I've described before, desperate to get out of this product, out of ETh, you would expect people would have done that already and sold it at whatever discount it is, one to 2% discount rather than waiting. If they were desperate, right? They really wanted to get out, especially because ETH went up to like 4k. So if you had sold off the ethy and, you know, at the near fair value, whatever it was, maybe 2% off fair value, and then sold that for cash, like, if you were one of those people who wanted to do that, you are much better off doing that then than you are now, where the price is now, of course, but also rather than waiting for the conversion to happen as well, because you can sell, you just can't redeem it for actual etH, but you can sell for cash.
00:04:12.984 - 00:04:27.776, Speaker A: So I don't know. Again, it's an open question. It's something that a lot of people are pondering it. There's both a bull and bear case to be made here. I do expect there to be outflows from ETH, of course. Don't know what the magnitude is going to be like. It's going to be determined by the fees, definitely, but also by hand.
00:04:27.776 - 00:05:03.034, Speaker A: People are actually still waiting to get out because a lot of these outflows, as I mentioned on one of the episodes I've done previously, they could potentially not be true outflows in the sense that they're not net outflows where people are selling their ethy's product, selling it for cash, and then going out of crypto, and they're not putting it back into ETH, whereas I suspect if the fees are too high, a lot of people are just going to sell out of Ethi. Convert that into another ETF, and you'll see kind of a netting effect there between the two. But we'll have to see. We'll have to see how that all shakes out there. Sure. We're going to get more news about this this week. As I said, there is a chance they start trading this week.
00:05:03.034 - 00:05:46.220, Speaker A: But, you know, in the next one to two, maybe even maybe three weeks is when we're going to see it here. As I said before, early July was my kind of prediction. July 2 seems to be the date that people are coalescing around right now, but there's no reason why I can't launch this week. Honestly, it's just up to the SEC at this point here. Now, one last thing I want to talk about with regards to the ETF, it's a bit related here was that one of the ETF issuers, bitwise, their CIO has put together a tweet here where they said ETH tailwinds in the second half of 2024. So a bunch of tailwinds here that I've spoken about before. Such a significant new demand from the ETF, of course, constrained supply limited to zero net issuance, you know, yearly net issuance due to the burn.
00:05:46.220 - 00:06:10.596, Speaker A: I know the burn hasn't really been that high lately, but generally over the long period of time, it offsets the issuance. Right. Improved regulatory clarity. This is a big one. That's still. The market is under pricing, I believe, where essentially the ETF approval and the SeC dropping its consensus lawsuit basically opens the floodgates to eth being properly regulated as a commodity and viewed as a commodity rather than a potential security. So that is a huge thing there.
00:06:10.596 - 00:06:31.482, Speaker A: Radically improved throughput market is still under, I guess, pricing. What L2s are doing for the ethereum ecosystem, I mean, that's nothing new to all of us. The people still complaining about high gas fees on ethereum when even layer one gas is low. Right. Let alone the L2. So there's that significantly improved ux, I think, you know, Matt said here, thank you, base. I don't think it's just like the l two s.
00:06:31.482 - 00:07:00.144, Speaker A: It's also things like Coinbase doing their smart wallet right. Improving the UX on the wallet front, that's been, that's been really big institutional adoption. Of course, that's coming with the ETF's cycle timing, he reckons is a classic altcoin cycle coming. I mean, I wouldn't even consider ETh to be an altcoin. And I don't know, like what, when the altcoin cycle is going to start again. I mean, I don't really speculate on that sort of stuff, but I do believe. Well, I guess, like, I do agree with him in terms of cycle timing because as I mentioned, I don't know which episode it was sometime last week.
00:07:00.144 - 00:07:40.194, Speaker A: However, we're currently in this summer lull that I believe will, will get out of. Maybe, you know, it could even happen in July, but maybe in August or September or something like that. And then the second half of 2024 should be quite nice, should be quite bullish, I think, rather than crabbish. I know right now, generally, like Ethan, BTC kind of in a range, they're crabbing. It's a bit of a wide range, but they're there, whereas a lot of other stuff is just getting obliterated. So people are like losing hope in the bull market, of course, because they are in this other stuff, not an Ethan BTC, but I do think we're in for a good second half of 2024, especially as we move into the colder months in the northern hemisphere, because usually markets are good around that time. Macro conditions Matt mentions as well.
00:07:40.194 - 00:08:08.776, Speaker A: Of course, that's not something that I put a lot of stock in, but definitely rate cuts have an overall positive narrative effect. So once we start seeing those rolling, I think that's just going to add fuel to the fire. And it's an election year, right? I don't know what the election is going to look like. I don't know who's going to win. I don't really care, to be honest, because I'm not an american citizen and I have no effect on it at all. So, I mean, I can't vote, right? But also, I have, like, no effect at all because I'm australian, as you guys know. But I guess for what it means for crypto, I don't know, man.
00:08:08.776 - 00:08:42.180, Speaker A: Like, I listen to politicians of all sides make all kinds of promises, and at the end of the day, it's just promises, it's just narratives until they actually implement it. And I don't trust a lot of them to implement their promises, no matter what side they fall on, right, left, center, whatever you want to call it. Typically, they're just saying things to get elected. And I understand it's a game you got to play. You got to say what you got to say to get elected, and then you got to try and implement things. But you're not a dictator in a democracy. You've got to go around all these different interests, right? Whether they be interests, uh, special interest group, group groups that are lobbying, or whether it's your fellow Congress, Congress members, stuff like that.
00:08:42.180 - 00:09:09.902, Speaker A: Right? Or fellow members, fellow politicians, I should say. I get that. But I think when it comes to the election and election years and stuff like that, it's all about the. The narrative, right? So, obviously, Trump's in the US has been very pro crypto lately. Whether he's actually pro crypto or not, I think, is rather irrelevant. I think, like, it's relevant if you want to just call it out for what it is, which is pandering, because, as I said, all politicians do this. But in terms of, like, a narrative, I think it's a pretty good tailwind for all of crypto.
00:09:09.902 - 00:09:49.788, Speaker A: And then, of course, the Democrats scrambling and Biden scrambling to be like, oh, yeah, no, we're pro crypto to donate to us, blah, blah, blah, right? Again, pandering. But but if you look at it from a narrative point of view, it's a pretty good narrative to have, especially if price starts going up again or prices start going up again in the second half of this year, that will translate into the narrative following the price. And then, of course, the narrative will become more bullish as like this reflexive thing that we always see. And that's basically all the major catalysts that, that Matt highlighted here. And I totally agree with him on pretty much most of these. Some of these I have different opinions on, of course, but the biggest one is the ETF and the regulatory clarity by far, I believe. I think that's the biggest, especially specifically for ETH.
00:09:49.788 - 00:10:13.904, Speaker A: I think BTC's ETF trade, at least over the short to medium term, played out and played out nicely. I think eats trade hasn't played out yet, but the long term implications of the ETF's for both BTC and Eats still haven't played out at all. I mean, it hasn't. BTC one hasn't been life for that long, and ETH isn't even live yet, and that takes years to play out. On top of the regulatory clarity for ETH as well. Still going to play out. And then obviously the increased growth across the entire ecosystem.
00:10:13.904 - 00:10:45.890, Speaker A: So TLDR very bullish, I think. Second half of the year ahead of us. I know right now it can feel quite bearish. But guys, it's literally just the same thing we see every year. It's a summer lull. I think there's been like one year out of the last ten during summer, that or northern hemisphere summer, that things have been relatively still up only and bullish. Usually it's a consolidation period, slash sideways for the majors, and then the rest of the things just get slaughtered as they usually do when majors are, you know, crabbing or going sideways and their narratives have run out.
00:10:45.890 - 00:11:19.062, Speaker A: You know, obviously the meme coin stuff ran its course. Not to say it won't happen again, but like, a lot of these things ran out of juice because there wasn't that new money coming in, as I've discussed before. But anyway, I'm not going to rant about the markets again because I've ranted enough about that. But, yeah, moving on to some tech stuff now. All right, first up here, we've got a little bit of a post from Terrence, one of the core developers working on the prism clients, talking about the blob fee market. So I mentioned last week that the blob fee market right now is not that great. It needs tuning, basically.
00:11:19.062 - 00:11:56.444, Speaker A: And Terrence outlines, I think, three major points here that he's been thinking about and some solutions. I don't think there are any good solutions just yet. There was a reply here from Roberto that linked to a note that was put together by a couple of ethereum researchers, I believe, basically having. Basically stipulating an execution independent priority fee. So essentially, the description, I guess, the TLD is do not refund the priority fee portion of the transaction fee for the unused gas after execution. And I guess the logic behind this would be to essentially improve execution of blobs. So inclusion.
00:11:56.444 - 00:12:34.802, Speaker A: Sorry, improve inclusion of blobs here and make it so that we have a better fee market for blobs overall. But again, this is more of a, I guess, like open kind of question right now of what this is going to look like. I don't think it's a pressing, critical issue, but I do think it's something that needs to be fixed because I think blobs are very close to actually just being over target, like pretty much every day now. I mean, as you guys know, I've been monitoring this quite closely, been showing it to you guys. They're still straddling the target, I think. Yeah. So you can see here that it's still doing its kind of, I guess, like business hours over the target, you know, off business hours under target and then over target, under target, over target.
00:12:34.802 - 00:13:24.926, Speaker A: But you can kind of see that each time it's doing this, there's like a lower high here where essentially it's getting closer and closer to target, even on its low points, where eventually the low points will still be above target. So I think that that's going to persist for a while, especially if we get that second half of 2024 where it turns out to be really bullish. Blobs are definitely going to be above target then. So this is something that we need to be thinking about, talking about improving the fee market, improving the usage of blobs, making sure that we're making the most efficient use of them. And then, you know, I guess, like waiting until things like peer Dass implemented early next year along with the pector upgrade, or if we don't implement purdas for whatever reason, there would probably be like a blob count and size increase there as well if it was deemed safe to do so. Of course, as I discussed last week, there's a lot of things that go into that, but that's the current, I guess, thinking. So you can go read Terence's full tweet for yourself.
00:13:24.926 - 00:14:07.152, Speaker A: I'm not going to go into the whole thing because it's quite long. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Peter from Geth has teased a stateless execution that he's been building within Geth. So yes, you guys know, vertical trees is a major roadmap item for Ethereum that aims to allow Ethereum to do stateless execution, which basically means that the Ethereum node size would be bounded and you would be able to have, sorry, this would be coupled with state expiry. It would mean that Ethereum node size could be bounded but stateless execution and specifically would basically allow for like clients, right, like clients to essentially operate within the Ethereum net, within the ethereum network. As least that's my understanding here.
00:14:07.152 - 00:15:02.088, Speaker A: Now, Peter is doing this on Mainnet and he's not doing this with vertical trees because there is no vertical trees on Mainnet. He's using the existing Merkel Patricia tree structure to do this, which got the some core developers pretty interested in what he was building on the core developers of other execution layer clients, not, not geth like Nethermind devs are really interested in this because you can see in the thread here he, someone asked, you know, this is stateless execution for Verkle. And there's Peters like, no, this is live Mainnet, MPT or Merkel Patricia trees here. And then Centauri, one of, one of the very active Delaware discord members shout out to him, basically explained what, what's actually happening here. So he says, you know, you see that the witness size in the screenshot here? This is the main issue with stateless execution. With the current Merkel Patricia tree architecture, a proof for a 100 kilobyte block can easily get 50 to 100 times bigger than the block itself. Vertical trees make the proof small enough that states that stateless execution makes sense bandwidth wise.
00:15:02.088 - 00:15:53.604, Speaker A: So essentially in the current paradigm of NPT, we can't do stateless execution to the extent that we would want to do that, that do it. That's why we're doing vertical trees, in order to compress this down and to essentially make the proof small enough so that we can do stateless execution. And it makes sense bandwidth wise, because bandwidth is a huge concern, I think, for ethereum nodes, for validators generally that run the Ethereum network. And every time we add something new, like blobs, for example, it just ups the bandwidth requirements. So that's something that the core developers and researchers have been working on for a while to bring down and stateless clients and status execution generally and state expiry and all that sorts of stuff, that all plays a big part into it. Definitely there. But yeah, I just wanted to shout that out there that there's some very interesting things being worked on in core DeVLand all the time, even things that you may not even realize happening like this, like doing status execution with with NPT.
00:15:53.604 - 00:16:44.846, Speaker A: But as I said, there are major drawbacks here. I mean, as Centauri explained, that are definitely going to be ironed out and definitely going to be rectified with verkle trees, which we'll see if it goes live next year, maybe the year after. But as I've, as I've explained before, with verkle trees we can eat, we can increase the scalability of Ethereum as well, which is obviously the North Star for the Ethereum ecosystem at this point. All right, so Mike Noota here has a new post titled issuance issues tertiary treatise. So this is a weird title, and I'm pretty sure I am reading this word wrong treat treatise or treaties. You guys know I suck at pronouncing words, especially words that don't get used very often. But the TLDR of this is basically he dived deep into how the burn, aka Erp 1559, affects the network ownership of stakers and non stakers.
00:16:44.846 - 00:17:32.054, Speaker A: So if you are a eth issuance or ethereum economics nerd like I am, this would be, this would be for you. There is a proper TLDR at the top of the post TR, but then he's there is his deep dive analysis. If you just want the TL doctor, I can basically tell you what this, what it is. So essentially the question was how is issuance too high if the net supply of ETH is barely inflationary or even deflationary in the context of the issuance debate that's currently happening within the community around whether we should reduce issuance or not. Because some people are saying, you know, we shouldn't do that because of the fact that we have a net deflationary eth due to the burn. So essentially what Mike says here is that this confused me for a long time. So in this article we start slowly and use a lot of plots and numerical examples to build intuition.
00:17:32.054 - 00:18:11.980, Speaker A: We make our way to the key insight that a higher burn increases the gap between staking and not staking. And he says, you know, hopefully this article demonstrates this. So essentially, if you want to know how this works and how this all makes sense, there this you can dive into this, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And there's also a lot of related work that you can dive into that's also linked in this post, both blog posts and podcasts, so you can go check those out as well. They'll keep you pretty busy, actually. Like, this is some pretty lengthy posting and lengthy research, and I believe that the researchers are putting in a lot of time and effort in order to make sure that they're covering all their bases with this. So just a bit of a, I guess, like shout out to them for, for doing this.
00:18:11.980 - 00:18:46.496, Speaker A: But also for everyone that has been following along with these discussions around issuance and around issuance reduction, before making like, before forming a strong opinion on it, I would suggest reading the relevant work and digesting it. You don't have to read it all. You don't have to digest it all and understand it all. But making sure that you're on top of it and making sure that you're getting your information from the source rather than repackage stuff that you might see on crypto, Twitter, or even on the refuel is very important. You guys know, I always tell you to go read the source. You know, I've got my opinions, I got my takes on things, my interpretations of it, but you're going to have different interpretations and opinions. So definitely go check that out.
00:18:46.496 - 00:19:32.156, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so there's a new dashboard out that tracks the protocol guild. So there's been a bad narrative lately, actually, that I've seen perpetuated on crypto Twitter, which I thought was quite weird. So there's a narrative that apparently people think the protocol guild currently has too much money. And I looked at that and I'm like, what? Like, do people understand that? Okay, yeah, the protocol guild has, right now, tens of millions of dollars, right? But one, that money is in the tokens that they are in the treasury, and those tokens are volatile. For example, the, I guess tokens that are worth the most right now is 10 million ethy tokens with the current value of $32.2 million.
00:19:32.156 - 00:19:47.086, Speaker A: But when they were donated to the protocol guild, they were worth $40 million. Right? Same with Tycho's token here. The initial value was 24.3 million. Current value is 17.9 million. So it doesn't matter what the initial value is.
00:19:47.086 - 00:20:10.326, Speaker A: What matters is the value at the time that these things are paid out. But if we just take the value today, so the current value of the amount of money in the protocol guild today, which is 51 million all up. If we extrapolate that out and get. Get a medium, a median yearly vesting for each member. So there's 177 members sharing in $51 million. Not equally, but they have their own. Their own kind of our percentage sharing here.
00:20:10.326 - 00:20:43.270, Speaker A: It means that over the next twelve months, assuming the prices stay the same of these tokens, each member gets $73,000 vesting out over the next year. Now, that might seem like a good chunk of change, but let me put into context to the people are. That are receiving this. It is the core developers and researchers. It is the people executing on a roadmap for a $400 billion plus network that is home to trillions of dollars worth of value that's transacted all the time, like. Like, over. Over months, over years, and that keeps growing.
00:20:43.270 - 00:21:21.240, Speaker A: And then he's home to. And then he's becoming a settlement layer, I should say, to things like L2, which have their own ecosystems. So these. These 177 people are some of the most critically important people to the future of Ethereum. They should be paid a lot more than this, in my opinion, because of the fact that they could easily, for as smart as they are, they could easily go and work for another company and work. Work for another l one, for example, and get, like, an allocation of early tokens there, which would be worth much more than what they're getting out of this. Right? So the whole point of the protocol guild was to align incentives here was to stop people from bleeding into other ecosystems and stay within the ethereum ecosystem and work within it and still attract the smartest people.
00:21:21.240 - 00:22:06.972, Speaker A: Because, yes, money's not everything, but people should be rewarded for their work. People that are doing very impactful work that adds hundreds of billions, if not potentially trillions of dollars to eats market cap should be rewarded for that, and they should be rewarded in, you know, eth, of course, and also the tokens of projects building on top of it. But, again, you can't get around the volatility here. So even though it's $73,000 based on current values each year for each member, you keep in mind that that's a $51 million treasury that, as I said, can go down. So if that halves, so does the pay to all of these members, you know, each year, obviously, if it goes up, you know, it's. It's better for them as well, but it's still not anywhere near what I think they deserve. I think these people deserve millions of dollars, honestly, like, for the work that they do.
00:22:06.972 - 00:22:25.180, Speaker A: The impact of the work that they do and the research that they do, not every one of them is equal in the amount of work they do. Don't get me wrong. Right? And that's actually weighted as part of the protocol guild. Not everyone's getting an equal share here, but the protocol guild. I mean, 177 members. Like, there is a good chunk of those members that do. That's all they do, right? They.
00:22:25.180 - 00:23:04.084, Speaker A: They just do Ethereum research and development. Like, the proper core developers, the ones that are building this stuff, are doing this and have a long kind of road ahead of them to execute the rest of the Ethereum roadmap as well. And, yeah, as I said, like, these people are at the heart and core of Ethereum. And if they are working for, like, I guess, like, big tech companies, for example, they would be the not. Maybe they wouldn't be the executives, but they would be the highest up in, like, the engineering departments and the research and development departments, and they'd be paid potentially millions of dollars for this in both salary and stock options. Right. So to pay them 73,000 a year, and then I guess, like, on top of that, their base.
00:23:04.084 - 00:23:36.300, Speaker A: Sorry, this is on top of their base salary, which it obviously varies from company to company, whatever companies these teams are working for. I highly doubt it's that much, though, because a lot of these companies don't have. I mean, they have equity, but they're not, like, they're more building, like, public goods, and they're more building things that are supplementing the work that they want to be doing on Ethereum kind of core protocol. And a lot of researchers are also independent, too. So. Yeah, I don't know that that bad narrative of protocol guild has too much money is so stupid to me, especially when it's not even in, like, it's only stable coins, guys. It's in tokens.
00:23:36.300 - 00:24:01.942, Speaker A: Right? Like, as I said, ethy is currently 32 million of the value. So over half of the value is in ethy tokens. And then Taiko is 17.9 million. Right. So, like, you. You can kind of look at that and this and go down the list here and see that a large chunk of that value is coming from just two tokens, two very volatile tokens, to tokens that have, I guess, like, a pretty big supply overhang because of the fact that they have unlocks coming, too.
00:24:01.942 - 00:24:24.216, Speaker A: Right? So not to fud the tokens. I mean, as you guys know, I'm an advisor to ethy. I'm an investor in Tyco, so I'm kind of fighting my own bags here, but we're going to be realistic about this. Right? And as for how much of an, of ether is, there's only $4.6 million of ETH and in terms of stable coins, there's not much. I think Dai 121,000 USDC 1330 4000. So really there's, yeah, there's not that much.
00:24:24.216 - 00:25:06.526, Speaker A: So when people say that and that, now that I see that bad narrative, I just think it's insane. But anyway, enough on the narrative side of things, you definitely go check out this dashboard for yourself because it's the update, it's an updated protocol guild dashboard and it's got all the relevant information that you need to, to check out as well. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out and you can go do that yourself and check out all the fancy little graphs and charts here to show what the protocol guild is up to. All right, last up here, I just wanted to give a PSA. So over the weekend, the mailing list provider that the Ethereum foundation used for the updates@ethereum.org address had been compromised. So I think this got resolved in the end, got resolved pretty quickly.
00:25:06.526 - 00:26:06.908, Speaker A: But I figured I'd use this opportunity to give a PSA to everyone out there. That there are a lot of phishing scams in crypto generally, and they don't just come from obviously they hacked Ethereum foundation kind of account here, they come from everywhere. Like, I get a lot of phishing emails that make it through Gmail spam filters on my personal Gmail and they're always like, I can layer airdrop or, you know, whatever's hot air truck ZK sync Airdrop, for example. Always phishing links to different things. I would be extremely cautious about ever clicking a link in an email that claims to have an airdrop. Like, that's just like a rule of thumb, I think, when it comes to these things, what I usually do is I always go to the official Twitter page of the project. If I'm looking to go to the airdrop claim page and I double check and cross reference that with people on that I know that I trust that have, that are also doing the airdrop stuff or in the data gray Discord channel, I cross reference it and I check it and I make absolute sure I'm on the actual website before I'm signing anything.
00:26:06.908 - 00:26:43.218, Speaker A: And then once I am signing things, I make sure that I'm using a wallet, like Rabi for example, that will simulate the transaction and tell me exactly what's happening with it and what I'm doing with it and just playing very safe here. And on top of that, I'm only claiming with wallets that don't really have much funds in them. They might have a bit of ethan there to pay for gas fees, maybe some random tokens, but I'm not using my cold storage wallet addresses to claim these airdrops. Like, obviously, in some cases there's going to be. In a lot of cases, actually, your cold storage addresses will need to be used to claim an airdrop. Right. But in that case, as I said, like, there are steps that you can take to make sure that you're not on a phishing website.
00:26:43.218 - 00:27:06.604, Speaker A: So yeah, just a PSA there for you guys that be vigilant because the worst thing in the world is, is getting phished. Honestly, like, as you guys know, I've gone through it and I have very experienced with encrypted, been around for a long time and I still got fished in the dumbest way possible. It can happen to anyone. Do not think it can't happen to you. Don't lull yourself into a false sense of security. Make sure you're always on your guard when you're interacting with your wallet, especially your cold wallets. Like, that's the number one thing.
00:27:06.604 - 00:27:26.792, Speaker A: And if you're interacting with your cold wallets, your, you know, your big parts of your stack. Make sure you're triple quadruple checking things. Make sure you're using tools that are helping you to simulate transactions. Tell you exactly what you're doing and make sure there's no distractions around you to make mistakes. But anyway, on that note, I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:27:26.792 - 00:27:31.744, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
