00:00:00.280 - 00:00:26.782, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and today's 11 October 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So starting off today's episode, we have a little bit of ETF Alpha today. So not exactly news, but a bit of alpha here. So you can see that Marceau put out a tweet today where he said, Eric expects an ETH spot ETF one to two months after a BTC spot ETF, and he expects a spot spot BTC ETF this year.
00:00:26.782 - 00:01:04.664, Speaker A: Now, this source is a bankless podcast here. Eric Balkanis is the ETF analyst, brought up a bunch of times on the refill before. He's probably one of the best ETF analysts from what I can tell, in the, in the ETF space. So when he says something like this, it's worth listening to. Now, I know I've said in the past that I would, I don't expect an ETH spot ETF till 2025, but I think I've also said that I would be pleasantly surprised if it came a lot sooner than that. And obviously, I was basing that kind of, I guess, length of approval on the fact that obviously, Gary Gensler is still the head of the SEC and the SEC needs to approve these things. And Gary Gensler has been hostile towards Ethiopia and obviously calling it a security and stuff like that.
00:01:04.664 - 00:01:54.440, Speaker A: But as you guys know, I've also highlighted over the last few months that the SEC has been, I guess, softening up, so to speak, to certain crypto assets, I think, within the industry. And I've gone over the change in language that they've been using. So, yeah, I mean, it kind of feels like ETH is, or I guess, like, the rhetoric that ETH is a security is not really something the SEC is focusing on anymore, which is obviously a positive here. Now, another thing that Eric said here was that he expects a spot BTC ETF this year. I have talked about this before about how him and his colleagues put the odds of it happening this year, you know, pretty, pretty high, but also it happening in Q one, you know, even higher than that. And I've said before that it could happen in Q four, Q one at this point. Like, I'd like it to happen in Q one because I just think the timing is better if it happens in q one in terms of, like a, I guess, a bullish perspective.
00:01:54.440 - 00:02:39.832, Speaker A: But I don't think it really matters to be honest. And if it happens in Q four, great. Right. And there's actually an event, not an event, but basically something happening this week that, that might, that may change the calculator here a little bit is that the SEC's deadline for appealing their grayscale loss is due on Friday. So if they don't appeal, I think that increases the chances even more that they're just going to approve all of these spot BTC ETF's and then they're obviously going to allow grayscale to convert their trust into an ETF as well there. And then if that happens, like if, let's say it gets approved in, in October, November, that means that Eric here expects a spot ETH ETF to happen in like December, January, maybe not December, I guess, holiday period, maybe like Jan, December, December, January, February. And that's just incredible to me.
00:02:39.832 - 00:03:07.044, Speaker A: Right. We went from like having no spot BTC and ETH to potentially having many of them within the span of the next, I don't know, three to six months, if you want to say. Right. So, yeah, we'll have to see how that shakes out there. I'll keep you guys updated on all of that, of course. But yet it's, it's, it's pretty much, it's not 100% chance, but it's like highly likely that these BTC spotted tfs are all going to be approved either in Q four or Q one. And as I said, Eric believes that we can have an spot ETF one to two months after that.
00:03:07.044 - 00:03:58.934, Speaker A: It depends. Right? Like, I'm not going to get my hopes up as well here because I feel like specifically in the ethereum ecosystem, I feel like I get my hopes up about certain things and they just take longer than I expect them to. Like for example, with dengue, I was getting my hopes up that, wow, Denkun looks like it's going to ship in November, you know, latest, maybe early December this year, right? In 2023. And then, of course, that's been pushed back now and it's probably not going to happen till q one. And then I kind of got a little bit disappointed there because I was like, ah, damn, I would have loved to have, you know, 48 44 live and everything because I really want people to understand that 48 44 is going to collapse those l two costs and l two s immediately become just as competitive as, as all these kind of, I guess, like cheap l one s out there that have had those, have those low fees there. But obviously, I believe the l two s are much better than these other l one s. Of course, for a number of different reasons, but, you know, I set myself up for failure there.
00:03:58.934 - 00:04:16.030, Speaker A: Right. I set my expectations a bit too high there, and it's not something I generally do too often in ethereum anymore. I feel like over the years, I've gotten used to the fact that don't set your expectations too high, because anything can happen. Right. And it's. It's. And a lot of the things, I mean, almost everything's outside of my control, especially when it comes to development.
00:04:16.030 - 00:04:57.160, Speaker A: Obviously, I'm not a core developer, so I don't really have anything, any kind of input there. Uh, but the same is true for anything, really, especially market related stuff. I think. I think market related stuff, it's even more true because with market related stuff, you're directly making investment decisions based on these things. So, for example, if you've been buying, uh, over the last couple months with the expectation that the BTC spot ETF is going to be approved in q four, q one, and maybe you're playing that as like a medium term narrative trade, well, then you stand to potentially lose out on that if it doesn't happen. Right. Uh, and obviously, there are a lot of other things go into it when you're talking about trading, but for the long term investors out there, you don't have to really worry about this.
00:04:57.160 - 00:05:18.830, Speaker A: I mean, long term investors, you guys, uh, either playing the four year cycle or you're just kind of investing for as long as maybe decades. Right. Where essentially you're buying Ethan, staking it and stuff like that. It just. It really just depends. But, yeah, best to not get your hopes up too much about these things, especially, even when, you know, people say it. Like Eric, who, as I said, is one of the top ETF analysts out there, just because it's.
00:05:18.830 - 00:05:52.432, Speaker A: It's better not to set yourself up for disappointment. Right. But I'll keep you guys updated on this, and I'll keep monitoring this as we go. So I spoke a lot about ETH staking yesterday, and it's generally a topic that I spend a lot of time talking about, honestly, and especially in the context of, I guess, increasing competition in the staking space and obviously making sure that Lido's doesn't grow more than from where it is now. Right. Obviously, because Lido is a big, big share of the market right now. And there are a bunch of initiatives in this kind of arena right now where there's diva doing their basically vampire attack that I've talked a lot about before.
00:05:52.432 - 00:06:32.628, Speaker A: There are many other protocols coming online that are taking stake that would have gone to Lido, to themselves. Right. And then there are other initiatives like what eats taker shared here that you can, and they say here in their tweet, you can now stake any amount of ETH through the ledger live app, with Rockapool and with kiln. And you can actually see the screenshots here of you being able to do that. And traditionally, in the ledger live app, you were, I think, only able to stake with Lido. And I have this strong belief that a lot of light ohs not, not like a substantial amount, like, not like the majority of, or anything like that. But I feel like a healthy amount of ETH that has gone into lido has come from the ledger live integration.
00:06:32.628 - 00:07:09.296, Speaker A: Because if you look at the people that are actually using the ledger live apps, right, they would be people who are definitely not those, you know, that I would consider to be crypto native. They are definitely those who have withdrawn their crypto from an exchange to their ledger hardware wallet for safekeeping. And then they've probably seen, you know, I want to. I want to stake my ETH, right? And then they go on the ledger live app because that's the, the nice front end that they're used to, and it's integrated with their hardware wallet. And then they just stake with Lido. They have absolutely zero context over what Lido is. They don't know or even really care that Lido is the majority of the market.
00:07:09.296 - 00:08:02.314, Speaker A: They just see what's presented to them. And that's, I think, I mean, I'm kind of assuming here, but I do think that a healthy chunk of lighter is market share came from that. And that's not to say that ledger shouldn't be supporting Lidar in their app, but I feel like they should be supporting as many of these kind of like, legitimate staking services and these ones that have been around for a while as possible in order to share the love because, you know, and it kind of depends on what people go for as well. I would assume that a lot of people would go for, like, the highest yield, too. But at the same time, the yield is also influenced by the fees of these different protocols. And the yield is backward looking because you can't really tell what the yield is going to be into the future for any one protocol because it relies on a bunch of different factors, obviously, but backward looking, if you go and look at actually here, I'll show you guys what this looks like, because I'm kind of getting sick of the meme. That lido has the best yield when it's not true.
00:08:02.314 - 00:08:22.918, Speaker A: Right. Let's backward look 30 days, which isn't long enough, but let's. Let's look 30 days. And this. This APR or kind of yield that's presented here on rated.net work, I believe it doesn't take into account the fees that each of these protocols charge, but the fees are quite similar, I think, amongst them right there, it ranges from, like, really ten to 20%. I think the most of.
00:08:22.918 - 00:08:38.470, Speaker A: The. Most of them fit in there. But you can actually see here that, yes, Lido's yield is pretty good, 4.08% over the last 30 days. But then Coinbase is higher at 4.17%. Binance is higher at 4.18%, cracking a little bit lower at 3.98%.
00:08:38.470 - 00:08:53.736, Speaker A: And then the rest of them are around four to 4.2%. So really they're all very similar. Right. It's not like Lido has this massive yield lead ahead of everyone else. Right. So I hate that kind of meme that people kind of bring up and like, oh, lighter's got the best deal. That's.
00:08:53.736 - 00:09:06.952, Speaker A: That's just not true. It doesn't reflect reality. And then if you actually click on all here. So this will look back. I don't know what the timeframe is for all. I think it either looks back to the genesis of the beacon chain or to the merge. But regardless of how long it looks back, you know, it's still.
00:09:06.952 - 00:09:17.416, Speaker A: It's still a lot longer than 30 days. You can see here that it's all really similar. It ranges from 4.5% to. Or 4.4% to, like, up to 4.7%. Right.
00:09:17.416 - 00:09:30.520, Speaker A: And some outliers, like this whale, for example, which is just an. A single entity, I believe. I don't think that's. That's potentially not someone that you stake with has 5.3%, but really most of them are around the 5.5 to 5.7% here.
00:09:30.520 - 00:09:43.512, Speaker A: And factoring the fees, of course, as well, they're all pretty similar to each other. Right. And obviously, the yield, as I mentioned, depends on a lot of different things. It depends on how many other people are staking. Like, let's. Let's take the. The year.
00:09:43.512 - 00:10:16.832, Speaker A: Let's take a year's worth of backward looking staking yield in that year. How many more, I guess, like, validators came online because that reduces the yield for everyone. What. And that's just a small part of it. That's not the biggest part of it. The biggest part of it is like how active was the execution layer rewards market, right? How much mev was being paid out, how many tips are being paid, how long was the gas price at a higher level versus a low level? All of these things influence the net yield that you will get. Did the staking service that you staked with change their fees as well? So all of this kind of influences this.
00:10:16.832 - 00:11:01.528, Speaker A: And because of that, the yields over longer periods of time will all net out and look very, very similar to each other. And you may see sometimes, you know, Lido gets these big blocks, right? For example, they get these, these big lottery blocks because they obviously have a large share of the market, and it's more likely that they're going to get it than not. But the thing is, is that over time, that all just nets out, right? That all just smooths out. And the beacon chain was designed like this in order not to give these bigger pools kind of an advantage here or anything like that. But obviously, people stake with Lido not just for the yield, but for other reasons, too. But I'm still glad to see that that ledger is integrating other protocols into their ledger live app here in order to allow people to stake with, not just lighter. Now, of course, this isn't the only thing that's being done to improve staking diversity.
00:11:01.528 - 00:11:46.826, Speaker A: Swell has been running a campaign for quite a while now, which isn't a vampire attack on Lido, so to speak, but it's basically using incentives, you know, token incentives in order to get people to stake with them. And I've brought up swell before, and I should disclose that I'm an investor in swell as well, just to disclose that there. But the reason I bring them up today is because they've got a new kind of a new, I guess, incentive program out today where you can basically zap into Swell ETH to get these pearls. So pearls are these kind of things that I, you know, I assume are going to be changed into the token when they launch their token. But you can see here, you know, for two weeks, only 40 pearls will be awarded for every sw ETH you swap into via the swell app. And all tokens can be zapped at app dot swellnetwork IO. And you can check this out.
00:11:46.826 - 00:12:17.334, Speaker A: There's a blog post here explaining this. But, yeah, I mean, this is the sort of stuff you need, right? You need the incentives. And I think a lot of people forget that Lido actually incentivized a lot of their stake early on because they put incentives on the curve pools, which was a big, big source because they wanted to get the liquidity up. So you could basically supply Ethan Steth and get the liquidity up. Or you could do one sided LP with Steth. So obviously a lot of people went and minted Steth, right, which means that they staked with Lido, especially when withdrawals weren't enabled. So it was like an up only thing for Lido.
00:12:17.334 - 00:13:08.966, Speaker A: So they staked with them and then they went and got those LDO token rewards in order to, you know, to just farm them. So I think that we obviously need these other protocols now to do this and they have the opportunity to do this whether it's diva or swell or you know, Rockapool is also going to I believe, redirect rewards that they took from the Odao, obviously to the PDAO, but then out to incentivize things. And there's, you know, a number of other protocols out there stakewise. I mean there's so many now. But they can use token incentives especially, you know, if the market hits up again, they can use these token incentives in order to take stake that would have gone to Lido to themselves because really when you factor in the token incentives the net yield is higher on a staked ETH position. But obviously the risk is a bit higher because they're newer protocols, stuff like that. But if you're, if you're trying to target those users who want to take on more risk, this is how you would do it, right.
00:13:08.966 - 00:13:55.836, Speaker A: Which is, which is pretty cool to see how the incentive programs work here. But really a lot of the incentive programs they're going to rely on, obviously the token being valuable. Like there's no point doing an incentive program if your token market cap is like 10 million, right? Because then the rewards aren't that juicy. But if your token market cap, fully diluted market cap is like 500 million, that's when it gets like, you know, the calculus changes. And then in a bull market what happens is that potentially things go crazy and your tokens, you know, markup is worth billions of dollars. And then essentially you're using all that capital to incentivize the better stake distribution and then you can go and talk about what that actually looks like for people speculating on the token. You know, we've seen what the end state of the, I guess farming of a kind of defi liquidity mining look like didn't really end well for most of the tokens.
00:13:55.836 - 00:14:48.944, Speaker A: But I think if your, your, I guess, like strategy is to essentially dilute the value of the token in order to grow your protocol and then the token can just accrue slow amounts of value over time. That's kind of a strategy to use as well, but it's up to how the teams want to do it. But I think the main goal of the strategy should always be to obviously grow your own protocol, but also make sure that it's working to take market share away from Lido and stop people from going to Lido or any of the big players, even centralized exchanges, for example like Coinbase and Binance. We obviously want people to be staking with the smaller players and the more decentralized players than the centralized ones out there. So you can go check out the swell of the new swell thing here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So I just wanted to give a quick shout out here to Marek, who's put together a YouTube video or first episode of something he's calling ZK Marek, which is a crash course in Ethereum.
00:14:48.944 - 00:15:17.874, Speaker A: Private keys and addresses elliptic curves and prime field prime fields with stunning visuals, simple guide to the math and code included. So if you're interested in diving deeper into the more technical details of Ethereum, then this is a great video for you. As I said, I just wanted to shout it out here for those of you who are interested in this, and I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the video is quite long as well. I think it's like 1520 minutes or something like that. You can definitely go check this out for yourself. We'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:15:17.874 - 00:16:12.122, Speaker A: All right, Eigen Layer has a new tweet thread out today introducing something that they like to call programmable trust. And they said here in the tweet, crypto exists to scale trust. Eigen layer exists to help you program trust trust. In this article we will uncover what it means to program trust and how this virtually unlocks everything. And basically you can go read the article for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But really this kind of concept of, I guess like programmable trust or extending the programmable trust, not just from the Ethereum context but to the application layer context as well, is kind of the whole point of Eigen layer, right? Where you can reuse the existing Ethereum kind of node operator infrastructure as well as the economic security in order to program trust into other applications such as a data availability layer such as an oracle network, you know, such as a file storage network, for example.
00:16:12.122 - 00:17:08.810, Speaker A: Any of those kind of use cases you can do that and you can leverage Ethereum's obviously economic security and it's, and it's diverse node operator set in order to achieve that. And I've gone through this before about how I believe that Eigen layer stands a really great chance of cannibalizing all of these kind of off Ethereum use cases. So, for example, the data availability layer stuff, I feel like the Eigen DA is going to be one of the most popular ones, if not the most popular one, just simply because of the fact that they're going to have a diverse node operator set from, from pretty much day one because they get to tap into the existing Ethereum validator set or node operator ecosystem, they're going to have better economic security because of the, the ETH. Right, sorry, the restaked ETH. And then outside of that, I mean, Oracle's is a lot more complicated. And I feel like Chainlink already has that kind of worked out. So I'm not as bullish on kind of like Oracle networks within the Eigen layer context, but definitely when it comes to data availability, for sure, file storage as well.
00:17:08.810 - 00:17:52.044, Speaker A: I mean, I've traditionally been pretty bearish on file storage kind of protocols, especially because like the costs involved just kind of make it centralized to begin with. But I think it's okay if it's centralized. Not everything has to be decentralized, right? Because you can have centralized things which still give you this programmable trust property where essentially you can have it be centralized but still be open. So anyone can access it, anyone can tap into it. You don't really have the kind of like same chances of getting shut down or losing access to your data or losing access to your files that you would in a purely centralized system. And there are different ways to build this out. I'm not gonna, not gonna go into the details now, of course, but yeah, really, the, the bull case for eigen layer, at least in my mind.
00:17:52.044 - 00:18:46.806, Speaker A: And as you guys know, I'm an investor in Eigen layer as well. But I've been talking about this since before I was an investor. The bull case is really cannibalizing those other off Ethereum use cases and just bringing them back into the Ethereum family and just basically using Ethereum's infrastructure for this. And now I know there's also kind of the bear case here where people say we shouldn't be overloading Ethereum, Ethereum's kind of economic security, Ethereum's validators, and Ethereum's consensus. And I totally get that, and I totally agree with that, but, but Eigen layer can extend beyond that, where essentially they can, they can use the economic security, but they can also build it in such a way where essentially the people running validators, right, they don't have to compromise their validators or the security and the stability of their validators in order to run eigen layer infrastructure. Like for example, for me, I plan to run eigen layer infrastructure on my existing boxes that I have with my validators on them. But there's no reason why that infrastructure for Eigen layer should compromise my validator infrastructure.
00:18:46.806 - 00:19:23.488, Speaker A: And I, and I'm not personally going to be changing my solo staker withdrawal credentials, uh, to, to Eigen layer to do restaking. If I do restaking, it'll probably be through buying, you know, the areth token, for example, or any other lsts that they support. Probably not, Steve. Like, I'm not going to, to put any money into Lido. Um, but, but generally I would still like to run the infrastructure, even if I'm not putting the capital up myself, I would still love to run the infrastructure as I want to do with the L2 stuff, and as I do with Ethereum today. I mean, I run multiple full nodes. I run many, many, many validators on different hardware configurations, and I do it all from home as well.
00:19:23.488 - 00:19:43.730, Speaker A: And I feel like that there is the real magic here. But anyway, enough of me blabbering about this. You can go check out Eigen layers, tweet, thread, and blog post about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, as you guys know, Farcaster is going permissionless. And guess what? It's happening tomorrow. Or today, I guess October.
00:19:43.730 - 00:19:57.330, Speaker A: No, October 12. I think it's going to happen at. So you can see here, Dan Romero tweeted out, big milestone. Tomorrow, the forecaster protocol will be 100% permissionless. You can sign up directly on the op mainnet. No more invites are required. Users can use any client of their choice.
00:19:57.330 - 00:20:38.192, Speaker A: Devs will have full access to data APIs via hubs and zero dependencies on Warpcast here. So this is exciting. Um, I haven't used Forecaster as much as I should be using it lately, to be honest. It's just been hard because it's, as I've explained before, it's kind of hard to manage both Twitter and Farcaster. But I'm definitely going to try to be more conscious of that. But one thing I wanted to talk about in terms of forecaster going permissionless here is that I'm very, very curious to see what forecaster looks like in six months. Is it overrun by bots? Right? Is it overrun by spam? What does the content moderation look like? Because as you guys know, Farcaster is going to be charging $5 a year to access the site.
00:20:38.192 - 00:22:11.508, Speaker A: But as you can see from, from Twitter and the verified accounts right now, is that people are willing to pay each month, like, probably more than $5 a month in order to run their scams or run their bots. So I'm very curious to see, like, how far caster plans to tackle the issue of, like, bots and scammers and stuff like that, and content moderation, because these social platforms live or die based on that, I believe. Because can you imagine if, like, all of everything you saw on Twitter, even though a significant portion of what I see on Twitter today is scams and bots, which I honestly hate and degrades the experience, but could you imagine that that was the majority? And then basically, when you're scrolling through your Twitter feed, you would really only see bots and scammers, and every now and again, like, 10% of the time, you would see the legitimate stuff that you want to follow. So it remains to be seen how far Caster is going to deal with this and how the content moderation is going to go here and what it looks like, you know, six, what it looks like in like six to twelve months or something like that. Maybe they do already have a bunch of things in place that I haven't really been paying attention to, but you can just look at what happened with Twitter, or x, I guess it's called these days, to see what a platform that gets overrun with, even just like some of it being overrun by bots and scammers and stuff like that, what that basically looks like. And it's degraded the experience, at least for me, and especially when it comes to the algorithms, too, which is less of an issue on forecaster, because it's an open protocol when anyone can program their own algorithms on their own front end and how they want to do these things. And the logic is that people would gravitate towards, I guess, the one that, that services everyone the best, essentially.
00:22:11.508 - 00:22:33.278, Speaker A: But on Twitter, I mean, I go to my for you tab and it's just full of crap, right? Like, I've tried to tune it, but it's so hard. For some reason, it just comes back. Like, for example, there's a lot of political crap on there, and it's us politics. I'm sorry, I don't care about us politics. I'm not an american citizen, right? I'm in Australia. I don't even see anything got to do with australian politics. I don't know why Twitter is showing me us politics stuff.
00:22:33.278 - 00:23:15.410, Speaker A: And it's not tweets from accounts that I follow, it's not tweets from crypto people, it's tweets from all these people that I have no idea who they are. And I look at them, I'm like, why are you showing me this? Right? It doesn't make any sense. And just a number of other just crap tweets. So I think that's another pitfall as well for social media platforms, is that they have to basically, I guess, give in to the algorithm because the algorithm allows them to monetize and allows them to show more ads and stuff like that and allows them to fine tune people's feeds. But with far cast, as I said, it's all open as far as I know. I mean, the Farcaster protocol itself doesn't plan to have ads embedded into it. Maybe the front ends can have ads on there, but you can choose your own front end because everything is hosted by this open API.
00:23:15.410 - 00:23:58.680, Speaker A: There is no centralized database that, for example, in Twitter's case, they control where no one else can build a client on top of it. No, everyone can build a client on top of Firecaster, which to me is the main bull case, because it means that hopefully we get to the point where essentially people just use the best client that's out there. And even if the majority use the shitty client, it doesn't matter because you yourself can use the best client and you get access to the same thing that everyone else does. And this goes back to with Reddit. What happened actually recently with Reddit is that they made it really, really costly for people to build their own clients on Reddit. And I was using the Apollo client on my iPhone, and that was way better, like a million times better than the official Reddit client or Reddit app client. And it was beautiful.
00:23:58.680 - 00:24:19.560, Speaker A: I loved it. I loved using it. But apparently, you know, that was the minority of people that use that. Majority of people use the official app, but that's fine. You know, if you want a better experience, you have the option here. But, but that's mostly being killed. There are still, I guess some of these apps live mostly being killed, but the point is to make it so that it can't be killed because it was killed by Reddit, obviously, because Reddit is centralized, but with far caster is trying to be decentralized.
00:24:19.560 - 00:24:54.248, Speaker A: So the point is to make it so that you can build on forecast. You can build your own front end, your own app on top of it, and you have basically zero risk of it being rugged, right? Or you being rugged. And people can choose which, which one they want to use there. But anyway, I'm going to be paying attention to forecasters on a public launch very closely because I want to see what it actually looks like. But yeah, it's going 100% permissionless tomorrow. There an interesting tweet here from Arkham today. So Arkham is an intelligence platform, basically very similar to Nansen, where essentially they track all the blockchain activity from, from different chains.
00:24:54.248 - 00:25:30.782, Speaker A: But they put a tweet out today where they said tornado cash is still the largest crypto mixer on Ethereum. Even after the August 2022 US treasury sanctions, $77 million in assets flowed through its contracts on ETH mainnet in the past 30 days. And you can see here that tornado cash operates on seven different chains and obfuscates transfers of ten different crypto assets. The most mixed asset is obviously native ETH on Ethereum mainnet. And then there's a few more stats here of what's going on. Now, obviously, that $77 million is substantially less than what the Tony cash mixer used to process. But I think there's two main points I wanted to focus on here.
00:25:30.782 - 00:25:56.574, Speaker A: The first one is that you can obviously see that tornado cash is not censored. It is censored by some portion of the network, but it is still available, people can still use it, and it is never even. Ever since the sanctions came into place, it has never been 100% censored. There is a certain percentage that is censored. And then I think right now, it's like, what, 70% on the builder side censors it or something like that. Um, and then on the relay side, it's. It's the opposite.
00:25:56.574 - 00:26:39.204, Speaker A: Basically, it's like 30% censored and 70% uncensored. But regardless of that, and because Tornado cash is not a time sensitive thing, you can wait a few blocks for it to be confirmed. And you're happy with that? Um, so that's the first point. The second point is that who do you think is still using Tornado cash right now? It's certainly not us citizens, right? Unless they, they really want to play with fire. It's certainly not the people that you would consider to be the good guys, right? Or the people that are trying to preserve their own privacy. I would bet the vast majority of people still using Tornado cash are the bad actors that the treasury wanted to stamp out to begin with. So I'm sure there's probably North Korea still in there, right? And North Korea was cited as like the biggest entity that caused them to basically put these sanctions in place.
00:26:39.204 - 00:27:10.848, Speaker A: And I'm sure there's plenty of other of these, I guess, like bad actors or what the US was considered bad actors still using tornado cash. So while they've been able to stunt, I guess, the use of it, or at least kind of like kind of collapse the use of it to some extent, they haven't stamped it out completely here. And that's because tornado cash is actually truly censorship resistant on Ethereum here. Now, obviously, I'm not saying for anyone to go out there and use it, especially not if you're a US citizen or person. Definitely not. And if you're outside of the US, it's kind of a massive gray area. Depends where you are in the world and stuff like that.
00:27:10.848 - 00:27:45.016, Speaker A: But the point I'm trying to make here is that these kind of things don't necessarily work because the bad guys are already breaking the law, right? They're already breaking the laws that you've imposed on that you're saying they're breaking. So to them, it's kind of like, well, who cares about these sanctions laws? Like, I'm already breaking the, probably the toughest laws in the US in terrorism financing, money laundering, all that sorts of stuff. So I'm not going to care. And especially if they're North Korea, like, they're not going to give any shits at all about this. So they're definitely still using it. Right. But I guess, like the goal of it is to try and significantly reduce the usage and stuff like that.
00:27:45.016 - 00:28:28.058, Speaker A: But the bad guys will always find a way to mix their assets. I mean, you can see now that a lot of them, or a lot of the hackers like to use four chain where essentially what they do is they have ETH. And this happened recently. The FTX hacker, they sold like 100,000 ETH to BTC and on, on ETH, and then they kind of like went through thought or did it through Thor chain, where essentially they went from ETH to BTC through Thor chain. They got the BTC on, on bitcoin, and then they use the bitcoin mixes in order to obfuscate their trail. And they do this because, one, there are more mixes on bitcoin right now than there are on Ethereum. And two, bitcoin has the liquidity for them to essentially exit.
00:28:28.058 - 00:29:19.240, Speaker A: Right. So if they can successfully anonymize their BTC that they've. That they've kind of siphoned off here, they can use the legitimate exchanges to cash out the fiat and then withdraw to their bank accounts wherever they may have them. So when, when you look at it like that, they're always going to find a way here, right? And actually it's beginning of Thor chain, one of the front ends, Thor swap came out and basically said that they were going to implement some controls around this. And I'm sure they got the knock on the door from one of the agencies in the US about this. But, you know, and then it begs the question of, is the US going to sanction four chain itself? Right? Because if they see the, you know, North Korea, for example, using Thor chain, it's not confirmed they are using it. But if the US says that they are, right, are they going to sanction Thor chain? And what does that look like? The store chain is store chain, censorship resistant, decentralized enough in order to resist that? I don't think we're going to know until it actually happens.
00:29:19.240 - 00:29:44.484, Speaker A: And it may not ever happen. But the point I'm trying to make here is that the bad guys are still being bad guys. It's a lot of it is the good guys that have really been punished by these sanctions because now no one in the US can legally use tornado cash in order to protect their privacy and they have to do it in some other way. Right. And even outside of the US, as I said, it depends where you are in the world, but it could be illegal for you to use it as well. And it just sucks. Right? Just sucks for the regular ordinary person that wants to preserve their privacy.
00:29:44.484 - 00:30:08.172, Speaker A: It wasn't doing anything wrong. But anyway, I'll leave that one at that there. I just wanted to highlight those, those couple of things there. Now I'm at the 30 minutes mark already, but there was a tweet from Brian Armstrong that I wanted to quickly kind of speak to you today. He said at Coinbase, we don't care if crypto is in a winter or if people are pivoting to some new hot thing. We, we just keep showing up every day. To build progress toward important milestones takes decades, and we'll have lots of ups and downs along the way.
00:30:08.172 - 00:30:37.980, Speaker A: Persistence and determination pay off. Now, this, if this was coming from basically anyone else, I would say that they're, they're kind of virtue signaling to an extent. But the fact that it's coming from Brian. Brian and I guess like him talking in the context of Coinbase, resonates strongly with me because for those of you who don't know, Coinbase has been around for over ten years now. So it's already been around for a decade. And they are currently, and I guess, like into the future, building things that will potentially outlast Coinbase itself. Right.
00:30:37.980 - 00:31:10.494, Speaker A: They're building base, a L2 on ethereum, and they're building it to be decentralized. They're building it to be open and public and for people to. To build on it with them and to host the core infrastructure in a decentralized way. All that stuff there. They're expanding Coinbase to other jurisdictions around the world, of course, and expanding it in a legitimate way. They're fighting, I guess, like the regulators in court, right? They're doing all of these really great things. And Coinbase, I believe, over the last more than ten years, has been probably the company that has brought the most amount of people into crypto.
00:31:10.494 - 00:31:35.060, Speaker A: Out of all of the crypto companies, I can't think of any other company but maybe binance that has brought more people into crypto than Coinbase. And honestly, it's probably Coinbase because they existed at least, I think, five years before Binance did. Right. So they've definitely brought in, especially when it comes to Americans, obviously, a lot of people into crypto here. And that's why I believe, as I said, Brian is not virtue signaling here. He truly believes this. He is a cypherpunk.
00:31:35.060 - 00:32:23.990, Speaker A: He is some crypto native, right? He is someone who believes in the things that we all believe in, and he's someone who's building towards that. Yes, he's building a centralized company, but within that company, he is supporting efforts like base. Right? He is supporting, um, efforts like their Coinbase wallet, for example, which is user self custody, all those sorts of things. So when he says this, I take that to be truthful and at face value, I've never really gotten any bad vibes from Brian, to be honest. I know there's been some drama over the years with Coinbase, and Brian in particular, I guess, in the bitcoin kind of community in 2017, where I think Coinbase supported a fork to raise the block size limit for bitcoin, which ended up just resulting in the bitcoin. Bitcoin cash fork because they backed out at the last minute. But I think generally, overall, they've been a very positive net good force for the crypto ecosystem there.
00:32:23.990 - 00:32:35.494, Speaker A: But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
