00:00:00.490 - 00:01:02.410, Speaker A: Thank you. Capital markets are a complex place that has evolved over decades to manage various, both counterparty risks and certain amounts of legal risks instilled in the system by various different jurisdictions views of the law and what's legal or acceptable or unacceptable from a society's point of view. So it's very complex system that has multiple parts to it. If you were to break it down into three of the simplest parts, you would see banks, asset managers, and CSDs. So basically, the banks, the global banks, which have experienced a lot of consolidation, you would see the asset managers that hold a lot of the value in the world and manage that value. These are people like Blackrock, Fidelity, Vanguard, and so on. And then you would see financial market infrastructures like the DTCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, various infrastructures.
00:01:02.410 - 00:02:24.882, Speaker A: Now, it's pretty obvious that vast pieces of the global financial system will move into this blockchain based state because of various efficiency gains, various security benefits, various counterparty risk reductions, and actually the ability to open up entirely new markets that were previously not in the global financial system. If you really look at these three groups, you need to get all three of them, and you need to get all three of them to work together successfully. And this is what Chainlink does better than any other platform, from what I can see of all the other platforms, because Chainlink can create the golden record. So the golden record is basically the reformatted, refactored version of all assets, of all records, of all things that are basically not on chain right now. And the reason it's often called the golden record is because it has these golden properties of highly transparent, highly in sync with various systems, and able to be efficiently moved and managed, which is not what current records have. So Chainlink, I think, and from what I can tell of all the other offerings out in the market, is the only platform that can create the golden record on any number of chains. So it's completely independent of the chain.
00:02:24.882 - 00:02:47.500, Speaker A: It can help you create the golden record with all the data you need to create that golden record. One good example is Rwas. RWAs are now an increasingly well known type of golden record that basically says, let's take all the real world assets, all the real world things in the traditional financial system, and let's put them in the blockchain, let's put them in this web three digital asset, decentralized version of the system.
