00:00:00.160 - 00:00:22.774, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily refuel where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 3 May 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I hope you all enjoyed yesterday's marathon two hour episode, or almost two hour episode. It was great to be back. Great to be back in the kind of like refuel seat, so to speak, recording that all for you. And there's a lot to get through, so hope you enjoyed that.
00:00:22.774 - 00:00:56.062, Speaker A: Now today we're back to our regularly scheduled programming. There wasn't too many updates over the last 24 hours, but there's a few things that I did want to talk about. You know, feel my tweets that I put out and few and some other interesting tweets that I saw today. So we'll start with one tweet that I put out where I basically said, you know, before making an uneducated comment or going on a rant about Ethereum's gas fees, I encourage people to actually read up on how Ethereum is scaling via the roll up centric roadmap modular design. And then in the following tweet, I linked to a few different resources there. Now obviously loyal kind of like refuel watchers and listeners will already know about this. I don't need to preach to you guys.
00:00:56.062 - 00:01:21.920, Speaker A: I don't think you guys would even need to read these kind of resources unless you want to, you can go forward and watch it. One of them is a great YouTube video about almost two hour video from, from bankless that goes through the whole modular design and everything like that. So definitely check out those resources if you want to. They'll be linked in the YouTube description. But at this point you're all, you know, pretty much aware of it. I've talked about it for, for many, many months now. But I think one thing I wanted to kind of like focus on here was what prompted this tweet.
00:01:21.920 - 00:02:07.460, Speaker A: And basically I put this out because obviously the gas fee spiked really high when there was that kind of like NFT mint the other side or NFT mint or something like that. And it spiked crazy. I think it went up like 5000 Gwei or something like that. And so for that brief period of time, what ended up happening was that the kind of glare one fees were so high and people were like, oh my God, it's costing me thousands of dollars to do anything. And it's like, I kind of like look at that and I'm just like, why? Like I get why people are complaining about this. But like, how are people paying so much attention to, you know, the gas fees that within like a couple hour window, they're able to kind of like spot the spiking gas fees, but they're not able to get onto a L2, right? Like they just don't know about L2's kind of like roadmap. They don't know that ethereum has L2's life today.
00:02:07.460 - 00:02:35.594, Speaker A: There are still people who believe that L2's aren't live guys, I come across these people all the time. They say, oh, L2 is always six months away. It's like, what do you mean it's always six, six months away? It's been live for like, I mean, what, since arbitrary went live in terms of like generalized l two s? And even before that we had like the single purpose applayer l two s as well. They're live and you can use them today. I've used all of them, and I'm sure many of you have used them as well. And they work very, very well. Yes, they aren't the cheapest thing in the world yet where they will get cheaper, but they work just fine.
00:02:35.594 - 00:03:13.228, Speaker A: And then some people say, oh, well, there's not everything on there that's on layer one yet. I'm like, okay, well, yeah, it's going to take a little while to build out ecosystems, but at the same time, if something's valuable to you on layer one and you want to use it, well, then you're going to have to pay the fee to do that. Right. And what's always kind of like, I guess, I don't know, confused me about people complaining about like kind of like the high fees. And I think this stems from a few different things, but it's kind of like, I don't really see any real world analogies here. Besides maybe something like utility bills, right. Obviously people are going to be upset when the utility bill kind of like increases in value because they need to pay for water, electricity, all that sort of stuff there.
00:03:13.228 - 00:03:48.660, Speaker A: But, and I think people view block space as like a utility or a public utility that shouldn't increase in price too much. Yes, there are some, some prime prices increases over time, but they're angry when that happens. I don't think ethereum layer one block space is that. If I'm being honest, I think layer one block space is available and good. I think that it is more akin to a luxury item than it is for like a public, kind of like public utility or something like that. Because layer one of them is not being designed to be a public utility. The roll up centric roadmap says that layer one will be settlement and data, and that's what L2s will take advantage of in order to offer that cheaper block space to people.
00:03:48.660 - 00:04:31.854, Speaker A: So the way I think about layer one block space is it's like a luxury item, like a luxury watch or something. Like if layer one is kind of like a, like a Rolex, for example, well then L2 is like a g shock or something, right? One of that, one of the cheaper brands out there, just as kind of like a crude analogy. So, but like a lot of people don't, don't, don't do that because they, as I said, they think of it as kind of like a public, a public resource. But on top of that, I think that the alternative layer ones has taken advantage of this kind of like information asymmetry and tried to equate their block space with Ethereum's block space, when obviously not all block space is created equal. And Ethereum block space is very, very special. It is the most decentralized and secure block space by far. Right.
00:04:31.854 - 00:05:04.514, Speaker A: You know, and I'm not counting bitcoin in this, because bitcoin block space is really only good for, for sending and receiving bitcoin, right at the end of the day, right? It can't do what Ethereum can do. So that costs something. Like if you, if you want to keep a network decentralized and secure like a theorem, then you need to limit its scalability. And then obviously there's a lot of demand for that. And there's been heaps of persistent demand for that for four years now. And I really do think people need to change their thinking around this into thinking that Ethereum layer one block space is for everyone. It's not like I'm just gonna be straight up guys, like, it's not, it's never going to be for everyone.
00:05:04.514 - 00:05:51.584, Speaker A: It already isn't for most of the world. And L2s is where it's going to be for everyone. And then even things like layer threes that starkware has been kind of like talking about lately and stuff like that. So I just kind of like, hope that the narrative and kind of like the, the thinking from people can change around that. I'm not really betting on it changing because this industry is just full of so many people who, who just kind of like, don't really care to learn as well, which is sad, but it is what it is there as well. But yeah, that concept of kind of like block space and not all of it being equal, that's like a crypto level 100 thing. Like, I don't expect noobs to know this at all, but I do expect people to be more curious and to want to actually learn instead of making these just like really bad and uneducated comments and just like literally spreading misinformation about these sorts of things.
00:05:51.584 - 00:06:28.096, Speaker A: And I get the frustration around high gas fees, but at the end of the day, like, let's take that, that NFT mint, for example, like you didn't want enough, right? Like the thing is, is that you shouldn't be blaming Ethereum, you should be blaming yuga labs for designing an NFT mint so poorly, where they did it on layer one. There was no kind of like dutch auction mechanism or anything like that. They just let everyone kind of like ape in, pardon the pun, and everyone was front run. And then people kind of like spent heaps of money on failed transactions trying to get in. And that's simply because they wanted it more than, you know, another person did, for example. Right? Like they, they wanted to kind of like flip it. They wanted to speculate on it.
00:06:28.096 - 00:06:53.208, Speaker A: And that's what kind of like happened there. If you, if an NFT project wants a more equitable distribution, then they should go into L2. They should do a better auction mechanism. And, you know, I mean, they should do kind of like, there's not just the dutch auction mechanism, there's a bunch of other ones. Paradigm has put out a bunch of research around this, but I just don't think you should blame a theorem for this. Ethereum functioned as expected. Like a theorem did exactly what it has been designed to do.
00:06:53.208 - 00:07:16.738, Speaker A: The fee market did exactly what it has been designed to do. It functioned flawlessly. It didn't tip over. It didn't, you know, yes, the fees went up, but that was by design. So whenever I see people blaming Ethereum for this, I'm like, no, blame the projects. The projects have other options at this stage. I mean, Yuga labs could have gone directly to any of these l two teams, and they would have put a team on them, right? Like literally dedicated team on them because they know how big they are.
00:07:16.738 - 00:07:58.216, Speaker A: You know, for example, like, I spoke about polygon being really great at business development before because they've just, they've got a whole team dedicated to it. If you go labs went to Polygon and said, hey, we want to mint our nft on kind of like a polygon pos chain or some other kind of solution. Can you do this for us? I'm sure they would have turned that around really quickly for them, but they didn't do that. And then everyone blames Ethereum. So just a bit of a rant there on that sort of stuff, obviously, that the kind of like discussion around gas prices is something that's always at top of mind for people. But I think the only way that that kind of like changes is if we just stop getting, you know, people just stop using ethereum l one altogether and always using ethereum l two s, because that's the future we need to go to. And if you want to use a theorem l one, well, then you have to pay to use it.
00:07:58.216 - 00:08:51.526, Speaker A: It's like I just really get, I don't get that. It's just so bizarre to me because, like, for example, if I, if I go to like an expensive restaurant and I can't get in, because I can't afford to get in, I can't afford to eat there. I don't chuck like a hissy fit and start complaining about it and starts calling that restaurant a scam, right? Like I, you know, you know what I mean? Maybe you guys disagree with me on this, but like that's how I think about it. I go and eat where I can afford to eat, for example, right? Or I don't crack the shits if I can't afford, you know, a certain kind of like good, or a certain, like maybe I want to buy like a fan, you know, something fancy, but I can't afford it. Well, I don't say, ah, crap like I, you know, that's a scam because I can't, I can't afford it. No, I just go buy the thing I can afford or I save up to buy the thing that I want, right? So it's always been just really bizarre to me that people call something like a scam or call that a rug or say that kind of like it's, it's fleecing users just because they can't afford to use it. I don't think that's the right way to think about it.
00:08:51.526 - 00:09:35.442, Speaker A: Now am I defending Ethereum's kind of like gas fees again? Like, and am I saying that users, you know, should just make more money to be able to use Ethereum? No, not at all. But I will obviously defend Ethereum's design. It's roll up centric roadmap because I think that is the only way to design a blockchain, the modular design, to keep it decentralized and secure. And that requires Ethereum layer one or layer ones in general, to be limited, to be expensive to use, but that doesn't mean that users should have to suffer from that. And that's why we have the L2 ecosystem and why I spend so much time talking about that and promoting it and educating on it. And you know, you guys have heard me talk about this many, many times before, but I think that's just like my general view on gas fees. Like in a nutshell, the last time, like ten minutes that I've been talking for here, I'm going to stop it there.
00:09:35.442 - 00:10:11.508, Speaker A: But yeah, I just want to kind of like get that out there. If you disagree with me, you know, just let me know in the comments or in the Discord channel. Like, I'm always open to being disagreed with and discussing these sorts of things. If you want an actual discussion, better to say it in the Discord channel because on the YouTube comments, I mean, I read them, but it's really hard to like kind of like talk and there's like all this spam and stuff. So Discord channel is better because that lets other people join in and kind of like have a healthy discussion. So I'm going to leave it at that on that tweet there. But there was a related tweet here from Togrel from Scroll, who talked about how different transactions on, on kind of like a network, like a theorem, can have varying impacts on fee market volatility.
00:10:11.508 - 00:10:48.094, Speaker A: And this is a great thread if you want more insight into how fee markets work and how, you know, the different transactions, different things people are doing on the network can basically alter the way, kind of like the FEMA alter the volatility of the fee market, so to speak. So I just wanted to highlight this. I'm not going to read it out because it's a, it's a bit of a lengthy thread here, but definitely go give it a read. It was very, very educational. All right, so here, Galron on Twitter shared an article from Fastcompany.com, uh, with a quote from Epic Games as CEO who said, the field of zero knowledge proofs, the, the idea that you can verify that something happened without receiving any private details about it. I think that's going to be the backbone of a large part of the next century in technology.
00:10:48.094 - 00:11:18.354, Speaker A: I mean, I totally agree. I think that ZK, or zero knowledge proofs in general go far beyond scalability. You know, they go beyond privacy. They do so many cool things that we, and a lot of these things we haven't even thought of yet. I mean, I've talked, I've talked about Cismo before about how you can have basically have like zero knowledge proofs of NFT. So essentially you can prove to someone that you own an NFT without revealing the address that you own that on. That's, that's awesome, right? That's obviously got to do with, with privacy, but that's, that's just really, really cool.
00:11:18.354 - 00:11:54.454, Speaker A: Obviously, the scalability stuff that, that, um, a lot of, um, teams are working on now with ZK technology is, is a very big deal, but it has applications for basically everything. And as I said before, zero knowledge proofs. And ZK kind of like, um, ZK stuff is not necessarily new. It's, it's existed in kind of like theory, research land for a long time, but it didn't have any practical, any real practical applications that people were going to put money behind until crypto. And because of that, we've had an explosion in this sort of stuff. I mean, it's not just stark where working on this is which, which Galron is. It works as product in product at stock.
00:11:54.454 - 00:12:30.124, Speaker A: We're here. But it's basically every major, kind of like l two team now looking at it, right? And you have the dedicated teams, of course. But I mean, think about it. Polygons working on ZK, Starkware, Zksync scroll, you have loop ring, you have a bunch of others out there using the technologies from places like Starkware, you know, and also optimize and arbitram are definitely looking into this sorts of stuff. They're not just saying, oh, you know, optimistic roll ups to be all end all. They're definitely looking into that and put investing kind of like time and money into that as well. So very cool to see someone as kind of, I guess, respected and as successful as Epic Games.
00:12:30.124 - 00:13:00.244, Speaker A: The CEO Tim Sweeney here saying this. It's funny because like, I think he's had varied opinions on crypto. I think he was bearish maybe on nfts and metaverse stuff originally, but then he was bullish on it. And now he's obviously, he's really bullish on ZK technology, which probably means he's talked to some of the ZK teams within Ethereum, I would, I would guess, which would be really cool to see, kind of like what happens there. But you just wanted to highlight this article. You can go give it a read or link it in the YouTube description. But very cool to see some outside validation of ZK proofs from Tim Sweeney here.
00:13:00.244 - 00:13:39.780, Speaker A: So speaking of Polygon, Jane T. One of the co founders of Polygon had just put out a simple tweet today saying expect the avail testnet this month. So avail is polygons data availability blockchain. It's basically their version of, I guess, like what Celestia is trying to do, what data layer is trying to do. And I think, I think there might be a couple of others out there that I'm forgetting right now. But essentially they're launching their avail testnet this month with this month, which is very cool. I mean, Testnet usually comes a few months before Mainnet, so we should see like a polygon avail mainnet maybe, maybe even this year, right, that users can start or developers can start building on and then users can start kind of like taking advantage of.
00:13:39.780 - 00:14:29.684, Speaker A: But I think this is, this is awesome. I think, you know, data availability is going to be that thing that's going to be like a narrative, a big narrative going forward, especially as platforms like Celestia launch and stuff like that, but also as kind of like the l two wars heat up, right? I think I spoke in the Discord channel. I don't know if I mentioned it on the refuel yet, but Metis, one of the l two scaling solutions, they actually aren't technically a roll up anymore because in their latest upgrade, they actually put the data off chain. And as I've discussed with you guys before, the data not being on chain means that something isn't technically a roll up anymore. It's closer to validium. Validium is starkware is kind of like term for something that has proof on chain, but data off chain. Um, and you know, if you could do this with, I mean, I don't know what, what infrastructure Metis is using, but like if Metis wanted to, they could put their data on avail.
00:14:29.684 - 00:15:22.536, Speaker A: If any of these solutions wanted to, they could put their data on avail instead of using a, um, I guess like closed group or small group of kind of like validators to do this, they would probably get access, as far as I understand it, to a subset of the polygon PoS chain validators, because they'll be staking matic in order to become a validator on the avail network, and they'll be kind of responsible for keeping that data available. So very cool things happening in that space. Definitely something to keep an eye on. And I'll keep you guys up to date on everything. Got to do with avail as we know more. So Ens have, has been having a crazy few weeks lately, and I think it's in large part due to people speculating on, I guess like, the three and four digit Ens names, because a lot of people don't realize that EnS's are actually nfts as well, right? Because obviously, they represent a unique name on Ethereum. But you can see here Nick Johnson from the ENS team, uh, kind of, like, highlighted how many records have been broken lately.
00:15:22.536 - 00:15:41.328, Speaker A: So May 2. Yesterday, uh, was another crazy day for Ens, with the highest revenue of ever of $1.95 million. Most registration, 63,000 and most registration years, which is 100,000. And also, there's been a million Ens names registered now as well. So absolutely crazy growth. I mean, if you contextualize this to April, look at that.
00:15:41.328 - 00:16:14.090, Speaker A: Right? And it's funny because, like, as I was saying, people are just kind of, like, speculating on three or four letter kind of like ens names. But I think that's totally fine because it means that, you know, the ens kind of like Dow and treasury gets, like, a lot more revenue. It gets a lot more awareness and, and kind of, like, marketing for Ens itself, which leads to more integrations later on, which leads to just kind of, like, more adoption of Ens. So I don't care if, like, it's speculation driving this. I think speculation pretty much drives everything in crypto and drives, like, most of the adoption. So it's not actually a bad thing. Uh, but, yeah, this is really, really cool.
00:16:14.090 - 00:16:27.260, Speaker A: I love it. I love seeing enes grow. I mean, I've been a fan of Ens since basically day one. I mean, they're the absolute best. I rep my NES name all the time there. But, yeah, just wanted to kind of, like, highlight these stats and highlight this growth from Ens. Very, very cool to see this.
00:16:27.260 - 00:16:58.606, Speaker A: Hoping it continues. But as I said, I think this large spike is due to just the speculation, which is totally fine, but we're going to see if it's kind of, like, resulting in a, maybe a material uptick at how many Ens names have registered. And I think more important, like, how many people are actually using them as kind of, like, and pointing them to an address. Because you can buy an Ens name and not kind of, like, assign an address to it and you just keep it. And maybe you want to speculate on trade and say, say you've got, like, ten ens names that you're speculating on. You don't have to tie them to your ethereum addresses. You can just kind of, like, trade them on opensea or stuff like that.
00:16:58.606 - 00:17:27.884, Speaker A: So I'd be curious to see how that trend continues as well. All right, so Vesta finance, this is a protocol that I first mentioned a few months ago, and I haven't spoken about them in a little while here, but they've been quietly building. And I should disclose that I'm an angel investor in investor finance here. But I do want to highlight them today because they had a good thread here explaining kind of, like, what they've done and what's coming. So what they've done recently and what's coming next for Vesta here. So, you know, I've been telling you guys a lot recently that a lot of these defraud protocols, they may be quiet. No.
00:17:27.884 - 00:17:59.428, Speaker A: You know, a lot of people may not be talking about them, but they're still building, they're still innovating. They're still shipping products. And I think the problem is, is that during bearish periods, like, no one's really paying attention to that stuff. I get, like, if you look at your Twitter feed right now, what are most people talking about? They're talking about, like, nfts, right? They're talking about kind of like, the Yuga lab stuff, the NFT minting. They're talking about. I mean, they're always talking about ethereum, but, like, just generally the things that attract most of the attention and most of people's kind of, like eyeballs is the stuff that kind of is hot, you know, in a speculative way. Right.
00:17:59.428 - 00:18:43.292, Speaker A: The innovation stuff is kind of secondary to that. And I think what ends up happening is that people start caring a lot more about innovation side of crypto and the fundamental side of crypto when the token that they're holding is going up. So, for example, if you're holding, like, the Vesta token, right. You're obviously much more interested in the updates than someone who isn't. And I think that, like, in general, that that holds true for pretty much every project unless the project is going through kind of like some huge speculative mania. Like, for example, a lot of the alternative l ones late last year were pumping like crazy. Um, you know, I myself and a lot of other ethereum people don't own any of these things, but we were still paying attention to it because we were like, you know, why are these things pumping? For starters? Like, doesn't make any sense, which it didn't, because a lot of them are down a lot now.
00:18:43.292 - 00:19:01.382, Speaker A: But also, it's just something that captures the attention, right? Just the media headlines. Just kind of like the flavor of the week or the month sort of, so to speak. So I think that happens with a lot of things. So. But if you're interested in kind of, like, I guess, reading this thread from Vesta to see what they've been doing, what they're up to, I highly recommend doing so. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Um, but yeah, I just kind of, like, wanted to highlight that.
00:19:01.382 - 00:19:33.938, Speaker A: And this isn't just for Vestal. You should be looking at every project, every kind of, like, worthwhile defi project, because there's a lot of innovation going on, and if you're kind of, like, not paying attention to it, you might be missing something really cool. All right, so I wanted to highlight this thread from Domothy today, who kind of, like, had a bit of a satirical thread where they started it by saying, every day it becomes more obvious that TCP IP is simply not going to make it. This dinosaur is holding back progress. We should look for innovative ways to make a single all in one protocol that can do everything and just works. Building on top of TCP IP with a layered stack. Dumb idea.
00:19:33.938 - 00:20:00.328, Speaker A: Now, obviously this is a satirical take on people say about Ethereum, because if I read this tweet with kind of replacing the terms with crypto related terms, this is how it would sound. Every day it becomes more obvious that Ethereum is simply not going to make it. This dinosaur is holding back progress. We should look for innovative ways to make a single all in one protocol that can do everything and just works. All in one protocol being something like maybe Solana building on top of a theory and with a layered stack. Dumb idea. And you can see how this translates directly.
00:20:00.328 - 00:20:20.288, Speaker A: And there's kind of like this, um, newsletter. Sorry, magazine cover here from popular mechanics saying, death of the Internet clogged up, bogged down and gridlocked. Can the net be saved before it scratches to a halt? Which is hilarious, because you could say the same thing of. You could replace this title with Death of Ethereum. Right? Clogged up. Yeah. Bogged down.
00:20:20.288 - 00:20:34.858, Speaker A: Yeah. And gridlocked. Yeah. Can, you know, can ethereum be saved before it screeches to a halt? Right. You can literally just replace it with that and it would still make sense, which is always funny to see. And then dominantly continued the thread by kind of like, giving a bit more satire here. But.
00:20:34.858 - 00:20:50.592, Speaker A: But, yeah, that was. That was kind of, like, funny there. But then Napoleon kind of replied with, I guess, like a devil's advocate tweet here by saying, tCP IP is a technology protocol. Blockchains are socioeconomic movements. It's possible with 100% credible neutrality. You only need one settlement protocol. But we're far from that.
00:20:50.592 - 00:21:39.758, Speaker A: And until that happens, I welcome alternatives, although no one's trying. And I kind of, like, get this point as well. Obviously, blockchains, as Polina says here, are socioeconomic movements because of the fact that there's just so much kind of, like, I guess, so much of a social layer involved in it because of, I mean, large part because of the tokens. But at the same time, like, no one is really trying to seriously compete with Ethereum, from what I've seen, and I'm gonna be honest, if I was to give the two networks that are actually close to Ethereum, like, in terms of, like, design, funny enough, I would actually put Cardano in one of those buckets, even though I think Cardano's design is broken. I think they're closer to Ethereum than, than something like a Solana or an avalanche is. And tezos as well. Now, that's not me saying that I'm bullish on either of those networks.
00:21:39.758 - 00:22:28.356, Speaker A: I'm not. I think that they've already lost. I think that they're not going to win anything, but, you know, at least they're closer to Ethereum than something like a Solana or an avalanche. But as Paulina says here, no one is really trying to, to kind of, like, compete with that, you know, 100% credible neutral settlement layer, which is what Ethereum is trying to be. So, just a few different takes here, but I wanted to highlight this because it was just funny seeing kind of like, how you can replace the Internet with Ethereum and get the same kind of result from this, from both this tweet and from this magazine cover. All right, so I had a rather, I guess maybe I would say 50 50, not unpopular, but not popular tweet where I said ethereum projects should airdrop their tokens to solo ETH stakers, possibly weighted by time at stake. Solar ETH stakers are much more likely to be aligned with Ethereum's values, mission and ethos.
00:22:28.356 - 00:22:53.780, Speaker A: They are. Plus they are more likely to be active in the ecosystem and in governance. Now, a lot of people took this to mean that I, that we should only airdrop tokens to solo ETH takers and no one else, which I guess is my bad on the wording here. So I followed up the tweet by saying airdrops wouldn't just go to solo eat stakers, it'd just be one group among many. Like how optimism is airdropping op to a bunch of different groups. The airdrop could also be extended to values alliance, taking providers like rocket pool. Just some ideas.
00:22:53.780 - 00:23:20.944, Speaker A: This is literally just an idea and it actually was born out of the Discord Channel. We were just discussing these things and I'm like, okay, well, I'll just put a tweet out, get a feel for it. A lot of people hit back and said, you know, this is kind of like, um, just making the rich richer. Obviously, to be a solo staker, the barrier to entry is quite high at 32 ethics. But that's why I said possibly weighted by time at stake. So you would basically reward the original stakers more than the latest stake is. Because if you staked in the first few months of the beacon chain going live, you're pretty much definitely an ETH.
00:23:20.944 - 00:23:56.758, Speaker A: Like almost an ETH maxi, I would say because the beacon chain went live when ETH was like $600 or something. So it was obviously a lot less to get that 32 ETH back then. And if you staked like from the get go, like one of the first stakers, you were putting a lot of kind of like risk. And, and I would say you were basically an ETH maxi. But as I said, this is just one idea like that I had, and I had this because you always want to, I guess, like airdrop tokens to the best possible group of people. I think Gitcoin donors is pretty good, but that's been muddied lately because people are just trying to game the system now. I think the way optimism did it is okay, there were interesting ideas.
00:23:56.758 - 00:24:48.586, Speaker A: It's not perfect, as I've said before, like, no airdrop is going to be perfect. But I thought that was really, really cool. But I think, yeah, the point of this tweet was that we should look for more and innovative ways to do airdrops. We should look for more ways to reward the long, the kind of like long lasting community members in, in Ethereum and the people who've been around for years and years, rather than kind of like just airdropping willy nilly to everyone because there are not, everyone is created equal. Like, if you've been around for five years, adding value to Ethereum in any such capacity, versus someone who's been around for like three months, well, the person who's been around for five years, you know, nine out of ten times, is going to be worth a lot more as kind of like someone you want in your ecosystem than the person who's only been around for a few months. So that's kind of like perspective. I look at this, but I do get how people, people kind of like saying, you know, this is really gatekeeping for people who, who can, who can't even solo stake and stuff like that.
00:24:48.586 - 00:25:19.034, Speaker A: And that's why I followed it up by saying, you know, you could also airdrop it to value alliance providers like rocket pool. I think the rocket pool community like especially the main communities, is an excellent one to get involved in your, in your own community as a project and in your own governance process because they're super active, super friendly, actually give a shit about like a theorems, values. And the more people that you can target in that group the better, I truly believe. So. We'll have to see, you know, if future airdrops do this. I have, I don't know of any airdrops that have done this yet. There might be some out there that I'm missing.
00:25:19.034 - 00:25:55.420, Speaker A: I think maybe gnosis chain did something, I can't, I can't remember because they have their own like bacon chain now, something like that. I don't know exactly if they did something or not but yeah, I just wanted to kind of like highlight this tweet here because as I said, it wasn't like popular, wasn't unpopular, was kind of like people are on the fence about it. But I'd love to hear your thoughts too. As I said, jump in the discord channel, just let me know what you think about it. Love to hear your thoughts on this idea. Alright, so we have another do not analytics dashboard from Hill Dobby today. This one is basically called Ethereum, the overview with, and this includes historical stats on wallets, blocks, transactions, smart contracts, price and more.
00:25:55.420 - 00:26:34.456, Speaker A: This is really cool. I mean this is like little, I mean there's been a lot of dashboards in the past that have tried to kind of like show really cool metrics about aetherium and stuff like that. And I think, I think I like them generally, but I like them more when they're kind of like focused on maybe just like a few key metrics. I like this stuff like Ethereum price, near Ethereum gas. It's actually pretty funny how kind of like these things track pretty, pretty cleanly. You know, maybe not on the absolute scale, but kind of like on the, just kind of like eyeballing it here and then you can kind of like say things like transaction count the users on Ethereum, I guess the addresses on Ethereum smart contract creation, all that sorts of stuff going on there. A gas used and gas limit and things like that.
00:26:34.456 - 00:26:49.752, Speaker A: So cool. Another cool dashboard from Hill Dobby, who's absolutely killing it by the way. On doing analytics. I mean, you can see how many dashboards they've got here, how many people are kind of like following their dashboards. Absolutely love this. I love the amount of work he's putting into these sorts of things. And I'm always happy to highlight this whenever I see a really cool one.
00:26:49.752 - 00:27:24.884, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description. I finally here just wanted to highlight a podcast that Trent Van Epps did with all Kevin Owoki from Gitcoin on Bankless as part of the Greenpool podcast here. And this podcast is basically about the protocol guild, which I've mentioned before, and about theorem public goods more generally. So definitely go give this a watch or listen, or both, and maybe do it after, after the refuel here when you're done with this. I mean, this is the last thing I'm talking about. So, yeah, maybe do it immediately after this or on your walk or something like that, because it's, as you guys know, public goods are good.
00:27:24.884 - 00:27:51.628, Speaker A: I'm basically a public goods maximalist. I think that's a, that's an app description at this point. And Trent is doing some of the best work in this, in this area, especially with the protocol guild. So if you want to learn all about the protocol guild and how Trent thinks about public goods, then I couldn't think of a better podcast than this, especially with Kevin a walkie being the host who is the godfather of public goods on Ethereum. Right? So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:27:51.628 - 00:27:58.184, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
