00:00:00.090 - 00:00:00.880, Speaker A: Cut forward.
00:00:01.490 - 00:00:13.454, Speaker B: As you mentioned, there are some parts of this that you're going to have to throw cold water on. So I'm just going to ask you about those right away. I was wondering, do you think that the judge got this order right?
00:00:13.652 - 00:01:02.730, Speaker C: I think most of it is right. I think there are a couple of exceptions. Some of the exceptions I don't think throw cold water. I think that the judge decided against Ripple on some issues that I think Ripple really strong arguments on and that if there is an appeal, ripple actually might win on those issues. I think the two that come to mind there are Ripple's fair notice defense. So one of Ripple's arguments was it can't be expected to know what the term investment contract means because there had never been clarity about that term. And so even if the SEC later comes up with guidance that explains what it thinks that term means that it has a defense to violating the securities laws because there wasn't that clarity at the time that it conducted the transactions that ultimately the court found were in violation of the securities laws.
00:01:02.730 - 00:02:01.554, Speaker C: The judge ruled against Ripple on that and said it did have fair notice because there was clarity about what an investment contract meant, at least to some degree. And with respect to Ripple's own sales to institutional investors, I don't agree with that and I think that that could be overturned on appeal. The other issue was Ripple advanced a somewhat novel theory of the Howey test, which was to say there are certain essential ingredients that must be present in order for the court to find the existence of an investment contract. It actually sort of sits next to the Howey test as other ingredients that must be necessary in order to satisfy the statutory requirement that there is an investment contract. And the court said, no, we don't think that those essential ingredients are required and I think that also is likely incorrect. Now, I will say this is the type of issue that you might not expect a district court to find in Ripple's favor. Right.
00:02:01.554 - 00:02:37.390, Speaker C: This is the kind of issue that you might expect only the Supreme Court to make a decision about because the lower courts, the district court, and even the Circuit Court of Appeals, if there is an appeal, will be bound by what precedent has already been established. The Supreme Court is a little bit different. Right. The Supreme Court does, in a meaningful way, get to develop new law exactly the same way as it did in the Howey case in 1946. And I think Ripple might ultimately succeed on both of those issues, assuming that they get all the way up to the Supreme Court. But for the time being, it's understandable why the district court found the way it did, even though I personally disagree.
00:02:38.290 - 00:03:25.486, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there are a lot of nuances in the way the judge decided the particular factors. But I think on the core issues the judge got it right. I think the fact that the tokens are not themselves securities, the fact that this record did not provide a basis to find that transactions into the secondary market, the programmatic sales, were securities transactions, I think all those broad findings were correct and there can be argument about exactly how some of those things get decided. And I agree with Jake that there are some issues that you could see an appellate court deciding slightly differently in either direction. So I think both sides would have some risk on appeal. But in broad strokes I think the judge got it right.
00:03:25.668 - 00:03:51.554, Speaker B: Okay. And yeah, we'll dive into even more details in a little moment. But I want to ask also just generally about what this order means in the grand scheme of the lawsuit and its progress through the like, how significant is this particular order, especially in terms know how likely it is that Judge Torres's decision will actually stand and have implications beyond just the I think.
00:03:51.752 - 00:04:28.114, Speaker C: And Kavan, I'm sure you have a take on this too. Sorry to jump ahead of you, but I think it's extremely consequential and I think frankly it's a mistake that everyone immediately is talking about what will happen on an appeal. First of all, the SEC has not signaled that it intends to appeal at this time. It does not as far as any lawyers I've talked to. And as far as I can tell, the SEC does not have an appeal as of right. Which means typically you cannot appeal a decision that a district court issues in the middle of the case. You have to wait until the case is over and this case is not over.
00:04:28.114 - 00:05:25.102, Speaker C: Now it is possible that the SEC could seek an interlocutory appeal, meaning that it sort of stops the case right here even though the case isn't over yet and it takes specific issues up to the Circuit Court. But it's quite rare for that to happen. And basically it would require Judge Torres to say that there is a controlling issue of law, that there's a substantial ground for difference of opinion between the parties and that allowing an appeal in the middle of the case would materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation. This is something Judge Torres can decide in her discretion. When I read this order, I don't see Judge Torres hinting that this is the type of issue that should go up on appeal. The Circuit Court also within its discretion would have to accept the appeal and all of this depends on the SEC actually wanting to appeal. But the SEC's statement when the order came out was we are pleased with this decision.
00:05:25.102 - 00:06:08.286, Speaker C: That's another thing we could talk about. I'm not sure why they decided to take that view, but that doesn't sound like they are going to appeal. So let's imagine there's appeal when this case is finally over, that's probably months or years from now and then months or years after that, that we might get a decision from the Second Circuit. And who knows what any random group of three judges on the Second Circuit would find? So I don't think we need to think about what might get changed on appeal. What we need to focus on is what is the impact of this decision now and for the foreseeable future? And the impact is exactly what Kayvon said. The Court soundly rejected the SEC's theory that digital assets embody investment contracts. It said the Tokens themselves are not securities.
00:06:08.286 - 00:06:29.534, Speaker C: It said we have to focus on transactions, not tokens. And that clearly rebuts. As Kayvon said, the SEC's view that Chair Gensler frequently espouses that the law is clear and the crypto industry is just obviously non compliant, so there's no need for new legislation because the SEC has this under control. That's just not true, and that's what we learned from this opinion.
00:06:29.682 - 00:06:29.994, Speaker A: Okay.
00:06:30.032 - 00:06:53.102, Speaker B: And just so I understand, so basically what you're saying is since Judge Torres said that she kind of was, like, granting each side a little piece of what they were fighting for, but that the rest of it would go to trial, that essentially, if the SEC decided that it was going to appeal, it would only do so at the conclusion of that trial. Is that what you're saying?
00:06:53.236 - 00:07:27.740, Speaker C: It could try to appeal right now, but first it would have to seek a judgment on the claims that were already granted or denied in the motion for summary judgment. Judge Torres would have to agree to do that. Then it would have to file a motion basically asking for permission to file the appeal. And Judge Torres could decide basically within her discretion, meaning if she wants to let them appeal, she could, but she doesn't have to. And then if the Circuit Court wants to take the appeal, it can, but it doesn't have to. And I just see no sign that that's going to happen now. So I think if there's going to be an appeal, it's many years from now.
00:07:28.270 - 00:07:56.938, Speaker A: I think that's right. And I think there are a couple important points here. One, with respect to the institutional sales, the programmatic sales, those core issues vis a vis Ripple Labs, this is a final decision on those issues. It granted summary judgment or denied summary judgment on those issues. That is not something that's going to continue. This is not just a stop to a later opinion on those issues. But there are some things that are left in the case, namely the aiding and abetting claims against the individuals.
00:07:56.938 - 00:08:26.046, Speaker A: And there's no way to appeal in part, just the decisions that were made until after that last piece of the case is decided without going through the process that Jake just outlined. So the normal course would be to wait for these claims against the individuals to be resolved, then you have a final judgment on everything in the case, and then you could take it up on appeal. If you want to try to appeal these parts, first you have to seek the judge's permission, and there's been no indication that's going to happen or that.
00:08:26.068 - 00:08:37.300, Speaker B: The judge would grant that at let's let's just pause it, that the SEC does decide it wants to do that after the trial. How long do you expect this kind of trial would take?
00:08:39.910 - 00:09:24.030, Speaker A: These things can take quite a long time. Most of the facts here have been pretty well established at this point. And so I think a trial could be scheduled in relatively short order, but I wouldn't expect a resolution of trial in less than the next six months or potentially significantly longer than that and then appeals beyond that. Usually you have to add at least a year or more. There are some factors as far as how fast the parties try to move the appeal. They have some discretion to try to move it quickly, and there are some places where they have to rely on the court. But you're looking at minimum, I would say, a year and a half to two years before you would have any resolution of this on appeal and quite possibly longer.
00:09:24.180 - 00:09:53.210, Speaker B: Wow. And then one other piece that I feel the need to understand, and hopefully anybody in my audience who also is not familiar with the courts or the legal system will need to know this. As you know, what it was that Judge Torres issued on Thursday was an order. And then I also heard Jake say that if the SEC were to try to appeal, it would have to get a judgment. So can you just explain the difference between an order and a judgment?
00:09:53.550 - 00:10:25.650, Speaker A: Sure. So this is the written decision that articulates the judge's view of the claims, but that has to get reduced to it's just effectively a separate piece of paper. But it gets reduced to a final judgment that gets entered, and then that is what can be appealed. So there can be processes in between. For example, somebody can try to move for reconsideration, or there could be other things that happen in between. Usually a judgment doesn't enter until all the issues in the case have been decided. So usually there wouldn't be a final judgment entered on just some of the claims but not others.
00:10:25.650 - 00:10:39.850, Speaker A: In theory, one of the parties could request that a judgment be entered just on the pieces of the case that have been resolved. But that's a discretionary issue. And as Jake said, that's a high standard to meet and one we haven't seen any indication that people are going to push for here.
00:10:40.000 - 00:11:27.826, Speaker B: Okay, so basically an order advances the case and then a judgment is sort of like the final hammer. Okay. Now I understand and I know sort of the institutional sales piece was as far as I understand, less surprising to people. But I still want to ask a few things about it. So this was the part where the judge essentially said that these definitely constituted unregistered securities offerings. And I already heard a number of lawyers saying they weren't surprised by this because of course it was hedge funds and VCs and institutional buyers that were engaging in this. And even the way the sales were conducted sort of showed that there was an understanding that they could be construed as securities offerings.
00:11:27.826 - 00:11:53.140, Speaker B: So I wanted to ask, do you think that her order on institutional sales here could mean that we'll end up with more projects doing something similar to what Stacks did where they used a Reggae Plus exemption and raised money and then essentially after that had this token that now is apparently decentralized and not a security?
00:11:55.190 - 00:13:08.182, Speaker C: I don't think that's likely. I don't really read the opinion as supporting a path to registration which know, Reggae Plus allows an issuer of a security to register it with the SEC and then they are subject to sort of the full compliance obligations under the securities laws. I don't think that this opinion suggests that that is a more feasible path than it was before. And in fact, most people who have looked at Reggae Plus have said this is basically a dead end. Because the idea is you're going to issue this security, you're going to do it in compliance with the SEC's expectations, but then you will decentralize the project and someday those compliance obligations which are sort of inherently incompatible with the nature of a decentralized asset that exists in a disintermediated environment will fall away and the asset will become a non security commodity. And the problem is everyone who did one of these reg A Plus type offerings sort of hit a wall with the SEC where there was no clarity about when or if ever the asset would morph from a security into a non security commodity. Instead, what I think this order is saying is the idea that the asset itself is the security is wrong from the start.
00:13:08.182 - 00:14:15.354, Speaker C: What you have to do is not look at the asset itself, but rather the transaction in which the asset is transferred from the creator of the asset to the purchaser of the asset. And what this order is saying is unless you really have this strong connection, not necessarily a written contract, but certainly an implied contract, if not more, between the seller and the purchaser, where there is an investment of money, there's a real common enterprise. There's a real expectation of profits. And that expectation of profits is created by promises made by the seller to the purchaser. Then you do not have a securities transaction. So instead, I think what this order does is it tells people there are a lot of ways to get tokens out into the world without tripping the securities laws and without giving the SEC any authority or jurisdiction. It may just not be, as I think you said, well, Laura, it may not be in a real sort of investment contract of the sort where you have an entrepreneur raising capital from an investor to use that capital in order to build out a network that will support the value of the token.
00:14:15.354 - 00:14:31.460, Speaker C: And that's why I think many lawyers thought that ripple's primary sales may be found to be securities transactions, even if later transactions or other non investment related distributions of XRP would not be viewed as securities transactions. And that's exactly what this order said.
00:14:31.910 - 00:15:32.738, Speaker A: Yeah, I'll chime in and just the I completely agree with what Jake said. And I think where the cold water comes in is I think what people should not take from this is how they can just rush directly to the secondary market and come up with some scheme to go to bypass initial investors and go straight to retail and then they're all good, according to this opinion. That's not what this means, and that's not what we would be encouraging. And I think looking back to the Telegram case is instructive there, where that court said, looking at the overall set of transactions and expectations, that there was a scheme to offer to public retail by way of some intermediary transactions. And whether you agree or disagree with the way Judge Castell decided the Telegram case, that is a different theory than the one that was advanced here. And this judge is not disagreeing with that or in any way suggesting that was inappropriate. You still have a finding that somebody's attempt to get to the secondary market was an overall scheme that was a securities offering.
00:15:32.738 - 00:15:39.780, Speaker A: So people shouldn't just say, oh, the institutional sales were a problem, but the programmatic sales weren't. So we can just run straight to the secondary market.
