00:00:01.960 - 00:01:18.860, Speaker A: Good afternoon. We move from virtual currency to another topic, which is part of this conference, which means the quality of the life in cities and the sustainability. My presentation will be about the green and blue infrastructure, which was partly covered also yesterday by presentation of my colleague Wojciech Kotetsky, or colleague from Prague Institute of Planning, Martina Bauerova, Barbara Rishkova and other presentation. My presentation will be about economic aspects and about including resident preferences to planning of green and blue infrastructure in the city, how to support it using economic methods. I am research at regional University in the Czech Republic and also CEO of Small environment NGO located here in Prague. Yeah. Currently we are facing a lot of challenges in the world.
00:01:18.860 - 00:02:23.568, Speaker A: For me, as environmental economist, one of the most important is the increase of the population, together with urbanization, that more and more people are moving from villages, landscape to cities. And they would use the city as the place for living, working and for all activities we usually do in the cities, which means we lost lot of space, of greenery, because we need to build new houses, new shops, new offices and so on. And so this is one challenge. The other challenges, which is the same for the whole world, is the climate change. I will not speak a lot about it, but I'm happy that currently we don't need to discuss whether it's. Whether there is some climate change or not. I'm happy that in the last few years that it's clear that the climate change is.
00:02:23.568 - 00:03:29.004, Speaker A: And it's not discussed, it's not necessary to discuss. In the city, we can meet with some challenges which are connected with droughts, floods, with quality of air, with biodiversity, with drinking water, which we have not enough in some part of the world. What we can do it, we can implement it. A lot of measures, either adaptation measures or nature based solution, or we can call it also green and blue infrastructure. We can do a lot of industries itself to implement new measures, such as green roofs, such as greening of streets and so on, planting new trees and so on. But we need to do also a lot of. In very urban areas, in the neighborhood of the cities, also in the landscape, to retain the water in the landscape and to protect the environment, and so on.
00:03:29.004 - 00:04:49.768, Speaker A: What is important is that, or that we have some positive change regarding the green and blue infrastructure in last few years. The awareness about the elements and the importance of the elements is increasing. There is high interest of obtaining multiple types of benefits we get from the green and blue infrastructure elements. There is also increasing knowledges and experience of designers, landscape architecture planners about the measures. And there are also a lot of money to do the measures, so we can make the cities much more liable, much more greener, much more resident resistance to climate change. What does mean? We can change the routes, we can change the streets, we can change the squares, we can change social parking slots and so on. But still, in many cities it's not so nice as in these pictures above me.
00:04:49.768 - 00:06:52.024, Speaker A: But in many cities the current situation still is with some asphalt roofs, streets without trees, some squares which are very ugly, with ugly elements which are not interested for spending free time. Why such problem persists? The implementation is limited. On limited scales, we can meet most of the measures in big cities, such as capital cities or bigger cities. But in small cities we can meet only a few examples of such measures, adaptation measures or elements. And what is the reason why we have these troubles is that the benefits which we get, which are provided from the green and blue infrastructure amends, are not taken in the decision making. What it means we get a lot of benefits from the measures, but how to get it in the decision making? It's water retention, amount of water, it's some cleaning of air pollution and so on, and lot of numbers, lot of elements, lot of criteria, and it's very difficult to translate it in some numbers and in some arguments why we need to do it. What is the status quo that in case we do not implement any changes, we lost many opportunities to get from green and blue infrastructure.
00:06:52.024 - 00:08:52.854, Speaker A: In case of implementing, we can get living center in the city, we can support places for recreation, we can get more biodiversity in the cities, we can support rainwater management in the cities to protect the cities from flooding, fresh flooding, river flooding and so on. What this opportunity means? These opportunities are mostly called ecosystem services. What are ecosystem services? It's nothing new, but new terms, which is the same for nature sciences, social sciences and other. We tried to find the same language when we try to change the areas, the cities, the landscape and so on. We speak mostly about four groups about provisioning, regulating culture and supporting services, which are translated, which are composed of many individual services, such as in terms of regulation, as erosion regulation, runoff regulation, microclimate regulation, and so on. In terms of provisioning, it means that we get some food, we get some water, we get some biomass, wood from the environment. In terms of supporting, we get place for education, recreation, we get place for meeting each other and to build social groups and to support the social interaction.
00:08:52.854 - 00:10:05.314, Speaker A: Yeah, we know that some problem persist. What is the reason? There is lack of arguments who supported the nature based solution or elements on green and blue infrastructure? And why? Because when we speak with representative of municipality, we get such a reaction to questions why you don't implemented any of these measures that yeah, why do we have to spend so much money on? I want a measure that is visible. I understand it. How? But how we do explain it to the voters. So there is some resistance of many city representatives to. To change the environment and to change the preferences of measures which are supported. How to get some economic arguments, which is the main topic, which I will today cover.
00:10:05.314 - 00:11:40.174, Speaker A: We implemented some economic assessment, which is based on cost benefit analysis is something, for example, if someone from us, some businessman, they do some analysis of benefits and costs. But in cost benefit analysis we taken into account also some indirect benefits and costs, some non monetary benefits and costs, which influence our quality of life and the society itself. What it means we try to identify and monetarize all possible benefits and costs which are connected with the measure, then to compare it during the time and get some results, either in terms of a year, which we need to, which is the payback returns, or we can get some net present value of the measure. What it means we do the analysis in a few steps. We starting with the identification of the measures and benefits. Then we need to implement some valuation techniques, which I will skip today. We have not too much time and then we get such numbers.
00:11:40.174 - 00:13:32.334, Speaker A: What I will tell to the cost benefit analysis more that we don't care not only about the private benefits, but also about public benefits, which are partly overlapping. But we take the whole amount of benefits we have and such cost benefit analysis or advance other types of economic assessment could be used to develop some policy instruments, such as subsidies to subsidize the implementation of measures and to cover this positive externalities, which is the benefits above the private benefits of the investor, which are currently the main barriers to do the measures, because for the investor it doesn't make sense to do it, because the private benefits are lower than the costs which are necessary to implement the measure. I have here I prepare some examples of economic assessment, which we can do it. All of them are from smaller cities in the Czech Republic. The first example is rain garden in small city Rugnitsynadlabeim in the northwest of the Prague, 50 km far from this place in the city. It's big issue rainwater management and they implemented a lot of measures. One of them is this rain garden, which were built two or three years ago within the revitalization of the whole street or of the streets in the whole area.
00:13:32.334 - 00:14:47.970, Speaker A: The main problem in this area was that there was no willingness of the water company to care about the water in the sewage. And they say, stop. We would like to wear, we wouldn't care about the water from the street in the process of purification of water or cleaning the water. So the city is trying to implement such a lot of measures to reduce the water going in the sewage system. What it means to build this, such measures. I prepare some big table of ecosystem services connected with this type of measure. The most important aspects are reducing run of water on the sewage, flood protection, water quality improvement, local climate regulation, and increasing the aesthetic value and supporting habitats of habitat creation and biodiversity support.
00:14:47.970 - 00:15:43.340, Speaker A: It's bigtable and to discuss with politicians and decision makers. With such tables, it doesn't make sense. It's lost of time on both sides, because the decision makers say it's too complicated to discuss it. What we do, we try to assess monetary, evaluate all the measures which is able, which is. Which is illustrated with this coin, which we are able currently to involve in economic assessment. And then we can get some results. The present value of cost, meaning the implementation cost and maintenance cost of this measure, in time horizon of 25 years, it's about €15,000.
00:15:43.340 - 00:17:15.936, Speaker A: The benefits which were signed by the coin, this value of this benefits, it's about 18,000, which means if we invest €1, we get €1.2 back, which means it makes sense to do it. And if we try to count the return of the investment, we get it in one year, which is super nice from business point of view. The second example is not greening of the tram, but greener green roof on my university, which I supported and was a member of the people who make pressure to build it, because we use it also for measuring impacts of the green roof. And yeah, it's on the old building, but was built during the reconstruction of the building. It's greener roof, which means that extensive green roof, which means we use substrate with about eight or ten centimeter and they are mostly sediment plants. Also the same table.
00:17:15.936 - 00:18:20.764, Speaker A: But you can see that there are more benefits we are able to monetize. And in this case, the results are not so good. In the return of the investment, it's about 14 years, but the appreciation is a bit higher. And you can see also the total present value of cost and benefits. The last example, which I preferred are greening of the trim line or street with the trim line in Ostrava, which is one of biggest cities in the Czech Republic, which were also built during the revitalization of the rail belt. And yeah, it's almost the same plans are used as in the case of green roofs and there were a lot of motivation to do it. Some of them mentioned are noise and dust reduction and also some supporting of rainwater management.
00:18:20.764 - 00:19:09.084, Speaker A: The same table with the benefits. In this case a bit less benefits could be included. And what are the results? A bit shorter time of return bags, bit higher appreciation of such measures. Also in this case it makes sense to do it. Till now we speak about economic benefits. But what is also important to include the preferences of residents, what they would like to have in the cities. We do a lot of questionnaires survey in czech cities and also internationally.
00:19:09.084 - 00:21:10.114, Speaker A: I prepare some example of our big survey done in eight czech cities and one german city in which we would like to know whether the people prefer more nature based solution or more some artificial measures such as urban garden or artificial park. The same by blue infrastructure. Whether they prefer nature based streams or some no streams or streams running in the paper and about equipment of the parks and areas you can see two cards we used for the survey that we ask more times the same people about two options. Some type of survey which is called a trace experiment that they choose more times about two items. In this case two parts with different levels of attributes and from this survey we can explore what they prefer and also we can put to this also economic value some results related to type of greenery, type of park. It's obviously that the people prefer mostly nature based form of park, less semi nature and the lowest preferences were connected with urban gardens. More clear preferences were by streams, by blue infrastructure that then in this case nature based form was much more preferred to streams running in the pipe or semi nature streams.
00:21:10.114 - 00:22:04.658, Speaker A: In some cities there were changes, there were different results, but there were mostly only between the second and third last option. But in each cities, in all cities the nature based form was most preferred. Some conclusion. It's fantastic to do the planning but it's necessary to support them by a lot of analysis which could be also case of economic. We can do some lot of analysis such as cost benefit analysis. We can care also about sources of financing these measures. We can care also about the political feasibilities.
00:22:04.658 - 00:22:58.162, Speaker A: And then when we put these results together then we can find successful pathway for city adaptation from socio economic point of view. And what is important that economic argument is strong one, we can see it on many cases when we do our analysis and then support the implementation of the measures. And it's very good information which could be used in communication. And the communication is very important to get the acceptance of the measures from the residents. And this is from my side. Everything. What I could provide you in 20 minutes, which I had for my presentation.
00:22:58.162 - 00:23:06.294, Speaker A: If you have some questions, maybe it's time here or later. I will spend the whole day here.
00:23:06.434 - 00:23:27.014, Speaker B: So we can take a question or two, if anyone has one. I guess you've explained everything so thoroughly. There are none. Okay then. Thank you so much, Jan. And we'll be back in a few.
