00:00:00.250 - 00:01:13.218, Speaker A: Um, thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. SBF faces More Accusations Sam Bankman Fried, the founder of the collapsed cryptocurrency exchange FTX, is now dealing with new charges. Prosecutors allege that Bankman Fried bribed Chinese government officials with a $40 million cryptocurrency payment in November 2021 to unfreeze certain Alameda accounts. These accounts, collectively holding $1 billion worth of crypto, were frozen during an investigation into an Alameda counterparty. After several unsuccessful attempts to unfreeze the accounts, SPF reportedly directed Alameda employees to execute a portion of the bribe payment, authorizing additional tens of millions of dollars after the accounts were frozen. In a court appearance on Thursday through his lawyer, Mark Cohen, the founder of FTX pleaded not guilty to these charges of attempting to bribe Chinese officials and evading campaign financing laws amid mounting legal fees. Forbes revealed that SPF's defense costs are being covered by a multimillion dollar gift he made to his father, Stanford law Professor Joseph Bankman, which itself had been funded by a loan from FTX's sister company, Alameda Research.
00:01:13.218 - 00:02:08.294, Speaker A: The funds were transferred in 2021 as a tax free gift using SPF's lifetime estate and gift tax exemption. As he prepares for trial in October, SPF faces new bail restrictions focused on his use of electronic devices and encrypted messaging services. His Internet access will be limited to pre approved websites on a new laptop assigned to him, and all user activity will be logged and monitored by his legal counsel. US and South Korea vy to extradite doe Kwan TerraForm Labs co founder Doe Kwan and Chief Financial Officer Han Chong Joon have been arrested in Montenegro facing extradition requests from the US and South Korea. According to Justice Minister Marco Kovac, the duo will first face criminal proceedings for ID document forgery in Montenegro. The international warrant was issued after the collapse of the Terra USD stablecoin last year, which wiped $40 billion from the crypto market. The US.
00:02:08.294 - 00:03:05.542, Speaker A: Claims jurisdiction because the securities and Exchange Commission accuses Kwan and his company of defrauding American investors. Kwan and Jun entered Montenegro illegally and were arrested while attempting to fly to Dubai using falsified travel documents. Prior to their arrest, South Korean officials were searching for Kwan in Serbia. Authorities seized three laptops and five mobile phones from them during the arrest. Interior Minister Philip Adzik told Bloomberg that the Dua seemed surprised about their arrest and told authorities that they had previously enjoyed VIP treatment while on the run. Kwon faces multiple charges from South Korean and US authorities for his role in the collapse of Luna and UST, and is planning to appeal a Montenegro court's order for a month long detention. Binance allegedly hid presence in China on top of the CFTC lawsuit Binance was accused of hiding its presence in China for several years, according to internal company documents seen by the Financial Times.
00:03:05.542 - 00:04:04.374, Speaker A: The documents suggest that Binance operated an office in China until at least the end of 2019 and used a Chinese bank to pay employee salaries. Finance CEO Changpang Zhao and other senior executives are said to have instructed employees to hide the company's presence in China. Genesis had privileged access to FTX's tokens According to a Financial Times report, genesis, a major crypto lender that filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, had privileged early access to issuances of tokens backed by FTX at a discounted rate before they were made available to the public. Genesis is FTX and Alameda's biggest creditor with $226,000,000 owed, according to US. Bankruptcy court records. Thomas Brazil, a bankruptcy expert, said if this is true, Genesis shouldn't be on the UCC or Unsecured creditors committee. Also this week, the sale of $45 million worth of FTX's assets in Sequoia Capital Fund was approved by a federal bankruptcy judge in Delaware.
00:04:04.374 - 00:04:34.894, Speaker A: The buyer was Abu Dhabi's Investment Arm. All Noir Investments, RSE Limited. The sale meets the requirements of U. S. Bankruptcy law, which sets restrictions to prevent unduly, hasty divestment of assets. Meanwhile, the sale of FTX's stock clearing business embed was put on hold until further notice. On a related note, Crypto Exchange Okx announced that it had identified $157,000,000 in digital assets belonging to FTX and Alameda and is turning them over to the bankruptcy estate.
00:04:34.894 - 00:05:10.778, Speaker A: FDIC gives a deadline to Signature's Digital Asset clients. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, instructed Signature Bank's Digital Asset clients to close their accounts by April 5. In the sale of Signature to Flagstar Bank, approximately $4 billion worth of crypto related deposits were excluded from the deal. The FDIC informed these depositors that any funds remaining in their accounts after the deadline would be mailed to them as a check. During the acquisition, Flagstar took over $88.6 billion in deposits and $110.4 billion in assets from Signature's 40 branches.
00:05:10.778 - 00:05:46.378, Speaker A: Additionally, on Wednesday, FDIC Chair Martin Groonberg faced questions from the House Financial Services Committee members regarding the agency's handling of Signature Bank's digital Assets business. Grunberg stated that the FDIC is currently marketing signet Signature Bank's crypto focused payments network for sale. Further, Nellie Liang, U. S. Treasury's undersecretary for domestic finance, assured the House Financial Services Committee that the recent failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature should not be blamed on the crypto industry. Quote I don't believe that crypto played a direct role in either of the failures, she said. U.
00:05:46.378 - 00:06:26.930, Speaker A: S. Law firm accuses regulators of going after crypto Washington, DC. Law firm Cooper and Kirk published a white paper suggesting that U. S. Regulators, including the FDIC, Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Controller of the Currency, or OCC, are secretly targeting the crypto industry in a financial war similar to the first Operation Choke Point. The paper highlights the recent closure of Signature Bank's $4 billion digital asset business and the increasing number of crypto firms losing access to the ACH payment network. Cooper and Kirk previously sued the FDIC, Federal Reserve and OCC over the original Operation Chokepoint, which pressured banks to cut ties with high risk businesses.
00:06:26.930 - 00:07:31.482, Speaker A: The firm now urges Congress to hold regulators accountable and halt Operation Chokepoint 20, which they say is targeting the crypto industry. Nick Carter of Castle Island Ventures, who has been raising the alarms of Operation Chokepoint 20 for weeks now, tweeted quote this really is an exceptional document, calling it essential reading. Court Summons Three AC founders to BVI founders of Three Arrows Capital or three AC Kyle, Davies and Suzhou are required to appear in a British Virgin Islands court on May 22 in relation to the ongoing liquidation process of their collapsed crypto hedge fund. If they do not respond to the summons, they will be held in contempt of court. The founders must submit all pertinent documents concerning the firm's bankruptcy by April 14. Dow token Holders Face Liability in BZX dow Case a US Court in California ruled that BZX Dow token holders may be held liable for the protocol's $55 million hack in 2021. The court classified BZX Dow as a general partnership, suggesting that tokenholders owe a duty of care to investors.
00:07:31.482 - 00:08:42.482, Speaker A: This decision marks a significant development in the legal landscape concerning the liability of governance token holders in decentralized autonomous organizations, or Dows. However, as Gregory Schneider, deputy general counsel at Hadera, pointed out, it is an early ruling and does not decide liability. The BZX platform, a DFI margin trading protocol, suffered a hack in 2021 when a team member fell victim to a phishing exploit. The attackers stole $55 million, with individual plaintiffs losing between $800 and $450,000. The court ruling supports the plaintiff's argument that token holders failed to ensure adequate security to prevent the hack. Voyager Digital transfers $150,000,000 in USDC to Circle Bankrupt Crypto lender Voyager Digital transferred $150,000,000 in USD stablecoin to center the joint venture between Coinbase and Circle as part of its ongoing effort to offload crypto assets. Despite objections from regulators such as the SEC, the New York Department of Financial Services, and the New York Attorney General, who argue that Voyager's actions may violate securities laws, the company is attempting to convert its crypto assets into US.
00:08:42.482 - 00:09:53.574, Speaker A: Dollars. In spite of the recent lawsuit filed by the CFTC against Binance, legal experts suggest that the case is unlikely to have a significant impact on Binance's acquisition of Voyager's assets. Paxful to Reimburse Celsius Earn Users Peer to peer marketplace Paxful is set to refund Celsius Earn users on its platform following the latter's bankruptcy, Paxful CEO Ray Yusuf committed to using the company's funds to compensate affected users who were unable to access their assets after Celsius halted withdrawals, Yusuf said on Twitter. Paxful, like many others, was paralyzed to act as we could not retrieve funds held by Celsius. While some users with custody accounts have resumed withdrawals, those with deposits through partnerships such as the one Paxful had face a more uncertain future. Euler hacker returns 51,000 ETH Over the weekend, the individual behind the Euler hack returned 51,000 ETH, worth around $91 million to the protocol, causing the Eul token to surge by 60% in 30 minutes. The hacker still holds $73 million in ETH and $43 million in Dai from the $190,000,000 exploit.
00:09:53.574 - 00:10:45.926, Speaker A: The return of the stolen funds followed a series of interactions between the hacker and the oiler team via encrypted blockchain messages. Despite an attempted phishing attack by the Ronan Bridge exploit hacker, the oiler hacker proceeded to return the majority of the stolen funds. Polygon Zkevm launches on Mainnet Polygon's Zero Knowledge Proof Rollup Network, or Zkevm, launched on the main net, with over 50 DApps and infrastructure providers integrating it from day one. Ethereum cofounder vitalik Buterin executed the first transaction, celebrating the network's potential for unconstrained scalability. Quote Millions of constraints for man, unconstrained scalability for mankind, said Buterin in an embedded message. The Zkevm technology aims to scale Ethereum by moving, computation and state storage. Off chain polygon has also made it open source.
00:10:45.926 - 00:11:48.510, Speaker A: On a related note, Consensus launched a public testnet for its Zkevm solution, dubbed Linea, following the processing of over 1.5 million transactions during its private beta. The linear testnet features native MetaMask and truffle integrations. If you're still not familiar with zero knowledge technology, I highly recommend you listen to this Tuesday episode of Unchained, in which I talked with Stanford cryptography professor Dan Bonet and a 16 general partner, Ali Yahya to do a deep dive into the topic. Speaking about developments around Ethereum, its core developers confirmed that the CHAPELLA network upgrade will be implemented on the Ethereum Mainet on April twelveTH. Be sure to check out my recent interview with Christine Kim of Galaxy Digital to find out what's included in the ChappellA upgrade and how it might affect Ethereum. Meanwhile, the MakerDAO community approved a new constitution proposal that lays out guiding principles for the decentralized lending protocol and outlines plans for endgame a major restructuring initiative for the platform pushed by its founder, Rune Christensen.
00:11:48.510 - 00:11:56.058, Speaker A: Time for fun bits. This week, Jenny Hogan of Unchained gives her take on Doe Kwan's arrest.
00:11:56.234 - 00:12:25.830, Speaker B: An update on Doe Kwan, who continues his year of world travel. Kwon has been on the run from an interpol red notice for months, which does explain his outfit. It's exercise chic. He recently got arrested in Montenegro, and South Korea has requested he be extradited from there. However, South Korea faces competition, as the United States has recently requested that Kwan be extradited to America first. And while all of this was going on, he started a new company in Serbia, which means maybe they're owed a piece of him too. So many countries involved, I literally feel like I'm at a model UN tournament.
00:12:25.830 - 00:12:56.290, Speaker B: They're going to have to figure it out, because Do Kwan obviously can't be in two places at once. It's not possible for him to just instantaneously jump all over the map. He's not the value of the terrace table coin montenegro Justice Minister who has honestly never had so much attention in his life. This is truly like a sweet 16, a bar mitzvah and a wedding. All in one has said that for now, Quan is being held in COVID quarantine in Montenegro. Personally, I doubt he has a contagious COVID infection, though if his business record is any indication, he's not known for his capacity to successfully grow things.
00:12:56.440 - 00:13:20.620, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Austin and the CFTC lawsuit against finance, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Zach Seward, Wanda Ranovich, Sam Sriram, Ginny Hogan, Ben Munster, Jeff Benson, Leandro Camino, Pama, Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening. It.
