00:00:00.170 - 00:00:49.370, Speaker A: Today we're going to tackle a hot topic bitcoin ETFs and the race to file for these financial products among Wall street titans. While tradfi giants smell money, the SEC continues to evaluate whether or not to approve ETFs that actually own bitcoin directly. Some of the largest names in asset management, like Fidelity and BlackRock, are jumping into the race, and the SEC has even approved the first leveraged bitcoin futures ETF. So let's quickly recap what bitcoin ETFs are up, who the major players are, and explore what all of this really means. Defend your crypto from market crashes and downside volatility with bumper. More on them later. Just this week, we heard that Fidelity, the US investment firm that manages over $4 trillion in assets, is close to filing for a spot bitcoin ETF, marking its second attempt after being denied by the SEC early last year.
00:00:49.370 - 00:01:24.930, Speaker A: Of course, fidelity isn't the only player making moves. BlackRock, the largest asset management firm in the world, was first out the gate this month, and their decision has prompted firms like Investco, Wisdomtree and Bitwise to follow suit. Meanwhile, Kathy Woods, Ark. Investment, claims that they are the first in line for a spot bitcoin ETF. In total, over a dozen names have filed for bitcoin ETFs. But interestingly, this enthusiasm comes despite the SEC's history of rejecting similar filings in the past. And not everyone in the crypto sphere is happy because some believe that large financial firms have bullied out participants so that they can scoop up cheap coins.
00:01:24.930 - 00:02:08.190, Speaker A: And we'll touch more on why the timing has raised eyebrows in just a second. So what exactly are bitcoin ETFs? In essence, a bitcoin ETF is an exchange traded fund that provides exposure to bitcoin without investors having to directly purchase or hold the asset themselves. It's akin to buying shares in a company on the stock market, but in this case, you're buying shares in a fund that tracks bitcoin's value. Perhaps most importantly, investors don't even need to interact with crypto exchanges to access bitcoin ETFs because these instruments are traded on traditional exchanges, meaning a vast number of institutional and retail investors could gain access to them. And before we continue, a quick word from bumper. So here's something new, bumper your assets. To defend them from price drops without losing upside exposure.
00:02:08.190 - 00:02:31.466, Speaker A: You set a price floor and term length, then lock your tokens into the protocol when your term ends. If the price has fallen under your floor, you leave with stablecoins at the floor's value. Otherwise you just take your original asset back. Bumper is going live in August and it's one of the most innovative defi protocols for hedging being built right now. So check out bumper Phi. There's links in the description of this video. Now back to our story.
00:02:31.466 - 00:03:26.090, Speaker A: Why is this such a big deal, you ask? Bitcoin ETFs provide an easy way for a wider range of investors to gain exposure to the bitcoin market, from colossal tradfi institutions to retail investors and anyone wanting to avoid the complexities and potential security risks of buying and holding bitcoin directly. Plus, growing bitcoin ETF approval would be a significant vote of confidence in the crypto space, while marking a shift in the relationship between tradfi and digital assets. Just last week, in response to questions from Representative Warren Davidson, the Fed chairman Jerome Powell said that crypto appears to have staying power as an asset class, and at this point you might be wondering what the future of Grayscale's GBTC will be considering. It too, is a financial instrument which tracks the price action of bitcoin. Grayscale announced that they are working on converting GBTC into a bitcoin spot ETF. Despite this, the price of GBTC hit a one year high today. Now here's an interesting twist.
00:03:26.090 - 00:04:09.890, Speaker A: This flurry of bitcoin ETF filings comes hot on the heels of the SEC suing two of the biggest crypto exchanges, binance and Coinbase, for alleged violations, which we covered in detail with previous videos. Institutions like BlackRock and fidelity are not just major players, they also provide the expertise and custodial services that many retail investors rely on. The bottom line is simple. The approval of a spot bitcoin ETF could open the doors for more institutional money to flow into the crypto space, and it could be a significant step towards the integration of crypto into mainstream finance. It's a story we'll be following closely, so be sure to stay tuned for updates. That's all for today, and if you enjoyed this video, don't forget to hit the thumbs up and click on the bell for more knowledge. As always, thank you for watching and stay defiant.
