00:00:00.400 - 00:00:42.691, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Adni, co founder of Mr. Labs. We're one of the contributors and major contributors to the suite protocol. Our team came from Facebook working on the Libra project, where we were building a protocol that makes it easy to send money, as easy as sending a message on WhatsApp or Facebook. Project didn't launch, but we benefited from a lot of learnings, and the outcome ended up in allowing us to really build and engineer sui, which is a global coordination layer for the Internet. Your question was, what sets SUI very different from other layer ones? And my response is really, SUI is not like any layer one that exists in the market today. SUI isn't just trying to be a blockchain or trying to be an L1.
00:00:42.691 - 00:01:31.459, Speaker A: We believe the total addressable market of L1s are in the billions. Whereas if you realize real value, what we're trying to do is build what the Internet really needs. Namely, the Internet has got a problem. It's highly centralized, and because of the centralized nature of things, it's very hard to build new models around monetization. Users ultimately have their data owned by large organizations just because coordination is very, very difficult. And when you have coordination problems, you generally try to centralize the activity around coordination so that it makes it easy to actually allow people to drive value out of a system. And because of that centralization, large corporates like Facebook, Google, you name it, ultimately, just by design, not because they're evil, have to build.
00:01:31.459 - 00:02:17.607, Speaker A: Systems are largely controlled in a way for their own purposes to allow them to offer products and services at scale with sui. What SUI is, it's a global coordination layer for the Internet. Internet is great at sending data, but Internet is really, really bad, allowing you to coordinate value or assets across the Web. So in a world where things are going fully digital, where your concert ticket will be digital, where your money is going to be digital, where your intent as a user of what you want to do is largely digital around a variety of assets. We believe having a layer that allows people to coordinate their intent across the Internet in an atomic way is of massive, massive value. We think that's trillions of dollars in value, potentially than just looking at blockchains. So our remit and our mandate at Mr.
00:02:17.607 - 00:02:53.477, Speaker A: Is to build platforms and protocols to make the Internet more decentralized. And we started with SUI as a global coordination layer, and we're now onto Walrus that is built on top of sui that allows you to coordinate data and data ownership as a whole. So over the lifespan of Mr. And we will build a number of platforms and protocols built on top of sui to really realize our vision fully. We more concretely on other aspects on why SUI is different. SUI doesn't have a maximum throughput. You generally see people quote, what is the TPS of the network? What is my network can do 100,000 transactions, my network can do 50 transactions per second.
00:02:53.477 - 00:03:28.281, Speaker A: For us, that's a red flag. The Internet doesn't talk about those numbers because the Internet largely scales horizontally. SUI is built on those same premises that we use to build search at Google, that we use to build infrastructure at Facebook. You add more hardware, the network scales. And we've been able to demonstrate that you add 7 extra hardware, you get basically horizontal scalability. You add 7 extra hardware to validators, you get 7 extra throughput with no increase in latency. So SUI, very differentiated from other platforms, does not have a max throughput, has the lowest latency by far actual end to end latency of any other blockchain.
00:03:28.281 - 00:03:50.165, Speaker A: And we're starting to see that in the adoption. Devs come onto SUI and they start to build the programming language. Move makes it easy for them to understand what they're building and requires less knowledge gap to actually get you building something really useful very, very quickly. And they become hooked because it's hard to go back once you build something that feels unnatural to engineering. And now we're seeing grid adoption in Move.
