00:00:00.170 - 00:00:11.870, Speaker A: We want to raise the glass ceiling for DeFi. Yes. And we want to build like kind of the pipelines to get there. And people shouldn't be talking about binance in five years, everyone should be trading on chains. So that's our vision.
00:00:18.050 - 00:00:28.198, Speaker B: Hey everybody, welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we have a special one for you. We are joined by Cindy, the founder of Drift, and also Chris who the lead engineer at Drift. Guys, thanks for joining us.
00:00:28.284 - 00:00:31.480, Speaker A: GM hey guys, great to be here.
00:00:32.010 - 00:00:47.990, Speaker B: Yeah, we're pumped to have you on the show. We'd like to focus on products and how crypto enables new use cases. We like to get technical, but we also want to see what's the end goal here. We'd like to start with just an intro to Drift and how Drift is aiming to make it easier for the average user to participate in DeFi.
00:00:48.070 - 00:01:55.710, Speaker A: Drift is a perpetual swaps exchange built on solana, which might sound like mambo jumbo to a lot of you. So it's basically a way to get leverage on chain while trading futures type products. We have about 15 markets right now, so you can bet on the price of Sol, BDC ETH and a bunch of other assets with the speed and the low fees of salana while being fully on chain and not trusting a centralized exchange with your keys or telegram bots for that matter. We were founded in 2021, one of the earliest salana projects, and we recently launched our V two about eight months ago. We're now the largest salana perp decks, backed by the full size multicoin polychain jump where we've got one of the highest dus in all of DeFi actually. And yeah, our goal is to be the largest perp decks anywhere and build a moat to attract more users from centralized exchange to use DeFi. So building a lot of bridges into the land of DeFi.
00:01:55.790 - 00:02:21.578, Speaker C: So Drift is a perp decks perp exchange. And I want to take this time to maybe talk about exactly what a perp is for those in Solana who might not be familiar. So I'll let any of either of you take mean I have two questions. One is what is a perp? And two is why should people, regular people, not like Arbitrages, but why should regular people care about them?
00:02:21.664 - 00:03:20.902, Speaker D: So a perp is a form of derivative where basically you can trade the price of some asset. In the traditional world, people trade derivatives for things like commodities like corn or oil, et cetera. And that's where actually the origination of derivatives came. So people were basically using it to hedge the prices of commodities. And then it kind of just as finance evolved over time, it just became more and more popular way to trade basically the prices of different assets. So it got really big in crypto because it's this really easy way to trade how crypto tokens are going to move. And I think one of the reasons why they got really big is basically it allows for you to trade it synthetically.
00:03:20.902 - 00:04:07.370, Speaker D: So instead of going to each blockchain and buying the asset on this blockchain, having to bridge all over the place, you can actually all do it in one spot. So if you were on solana but you wanted to trade the price of ethereum, you could actually use a perp to do it on solana instead of having to bridge ethereum over or bridge bitcoin over. And obviously there's a ton of Bridging risk across crypto. We've seen a lot of hacks, so a lot of people want to trade crypto, but they don't want to have to go all over the place and incur the time and the financial risk of going to different blockchains. So Perps just offer you a way to trade all crypto assets in one place, which is, I think, how they got so popular.
00:04:08.190 - 00:04:19.118, Speaker B: Yeah, that's really helpful. And it's not that you're just or drift is not just a perpetual exchange. You really have three different sources of liquidity. Sydney, I'd like you to maybe introduce that topic because I think it's really interesting.
00:04:19.204 - 00:05:35.410, Speaker A: Definitely. Yeah, I think I guess talking about perps and why they got so popular in CFI as well, founded in 2016 by the BitMEX guys, a lot of the reason that perps got popular was because liquidity for them was so good compared to spot. Market makers were more willing to quote on perps than any other spot assets just because of the fungibility issues that we talked about. For a synthetic asset that is pegged to a spot asset, it's just a lot better. We're trying to recreate those conditions for liquidity on chain in a way that no other DeFi protocol has really attempted before. I think a lot of other DeFi protocols have relied on porting over EMM models to trade perps or building an off chain order book that then goes and matches it on chain. How we're doing it and our philosophy behind our liquidity mechanism, which I can go into it a little bit, is that we wanted everything to be fully on chain and we also wanted to encourage participation from not just a single market maker, but build ecosystem for multiple types of market makers to participate.
00:05:35.410 - 00:06:45.230, Speaker A: So to boil it down, our liquidity trifecta, as we call it, has three sources of liquidity. One is a virtual AMM that is backed by liquidity provider positions so anyone can go in here and deposit money into the EMM and trade against traders that want to trade perps on drift. The second is an on chain order book. It's a order book that is hosted by a network of keepers that do the searching locally and then match the orders on chain when they see a cross in the order book. And then the third one, which is probably the most complex, is something we call the just in time auction. Essentially when a user places a market order on Drift to, let's say, go ten x long on a full perp, the market order goes through a Dutch auction that functions kind of like an RFQ. It goes to a network of makers that can compete to fill it at the best price as possible within a short time frame.
00:06:45.230 - 00:07:10.290, Speaker A: And the combination, all of this allows for very diverse different types of liquidity on the system. You sort of have like, top of the book liquidity by Active makers, you have passive liquidity by the AMM liquidity providers, and then really quick good fills by the just in time auction. I can also slow down any of these concepts.
00:07:10.710 - 00:07:44.690, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd like to dive in a little bit. So to give an overview, I think a lot of people know what AMMS are, especially because if you're from the Ethereum ecosystem, just like what uniswaps offered order books, you have bid and asks a lot of people to see that in TradFi. And the last one, the Dutch auction, which means the price starts high and keeps lowering, essentially, like, the first price is at the Oracle price. So it's the best price you can get. And over time, that price decays until someone actually says, okay, I'm willing to buy or sell at that price. Just stepping back, what is a virtual AMM compared to just a typical AMM?
00:07:45.990 - 00:09:03.100, Speaker D: Yeah, so the reason it's called a virtual AMM is because perps are synthetic or so versus like a normal AMM, where you deposit in the spot token like Sol or USDC, actually, all the positions and perps are synthetic or virtual. So it's basically just a virtual AMM is like a perp AMM in some ways. But the cool thing about a virtual AMM is that because they're all virtual, it's much easier to basically bootstrap a virtual AMM than it is for a normal spot AMM. So in Drift, basically the fees that are being paid while users are trading are being reinvested into the protocol, into the virtual AMM to keep making the liquidity better for users. So this is like one of the reasons we're really excited about virtual AMM is because the protocol itself, the fees that it takes, are being reinvested into it to create basically a better marketplace and eventually UX for traders. And the virtual Am kind of uniquely enables this.
00:09:04.670 - 00:09:20.750, Speaker C: So, Cindy, you mentioned that you guys have one of the highest Dau's daily active users in DeFi and maybe even crypto. Can you talk a bit about that? What has the story been for that? Why is that the case? There's obviously a lot of competition, but what is it about Drift?
00:09:23.350 - 00:10:31.606, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I think if you look at Drift's UI and kind of feedback from traders, so far, the recurring feedback that we always get is it's probably the closest thing to a fully centralized experience that you can get in DeFi. I think a lot of the assumptions that DeFi protocols make when building a product is sort of like, okay, users already understand what a wallet is. They already understand what leverage is, but we really take the time to peel it back from a product standpoint and make it super easy for anyone to take these positions without necessarily understanding how wallets might work or how transaction approvals might work. I think what we've done well on the product side is broken. It down to many different levels of sophistication if you want to be super sophisticated, yes, you can go and provide liquidity in the DLP and maybe even lever up on that liquidity. But if you also just want to make a simple spot trade or a simple 510 x long, it's very easy and intuitive to do that.
00:10:31.606 - 00:10:42.170, Speaker A: And I think that's because we've been very obsessed with how easy and simple the product should be and making that just as accessible as possible to users.
00:10:43.150 - 00:11:42.874, Speaker D: Yeah, I think I'd just follow up on that and say that Drift kind of is hybrid, where we're very focused with DeFi native. Like let's build a transparent open protocol on chain, open source code, like all that kind of DeFi nerd stuff. And then another part of the team is very product focused and how can we make this simple to use and make this a fun product. And so we kind of try to layer on abstractions where your hardcore user can still have root access to the exchange, inspect everything, see everything, and then as you get maybe less sophisticated, you can interact with it at a different level, which is easier for you to use and still enjoy it. And I think our goal is kind of to be strong across the whole stack. There's a bunch of UX people working on it and also hardcore DeFi people working on it. And it's like a really good combination.
00:11:42.874 - 00:11:47.466, Speaker D: I think that's why we're seeing our users like Drift protocol.
00:11:47.578 - 00:12:19.770, Speaker B: One of the big parts of having a very successful decks is attracting liquidity. So I'm curious how you've gone about doing that and maybe just talking through the waterfall with that. Because again, you start with that RFQ, which is request for quote, and then you go to the order book and then the AMM. And I'm curious, I'm assuming at the very top you get the best pricing. Usually it's like RFQ and then you go down to the order book and at the end you go to the AMM. Can you just explain that a little bit more in sourcing liquidity through those layers?
00:12:20.430 - 00:13:01.942, Speaker D: I guess it's actually not as linear as that. It's actually like all these liquidity sources are all competing to give users the best price. So it's like when you submit a market order, it's like a Dutch auction, which means you're going to want the best price possible and it's slowly getting worse. And then during that auction, basically, if the AMM has a good price, it can fill you. If there's resting liquidity on the order book that satisfies your price, it can fill you. And then if there's an active market maker who just wants to provide just in time liquidity, it can fill you. And so it's all designed for these different liquidity sources to be competitive such that the taker gets the best price.
00:13:01.942 - 00:13:36.686, Speaker D: But also there's a lot of different ways for liquidity to be provided. So based on the LP's technical skills and preferences, they can provide liquidity. So if you're a passive user, you can LP like a normal AMM. If you're a really smart person who can run a bot and has capital and technical infra, you can provide just in time liquidity. And all these things are competing with each other to get you a better price. So it's kind of just like real market dynamics. Like who's ever the fastest, most effective can get traders really good fills.
00:13:36.686 - 00:14:29.410, Speaker D: And so I think you see in the first version of DeFi, it's like, okay, there's one AMM and it's really simple and that's the only thing you trade against. And then the prices aren't really competitive. And what we're doing is we're just trying to push it so there's more and more competition for liquidity and we think ultimately that'll make it way better for your average trader. And that's how works. Like when you trade on Robinhood, there's makers that are basically paying to fill you and it's very competitive. So I think on Solana you can start to step away from some of these simple mechanisms and build in more Dynamism. So the goal with Drift was really to design more competitive sources of liquidity, to force people to compete, to give users good fills.
00:14:31.030 - 00:14:51.400, Speaker C: So it seems like that was the initial goal for Drift. One thing I am curious about, especially when talking to other founders or lead engineers, what is your vision for the next five years? Where do you want Drift to be? Right? What is your dream here?
00:14:54.730 - 00:15:56.766, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. I think the dream for Drift is to have a really robust ecosystem built on top of it, where we sort of built a really complex backend that we think is extremely scalable and can bring DeFi apps to the next level. And what we want to encourage sort of like people using Drift's back end to build products on top of that, that will then scale the usage of Drift as a back end to millions of users. That sounds really far fetched for DFI and crypto right now, because DFI has like maybe 10,000 users right now. But to actually get to the next order of magnitude is where we want to position ourselves. We want to raise the glass ceiling for DeFi and we want to build kind of the pipelines to get there. And people shouldn't be talking about binance in five years.
00:15:56.766 - 00:16:01.280, Speaker A: Everyone should be trading on chains. So that's our vision for the next years.
00:16:02.530 - 00:16:57.860, Speaker D: Yeah, I'll give a slightly different take that's similar, but I think of Drift as the OG builders and the OG community members are trying to bootstrap almost like a living thing. It's even funny how in crypto we use an ecosystem. Ecosystem is like a complex adaptive system. It's almost like a meta organism. And I think the most successful protocols actually end up being like that, where there's a lot of participants, there's no single point of failure, and it's sustainable and it can keep going. And I think a lot of D Five protocols basically can't get past that initial activation energy where they're sustainable. So everything what we're trying to do is to make the protocol and eventually the broader ecosystem more sustainable and there's enough participants and enough energy where it can keep living on.
00:16:57.860 - 00:17:37.440, Speaker D: And so it's all about trying to design the incentives and the different agents so that this thing can live on deeply into the future. Where I think the kind of cynical take is a lot of D Five teams, they build something, they launch a token, and then without the token going up in value, it basically dies. And then as it goes to zero, I was like, what's the point where I would love to see drift become this entity that lives on 510 years? Long time, it's like financial superstructure. So that's what I would love to see.
00:17:37.970 - 00:18:11.590, Speaker C: Nice. Just like I believe there's a term hyperstructure that Jacob came up with from Aura. So I think, yeah, that's pretty cool. And I like Cindy's slogan of nobody should have to use binance in five years. That's a good one. So talking about ecosystems, you guys obviously chose to build on Solana. And I guess the obvious question, know why Solana over some of the other ones that have higher TBL, more history in terms of DeFi.
00:18:11.590 - 00:18:13.930, Speaker C: Why make that decision?
00:18:17.150 - 00:19:09.020, Speaker A: Yeah, maybe get started on this one. So, as I mentioned earlier, we actually started building Drift in May, June 2021, which feels like ancient history by now. At the time, the decision matrix of building on Salana versus building on L one E or L two E made it very obvious that kind of salana was the place to be, was live@main.net. There was a budding developer ecosystem building around it. And what was interesting was I think developers and Solana at the time were willing to push the boundary with rust the backend and stuff that hasn't really been tried in DeFi before. Like on ETH, you didn't see anyone talking about clubs. Everyone was trying to make AMMS better.
00:19:09.020 - 00:19:31.140, Speaker A: And that was like the conversation there at the time. That might have changed today, but on Solana, you saw people trying to build these really cool applications that just didn't exist before. And that was what attracted us initially to the Solana ecosystem. And I think a lot of that is still very true today. And I can let Chris chime in there as well.
00:19:33.270 - 00:20:39.162, Speaker D: Yeah, I'd say in a lot of ways Solana might be the most decentralized blockchain right now, and I think the reasons for it are kind of counterintuitive. But if you look at the system holistically, the more things that you have to put off chain, because the core chain is really expensive and slow, the more single points of failure you introduce. So even for ETH, like the L one, whatever, maybe it's super secure and if you just hold ETH on the L one, it's the most secure thing you can do. But once you start trying to get more users, you have to have L two S, which then right now are very centralized where they're secured by a multi SIG. You even look at uniswap X's new design and they're forced to put a lot of things off chain. So it's like if the core layer is too simple and not powerful enough, it actually makes the holistic system more fragile. And I think you can argue this about Bitcoin and ETH that because the core layer is so simple, they push all this stuff off chain and ends up you have bitcoiners putting their money into BlockFi, for example.
00:20:39.162 - 00:21:04.286, Speaker D: So it's like you really want your core layer to be as powerful as possible. And I think we believe that the Solana core team is really pushing the chain to be sufficiently decentralized so that you can put all this stuff on chain. And I'm really excited about that and think it's a great place to build a Dex in the future of France.
00:21:04.478 - 00:21:30.540, Speaker C: That's a really unique take that I haven't heard too much before. So I guess maybe to push back on it a little bit, not that I disagree with you, but just maybe I'm sure somebody will disagree with you in the audience or why is it a good thing that everything should be on chain? Wouldn't it make more sense to have some things off chain? What is kind of your philosophy on that?
00:21:31.950 - 00:22:54.100, Speaker D: I guess the point of having things on chain is that the underlying network is permissionless and adaptive. So if one validator goes down, there's other validators that step in and you can't just take the thing down. But once you start putting more things off chain, if you don't replicate that permissionless nature, that networked approach, you introduce single points of failure. Right? So if you look at an L two and there's a centralized sequencer and there's like a multi SIG that controls it, if you take down that multi SIG, it's going to be hard for it to basically adapt and keep going. So it's kind of like you have to rebuild the thing you already did on the core layer at the abstractions on top. Otherwise you introduce single points of failure and it's like teams are already putting so much work into making the core layer permissionless and adaptive that ideally you get the benefits of all that hard work without having to replicate it all over the place. Which for the fractal scaling approach with ETH, you basically need to go through this whole hill climbing process again where you make each layer adaptive and I think that makes it more fragile because you're not basically focusing all the dev efforts in one place.
00:22:54.100 - 00:23:01.286, Speaker D: Yeah, I think it's about single points of failure and how you design the system to prepare for that.
00:23:01.388 - 00:24:17.662, Speaker A: And I guess what we've seen a lot this year in terms of scaling solutions is people are sort of becoming more like islands themselves or the apps are becoming more like islands where perp DEXes are launching just like on a single app chain. And that means that devs have to focus entirely on rebuilding an entire ecosystem of their own. To go back to that word, you have to build bridges, you have to build spot AMMS, you have to build routers and aggregators. All that falls on the role of the team that was supposed to focus on scaling this kind of application layer. And so what we like about building on Solana itself and being part of this ecosystem is that a lot of this core infrastructure exists and is layered on top of each other. So Drift, for instance, we have a borrow lending module built within Drift, but for a Spot exchange, for instance, we route orders through Jupyter which obviously routes orders across all of Solana and we benefit from liquidity that something like the wormhole provides to Solana itself. So I think it offers that kind of peace of mind for us.
00:24:17.662 - 00:24:28.018, Speaker A: While we do want to push the boundary on the low level infrastructure so it is there, it can be scaled and there's the benefit of other very smart team working on it as well.
00:24:28.104 - 00:25:38.278, Speaker D: Yeah, I think the composability helps a lot. Drift is composed with a lot of protocols, like Pith Phoenix, openbook, jupyter marinade. It kind of inherits all these subsystems that are already there. I think another thing you get on a monolithic chain is like more distribution so users are more likely to try out Solana because there's a lot of good protocols on Solana. So I like jokingly said one time that blockchains are like shopping malls but if you think about the DApps as different stores, if you co locate with them, you're more likely to get more flow and that's why a lot of similar stores usually colocate versus being just randomly distributed. And I think the kind of app chain world, it's really not clear how users are going to cleanly hop between all these different chains. I think that's a really painful UX and then as like adapt, how do you convince someone to take this random route from Fiat to your specific app chain? So I think that's really tough and then I think the last thing is also because it's all on one actually there's a lot of security.
00:25:38.278 - 00:26:06.720, Speaker D: Like, you get to solana you're there, and then you don't have to worry as much about bridging across to different chains and inheriting all that risk. So it's also just, I think, ultimately safer if things are going on in one state, machine versus scattered all over the place. And we've obviously seen a lot of security issues traversing between the different chains. So, yeah, it's like composability distribution and I think security.
00:26:07.490 - 00:26:49.278, Speaker B: Yeah. Chris, I've heard you talk about that you are interested in the Cosmos ecosystem and app chains and that you can have the validators actually understand the semantics of the app itself. And through that, you could potentially have other ways to do value accrual. But to the audience, you touched on the Bridging risk as well, because there is dYdX, which is a perpetuals exchange that you have in Cosmos. It's being built, but if you're perpetuals exchange, everything's synthetic, so you don't really have to bridge anything but the asset that the perpetual is like the base currency of that, which would be like USDC. But as soon as you have a spot market and you have to bridge in all these tokens, there's a lot more risk, which is something that drift doesn't have to counter. Everyone, we'll get back to the show in a minute, but I want to let you know that we got our permissionless conference coming up.
00:26:49.278 - 00:26:59.274, Speaker B: Start conference of bankless. That's the biggest and best conference in DFI. It's going to be in Austin, Texas this year. Yep. I know you love it. They got Tacos Barbecue Barn Springs. We got it all September 11 through the 13th.
00:26:59.274 - 00:27:28.634, Speaker B: If you've been in Crypto for a while, know that the bear market conferences are the best conferences because those are the ones where all the outfits had the people that are still in crypto all really want to be there. It's going to be great for building a network, for learning a lot. And look, we've got a phenomenal lineup of speakers that include people like Hasu Stani, Christine Moy, and Kyle Simani talking about ZK Tech roll ups, account abstraction, mev, app chains, and more. Look, I'm damn excited because you're a listener of Lightspeed. You're going to get a special discount. Type in discount code Lightspeed 30, and you'll get 30% off your ticket. That's right.
00:27:28.634 - 00:27:59.158, Speaker B: Just type in Lightspeed 30 when buying a permissionless ticket and get 30% off. Click the link at the bottom of this episode and go get it now because prices are going up every two weeks. All right, back to the show. One thing I am curious about, how do you think about vertical and horizontal integrations that you see with DFI protocols? Because you mentioned Jupiter and they're an aggregator, and you've seen with uniswap that they kind of with uniswap X now have an aggregator. They also have a wallet, then they have an AMM. How do you think about that as a DFI team?
00:27:59.244 - 00:28:50.162, Speaker A: Yeah, initially we built and architected a lot of V Two around allowing for specific features for Perps. So a lot of why we built Borrow Land for instance, was to enable cross collateral for Perps. So instead of just using USDC, you can now lever up with Sol as collateral. And that's been a huge enabler for kind of folks in the Salana ecosystem because people don't necessarily want to sell out of their soul, especially $30. Now people want to use BDC and E. So we built this back end borrow and system to enable cross collateral. And a lot of other decisions like enabling Spot within Drift was also to enable safer liquidation for perpetual propositions because we wanted to avoid bankruptcies and having Spot within our system just makes it safer.
00:28:50.162 - 00:29:51.530, Speaker A: So I think while when you go on our app now you can do all of those things as standalones too. So we're sort of like becoming this DeFi empire of sorts and have all the functionalities within a single smart contract and a single app. But the reason that we built a lot of this was to enable a smoother Perp trading experience, which has been our core focus so far. The benefits of that that spills over is that users can now access everything that they would need in DeFi, like under a single interface. So that's been a sticky point as well for users to continue using our app. We've seen people start off with Perpetrating and then go into using Spot to swap their collateral, going to staking products as well. So we really see it as like people come in here because they can gamble on chain and trade with really high leverage, but they'll stay for other features like just keeping their funds within something that's generating yield.
00:29:51.530 - 00:29:59.740, Speaker A: So yeah, I think vertical integration for us very much focuses on the core mission but then has functionalities to keep users within our app.
00:30:01.570 - 00:30:57.806, Speaker D: Yeah, I think we're always focused on how can we boost the value of the core protocol and keep adding into it. That makes it more robust and more sustainable. So the interesting things about Perps like Cindy talked about is isolated they can actually be more dangerous than if you actually have cross collateral. So when we were designing V Two we were like okay, we actually need all these additional features to increase the safety of the protocol. And so then it's like you kind of have to go big in order for it to work at all. And it's sometimes a little counterintuitive because your web two startup because you just have so much control over your back end. It's like just ship something really simple and then just keep changing it because you can change it at will.
00:30:57.806 - 00:31:27.886, Speaker D: Whereas in DeFi you don't have that freedom. So you actually kind of sometimes have to spend more time upfront development because once it's out there, you can only really make backwards compatible changes and. So it's kind of like this in between hardware and software development, which is pretty interesting. And so, yeah, we did the vertical integration where we thought it would make the protocol more robust and safer.
00:31:28.018 - 00:31:51.230, Speaker C: So while we're on the topic of vertical integration, app chains. Composability and whatnot one thought that I found interesting was from Antonio, from dYdX when he said he doesn't want dYdX to be associated with Cosmos. It kind of wants to be his own brand. Do you guys have a similar philosophy? How do you guys think about the relationship between Drift and Solana?
00:31:55.670 - 00:33:08.790, Speaker A: I do agree with that take in a way that users shouldn't have to know Solana to use Drift, and Drift should be the entrance to the blockchain. And our goal with the product, really, and even the brand in some ways is to, I guess, attract an audience that doesn't need to know about whatever underlying blockchain it's on. So our mission is sort of become a neutral player within the space. And a lot of what we're doing, which is adding email logins where we use our magic link in the back end to create a wallet for you. And you obviously have full access to it, but all you see in the front end is like, okay, I'm going to use my email to log into this exchange. So our philosophy with the branding and with the product is that eventually you really don't need to be a hardcore Solana user to use and love the app. And we think things like approvals and all stuff eventually gets distracted away, obviously in a safe and secure manner.
00:33:08.790 - 00:33:39.010, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think obviously a lot of our community still loves solana and is a part of that, and we love being part of the narrative. But we want to get to the stage with products that anyone clicking in from, like a TikTok ad for drift should be able to use it without knowing what Solana is or having a phantom wallet. So that maybe is an additional layer of abstraction from the underlying blockchain and that's where we see true scalability.
00:33:41.350 - 00:34:56.860, Speaker D: Yeah, I agree with that. That I think from a product perspective, over time, there should just be more abstractions and it should be easier to interact with things without knowing the blockchain you're on. I think the strategic misstep that's common is believing that and then trying to just go to multiple chains and do too much at one time and then basically end up losing on every chain because there's more focused competitors on a single chain. So the reality is that demand aggregates in certain places, and if there's competitors that are super focused in one place and then that's where all the demand goes and they're better than you, then you just lost everywhere. So it's kind of like even though in theory you should keep abstracting it's like in practice you need to be super focused on where you spend your time. Which is why I'm a pretty big proponent of just going all in in one place and making that place great versus trying to hedge our bets and have drift deploy on multiple chains, because it's just really tough to do that and not lose to a more focused team building, like a better product.
00:34:59.550 - 00:35:22.500, Speaker B: On that. I've got a question on distribution, because obviously you can have the best product, but if you don't have users, it doesn't matter. So you've got to find that attention. How do you think about maybe distribution today, but also if we had another cycle where we have a lot of new users coming in? Yeah, how do you think about that? Do you ever talk to wallets, for example? When do you think about making some type of deal where you go there and it's curated and you see drift or what's your strategy there?
00:35:25.530 - 00:36:16.470, Speaker A: Yeah, I think with distribution within crypto, you're right. Like talking to wallets and putting yourself where other users see twitter is the best platform for that as well, twitter Telegram, because most of crypto attention spans exists within the form of a tweet. Right. So we like to be quite front and center within the Twitter universe. The integrations with wallets and other think that's also another distribution channel that we haven't explored as much. Like putting ourselves front and center, where for instance, with backpack we built a leaderboard feature, an X NFT on Unbackpack. And we found that that was a funnel for a lot of more NFT focused traders to actually come in and start using it via backpack.
00:36:16.470 - 00:36:47.680, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's definitely been a pretty interesting funnel. We've talked to, for instance, multi SIG wallets like squads. What if you could one click deposit your treasury into drift's is staking protocol there's, things like that that I think because our app has so many different functions, you sort of need to build like pockets of access in multiple different places. And I think the DeFi infrastructure, like wallet infrastructure ecosystem is very ripe for that.
00:36:49.490 - 00:37:31.046, Speaker D: Yeah, I think we're just trying to make it as easy as possible to get to drift. So we're working with different wallets to make it easier to interact with drift, and then we're also working with bridges to make it easier to get to drift. And so it's just like reducing that friction. I think the bet right. Currently Ethereum has the best distribution, without a doubt. I think Solana is trailing, but of the next tier of chains has great distribution and the bet kind of is the next bull market. If there is an inflow of demand, salana will have the best pipes to support that demand.
00:37:31.046 - 00:38:12.294, Speaker D: And so probably you see ETH l two S, like the block space gets saturated, fees spike, people get mad, and then hopefully there's just bridges and they pop over to Salana and they trade on drift. And then Salana has the pipes to support all the demand and maybe some app chains and Cosmos also have the pipes, but they're even further out and they stop on Drift before they even get into the Cosmosphere. So it's kind of like it's a combination of what has good distribution and also what's close enough to users that you can suck them in in the next bull market when things get crazy. So that's kind of our thesis.
00:38:12.422 - 00:39:34.580, Speaker A: One other just to end on that distribution point thing that we've been very focused on is how do you actually distribute this Solana DApp to users on ETH? Because there's a huge market there that we're not tapping at the moment, but we're starting to see sort of a lot of inflows that come into Drift via EVM and how we're thinking about this. Going back to the neutral product question, it's like building bridges to as many places as possible, metaphorically and actually so we've built an inapp bridge that allows you to bridge from Ethereum and L two S via Mayan and wormhole directly into your Drift account. That's been a really popular feature for Arbitram users because they're actually attracted by they want to do cross chain trades, funding rate, ARB, things like that. And something like this uniquely enables that. And something that we're going to be launching very soon is an integration with MetaMask snaps that allows users who have MetaMask to actually connect to Drift and bridge their funds over directly. So we're super excited about that because that unlocks 30 million NMS users and gives that wide distribution channel that we wanted.
00:39:35.590 - 00:39:41.240, Speaker B: That's amazing. Do you know when those are snaps live? Have they gone live? In general?
00:39:42.250 - 00:39:54.940, Speaker A: They're in beta right now, but a lot of protocols that are integrating Snaps early are getting their audits finished. We just finished ours. So hopefully we should be launching that next month, which we're super excited about.
00:39:55.310 - 00:39:56.490, Speaker B: That's really cool.
00:39:56.640 - 00:39:59.130, Speaker D: I'm surprised you didn't tease that immediately.
00:40:01.310 - 00:40:16.110, Speaker B: If anyone doesn't know Snaps, you kind of described it there. But Snaps is a way for people that are using MetaMask, which is just really for the EVM and like Ethereum, they can then use applications on other chains and you can do a whole lot else with really cool, really cool release also.
00:40:16.260 - 00:40:40.854, Speaker D: So we wrote one and then right now it's like tailored to integrate. Like, there's some Drift branding, but it's all open source and we're hoping that it can evolve into a pluggable thing. So other D Five protocols could fork it and use it. So it should be also a good public good to know more reasons for people to come over to Solana, which obviously like Rising Tide lifts all boats.
00:40:40.902 - 00:41:22.440, Speaker C: Type of thing, I want to maybe put on my polygram hat and start zooming out and talking more startup y stuff. One interesting thing about Perps Drift Solana DeFi blockchain in general is there's competition within Solana in terms of Perp exchanges, but then there's also competition in all of crypto within Perp exchanges. As a founder and as a leading engineer, what is the approach there? Are you trying to get people that aren't in crypto to use it? Are you more interested in power users from other chains? How do you think about go to market?
00:41:25.930 - 00:42:24.810, Speaker A: We like to start at the very top. I guess it's smaller funnel, but people who are already used to DeFi and getting them onto a perfect change that's fully on chain because people can sort of buy into the mission, maybe people who got burned by FTX and is looking for an alternative to that. That's sort of like top of the funnel for us. The second layer is like people from EVM who we think can get a better experience on drift to market there. So it's a very different kind of funnel. And obviously at the lowest and widest level of the funnel is people who maybe trade on Robinhood but are looking for something that they can degen on chain. Maybe the reason that they would trade on drift is very different from the reason that a Solana lover would trade on drift for the Solana person.
00:42:24.810 - 00:42:59.480, Speaker A: It's because it's already there and they already have funds on Solana versus somebody who has traded maybe options and futures before but doesn't know much about crypto. It's sort of like giving people different reasons to come in for the third audience. It's maybe adding really exotic assets that they can't trade anywhere else and having liquidity for that rather than emphasizing the on chain question. So the way we kind of separate and segment people and users is by targeting and having pockets of a product appeal to them.
00:43:00.810 - 00:43:48.920, Speaker D: Yeah, I think about it like moving in concentric circles. So you start with the core use case, like get superfans, basically build the network that satisfies them. And then on the edges you keep layering on more abstractions and I think you see Uniswap is basically doing this. You can critique them or think you can compliment them on how they're doing it, but the Uniswap X thing is trying to utilize their core protocols and add a layer on top where you can do gasless transactions. Right? So I think we're kind of similar, we're super focused on building this robust underlying protocol and then adding layers on top and getting each next marginal type of user on board.
00:43:50.090 - 00:44:07.466, Speaker C: So I like that answer a lot. One thing I am curious about is your overall thoughts on DeFi. As product minded people, are you happy with the state of DeFi and crypto? What has DeFi gotten wrong? What do we need to improve on?
00:44:07.568 - 00:44:54.634, Speaker D: I definitely am not happy with the state of DeFi. I think the current versions of it are basically just like warm ups for the future, where you have a financial system that's open and transparent and ultimately because of that, safer and cheaper. I think you look at the modern financial system and it's really securitized by lawyers and it's really expensive and no one knows what's going on, which there's this semblance of safety. But really it's behind that arguably not very reliable. And the bet on DeFi is that by making it open, transparent and having Devs write all the rules, it'll be cheaper. In the long run it'll be safer. And obviously right now that hasn't been the case at all.
00:44:54.634 - 00:46:03.434, Speaker D: So it's been like a failure by the builders to accomplish that. But I think the reason people keep investing in it is because that vision of a programmatic open system will be so much better than kind of the analog system that we have. And I see for my own career drift is just like we're starting with the core risk seeking crypto users that like it right now, but it's like a warm up for finding the mechanisms that will ultimately allow for the whole financial system to work like this. And so it's kind of like I was talking about before. I think DeFi is still kind of like a toy in a lot of ways and it's like outside the core system, but until we can just serve the core native users, it's kind of crazy to think like, normal people are going to use it. So I'm just like what motivates me is to nail it for the core native users now and then scale it up over time. And yeah, I want to live in the world where the financial system is secured by great code written by amazing devs.
00:46:03.434 - 00:46:06.210, Speaker D: So that's what I'm hoping for.
00:46:06.360 - 00:47:28.922, Speaker A: And I think another point that DeFi has sort of failed in is just uninsentivized usage, I think over the past couple of years, and this might be good for DeFi back holders and early users, but a lot of the initial growth was driven by over incentivization to the point where a lot of the equity value of governance tokens in DeFi has been oversaturated. That market is definitely oversupply and that's also one of the reasons that we rely a lot on native and natural incentivization to get people to use protocols. In a way you sort of get this short term influx of users via huge incentivizations. But the effect of that in the long term is that these DeFi protocols kind of become unusable because the value of collateral, the value of the tokens go down over time. So I think a lot of teams have relied on this as like a short term crutch to try to get initial amount of users. But that's not really the kind of game that we want to be playing within DeFi. We want to build something that actually lasts and has a natural incentive mechanism within itself without necessarily over incentivizing by an external tool.
00:47:28.922 - 00:47:42.218, Speaker A: Not saying that that's not something that would happen, but I think it's important to start with the actual internal flows first rather than over incentivizing it initially.
00:47:42.314 - 00:48:06.098, Speaker C: That brings up an interesting point. Actually talking about incentivization, what do you guys think about the state of Solana DeFi in terms of tokenomics? A very common criticism is that no projects on Solana launch tokens or there's just nothing to trade. How do you guys think about this? How would you respond?
00:48:06.194 - 00:49:28.686, Speaker D: What we're trying to do is build a sustainable marketplace that doesn't require, that could work without constant token subsidies. So that's why we have this crazy liquidity trifecta that people are like, what the heck is going on? But it's because we're actually trying to have competitive market forces lead to a great marketplace where I think the easy thing to do is like, okay, launch a token, incentivize users, and then somehow when it's up, you'll get a network effect. But nine out of ten times, maybe higher than that, it's like teams launch a token and then they don't get a network effect, and then the token goes to zero and then the users who hold the bag get upset anyway. So I think when you do a token, I think a token used well can create a network effect, but when you do it, you need to land the network effect, otherwise it dies. So I think you just need to be really thoughtful about the rollout of a token and how you make it sustainable as those token emissions go down. And it's really hard, and I think you just want to be mindful of how you do it, but there's a lot of teams that have done it well. I think dYdX so far that helped them get like their V three marketplace is really good and it's like a great exchange.
00:49:28.686 - 00:49:43.910, Speaker D: I think the deep end stuff is another example of trying to use a token to get a network effect, and it working really well with helium. So I think there's good examples. You just really need to iron out how the incentives work, otherwise it's going to fail.
00:49:48.170 - 00:51:01.680, Speaker A: I think what a token enables is a hardcore group of loyalists and fans to show and a part of your network. So what we really like about DeFi token models is, and at the risk of this sounding like a security, in a way, users have to put in the work and the effort to get rewards from the network. So what I mean by that is you shouldn't be getting a token for free and you should only be getting tokens for proportional to the amount of work that you're putting into a network or the risk that you're taking. So market making isn't free exercise. You need to put in infrastructure and being rewarded for that makes sense. Putting money into the insurance fund of a DeFi protocol, for instance, also makes sense the distribution network, because you're sort of giving out tokens to people who have already put in time and effort to use the protocol. So I think a lot of our philosophy around that is that the people who use and champion and have skin in the game the most, those are the ones that the token should be distributed to.
00:51:01.680 - 00:51:27.080, Speaker A: So yeah, I think Solana DeFi hasn't really rewarded this type of action, which is also interesting to see because all this traction has come from just people who want to contribute and like natural incentives. But when you layer in something that could accelerate that, I think maybe that's what we need for Salana Summer at some point. But I think the initial traction needs to be there first.
00:51:28.090 - 00:52:07.778, Speaker D: As far as I understand it, that's not a security because there's idiosyncratic effort and risk being rewarded separately. It's not like a pooling of fund in a common enterprise. So I think piggybacking on that. Things like Uber and Lyft, they actually did liquidity mining or token economics by other means. They basically would pay early drivers at a loss in cash. But that cash came from selling tokens to investors. So this idea of overpaying initial users to bootstrap a network effect is actually really common.
00:52:07.778 - 00:52:49.140, Speaker D: I think it's just like the current arrangement makes it hard for the early users to actually share in the upside of bootstrapping a network. And if you're an Uber or Lyft driver early on, you probably would have preferred if you got some Uber or Lyft. And I think they tried to do that, but they couldn't do it. So it's like none of the stuff is actually that crazy new. There's like precedents for all this stuff. And yeah, I think the token is to reward users for work that's valuable for the network in order to bootstrap the network effect. That's how you get lasting value or power.
00:52:51.750 - 00:54:00.870, Speaker A: One idea that we keep coming back to is that a lot of the ideas within crypto and token distribution is very counterintuitive to traditional principles of, I guess, startups and tech startups in particular. For instance, all of DeFi is open source. Giving more equity and giving more tokens away can actually help you bootstrap a network faster than if you kind of kept it all to yourself. So taking these principles in mind and applying them specifically to DeFi is an interesting exercise for people coming in from TradFi because all these concepts are so counterintuitive. Hold on to as much equity as possible, drive your competitors and your fees to zero. But in DeFi, you see this lack of elasticity to fees because people still want to use the protocol that maybe gives them the most rewards, that allows them to own as much of it as possible. So that's a really interesting phenomenon that we've seen in DeFi and really excited to see it play out within Solana.
00:54:01.610 - 00:54:39.190, Speaker B: Yeah, I love those answers. And Uber didn't just do liquidity mining with the supply side, the drivers, they did the demand side too, because I remember I was living in Dallas, Texas at the time and they give out referral codes, and if you pass those along to your friends, you get $20 off a ride. And Arkansas is two years behind on everything. So I racked up like $500.02 years later when my friends started using Uber. But talking about DFI, Chris, I'm curious, really, both of you, what do you think about the other sectors outside of DFI in Salana? Chris, you had a pretty hot take saying if Solana's DeFi ecosystem doesn't work or fails, that the NFT network, like the NFT ecosystem, will fail as well. So can you explain that for the audience?
00:54:40.650 - 00:54:43.160, Speaker D: How far back in my tweets did you go?
00:54:44.890 - 00:54:47.640, Speaker B: Pretty deep. I sleuthed on you a little bit.
00:54:48.170 - 00:54:51.960, Speaker D: Wow. What did I even think when I said that?
00:54:53.370 - 00:54:55.034, Speaker B: I can actually read it for you.
00:54:55.152 - 00:56:13.250, Speaker D: I tweet hot takes like mert just off the cuff while I'm waiting in line for a coffee. I guess I was thinking like, okay, NFT as a PFP, as a metadata that points to like an S three or Rweave link is not useful or is not going to be valuable. You're going to need to embed more logic and more value in the chain itself for it to mean anything, really, instead of doing it off chain. So it's like if you can't have DeFi mechanisms on chain, are you really going to have gaming mechanisms or anything? When people talk about NFTs, they imagine it's just like a piece of a bigger system. So it's like, if we can't make it work with DeFi, you're probably not going to make it work with any other of these use cases. And it was more like Solana needs to be good enough to support on chain activity for any of these things to be valuable, I think is what I was saying there. You're not just going to have a metadata pointing to S three bucket, and that's just going to be inherently valuable if users can't get their trades through or their transactions through.
00:56:13.250 - 00:56:27.480, Speaker D: I think I tweeted that when Soul was probably at its trough in terms of performance, which has gotten a lot better. So I guess I'm bullish on NFTs now.
00:56:28.490 - 00:56:31.618, Speaker C: Oh, wow. Bullish. Full turnaround.
00:56:31.714 - 00:56:43.840, Speaker B: I've got to finish with one more hot take from you, Chris. You tweeted once, I think Dows with security councils with limited permissions will trump Immutable contracts in the long term. Just curious, what makes you say that and you still feel that way?
00:56:44.930 - 00:57:48.334, Speaker D: Oh, cool. I guess, yeah, there's two different things there. I tweeted that because basically the curve exploit happened and there was like a bug in Viper and now it's a race for a white hack versus a black cat to take the money from the curve pool. And I think people who are very bullish on Immutability, I get where it's coming from, but I think DeFi is complicated enough that it's really hard to do. And like the Curve exploit, the Curve team was perfect in a lot of ways, built a great thing and then it's just like a dependency had a bug and now anyone that was using that is affected. It seems like that is just too fragile where it's like a governance system does. You can have a governance system where there's limited permissions and there's only certain things they can do and perhaps it boosts the value to participants in the network.
00:57:48.334 - 00:58:51.826, Speaker D: So what I was imagining is with Curve, well, what if you had trusted people voted by the Dow that have basically ability to kill certain like turn off certain pools and they're only allowed to use it in certain circumstances. And with the Viper hack you could basically just turn off, remove liquidity and then it's like it's frozen, which sucks. But it's better than probably having downside risk all the way to zero. And Curve has a Dow and they're voting on things. So it's like why isn't there some Security Council that can just blacklist things and turn things off? And I think the immutability thing comes out of Bitcoin, which I think makes sense for something as simple as bitcoin. But when you start getting as you try to increase the complexity, I think you can relax some of the assumptions about immutability and lead to a safer system. But that doesn't mean the Dow should be able to do whatever it wants and take users funds or changes the rules randomly.
00:58:51.826 - 00:59:38.840, Speaker D: It should be very limited permissions. I actually think the US government, as much people hate on like the founders of the US government tried to frame this constitution to similarly have this checks and balances on power because they were like you can't just be overly idealistic and they actually sought to make it decentralized while still having humans in the loop. So I don't think it's crazy to have some humans in the loop for DeFi in very limited ways. And I'll shout out Mango because I'm pretty sure they have something like this, like a Security Council that can turn off certain instructions like just blanket for the whole protocol if they see things going wrong. And I think that's a good move.
00:59:41.050 - 01:00:20.820, Speaker C: In the spirit of keeping with the founding fathers and getting philosophical before we do rapid fire, I want to ask a question that is going to be very general, but I am curious. We've talked about what drift is and why drift exists. What you guys think about DeFi. One thing that I'm curious about is crypto is this very interesting ecosystem and environment full of interesting demographics and challenges. Why are you building in crypto? What is your why? Why do you get up and build things for both of you?
01:00:26.540 - 01:01:15.604, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess I initially got into crypto because it felt like there was a lot of inefficiencies within the crypto space that could be improved by better infrastructure. And when we talk about inefficiencies, it's also inefficiencies within the traditional finance world sending money from Malaysia, where I'm from, to the US. Is still a huge right and takes like three, four days to clear. I lived in many countries in my life. I used to live in Korea, where we had capital controls. You couldn't withdraw more than a certain amount a year out of the country. Lived in Shanghai before, where you literally can't be part of the financial ecosystem.
01:01:15.604 - 01:02:29.730, Speaker A: If you're not you're, you're locked out of, like, finance as a so a lot of my initial motivations for coming to crypto is like, this is really interesting because for the first time ever, you have the potential for a globally settled currency that allows anyone to participate without KYC, without needing to know who your counterparty is. And now today, I think you're starting to see a little bit of that vision come true with USDC and some other stables and bitcoin ETH, even Seoul, where now I can send USDC from one pencil to another without incurring any more than sub penny fees. Right? So I think that was a lot of the why for me, which was the access question, being able to participate in financial ecosystem building for users who can't trade perfs if they are KYC anywhere or can't trade perfs in different parts of the world. And that sort of just evolved into tackling these inefficiencies in the first place.
01:02:32.260 - 01:03:40.616, Speaker D: Yeah, I guess for me, I think I was always a little bit of like an outsider or self taught, where I didn't feel like I had a certain pedigree to be a software engineer. So I picked it up later in life and kind of believed that anyone could learn anything if they were given the resources and they were driven enough. And I think when I stumbled upon crypto and I just saw it was so open and transparent and basically there are no gatekeepers, I was like, wow, this is amazing. Anyone can just come in here, read the source code, pick it up, learn how all of finance works from first principles. And I just kind of got obsessed with it where I felt like even though I didn't work in HFT or anything, I could just come in and learn how a club works or learn how Borrow Len works. And it's really just kind of an amazing community to be a part of, because everyone's like that. Everyone's like, if you want to, you can contribute, and if you want to, you can learn, and you can go and build something that a bunch of people will use.
01:03:40.616 - 01:04:16.940, Speaker D: Versus before that, I was working on Alexa and kind of in AI. And the capital costs to work in AI are so high that you kind of have to cowtow and raise a shit ton of money before you can do anything. So I really think crypto is friendly to outsiders and the little guy in a way that other industries aren't. And I just fell in love with. That. And I feel like I've learned so much just being in this space. People criticize Solana for being closed source, but you literally have all these financial primitives.
01:04:16.940 - 01:04:27.590, Speaker D: All the best teams are open sourcing their code, and if you want to go read it, you can learn how a cloud works, you can learn how a risk engine works, et cetera. And I think that's just amazing and I want to contribute to that.
01:04:30.280 - 01:04:47.180, Speaker B: Love both those answers. I would say I feel the same way. And I also often tell people that if you're in traditional finance and you want to talk to the CEO of, say, like, bank of America or Goldman Sachs or it might be, you have no chance. But in crypto, you can just DM someone on Twitter that's like the founder of a top protocol, and you can talk to them. So it's really cool.
01:04:47.250 - 01:05:20.170, Speaker C: Cindy, you apparently have lived in quite a few places. I didn't know that. That's pretty cool. Obviously there's a lot of interesting regulatory challenges, let's say in the USA. And you guys are a DeFi team. You are on Solana as well. How do you guys think about the position of being a founder in the USA? Does that scare you at all? What words of advice would you give to other people who maybe have a similar conundrum right now?
01:05:21.420 - 01:06:03.024, Speaker A: Not legal advice, leave the mean. I think for us, we think about it in the sense that we're a globally decentralized team. We don't really have an HQ anywhere per se. People can sort of build and live wherever they want to be. We're a remote first team that focuses a lot on building this culture where we have hubs all around the world. People come to different locations and build a team from there. And I think that's from a regulatory standpoint, probably the best way to operate within DeFi.
01:06:03.024 - 01:06:45.970, Speaker A: It's very hard to be a DeFi team and live, I guess, directly in the US. But you're kind of seeing maybe teams that are classical in DeFi, like uniswap dYdX being a bit brazen with their building office space directly in the middle of New York. Right. Whereas I think for us, as a smaller team makes more sense to have a global presence in regions that are a little bit more friendly to crypto. And that's a choice, I guess, individually made by the contributors on the team versus us putting our flag down and being like, we're based here now. Yeah, that's our philosophy towards that.
01:06:47.540 - 01:07:52.792, Speaker D: Yeah, I think if you really buy into the principles of DeFi and do it the right, like you're not doing anything wrong or illegal. I think it's the people that do scam ICOs and commit fraud that are doing something illegal. And is it unfair that the US goes after them? I don't really think so, but if you build a legitimate dow it's permissionless, it's this adaptive organism and you're not issuing like, I don't think there's anything wrong with being in the US. And I actually think DeFi is like a continuation of American principles where it's like there's a rule based system that is governed by some democratic body that updates the rules for the betterment of the system. And I think the US. Will come around, especially if the more good builders that live up to the principles of DeFi. So, yeah, I think as long as you do it the right way, you'll be fine.
01:07:52.792 - 01:07:57.492, Speaker D: As evident by dYdX, compound, uniswap, et cetera.
01:07:57.636 - 01:08:17.952, Speaker C: Now it's time to get a little lizard brain. So we're going to be doing rapid fire. I will ask brief questions and try to answer briefly, but expand if you want. I want Cindy to answer first and then Chris in that order, every time, just to make it predictable. And then Garrett might jump in as well. Okay, question number one how do you.
01:08:18.006 - 01:08:27.764, Speaker A: Explain perps to your mom betting on the price of something with more money than you have in your you just.
01:08:27.802 - 01:08:34.310, Speaker D: You get to trade any asset and basically pick whether you think it's going to go up or down.
01:08:35.560 - 01:08:38.996, Speaker C: What is everybody med curving about? DeFi?
01:08:39.108 - 01:09:00.220, Speaker A: Everyone expects DeFi to continue to innovate in the underlying layers, like making things more complicated, which is what gets nerd snipes people and developers. But I think it's more important to actually focus on value capture and distribution than the underlying mechanism.
01:09:03.040 - 01:09:23.700, Speaker D: Yeah, I'd agree. They're not thinking enough about how protocols can capture value and build sustainable business models. Or alternatively, they use a lot of buzzwords and act like crypto is this new phenomenon, and not just like a continuation of business principles.
01:09:25.400 - 01:09:28.340, Speaker C: What is your most unpopular take about crypto?
01:09:31.900 - 01:09:43.260, Speaker A: Unpopular? I think USDT is still a very cool collateral. Chris will probably disagree.
01:09:47.600 - 01:10:06.560, Speaker D: I feel like there's so many frames of reference, but Visa vis other crypto people is that Bitcoin digital gold has PMF, but I feel against all my other tech friends that crypto is actually going to be valuable.
01:10:09.380 - 01:10:19.480, Speaker B: I go one. You're seeing a narrative on Twitter. Some people are pushing that this next cycle is going to be all about cash flows. Should protocols turn on a fee or is that short sighted?
01:10:21.660 - 01:10:46.370, Speaker A: I think protocols should turn on a fee, and that's kind of part of the value capture narrative. Ultimately, things that aren't capturing any fees will go to zero over time or will become public goods that necessarily doesn't have funding behind. So fees are really the only sustainable way for us to kind of dive into the next big bull run.
01:10:48.340 - 01:11:04.864, Speaker D: Yeah, to have no fees is basically to just capitulate and say, you're not going to make it. You should have fees. They should be redistributed to users, and then if you can, they should be reinvested in the protocol to form some type of moat.
01:11:04.992 - 01:11:07.700, Speaker C: What is your three favorite DeFi apps other than Drift.
01:11:10.600 - 01:11:19.750, Speaker A: Uniswap is a great one. Jupiter has great UX and unironically really? Like uidx's UX as well.
01:11:22.560 - 01:11:36.060, Speaker D: Like Jupiter, I like, yeah, I don't know. Drift.
01:11:38.400 - 01:11:41.310, Speaker A: Drift. Super six.
01:11:43.360 - 01:11:46.704, Speaker D: Know you said DeFi. I feel like tensor guys are doing a really good job.
01:11:46.902 - 01:11:58.260, Speaker C: Yeah, I agreed. For people listening, we did have tensor on just a shameless show. If you want to navigate to the previous episodes, what advice would you have for crypto founders.
01:11:59.960 - 01:12:25.372, Speaker A: Moving fast is probably a little bit overrated because moving fast might mean you over index to the current trends would mobilize quickly, but also with a longer term mission in mind. So don't over index to kind of like short term pumps and trends because then you get very distracted and kind of hair brained and you lose sight of the mission.
01:12:25.436 - 01:13:04.168, Speaker D: Try to think from first principles or even old school principles. So don't just buy the hype. And if you can't explain things and understand why they're working, then you don't understand it and you shouldn't believe it. I think embrace the open source, transparent ethos. Put your work out there, build in the public, let users and community challenge you and just be honest. I think people value candor basically in the 21st century, so just put it out there and do the best you can, and I think you get rewarded for that.
01:13:04.334 - 01:13:07.532, Speaker C: What is something that you've completely changed your mind on in the past year?
01:13:07.666 - 01:13:42.250, Speaker A: Yeah, I don't know. I don't know if I've changed my mind that much this year. I feel like maybe my trust in institutions that seem strong, long standing, has gone down a lot. That whole FTX incident, that's probably the biggest. I think institutions that people believed were longstanding and trustworthy likely are not. And there's usually a single point of failure in these, and that's probably like the biggest eye opener for me in the past year.
01:13:46.540 - 01:14:21.460, Speaker D: I think I flipped more bullish on the traditional financial system after just seeing the wreckage of crypto the last year. I think at least in the beginning of 2022, it was like, okay, US. Dollar is a joke. Everything is going to break. And to the extent that they just flipped the other direction, it really just showed how important the US. Dollar is. And obviously there's still issues like banks are still in trouble from all the interest rate hikes, but I feel like you can't deny the fact that the US.
01:14:21.460 - 01:14:37.480, Speaker D: Dollar is still so important and that crypto got ahead of itself. So I think that was super humbling and just showed that my mental model about how inflation and all this stuff was going to work was really naive and oversimplistic. So that was humbling.
01:14:38.380 - 01:14:58.972, Speaker B: Yeah. It's maybe not always the best for crypto at the moment, but I do enjoy not just seeing like doomer after doomer post on Twitter right now, which was going on for a while, but I think that's a good place to wrap chris and Zendi, thank you so much for joining. I'm going to put links to the show notes to drift. Everybody should definitely go check it out. It's really, really cool. And you can learn a lot when you're doing it as well. So thank you so much for joining today.
01:14:59.106 - 01:14:59.740, Speaker D: Thank you.
01:14:59.810 - 01:15:01.550, Speaker A: Thank you, guys. This is awesome.
01:15:02.240 - 01:15:26.240, Speaker B: Yeah. All right, we'll see you next time. It's.
