00:00:00.730 - 00:00:16.190, Speaker A: In this research reports clip, Dr. Ganesh Vaswanath Natraj, an assistant professor of finance at Warc University, explains what arbitrage is and why it's an essential feature of functioning markets and of stablecoins. Hope you enjoyed this clip. And don't forget to like and subscribe.
00:00:23.250 - 00:02:04.740, Speaker B: So arbitrage, essentially, think of it as some sort of round trip, almost risk free transaction that an investor can make to make profit. And the simplest type of arbitrage is like a goods arbitrage, right? So let's say you've got like a big Mac in two countries, and let's assume that you can trade them without worrying about transportation or anything like that. And so if there is a difference in the Big Mac prices in two countries, let's say they're identical big Macs and they can be traded for one another, then investor can take, say, a big Mac in UK, let's say it's cheaper in UK than the US, then they can buy the big Mac in the UK and then sell that same big Mac in the US to make a profit, right? So essentially when you do this arbitrage, what will happen is that you are buying it where it's low, so you're buying it in the UK where it's low, and then you're selling it in the US where it's high. And so in doing that, you will drive the US Big Mac price down. And because you're buying it in the UK, you'll drive the UK Big Mac price up until they meet. And so the arbitrage is kind of stabilizing, right? Because you're essentially kind of equalizing the price of the big Mac in the two countries. So that's obviously very stylized example.
00:02:04.740 - 00:02:58.434, Speaker B: But the same principle applies when we think about stablecoin prices, right? So you've got an exchange that sells stable coins or buys and sells stable coins. It's a 1.5 cents. So one tether is equal to 1.5 cents, for example, on an exchange like, say, finance or Coinbase, then the tether treasury is willing to buy and sell tether at one USD, right? So the primary market rate, which is what we call the rate that the treasury gives, is one USD, whereas the secondary market rate, which is a finance Coinbase, is 1.5 cents. So the same principle applies.
00:02:58.434 - 00:03:38.090, Speaker B: You buy the lower price and then you sell at the higher price. So here you would buy tether at one USD from the tether treasury, and that's equivalent to depositing dollars with the tether treasury, and you obtain tether. Then you sell that tether at the higher price on, say, coinbase or some exchange, and then you make a profit, and that will. Again, what's that doing? So you are now selling a lot of tether on Coinbase on exchange, and that will drive the tether price down until it goes back to one USD. So that's why the arbitrage is stabilizing.
