00:00:04.560 - 00:00:12.930, Speaker A: Today I have on Katie. Thank you so much for joining me. Really looking forward to chatting and appreciate you coming on the podcast.
00:00:13.590 - 00:00:16.126, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having me, Logan. Happy to be here.
00:00:16.318 - 00:00:40.980, Speaker A: Perfect. I always start each conversation with a little bit more background on yourself and kind of your journey into crypto. I think everybody can kind of approach it from a different angle and then ultimately still end up in crypto, which I find is fascinating. So id love to start with just who you are, how you kind of fell down the crypto rabbit hole and where youre at today.
00:00:41.560 - 00:01:34.592, Speaker B: Sure. So, I mean, for those of you who are not familiar with me, Im the director of research at ARCA, so I oversee all of the investment research that goes into our three fund strategies and Im happy to get into those later. My background, though, for helping start and build Arca five years ago, I've worked mostly with startups in the fintech space, so didn't really necessarily have that traditional Wall street investment background. And actually one of the fintech firms I was at, they decided to start a little vc fund. So I also worked on that, and that was kind of where I got my exposure to early stage investing in terms of how I learned about crypto. One of the co founders of the company I was working at at the time had actually invested in the Ethereum crowd sale. He was super early to the space, so he educated me back in 2014.
00:01:34.592 - 00:02:26.506, Speaker B: And probably my biggest mistake was not buying a ton of Ethan bitcoin then, but it was a really long time ago, very abstract idea and really different. At the time, I'd been focused on looking at angel investments, early stage businesses. In my head, I was like, these don't have a revenue model. How does this really work? And it really, you know, I think the, there's been such a huge paradigm shift in terms of, like, how we kind of think about value in networks. And that's what has been so interesting to me about this space. So anyway, I learned a lot about, you know, crypto from, like, kind of the early days, but it wasn't really until the 2017, I would say, like, ico craze, that a lot of startups started coming to me and saying, hey, we want to actually implement a token model into our business somehow. And so I ended up having kind of doing research on my own, learning about it, educating myself so I could kind of, like, give a lot of them, you know, some advice on and how they could approach the space or think about it.
00:02:26.506 - 00:02:59.430, Speaker B: And that's when I started to fall down the rabbit hole, started working with some friends who were specifically trying to do something in crypto either start a hedge fund, implement a token into their business model. And it was on my last consulting gig with one company that I actually met the founders of Arca. And they really were very professional in how they were approaching the space, thinking about it from a long term perspective, and really thinking about how they get kind of institutional investors in the door in this new and burgeoning asset class.
00:03:00.610 - 00:03:26.156, Speaker A: Amazing. Yeah, it's 2017. I also, you were definitely an in before I. But 2017 was an interesting time. Lots of things going on. I think every bull market is kind of great in the sense that just draws more people in. But I think the biggest thing from 2017 today is at least we have usable products today where in 2017 it was mostly white papers.
00:03:26.268 - 00:03:43.680, Speaker B: Oh, gosh. I mean, I can't even tell you. I still remember trying to make investments in 2018, and I was like, there's nothing. These are like vaporware right now. So I definitely think we've come a really long way, which has been amazing. I think back to five, six years ago, and I'm like, wow, I can't believe how far we've come.
00:03:44.630 - 00:04:02.170, Speaker A: Definitely. It's been a crazy journey, for sure. So you mentioned Arca and you had three funds. Could you kind of go into, what is Arca? What are they trying to do? Kind of the different funds?
00:04:02.790 - 00:04:32.300, Speaker B: Sure. So Arca is an investment management firm focused exclusively on digital assets and bringing access to digital assets to sophisticated investors. So we have like, two sides to our business. One is a traditional asset management side. So that's what I work on. We basically have funds that investors can access digital assets through today through, like, more familiar fund structures. So, like, we have a liquid hedge fund that invests in just liquid tokens.
00:04:32.300 - 00:05:47.370, Speaker B: Then we also have, like, a venture fund for early stage investments, investing in equity tokens, whatever, you know, kind of fits that early stage nature of that business. And then we also have an NFT fund, which is supposed to gain access to the entire NFT ecosystem, whether it's through the NFT assets themselves, infrastructure projects, or tokens in those ecosystems. It just really depends. So that was kind of our goal was to give investors access through more of these traditional vehicles. But as we kind of know, a lot of those vehicles are limited to investors of a certain, a certain kind of wealth bracket in terms of either essentially institutional or really, really high net worth. And so on the other side of our business, we're actually looking at building on what we call our lab side. We're actually looking at building products that are much more based within the blockchain ecosystem in terms of actually being issued on Ethereum, for example, or actually giving more broad exposure to digital assets, whether it's, for example, we have a bitcoin trust that we were hoping eventually non accredited investors could get access to, since that is something that people are restricted from right now.
00:05:47.370 - 00:05:53.590, Speaker B: So those are the different, more, I would say, futuristic investment products that outside of that business is working on.
00:05:54.290 - 00:06:36.022, Speaker A: Amazing. Yeah, I wish it wasn't this way. In terms of their credit investor. I think what I do appreciate about crypto is that because the lifecycle of a lot of these projects, in terms of time to market or with tokens often launching much sooner than they would in the traditional IPO sense, retail has access to them as well. But at least today we have to play within the guidelines on the fund side. So it's definitely interesting. You mentioned the three funds.
00:06:36.022 - 00:06:59.252, Speaker A: You have, the hedge fund or the liquid hedge fund, the venture fund, and then also the NFT fund. Across those, you're leading the research. How do you kind of approach research in the blockchain and crypto space? Because I think there's many different paths to kind of take a. Could you kind of walk us through like your approach on a high level?
00:06:59.436 - 00:07:54.500, Speaker B: Sure. So I mean, kind of like what you were talking about, Logan, with tokens kind of not fitting into this more traditional framework, you kind of have to approach research in the same way. What I try to explain to a lot of people who are new to the space is that investing in token projects is a lot like investing in liquid venture capital. So you kind of have to take a very similar approach to analyzing kind of these companies as early stage startups. The only difference is that they have this kind of like capital market available to them in terms of that liquid token and how it can trade. And so obviously, we don't have frameworks for how they should be treated, how they should trade, what disclosures they should provide. So that is always the tricky part of getting involved in the space and always what I explain to people when they're like, well, how do I invest in crypto? How do I get exposure? And I always remind them, just keep in mind this isn't like going into your fidelity account and buying Apple stock.
00:07:54.500 - 00:09:06.346, Speaker B: So the way I really approach research in digital assets is thinking about it, like I said, from this kind of like liquid venture capital profile. So looking at something analyzing like an early stage business, but then understanding how the token might play a role in its current business and its future business as well. And looking at not just, okay, is this a strong business? Does it have strong revenue, strong team, but looking at the token, like does it make sense in their product and does it have a future in their product depending on what their roadmap suggests? So I do think unpopular opinion. Probably. Most projects probably don't need tokens. I think that the space is definitely struggling with figuring out how do we add a token in which has been this insane, amazing innovation for the space, but how do we continue to have it provide value? And we're seeing, I think, more experiments with projects that, for example, are not kind of separating out, I guess, each different kind of piece. In an ecosystem, you're seeing more things bundled together and kind of labeled as public goods versus this is a one off.
00:09:06.346 - 00:09:09.110, Speaker B: This token is going to provide value just on its own.
00:09:11.450 - 00:09:25.490, Speaker A: Yeah, that definitely makes sense. So you're approaching it on a high level from the product standpoint and then evaluating, like how tokens play a role within that ecosystem or a specific project.
00:09:26.630 - 00:10:25.968, Speaker B: Yeah, and then it depends, like for early stage venture, for example, there's a lot less to kind of evaluate or go on. So we spend a lot more time like getting to know the team, getting really deep there. The NFT projects are also a kind of very different ballgame kind of for us. I think a lot of our investing also depends on what makes sense to us thematically. At the beginning of each year, we kind of sit down and map out all the themes of what we think will outperform over the twelve to, I would say, 18 month time period. And based on that, we use that as our framework for how we go out and look for certain investments to fill those themes. Yeah, I would say another piece that we also look at, which has been really cool, but as the market has matured, you don't just have one product in each sector, you do have these fairly, um, not crowded sectors, but there's usually like one to two competitors per product, which I think is important because it does then allow you to like compare them against each other.
00:10:25.968 - 00:10:42.180, Speaker B: So looking at and tracking kind of like me, I would say like, like top KPI's from, you know, projects either like in the l one space or in like the decentralized exchange space. Like that really can help give you a good indication of like what is, you know, performance like for these projects.
00:10:42.720 - 00:11:24.130, Speaker A: Definitely. I'm, I'm a big fan of the metrics as well. I think the hardest part here, or in metrics, what most people don't look at is on the user side, it frustrates me that there's not as many users, but I'm optimistic those will continue to grow over time. But one thing that you said kind of stuck out to me was on the key themes component. You and Arca ultimately started the firm or I joined the firm in 2018. What have the themes that you, on a high level at least research that you have kind of started from 2018 to today.
00:11:25.110 - 00:11:27.822, Speaker B: Wow. Well, if we're going back into the.
00:11:27.966 - 00:11:34.838, Speaker A: Vaults, I mean, you don't have to go all the way back. Maybe some of the more recent themes as well.
00:11:34.974 - 00:12:03.100, Speaker B: Yeah. So happy to talk about kind of like what our themes are for, like this year, our outlook. But some themes that I think we were fairly early to identify, like way back when the firm started was. So in 2019, I think one thing we really were interested in was Defi. And actually back then there wasn't a whole lot outside of Makerdao. And I think that eventually SNX came on the scene and yield farming all of a sudden took off. So those were kind of some of the early themes we were looking at.
00:12:03.100 - 00:12:40.690, Speaker B: It's really funny, in 2020, we kept being like, nfts are going to blow up. Nfts are going to blow up. They're going to do really well. And it actually took until like end of 2020, 2021, before that area kind of really saw a lot of maturation to the point where you had lots of different projects kind of giving you that type of exposure. Trying to think of some other areas. I think cross chain interoperability, that was like a big theme for us in 2021 in terms of looking at what projects are going to be, these connectors for different blockchains, again, maybe slightly early. I think that we're seeing more of that play out in the last, in 2022 and even this year.
00:12:40.690 - 00:14:04.994, Speaker B: And so those are kind of like some of the themes, I would say, from our past that, you know, we were really interested in looking at then kind of like themes, I guess, for this year, like very more, and these are much more specific, I think, than previous years. A lot of it kind of evolved out of looking at what is that next leg of adoption. Like, how do we really get more people into the space? So some of the themes we're looking at right now are how are web two businesses implementing their digital assets strategies and how does that kind of help bring in more users? So a big one, I think that a lot of people have been watching that was really well telegraphed last year, for example, was the Starbucks launching their Hana Odyssey campaign. I know that the primary beneficiary that was like Matic built on their, on their, on their l two. But you know, what is, what does the Starbucks do in terms of like, do they bring in a million users? Do you get, you know, people creating wallets, people, you know, spending on gas fees? So we're still kind of looking at how that evolves. I think that a lot of these web two companies, like one, like one of them kind of needs to crack like that code for how do you run a successful campaign and like what does it look like? And then you'll have a lot of others kind of like pile on the bandwagon, launching their own. So those are kind of like the early.
00:14:04.994 - 00:14:56.520, Speaker B: And this might be a theme, by the way, that takes two years to see kind of like come to fruition. But definitely one thing we're watching another is kind of more, kind of just more practical, which is scaling and L2s. Like the space. We've seen that the UX UI is very difficult and hard to deal with. And if you really want to bring in like that next million or billion users into crypto, we can't have people trying to mess around with setting up wallets and keys and struggling to bridge assets from one place to another and pay gas in 20 different tokens. It's just got to be a much smoother process. And then what also dovetails into that is part of that frustration is we need better security, I think more rigorous testing in addition to better UX.
00:14:56.520 - 00:15:39.492, Speaker B: Those are all bundled into. How do you bring in a lot more people? You just, you need a better product. I think last year especially, like, I don't even remember what the total tally was, but how many bridge hacks do we have? You can't have a bridge hack if you're going to have Microsoft like deploying any infrastructure on top of your blockchain. So it's just we've got to like, these things have got to get corrected and be perfect before it's ready for prime time. And then another thing we're really watching. But again, this is really more playing out. I think in the early stages still is centralized identity, but it's more just the idea that you could do a lot more with, you could do a lot more with products, whether it's in Defi, whether it's with these web two businesses.
00:15:39.492 - 00:15:54.930, Speaker B: If we have some sort of either credit scoring system or KYC that's on chain. And I think as this space also gets more regulated, you're really going to need these on chain KYC products are going to become absolutely necessary.
00:15:56.390 - 00:16:17.810, Speaker A: Yeah. So high level, like key dreams going forward being web two companies coming into the space, continuing kind of the scalability front and then also just user identification on chain or. Yeah, correct.
00:16:18.350 - 00:16:20.366, Speaker B: Yeah, that pretty much sums it up.
00:16:20.518 - 00:17:22.069, Speaker A: So maybe starting with the kind of web two companies, how do you think? I guess, like one thing that I think a lot about is kind of balancing, I guess, like choosing or picking the correct chain to build on because I get nervous sometimes when I feel like these companies that aren't as sophisticated are picking different chains. And then ultimately, if they do find some product market Fitzhen kind of outgrow that underlying infrastructure that they built on. And so over the long term, I'm very curious, like how these partnerships will kind of continue to play out and if they have to migrate. Do you guys, does the team think a lot about kind of the underlying infrastructure of these like chains, these web two companies that are coming in or how do you think about just web two companies onboarding into web theory more broadly?
00:17:22.649 - 00:18:55.160, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I mean, look, I think that a lot of people are concerned about, you know, some of the underlying technology. But at the end of the day, if we also look at kind of like the projects that have been most successful, it especially when we're talking about layer ones and L2s, it's a lot less about the tech. I know we don't want to admit that, but at the end of the day, a lot of these companies or these projects that have done very well, they've had really good business development and they've managed to kind of attract brand names to them. Now, at the end of the day, I will be honest, I have no idea what the diligence process is like at these places. Like are they really like evaluating the technology stack appropriately? Do they have somebody on their team who knows enough about blockchain and smart contracts and all these other factors to select the right l one or L2? I do think that, you know, yeah, there could be a potential problem, I guess, later down the road. But I also, I do believe to an extent that some of these projects that they're attracting kind of like, you know, whether it's matic getting people like Starbucks involved or, you know, other projects like flow, you know, signing people like Ticketmaster and, you know, MBA, like they're, they're, you know, they are getting those customers with the understanding that they know they cannot make any potential mistakes because that will be the end of that, I guess, partnership that they've forged for a lot of them.
00:18:55.160 - 00:20:07.536, Speaker B: Again, the problem, I guess, is that these are all backroom agreements. It's not like there's anything on chain where we can see this is what Polygon and Starbucks have agreed to. This is what flow. And the Ticketmaster degree, too, you're more kind of trying to understand what is it that could go wrong in the future. I think probably the biggest criticism that I've seen for a lot of these Alt L1 partnerships and some of the L2 scalings is that some of their solutions are super centralized. And that, I know, makes a lot of people in digital assets uncomfortable because that does, you know, potentially open up a lot of vulnerabilities to them. I think that what project or what people should still remember, though, is that although they might be more centralized, that is actually a benefit to an extent for some of these, you know, web two companies, because for a lot of them, the question is like, well, what happens if, you know, this goes wrong? Or what happens if this goes wrong? So, you know, for them to feel like there is some, you know, maybe slightly better measure of control over the ecosystem, I think gives them a bit more comfort in pursuing these Alt L1s.
00:20:07.536 - 00:20:34.660, Speaker B: I also think a lot of them look at the practical side. Ethereum is really expensive and gets congested if there's a lot of activity. It's not going to work. For them to have. For them to be able to have a really strong user base that's excited about it, it comes back to the UX problem. We just can't have the speed and the fees that we have on Ethereum right now.
00:20:35.480 - 00:21:19.100, Speaker A: Makes sense when you're doing the research and due diligence, how much or not due diligence, but just in your thought process and some of these themes across the ecosystems, how much weight is put towards the partnership side versus, like, the tech? I think right now, like, even within the bear market, as the knives are kind of coming out, as you mentioned, a lot of it is not on chain. There's people moving from one chain to another. A lot of the space is super tribal. Everybody is like, why'd you move here? Why'd you move there? What role do you kind of think, like, BD plays versus just purely kind of the technical point of view?
00:21:20.140 - 00:21:56.772, Speaker B: I mean, I think it's everything. Like, I know people, people will disagree with me on this take, but at the end of the day, I think that, and this is a problem I saw in the beginning when I started in the space full time in 2018, which is that the mantra for a lot of projects was like, if you build it, they will come. And that is just, it's absolutely false. Just because you have a great product out there or you think you have great tech, it doesn't mean that people are going to suddenly like, flock to come and build on you. First of all, people don't know you exist. People don't know how to trust you and they don't really understand what the benefit is when you have so many different layer ones. At the time it was all mostly layer ones.
00:21:56.772 - 00:22:46.530, Speaker B: What is the benefit of using this one over another? I think right now the benefit of having good BD is that you do. We, at the end of the day, unfortunately, are operating in more siloed ecosystems because some of the bridging tools aren't as strong as the layer one tools are just yet. Kind of goes back to what I said about all the exploits that we saw last year. So for a lot of companies to say, hey, these other big brands are also building in our ecosystem, that helps them because they're like, well, then we're going to get their customers. We're not having our customers resign on a different blockchain and doing this crazy bridging back and forth stuff. So I think there are benefits, but no, I mean, I think the BD is really, really important and I think any project that's ignoring that side of their business is just doing themselves a disservice.
00:22:47.830 - 00:23:37.020, Speaker A: Yeah, BD definitely will kind of be a. It's definitely heating up. I do think Polygon does a good job of the BD side of comical. It's interesting just to watch everything kind of unfold on Twitter with the different ecosystems. But I definitely think Polygon is good at the BD side and getting big names to at least come and try something on the network. On that kind of front, though, you said one of the other themes was scaling and it's something that you guys have placed a lot of importance on for this upcoming year. How do you think about the different ecosystems? L two eth alt l one in that landscape?
00:23:38.000 - 00:24:23.868, Speaker B: Sure. I mean, there's a lot going on in there, right? I think for us, what's really exciting is that there's so many different solutions launching this year and a lot of solutions also launching tokens and kind of either. A lot of them, I guess, have done kind of like partial launches, but we're looking to see kind of like full launch and integration at the same time. We're finally getting to the point too. Wherever Ethereum, hopefully in one of its next few upgrades will kind of implement proto dank sharding, which will just make the cost of operating roll ups much cheaper. So I think we're kind of at this inflection point for scaling solutions where they've been around for a lot of years. A lot of it's just been experimental, but we're finally getting to the point where a, I think people are very accepting and realizing, hey, we need L2s to get to this next level.
00:24:23.868 - 00:25:36.490, Speaker B: And then two, we are also seeing Ethereum kind of move towards that roadmap wherever the ETH L1 will become that, you know, that settlement layer, and we're really doing all the activity on these roll ups. So I think, like, that's, that's kind of like, what I see is like, that's like the bull case for kind of like l two s in this next year or so. I do also see, you know, you know, privacy, I don't necessarily think is like a theme of ours, but I understand that, like, you know, when you're looking at some of the potential zero knowledge solutions, that a lot of them are kind of like, have that emphasis on privacy going forward. In terms of Alt L1 s, it's definitely difficult. Like each kind of, each layer one or each kind of like, different type of layer one has differing solutions or different kind of solves to the problem, which is how do you scale transactions, but how do you keep security to that end? Like, the cosmos ecosystem is super interesting. Everything they're doing there. I think that has been actually an ecosystem that's been kind of slow to hit its stride, but maybe this year.
00:25:36.490 - 00:26:46.980, Speaker B: But they've done a lot of interesting stuff. When interchange security hopefully gets off the ground like that, that'll really, I think, bring on a lot of projects. I also think it's interesting to think about, hey, should most projects be their own app chain? Do they need to be a separate app on top of layer one and kind of just thinking about, again, if we want things to be interoperable and have them talk to each other, product like cosmos can be really, really important to growing that particular ecosystem. And then I think you still have projects like Solana, which I think they really proved over a lot of other, to a lot of people's doubt that they could attract like a really large retail following. And that is really still mainly, in my opinion, kind of like their biggest selling point there. But again, I think it asks, what do you really like? What are the trade offs? What are you willing to sacrifice on a network like theirs versus a network like Ethereum. And even with them it's hard to ascribe value and talk about how are they going to kind of grow into their valuation when I.
00:26:46.980 - 00:27:00.700, Speaker B: They, you know, fees are super low. They, you know, have a very, you know, they've again prioritized low fees, high transactions over like, you know, security, which means your fees increase, which also kind of potentially like gives value to that network. Right.
00:27:01.920 - 00:27:30.140, Speaker A: Maybe just on that last front. On the security front, I'm. I spent a lot of time trying to like think about security. I'm curious how. How the ArC team approaches security and just thinks about decentralization because I found a lot of people have different points of view on this and I wish it would become more standard because it's not, but. Yeah. Do you and the team have a specific method that you approach decentralization?
00:27:31.440 - 00:28:24.220, Speaker B: Not really. I guess it's not like we look at the Nakamoto efficient of a network and we're using that to say, hey, we'll invest in this or we won't. Again, I kind of. I look at like the security as a feature of a blockchain similar to, you know, what are the fees and what are what, you know, kind of other features of those l one s. The security is definitely important. But again, I think it also. My stance for a long time has really been like, it depends on what you're running on that particular blockchain and does it support, you know, do you need that type of security depending on the type of applications you're running on there? So for example, defi, we kind of think if we're going to have a lot of money locked up in an ecosystem that's running our whole finance system, then, yeah, you probably do want really high security and you're willing to maybe sacrifice some of that speed for that security.
00:28:24.220 - 00:29:35.230, Speaker B: Now on the flip side, games, if you're running blockchain based gaming products on chain, does that really need as high security as a borrow lend vault? Probably not. And that's kind of where I see like, the difference and I know, kind of like the app specific thesis has been a bit of a one that's tossed back and forth over time and, you know, I don't necessarily know if it'll play out that way, but I think that's kind of how I've always looked at security, is thinking about like what is the primary use here? And does it, you know, does, does that primary use case really need that much security or can it kind of sacrifice the security for speed? Because you're trying to get in so many more users or you really want that low latency user experience. I think even when we get to the point of having everything running on a roll up on Ethereum, for example, there's still going to be some speed issues, some lags, and I think things are not going to be seamless for a long time. And I think even with that in mind, you have to think of, will people accept this for a game? Maybe they won't, I'm not sure. I think we're still kind of a ways off from that.
00:29:36.290 - 00:30:09.998, Speaker A: Yeah, it is interesting. I really wish we could have a standard framework. I think it'd make the space easier to compare things because I think right now it's very hard to, I would say not super hard to do like an apples to apples comparison, but I wish we could kind of apply a framework to different blockchains. I think Cosmos is super interesting in.
00:30:10.014 - 00:30:39.810, Speaker B: This space, has a ways to go, but I agree with you wholeheartedly there. I think the biggest difficulty I have is even just standardizing. How do you talk about different blockchains against each other? Because all of them, even users active wallets, so much of that can be game to an extent. Or looking at DeFi projects like the way they define revenue, it's all very scattered.
00:30:40.270 - 00:31:29.398, Speaker A: Yeah. On decentralization, I like the number of full nodes just because as long as one copy exists, then you can have the network restart. I do like the Nakamoto coefficient a lot because it's like a real world representation of how many people would need to collude. So on that front, the number of full nodes is super important. The light clients get super interesting, but I don't think they matter as much for just general network security compared to full nodes. But yeah, Cosmos is super interesting just because they do allow you to connect different networks. But the upper bound is like only 200 full nodes per ecosystem or per cosmos zone.
00:31:29.398 - 00:32:19.420, Speaker A: So I find that interesting. But yeah, I don't know. Standardization across different blockchains would be super interesting. It would be helpful, but interesting. On the Ethereum side, I guess you guys have thought a lot about L2s and how ultimately they play out. I'm curious, over the long term, have you guys run any calculations to see how much throughput or transactions per second would be needed to onboard 5 million or 10 million users? How do you approach, like the L2 space?
00:32:21.200 - 00:32:54.566, Speaker B: I don't think we've actually run any calculations around that as much. I think even as these L2s get off the ground in the next couple of years or the next couple months. We still have some time, I think, before you see that flood of new users. And again, I think that also is cyclical in a way. Right now, if you look at, you know, kind of the user numbers and how the market's been, you know, we've been definitely kind of back in bear market territory, at least in terms of kind of like KPI's looking at active wallets or active addresses.
00:32:54.718 - 00:32:55.450, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:32:58.150 - 00:33:27.350, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I haven't really looked at, you know, you know, what would be the amount that you need in terms of, you know, or what kind of, like, point does the market or not the market, do these solutions kind of scale efficiently? We've more just been looking at. And also the other thing to keep in mind, too, is, like, most of these L2 solutions, a lot of them are still super new. I think we're still in experimental phase here.
00:33:28.490 - 00:33:48.788, Speaker A: True. It's very early. So I guess on a high level, you're talking about different metrics that you guys look at more closely. What are the big things that you guys look internally to kind of decide or determine that, like, something is continuing to grow or do better just in.
00:33:48.804 - 00:33:50.600, Speaker B: Layer twos or like, just broadly.
00:33:51.060 - 00:33:53.140, Speaker A: I mean, L2s are more broadly.
00:33:53.260 - 00:35:10.859, Speaker B: Okay. I mean, one thing we definitely look at, like I said, is like, active wallets addresses kind of fees, even though right now, like, for a lot of them, there's kind of some incentivization going on. For example, like, I know a lot of people are using arbitrum quite a bit now because they have an airdrop coming. You know, we know that a lot of the, I mean, optimism just finished up their optimism quests, which was also, you know, about getting kind of, like, user activity up. So kind of also layering on through that lens, like, okay, what is some of this activity actually, you know, doing? I have a lot of problems with this metric because it gets gamed a lot, but TVL is still important, I think, in terms of just understanding how many people are using a product and bridging actual value over there, looking at what the ecosystems are composed of. So I know that's not as many, like, not as metric driven, but like, do they have a Dex? What are they primarily being used for? Is it gaming? Is it defi? Or are you seeing, like the, you know, in a lot of cases, we're seeing a lot of blue chip defi projects like Uniswap Aave deploy on these l two s. And I think that's also important for just offering kind of like trusted or more trusted, like projects or interfaces that people are familiar with on these blockchains.
00:35:11.199 - 00:35:24.480, Speaker A: That makes sense on the user kind of like active addresses. Have you found anything particularly interesting on like growth or adoptions on like layer ones or L2s?
00:35:26.460 - 00:36:26.140, Speaker B: Trying to think of the broad overall trends. I mean, look, the market activity, the tough part also with using active addresses and wallets is you don't necessarily know if that's like one individual user, right. It could be that somebody has made 20 wallets and they're trying to, you know, they're either burning a wallet every time because they don't want anybody following their activity. Or again, we saw this so much in 2021 was that a lot of people were farming air drops, quote unquote, trying to up the activity from multiple different wallets in order to increase their chances of what was free money or free dividend at the time. So I think the wallet metric is hard. It's just like you also have to kind of take it with a grain of salt. It's why, again, it's also why like fees are really difficult to use to kind of compare one to the other because some places like the fees are incentivized or they're super, super low or, you know, people might be gaming kind of some of those metrics.
00:36:26.140 - 00:36:52.306, Speaker B: We do still look at developer count, I think, on each of these, but again, these, you know, it's very commonly known that a lot of these things kind of get gained. I would actually recommend interested in looking at any developer stats, like always check out electric capital has a great quarterly report that they put out and they kind of like give a little more context around like each of those developer stats. So you can use that to kind of evaluate what's going on with each blockchain.
00:36:52.498 - 00:37:27.270, Speaker A: I fully agree. Electric Apple has a great report and going to be chatting about with them about the report on the podcast soon. But no, it's been super fascinating just to watch these different ecosystems grow. It is hard to determine some of the active addresses. What I try to use now is like active fee payers because it does get difficult. It's hard to determine whether it's a human or not. But I don't know of any other better metric to try to determine on chain activity as of yet.
00:37:27.970 - 00:37:29.550, Speaker B: Yeah, I like that though.
00:37:30.660 - 00:38:05.760, Speaker A: Activate arrest fees, the accounts that are paying fees and that you can determine like they're signing. But it is, yeah, it's hard to, hard to break down. So maybe just kind of wrapping up the different themes that you're looking forward to in, like, this upcoming year, like finishing out the scaling roadmap. So would you say, like, I mean, on a high level, the Arca team is much more focused on, like, the L2 ecosystem and then also, like, different cosmos zones.
00:38:07.820 - 00:38:10.324, Speaker B: From that, but like, just from, like, the layer one, layer.
00:38:10.372 - 00:38:14.080, Speaker A: Two, yeah, just like on the, like, infrastructure and scaling side.
00:38:14.700 - 00:39:12.740, Speaker B: I mean, look, we've looked at all sorts of stuff. I mean, my analyst who really covers that area super deeply. Like, he spent a lot of time in the cosmos ecosystem, but, you know, he's also been looking at kind of some of the newer altel ones that have come out. You know, obviously we've taken a look at Aptos, spent a lot of time on Solana. We've spent a lot of time looking at what are some of the other ones, like Celestia, which I know is going to be, like kind of on the Cosmos SDK. So definitely, like, we're open to exploring everything in that area and even new primitives. You know, like we, you know, we've looked at projects like Kanto, which I kind of, you know, maybe referred to a little at the beginning, talking about, like, you know, do you have a project that just the, you know, the basic nuts and bolts of al one are those, you know, are those just built in as, like a public good? So a lot of different kind of, I would say there's potential there for kind of different areas or pockets of the market.
00:39:12.740 - 00:39:21.064, Speaker B: But, you know, we're definitely excited, I would say, about cosmos ecosystem and the L2s. As of now, that makes sense.
00:39:21.232 - 00:39:30.980, Speaker A: Awesome. And then the last name on the theme side that you kind of mentioned was identity and management. Can you talk about a little bit more how you're thinking through that?
00:39:31.640 - 00:40:33.420, Speaker B: Yeah. So I guess, like, the one thing that I kind of sat down with my team at the beginning this year and we asked each other about, like, what does it take for, like, institutional, like, adoption of defi, just as an example, because a lot of people were really pounding the pavement for that in the last year and saying, like, how do we, how do we get to that point where you actually have, like, real institutions saying, okay, we want to be doing lending markets or bridging, like, off chain assets on chain. And for a lot of them, there's a few components that are just missing. One of the big ones is identity or the ability to know who you're interacting with. So I think identity kind of gets spun up into a lot of different things, but there's a few key things that if we did have some sort of, like, on chain identity system, you could solve for. So the first one is KYC, which I kind of discussed a bit at the beginning. The biggest issue is just institutions can get in a lot of trouble if they interact with somebody who might potentially be breaking what's called the bank Secrecy act, essentially trying to launder money or if they're an OFAC sanctioned entity.
00:40:33.420 - 00:41:14.978, Speaker B: And obviously, when you're interacting in Defi, at the end of the day, you don't have any idea. We're a trustless system for a reason. But these institutions, that's a huge barrier for them. They cannot possibly even think about trading on a uniswap or taking, you know, lending out stables on aave. If the potential is that on the other side, the person they're trading against is breaking those laws, because that is. That is what you, you know, that is what these institutions, like, they fear, because that is what, you know, the government will come after you for. And that's fair, you know, and in all fairness, like, that is, you know, designed to protect us from, you know, terrorism, you know, terrorist groups getting financing, you know, any of those kind of types of activities.
00:41:14.978 - 00:42:04.858, Speaker B: So the first, I think, thing is that a lot of institutions would feel more comfortable if they knew they were interacting only with KYC individuals. And so that's kind of like one area where you solve one big problem if you have some sort of on chain identity. The second thing is credit scoring. So, as we know, the crypto market is very capital inefficient. I mean, I think that, I know the unwinds, I guess, of last year kind of almost show that, right, is that people were putting up collateral that wasn't necessarily super liquid, or people were re hypothecating their collateral in multiple different places. And it was all in the name of getting leverage or being more efficient. But I can tell you, even as a liquid fund, it's very difficult to manage your manager collateral all over the place.
00:42:04.858 - 00:42:48.606, Speaker B: There's no real prime brokerage like there is in traditional markets. You know, if I am transacting on one exchange and if, you know, you're even just doing something like getting options, you have to put up collateral. But the collateral, you know, may not be able to like, it really just makes it hard to kind of operate in that space. So to that end, having some sort of a credit system, whether it's more of a traditional, like, okay, you know, you have a credit score, and this is what allows you to take out this loan or if it's more like, oh, yeah, we know that, you know, this financial institution is good for this money even though it's not on chain. Right. It's like something from the outside world. And then I think just more generally, if you package all these things up, you also get to a usability.
00:42:48.606 - 00:43:41.180, Speaker B: The third piece here is just the ease of use. Right. I think if we have the ability for, if you have the ability all of a sudden for users to have an on chain profile, it's just a lot easier to manage too. And that's why I think it's really great to see projects like Ens where people can have their ETh address instead of their long public key. The idea that eventually we want to get to the point where public keys become people's email address or their phone number. Then from there on chain identity allows for actually a lot of other use cases on blockchain outside of what the current ones are going forward. I think very interesting, a lot of different, you open up a lot more use cases and a lot more users by having kind of like this piece of infrastructure at the end of the day.
00:43:41.180 - 00:43:45.880, Speaker B: But I also think there's a lot of problems and a lot of barriers to getting us there.
00:43:46.220 - 00:43:55.760, Speaker A: Yeah. Do you think ultimately that manifests itself like in a hybrid solution or at the end of the day we'll be able to create kind of a on chain solution?
00:43:57.380 - 00:44:44.210, Speaker B: That's a good question. It's tough. Like I said, like I think you, you know, right. Even right now for me, I don't know, for example, if I. The biggest issue, right, is that you almost need a solution to come from someone like the Ethereum foundation that then can become or like a consortium of like layer ones that say, hey, this is like a solution we're going to propose and then allow, give people like a toolbox to adopt it. Or do you have one project from the ground up that kind of has to make really difficult inroads with getting adoption for their product when there's so many other little products that you know you're going to end up with this like fragmented market. So I think it's, it's also just about the approach that these projects are going to take to kind of getting that product or that solution out there that's acceptable.
00:44:45.350 - 00:45:34.400, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely a lot of iteration to make it happen. I am excited about that as well. It makes a lot of sense to be able to have kind of some identity on chain or some reputation system, definitely for being able to make the space more capital efficient, for sure. Yeah, very interesting. And so I guess on that management side, is it primarily to make markets more efficient? Is that kind of the main driving force? And also you said, like KYc and just being able to bring more, introduce international and institutional people into the market.
00:45:35.180 - 00:46:11.228, Speaker B: Well, I think, yeah, you end up with more capital efficiency if you end up having some sort of credit scoring. But also, yeah, you end up with way more dollars in the space. There's trillions and trillions of dollars not in crypto. I mean, the market is still so small when we look at it, compared to equities, compared to the bond market and credit market, and then even just looking at assets worldwide real estate, there's so much more beyond just our very small asset class at the end of the day. And if you can kind of unlock that additional capital to enter the ecosystem or to put more products on chain, then that's like the win win scenario.
00:46:11.404 - 00:46:55.000, Speaker A: Definitely. Yeah, I agree. It is remarkable when you start kind of digging into how large other markets are and how small crypto actually is, it's really just a fraction of, as you mentioned, these larger markets. On that, whatever you were, maybe just from being a player in the space for so long and ultimately even being evolved in 2017 to this recent bull market, what are some of the biggest lessons that you've learned from 2018 to today, or things that you've observed in the market that have continuously caught you off by surprise or like, caught you off guard?
00:46:56.460 - 00:48:01.130, Speaker B: Let me think. Caught me by surprise. I think what I've always been pleasantly surprised about in this market, I'll go with something a little more positive. To start, is just how genuine everyone is in terms of the people who are really building in this space. They have a belief in the long term promise of blockchain and crypto, whether it's from just, you know, giving people access in area, you know, to find, you know, markets where they're, you know, not able to, they're not currently given that access right now, or whether it is about, you know, really cutting out intermediaries and returning value more to individual people versus, you know, letting it really be centralized with a lot of corporations, I think that, you know, you end up having a lot of people because there's a much more. I would say that ethos is kind of like what goes throughout the space, regardless of what the market conditions are. The people who are kind of like here in building, they're very, very committed to those long term goals.
00:48:01.130 - 00:49:19.348, Speaker B: I would say the things that I've been surprised about or maybe unpleasantly surprised about has been definitely kind of like some of the narrative shifts and at times wondering. I think there's definitely a lot of people who are more traders in this market than there are, like, long term, kind of like researchers or investors. And so I think a lot of the time, too, is, like, not getting caught up in, like, some of those narrative shifts is, like, really important because I think that a lot of things in the space end up being kind of more of a passing fad versus something that has, like, actual, like, staying power, you know, great example, 2020 food tokens. Does anybody else remember those, like, new, new DeFi project every day? But, you know, and I did enjoy going through my phone and seeing every, like, food emoji getting used. So, yeah, I think. I think those are, you know, some of the things that people continue to kind of, like, learn about this space is that I also think, you know, things I've been surprised about or I'm trying to kind of take learnings from is when, you know, just even seeing, like, when a certain maybe narrative or market is kind of played out, like, at what point do you, are there enough copy paste projects where you're like, okay, this is probably the top here. This is going to be a really hot.
00:49:19.348 - 00:49:54.730, Speaker B: This is a hot area, and this is probably the end of it. Doing well, or you saw rattling off a few where they definitely got overplayed, like play to earn, move to earn. Like I said, defi yield farming. I do think that we learned a lot from that, from all those, I would say cyclical moves, but I think understanding when to back off from them is probably something I'm constantly trying to work on as an investor in the space.
00:49:55.190 - 00:50:26.256, Speaker A: True. How do you view, I guess going back to, there are a lot of traders, a lot of these things are much earlier than they would be in the traditional kind of equities sense. How do you kind of approach that? Like, traders versus, like, investors and the different economies? And also, as you're saying, like, there are a lot of themes and narrative, and a lot of them can be passing fads, I guess. Like, how do you kind of maintain focus during all that?
00:50:26.408 - 00:51:33.940, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I think, like, the biggest thing it really does come back to kind of having, like, a thematic view on the space and, like, what is your outlook look, because then you can always really point back to that. And I mean, it's definitely a difficulty with, like, you know, anybody in crypto especially, people either tend to have a hard time sticking to, you know, long term thesis or they're or, and, or they're, you know, have much more of a trading mindset versus like that long term, that long term mindset. You know, one thing I learned early on, which I think is really tough to do in this market because it moves so fast and things change so quickly, is just being patient. You know, a lot of investments take, you know, six to twelve months to play out, and most people in this space don't have the patience to wait for that. And that's why, at least for me and my team, like we really emphasize like a very deep like, research process. So when we do make an investment, like we can feel comfortable sticking with it for six to twelve months while that thesis plays out versus feeling like, okay, it didn't work immediately, within a month, like we got to ditch it and get out. So that's kind of like how I kind of view trying to separate trading from research, but it can be very difficult.
00:51:33.940 - 00:51:58.750, Speaker B: I will say one thing is I personally don't like to look at the screens like prices, like twenty four, seven. I try to give myself kind of a break, walk away, think about things. But a lot of it is definitely, I think the 24/7 nature of the market, unfortunately, really does not really help people get that space or that distance that allows them to make kind of like those, like more sound decisions.
00:51:59.290 - 00:52:23.390, Speaker A: Yeah, the 24 markets definitely make it a little bit extra of a challenge. One thing that you mentioned at the beginning of the podcast was also just the NFT fund. And being early to nfts, I would love to learn, just as we're kind of wrapping up, like, how you guys approach nfts because I find it such a fascinating space.
00:52:24.220 - 00:53:06.670, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, look, this is a very new frontier. So a lot of this, you know, we're still kind of mapping out and figuring out, I think right now, like the biggest use case, right, for nfts has been kind of in these subjectors of metaverse and then also looking at like, you know, a lot like the craze to start has been like the PFP craze. Right. And I definitely wasn't bought into it at first. I was very skeptical of it, same way I was with icos. But I'm starting to see kind of like the value around certain collections and communities that have been kind of like created in terms of our outlook on nfts. I think that, like I said, the PFP area, these collections that started like that, I think was a really great way to jumpstart the space.
00:53:06.670 - 00:53:56.856, Speaker B: But there's so many other potential use cases. The gaming NFTs has been another interesting one, right, with you owning your in game assets. While I think a lot of those models still have some way to go, and I think there's a lot to do to bridge kind of like the traditional gaming world with gaming in blockchain that a while ago. But I think it has shown there is something there that can work in terms of having your assets be transferable and tradable and not having games act in these silos. Some other areas that nfts have a ton of use can be in things like rewards program, things like identity. So there's other ways, like, I guess you can express that NFT theme outside of just the basic like metaverse gaming profile pictures. And we're seeing more and more of that now.
00:53:56.856 - 00:54:32.880, Speaker B: I mean, even like, we've talked to projects that are like working on like, you know, really, really, really fun stuff, like, you know, title deeds on nfts on the blockchain, and it sounds so lame, but like, are like health records via an NFT on the blockchain. But it makes a lot of sense when you're really looking at record keeping and access and just data transferability. So there's definitely some more interesting things like that. But a lot of these use cases are still kind of developing, so we're trying to move the market in that perspective.
00:54:34.220 - 00:55:10.210, Speaker A: Yeah, the PFP era definitely caught me by surprise, I think. Yeah, I like you, I think took a while to come around to it. I was much more excited about Defi and all the food tokens than all the pfps. But yeah, it's definitely been interesting to watch them unfold. I think the coolest thing that I have seen is really the communities that emerge in how, I would say, just because the space is so widespread and global that you can kind of build these individual communities and be a part of them. It's just been cool to watch.
00:55:10.370 - 00:55:46.264, Speaker B: Yeah. And I will say what I like about nfts is that they're just a little bit easier for like kind of the general population to grasp. And I think they've been a really good entry point for people into digital assets. A lot more people paid attention, I think, to nfts in the last few years. You obviously had a lot more celebrities buying them and kind of like looking at some of the IP rights and stuff versus, you know, looking for celebrities buying tokens. It's just a less abstract idea for a lot of people to understand versus like, hey, we've got the world's network of supercomputers running on Ethereum. When I tell people that, they're like, I have no idea what you're talking about.
00:55:46.392 - 00:56:00.568, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, no, it was cool. I mean, I think electric capital also in the report said like 80% ish of new wallet interactions were towards nfTs, which I thought was amazing.
00:56:00.704 - 00:56:09.762, Speaker B: Yeah. So for that reason, I think NFTs definitely have a lot of staying power and a lot more interesting applications that are still to come.
00:56:09.946 - 00:56:53.950, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. I'm excited about anything that really brings people on chain. I think the number that gets cited a lot for blockchain adoption is individual holders that hold crypto assets. I think those are in the couple hundred millions. But when you actually look at the on chain analytics of even Uniswap and Opensea, the lifetime value or lifetime number of independent addresses that have interacted with, those are less than like 5 million. And so it's still super, super early in terms of blockchain usage. So anything, NFTs included? I'm super excited that they're bringing people to actually use blockchains.
00:56:53.950 - 00:57:24.000, Speaker A: Definitely cool. No, really interesting chat and definitely appreciate your time. I guess looking forward to the last, going forward in 2023, are there any specific sectors use cases? I know we hit those main three more broadly, but are there any specific ones that you're excited about or that you're actively investing in so, like, people can get in touch with you if you're building something?
00:57:24.740 - 00:58:28.750, Speaker B: Sure. I mean, from the venture side, you know, we're really interested in looking at, you know, things in the security and testing space and decentralized identity, as I talked about, you know, so if you're building a project there, you know, we'd love to speak with you. The other, I would say, kind of main area that we're looking at more on, I think the liquid token side outside of kind of stuff that we touched on. Also looking at kind of like what, you know, what do users do following last year's kind of like misplaced trust in centralized identities? Like, do we see this return to Defi? And, you know, what kind of solutions continue to like pop up from that that serves those folks who want to kind of more heavily interact with Defi, whether it's like wallets or whether it's kind of like better tools for interacting with products on chain. Is it aggregators on top of uniswap, stuff like that, or some other interesting areas that we're excited about.
00:58:29.090 - 00:58:48.828, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. Well, awesome. I hope people reach out and definitely appreciate your time to come on the podcast and chat and share all the things about how you're approaching the space, how you think about it, the different funds, a little bit more about Arca. Really appreciate it.
00:58:49.004 - 00:58:51.428, Speaker B: Yeah, no problem, Logan. Thanks for having me.
00:58:51.604 - 00:58:53.100, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, Katie. Bye.
