00:00:01.600 - 00:00:44.544, Speaker A: Welcome back, everybody. So we are continuing with the proof of this theorem. Let me just flush this theorem for you. This is the basic theorem of stacheistic integration that if you have in h two martingale and n process which is square integrable with respect to it. So this should define it. Then you can integrate it with respect to this Martingale M. And for now, integral is defined as a weak integral by this relation.
00:00:44.544 - 00:01:51.684, Speaker A: So this integral is a unique h two Martingale, which satisfies this duality relation that it's when you take quadratic correlation of it with respect to any other process from h two, surprise, surprise, you get back the integral of the adapted process itself with respect to quadratic correlation of M and M. And so far, we proved uniqueness and existence of this process. Now let us prove that it's isometry. The map from k to integral of k with respect to m is actually isometry from l two of m into h two. So this is not complicated statement. This is actually the easiest statement in this theorem. Let's just do it.
00:01:51.684 - 00:03:23.524, Speaker A: So, let's remember what this h two norm is. This is expected value of the integral km at infinity squared by the property of h two martingales, which we proved in the last hour. Remember, this belongs to h naught. So this would just become expectation of quadratic correlation of this integral with its quadratic creation of this local martin of this martin algorithm. Okay, now let's use our property expectation of this with this is by the property of k dot m is the integral from zero to infinity of kt with respect to m k m quadratic relationship. But now we use this property again, and we get an extra factor of kt. So we take it out, and so we arrive that this is equal to eventually expectation of k t squared dam, which is by definition, square of l two norm of k.
00:03:23.524 - 00:04:32.540, Speaker A: So we are done. Okay, so now the following definition would hopefully clarify something. So, remember, we didn't just produce here in this theorem, the function at infinity came as a whole martingale. Of course, at zero, at zero is zero, but it grows to infinity and it has reach structure. So originally, we kind of defined integral to infinity here, but now we can define integral up to t. And that's the definition. So you just take your martingale, which you just defined, and you simply tell that at time t, that would be your integral.
00:04:32.540 - 00:05:14.744, Speaker A: And I see that it's a sprint here. This should be KSDMs. So this is, by definition, it is the heistic integral. It's a horrible definition, because it really is, you know, in fact, we just use some elementary functional analysis, and this definition tells us zero about properties of it. So let us see. Let us try to compute it for some. Okay, so let's start with the step function first.
00:05:14.744 - 00:06:27.268, Speaker A: So this is just a fancy way to write that it's the thing which is equal to constant ki on the interval from ti to ti plus one. And then I claim that the stochastic integral is just the sum of these guys. Well, the way you prove it is the, you start with the case when you just have one value and one interval, and then you check that such thing satisfies all the properties. So, well, rather, okay, for this, it would be such thing. So let me write down something. Solve for proof. Notice that for k is equal to characteristic function of some interval.
00:06:27.268 - 00:08:19.374, Speaker A: Above we have that kmt is simply empty stopped at time b minus m t stop the time a. So this is very easy to check. You just plug in to both sides of the equation of this equation that this quadratic relation should be the same, and both of them are easily equal. So let me add something here. So then km and here is equal to simply mn at time b minus m n at time a. So at infinity and kmn gain this integral from zero to infinity characteristic function of ab gmn. This is simply gain a minus b minus mn of I.
00:08:19.374 - 00:09:10.938, Speaker A: So this works. And so this exciting identity is true for one step function. But then to make it true for the sums, well, you just use linearity of both sides. Okay, so at least integral with the step function, at least it looks like Riemann sum. That makes it more palatable. But let's go. The next property is associativity.
00:09:10.938 - 00:10:08.474, Speaker A: So suppose that you have k which belongs to l two of m, and h which belongs to l two of. Now new martian gal k m. So the integral of k with respect to M. Then the claim is that Hk belongs to l two of M. And actually you have this associativity that Hk M is the same as h km. So in terms of integral, it means that integral of Hkdm is equal to integral of h with respect to now integrated the guy integrated guy k. Okay, so the proof is very easy.
00:10:08.474 - 00:11:22.082, Speaker A: Notice that quadratic variation of k dot M itself, by definition, is k squared times some. Well, by definition or by the isometry that we proved. So this integral h squared dmm is equal to integral of h squared with respect to d k m k m, because again, this is k squared dot mm. So here what we do, we use associativity of usual Celsius integral. So for Celsius integral, this is definitely true. So we just use that this is equal to this. So this implies that hk, of course, belongs to l two, because we know that h belongs to l two of k.
00:11:22.082 - 00:12:07.660, Speaker A: So this is finite. Hk belongs to l two of M. Use associativity of Celsius integral and take any n in hard space. What would happen? Let's look at the quadratic variation of hk m with n. So this is by definition hk dot m n. So this integral, remember when I write dot, it means that it's integral from zero to infinity. Now this integral is h of the integral with respect to kmn.
00:12:07.660 - 00:12:55.276, Speaker A: So I'm writing the same thing, but now without squares. And so now this, you know, is h with respect to k and tan. This is characteristic property of our integral. And now again, we use characteristic property of the integral to pull h inside. And so we know that hk m and h k m. When you apply to any n in h two, they give the same value. So what does it mean? It means that they equal.
00:12:55.276 - 00:13:45.694, Speaker A: That's all. Okay, so here, this is a pretty standard argument, actually. If you did any functional analysis, you've seen a lot of this. You define something quickly, and then you want to prove that certain properties hold for this weak integral. They do, and this is one of the ways to do it. Okay, now suppose that you stop your martingales. So what would be the integral with respect to stopped martingale? So you, as usual, you have a stopping time, you have an element in l two.
00:13:45.694 - 00:14:36.604, Speaker A: And then I claim that integral with respect to stop martingale is the same as integrating k restricted to interval zero t. So this is not totally trivial, because you restrict random interval, and this is the same as you stop your martingale at time t. So stop your new integral at time t. So you kind of can think of stopping time as just time. So if you write it as, well, integral up to t. Well, that's kind of obvious. But here I claim that the same works for stop time, for stopping time, and that requires some proof.
00:14:36.604 - 00:15:47.354, Speaker A: And for this, let's actually repeat the observation here. I claim that Mt is nothing more than the integral of M is the integral of, sorry, of characteristic function of zero t with respect to m. Let's check it again. So for nh two, mtn is the same as mn stopped at time t is the same as mn integrated up to time capital t. And so while you see that mt satisfies this property, that mt correlated with n is the same as integrating our function, characteristic function of zero t with respect to mn. So we can use associativity. KMT is the same as k multiplied by 10 t times m.
00:15:47.354 - 00:16:31.804, Speaker A: And, well, that's your relativity. And I shouldn't write dot here. Actually, this is now the standard product. And now this part, again, we use associativity. This is 10 t times k integrated with respect to m. And we are done. Okay, so this was just to illustrate why standard activity is powerful tool.
00:16:31.804 - 00:17:36.020, Speaker A: Since we already had stopped Martingale, Martingale, we can just use it to stop now our integrals. But this property, actually, this property is of crucial importance for us because so far, notice that we can't integrate with respect to brownian motion, for example, brownian motion. As we discussed last hour, this is not in H two Martingale. So how do you integrate with respect to local martingales? And that's what would help you. You just stop them at certain times. And you know that the integral would also stop there. So, as I said, this property can be used to integrate with respect to local markets.
00:17:36.020 - 00:18:20.884, Speaker A: Now let's do it. So the hard part, the functional analysis part, was creating the integral with respect to h two guy. Now let's generalize it to arbitrary local markets. So, let's look at continuous local martingale, and let us define local l two space. Remember, for square integrable martingales, we kind of thought of the quadratic variations as finite measures, and so we could integrate with respect to them. For local martingales, that's no longer the case. You would explode to infinity pretty easily.
00:18:20.884 - 00:19:13.392, Speaker A: So you define a local space, you look at all progressively measurable guys such that you can find the sequence of stopping times such that these integrals is bounded. So it's like, you know, when you define local l two space, you just integrate with respect to compact intervals. And on every compact interval, the integral should be finite. So this is exactly the same thing. But here, again, this is a sequence of stopping time. Now, let's look at equivalent definitions. Equivalent definition is a gain that you just stop at a time t.
00:19:13.392 - 00:20:33.814, Speaker A: So you progressively measurable such that you just stop it. When you stop it at time t, this integral is fine. So it's very easy to see that this two actually quant simply because, well, the standard argument is taking minimum of TMT and then latent can go to infinity. Okay, so now this is a more general version of eta calculus of eta integral. So suppose that you have k, which is in local l two with respect to m. So all these integrals are bounded. And then we claim that you can find unique local martingale km, which starts at zero and such that for any continuous local martingale, these two processes are the same.
00:20:33.814 - 00:22:24.354, Speaker A: That quadratic relation of h m n is the same as integral of h with respect to mn. Okay, so again, generalization of what happened before. One very important point here, and let me actually maybe write it as a remark, unlike the case when M was an element of h two, even if m is a martingale, this hm, which we will define by this area, doesn't have to be. Okay, so in this theorem, we started with an element in h two. We created an element even in h zero two. But it doesn't matter here. We started maybe with a martingale m, but it was not square integral.
00:22:24.354 - 00:23:42.384, Speaker A: And what could happen? This integral doesn't have to be a martingale, it can be just a local martingale. So that's actually very serious problem and source of many mistakes in various papers. People either forget to prove it or assume that certain things are martingales and this could be wrong. Okay, so the theorem just state that we can find unique local martingale, just local. Okay, so as before, we can assume that m zero is equal to zero, because later we will consider M tilde of m minus m zero and km would be just km tilde, since as before, quadratic correlation for n of mn is the same as quadratic relation of M Tilde and M. And the value at zero doesn't matter. For quadratic quadratic variations, it's all the same.
00:23:42.384 - 00:24:33.824, Speaker A: Okay, now let us very carefully define very special stopping times. So we define time t to be the first time when our Celsius integral is bigger than n. It can be infinite. If h squared itself is integrable with respect to. Mm. But again, we just assumed local connectivity. Local, sorry, not connectivity, local integrability.
00:24:33.824 - 00:26:12.174, Speaker A: So this is just sequence of slipping times, which can be finite, but they do tend to infinity because again tends to infinity. Now, up to time tn, the l two norm of our exciting m is bounded by n because there was a one here, right? Because if you again, forget about this guy, this is just what's written here up to the time table, your bounded band. So the stop martingale mtn is an h two and the integral of h squared with respect to the stop martingale, this is just integral from zero to t of h squared, and this is actually bounded by n. So h is actually an element of l two with respect to this new stopped Marc. Okay, now let us use this. Suppose that m is bigger than M. Then this is the same as this martingale h up to tm stopped at time tm.
00:26:12.174 - 00:26:59.298, Speaker A: Okay, this is by this property, our quadratic h two martingale. Here is Mtm. Our t. Here is tm, and this is this identity. So this is the consistency statement. If m is bigger than n, then you stop this Martin gal h, the integral of h with respect to Mtm, you stop at time tn, you get the integral of h with respect to Mtm. Again, let me remind you what's happening here.
00:26:59.298 - 00:27:47.554, Speaker A: We cannot yet integrate with respect to m. We can happily integrate with respect to mtn for n, because in h two. Okay, so now let us define HMt to be. So, this is the definition of the integral. By definition, this integral is equal to the integral of the stopped martingale. If t is less than ten, by this identity, it's consistent. So it doesn't matter which n you take as long as t is less than ten.
00:27:47.554 - 00:28:33.586, Speaker A: This is good. It's continuous, of course, because it's just, you take the continuous stopped martingale and then you define yours. It's adapted. That's actually requires proof, because here you need to show, you just need to notice that HMT is the limit when it goes to infinity of HMT and ZT. Well, it's not just limit, of course, for almost every t, for there is an end such that they are equal. But the fact that this is limit already implies that since this was adapted process, this is also adapted process. So remember, adapted SFT measurable.
00:28:33.586 - 00:29:14.354, Speaker A: And it's not yet very clear here, because again, for different omegas, uh, and side different. But again, this takes care of this. Okay? Now, if you stop this guy at time tn, then by definition, this is the same as you integrate H with respect to stopped martingale as biased finish. And this integral is actually valid. Uniformly bounded Martin. Sorry. Uniformly integrable martingale.
00:29:14.354 - 00:30:13.798, Speaker A: So you have a continuous adapted process, and the sequence of stopping time TN's such that when you stop this process at time tn, you get a uniformly integrable martingale. Well, even h. No. So it allows us to say that this is a continuous local martingale. Okay, so we just defined a continuous local Martingale HMT. Now let's take any continuous local Martingale and let us select stopping times which make it bounded. So the usual thing, you know, local martingale, you can select a sequence of stopping times going to infinity.
00:30:13.798 - 00:31:12.434, Speaker A: Let me actually stated that sns are increasing to infinity such that each of these stopped martingales, each of them is bounded. And let's introduce new stopping times. This is minimum of sn and t which we defined here. This is also increasing going to infinity. Then n stop at times. This time tn prime valid is bounded, so it's in h two. So by the property of stopped martingale, if you look at quadratic relation of h dot m, so this is dot corrected.
00:31:12.434 - 00:32:50.798, Speaker A: So if you look at quadratic relay stop at the time tn prime, this is the same as hm stopped at tn prime, correlated with n stopped at the same time tn prime. This is the same as h integrate with respect to m stopped at tn prime, then at n prime, and now this all h two martingale. So you can take h out of the brackets. That was the whole content of our theorem. So we get that when you stop it at the time tn prime, you get that it's the same as integral of h with respect to. Let me add one more identity to make it even more clear that this is mn stopped at the time tn prime. And now since tn prime themselves increase to infinity, we get that hmN.
00:32:50.798 - 00:33:34.644, Speaker A: So the quadratic is actually equal to the integral of this with respect up to infinity. That's all. So correlation of this and this is equal to the integral of h with respect to mn. And that's exactly what we wanted to prove. We are done. Okay, so let me again explain what really goes on here. You can do everything for square integrable martingales.
00:33:34.644 - 00:34:41.454, Speaker A: You just look at your martingale, you stop it at such times as to make it square integrable. You define integral up to these times. And now you let this time go to infinity. And everything works just essentially by monotonicity. Okay, so now let us introduce processes which would be integrable with respect to any martingale, and this would be the ones which we would want to integrate. Because you see here, when you look at this definition of l two log, it very much depends on M. You take another guy, maybe another Martin gal, and K would not be integral with respect to it.
00:34:41.454 - 00:35:50.474, Speaker A: So let's try to introduce a universal class, okay? So progressively measurable process k is called locally bounded. If you can find the sequence of stopping times such that if you stop k at the stopping time, it will be bounded by constant. Okay, so that's the idea. So it doesn't have to be bounded globally. It can be very much unbounded process. But up to the stopping time, ten it should be bounded. First remark is that any continuous, progressively measurable process is actually locally bounded, because we can just take this exciting stopping time.
00:35:50.474 - 00:37:30.884, Speaker A: And here we use the fact that this is stopping time for general process, it's not. But for continuous processor, right, continuous processor is talking time the first time we jump over. And so for them, you can actually take CN to be equal to n. And the second remark is the one I already made, essentially that if you have a locally bounded guy, then it belongs to, and this is wrong, it doesn't belong to l two of n, it belongs to l two local of n. For every m which is continuous local martingale, because again, look at the definition, you have l two local other guys, which are integrable up to stopping time, but up to stopping time n, you can select it so that this is bounded, and this is bounded. So you can select minimum of two stopping times and get the stopping time, which would make it fine. So this is not difficult.
00:37:30.884 - 00:39:10.044, Speaker A: And this would be universally integrable types. In particular, what it means that it's easy to write something like integral MDM that is already defined if M is continuous local martingale, because any continuous process is locally bounded. Okay, and finally, finally, after all this preparation, we are ready to define it integral. So let us look at a locally bounded process, and let us look at Sam Martingale. Let me remind you that same merting is the sum of local martingale and the process of bounded variation. So let me write it down, local martingale, and this would be processed of bounded variation. And now let us define kx or the integral of ks with respect to this xs with respect to the same martingale, the way it's logical to define it.
00:39:10.044 - 00:39:47.224, Speaker A: We take the sum of the integral which we just defined with respect to local martingale. Again, not a problem. Here, k belongs to l two local of m. So this stochastic integral is well defined. And then the integral of this locally bounded guy with respect to process of bounded variation. Again, it's just the normal steels integral. So now I write still cs integral, but it's still a random variable.
00:39:47.224 - 00:40:31.944, Speaker A: It just, I want to contrast the differences how we take the integral. So here we obtain our integrals by this for now functional analysis argument. Here for each fixed omega, this is honest to goodness integral. This is just normal Celsius integral. The problem is that for different omegas, you have different gases and different s. So this integral is our old normal integral. And so it can be Libya Celsius, whatever, then draw stilts, whatever you want, but it's still a random number.
00:40:31.944 - 00:41:39.194, Speaker A: But this is, again, this is more interesting. This is a process which we obtained by this functional analysis duality. And what I would try to remove first is this functional analysis duality, because again, I don't know about you, I hate it when I cannot touch certain definitions when they just abstractly defined. So let's try to define them in more palatable terms. Although the functional definitions would be extremely useful, not only improving things and computing things, but still, I feel that it's nice to have a more down to earth definition. And to do this, we first need this standard theorem, which is called dominated convergence. And since we have, we are in the presence of stochastic integral, there is something to prove here.
00:41:39.194 - 00:42:48.616, Speaker A: So, suppose that x is a continuous. Say Martingale, can the sequence of locally bounded processes which are bounded by a locally bounded process, uniformly bounded by locally bounded process. And what I forgot to mention, of course, we also assume that Kn tends to zero almost surely. So we assume that they're globally bounded and tend to zero. Then, as usual, the integral of Kn with respect to x would tend to zero in probability. Again, it's a stochastic process, so we would not be able to say that it goes to zero on machule, but it will go to zero in probability. Okay, so that's the statement standard dominated convergence.
00:42:48.616 - 00:43:26.024, Speaker A: And of course you can generalize it to uniform integrability, but we wouldn't need it here. Okay, so let us write our x as m plus a k goes to zero. So da part. So remember our integral is integral with respect to da and integral with respect to d. So this part just disappears by dominated conversion. So this is just standard statement of dominated convergence for still cs integrals. Nothing exciting here.
00:43:26.024 - 00:44:50.394, Speaker A: So now let us try to verify convergence of DM integral of the stochastic integral. For this we fix certain time, and then we look at tm. This is the first, this is minimum of this time, fixed time, t and times where this integral jumps over mister. So the usual thing, we want to introduce stopping times to make this thing bounded. Okay, and then what do we know that the expectation of this integral from zero to tm ksn. Okay, so this is Ksn square kthn and expectation of the square of this. It's bounded by this, the integral of k sin squared with respect to this.
00:44:50.394 - 00:46:15.986, Speaker A: Actually, why am I writing bounds? So technically speaking, of course it's the same, but just by our isometry property that this integral is isometry. So h two norm of this is the same as expectation of this, so expectation of, and so, by usual dominated convergence, what do we have? Okay, so this is unfortunate notation. This is tm, right? I was careful. This is tm. So the for each integral tends to zero as n tends to infinity. Okay, so this tends to zero almost surely. And now we use, well, since this is bounded, this bound, this from above, we see that now we can take another diminated convergence thing.
00:46:15.986 - 00:46:59.174, Speaker A: Now we take integral of this with respect to probability. So, expectation. So you take expectation of the square of this bounded by this again. So now use this identity. So this is equal to this, equal to integral of this bounded by this, that the expectation of integrals up to the time t is equal to zero. Well, not equal, so it tends to zero and tends to infinity. Now we observe that the probability that Tm is equal to t.
00:46:59.174 - 00:48:44.944, Speaker A: Remember, tm is minimum of this case, this tends to one, because eventually, you know, for each omega, this integral is bounded. After all, you integrate a locally bounded process. So this integral, when m goes to infinity, and again we have everything is dominated by integral of k. So, which means that this converges to zero in l two, this integral, which means that limit, probabilistic limit of the integral of Ks Dm's, that's also equal to zero. So why was I doing this sufficiently carefully? I wanted to show you that basically, because of the duality property of Stache IsIG integrals that we established, all the properties of normal integral translate to the properties of this integral. That's how, no, we just, of course we have to do some work, we have to stop to make everything finite. But after we introduced stopping times, we simply, so this is the key step, we want this to go to zero.
00:48:44.944 - 00:50:12.524, Speaker A: Well, when tm is replaced with t, and what we do, we replace this integral by the normal stealthy s integral, for which, you know, all the dominated conversions. And so this observation actually allows us to state the following very important corollary. So, let x be continuous, same martingale, let k be adapted continuous process. And let us consider partitions or subdivisions of the interval zero t, such that the size of delta n, remember the maximum length of the interval in this partition, this tends to infinity, this 10th rise to zero. Then I claim that the stochastic integral is nothing more than the limit of Riemann sums. But very important that Riemann sums are taken with respect to notice its left hand side of the interval. So you take the value of the left hand side, multiply by the increment of x.
00:50:12.524 - 00:50:50.154, Speaker A: Now, in your normal life in your normal non stochastic integrals, it didn't matter. But here it's very important. In fact, if you take instead of this point, you take other fixed points, like right hand side, you get totally different integral. You get what is called stratonic integral, or there are variants. When you take middle points or other points, you get different integrals. But the integral, which we define by duality, the iter integral, it automatically lengths to this. And that's something that we will prove after a ten minute break.
00:50:50.154 - 00:50:54.234, Speaker A: So let me stop the recording here and we will return in ten minutes.
