00:00:03.850 - 00:00:43.546, Speaker A: Chainlink has now become a platform, which means that it's made up of many different service types. There's been over a thousand Oracle networks on production. If you look at the amount of actual Oracle networks beyond production, there's thousands of them. I think that the coming year will see many of those services independently succeed and be combined by any one application or chain or use case into extremely advanced smart contracts. What we initially in the chain link ecosystem called hybrid smart contracts, and what I think will go on to define 2.0 versions of DFI 2.0, versions of Tradfi 2.0,
00:00:43.546 - 00:02:35.658, Speaker A: versions of Gamefi 2.0, versions of every smart contract thing you can really come up with. I think that the key trends that the chain link platform will be a big leader in, in the coming year, or at least will try to be a big leader in the coming year, is going to be the provision of highly reliable data to allow DeFi to properly function, the provision of highly secure, reliable cross chain that goes across public chains, across private bank chains, and connects the bank chains and private chains together more and more into a single Internet of contracts. And increasingly, I think you will see more usable, more general purpose off chain computing platform, part of Chainlink that actually makes the usage of chains, makes the usage of oracle networks, makes the usage of existing systems much simpler, and allows their combination within the chainlink system in a really efficient way. So what this means is what I hope you'll come to see is technically you'll be able to connect multiple chains to a single application, collect multiple payment systems, multiple data sources, and then do some trust minimized computations that require privacy, that require certain dimensions of scalability, and to do those computations in a trust minimized off chain system. So the on chain world continues to process, transaction settlement continues to be the core place where you have smart contract state. But as we know at this point, smart contract state is extremely limited and it needs to be expanded with connectivity to data, with connectivity to other smart contracts and other chains, with connectivity to payment systems, and even with connectivity to certain computations.
00:02:35.658 - 00:03:42.180, Speaker A: Examples are AI computations, other more advanced computations. However, those computations need to be made as close to as reliable as the chain as possible. And then there are various privacy concerns and scalability concerns that many chains still can't solve, for example, AI computations or other types of computations. And so I think what you're going to see from Chainlink is a big involvement in tradfi, because all of these features are highly in demand there. And Chainlink is the only platform that provides them all in one place. There's really no platform right now where you can go get highly reliable market data, highly reliable connectivity to other chains, highly reliable compute to create privacy and other properties that you don't get from the chain you're using. So this platform is really culminating into a kind of state of readiness that's very attractive to capital markets and tradfi, which is why so many of the top players, they're the top banks, the top asset managers, the top CSDs, the top market infrastructures, the top messaging systems, are all actively in conversations with us and are moving forward in their work together with us.
00:03:42.180 - 00:04:31.054, Speaker A: I think at the same time you have the web3 world, which is highly defined by DFI. Now some more Gamefi, blockchain gaming generally. And there you will see other use cases. Eventually, though, whether that's this coming year or the year after, I think you will see both of these worlds interacting. I think you will see both of them interacting with each other using Chainlink data, chain link computations, chain link connectivity. Cross chain connectivity. And that is the truly exciting thing, in my opinion, because then you allow the world to create a single Internet of contracts composed of multiple chains, multiple oracle networks, multiple existing payment systems, multiple existing data systems.
00:04:31.054 - 00:05:12.798, Speaker A: But the value of the world now moves into this Internet of contracts. And this is really what Chainlink is doing. It's creating this set of standards that are going to be universal, that we're working to make universal across capital markets. Tradfi Web Three web two, all of these places right now, they're being individually adopted, separately adopted in these two worlds, these two parallel worlds. There's the web3 world, the dFI world, the Gamefi world, the public blockchain world. Then there's the tradfi capital markets asset management world. But if both of them apply the same methodology for defining price, then when they go to transact with each other, they'll already be having the same assumptions about how to settle with price.
00:05:12.798 - 00:06:14.958, Speaker A: If they both adopt the same crosschain connectivity standard, then when they go to connect to each other, they will be able to connect efficiently without any additional work. When they both adopt the same off chain, trust minimized computing standards, then when they look at each other, at each other's contracts, they'll see that not only are the contracts secure, but the automation systems and the function systems and the other systems that basically manage and secure the contract also meet their respective versions of security. And so having a standard that's relied on in web3, and having the same standard relied on in capital markets actually sets the world up for this place where they can very efficiently transact with each other over those standards. And so that's really what I think is happening. In the coming year, we're continuing to be the global standard for data, various compute properties of oracle networks, expanding the ability to do cross chain connectivity as a standard. And we're becoming the standard for cross chain connectivity. Data compute in the capital markets.
00:06:14.958 - 00:07:01.214, Speaker A: So that both of these places function on the same standard, and as they function on the same standard, that reduces the friction for them to transact, which is actually net beneficial for everyone. It's net beneficial for the public chains, it's net beneficial for the private chains, it's net beneficial for the DeFi protocols because they get access to more capital. It's not beneficial for the capital markets and tradfi participants because they get access to more markets and more protocols with more yield and more diversification. It's more beneficial for the RWA world because now those RWas get larger markets and larger liquidity and larger pools of capital that they can be purchased from and used in. And so I think it's really not beneficial to have a single global set of standards. And if you think about it, this is actually how the Internet works. The Internet works on TCP IP.
00:07:01.214 - 00:07:53.374, Speaker A: The largest server technology is still Linux. There are these open source standards, and those open source standards allow there to be a single efficient global Internet where every benefit, everyone benefits when a new node, a new data provider, a new bank, a new whoever joins that Internet. And that's what we want for the Internet of contracts. We need a single set of global standards that everyone uses to transact with each other across chains, across different jurisdictions, across different CSD and legal frameworks, across different data assumptions. And that is what Chainlink is now in the process of defining, not only for the web3 world, but for the larger capital market Stratfi world, which once again, our goal is to merge. So we want to merge these two worlds, and they will merge because they're fundamentally engaging in the same economic activity under different names. It's just nomenclature.
00:07:53.374 - 00:09:05.180, Speaker A: It's just different semantics about a defi thing or a DLT digital assets thing, that they're all just financial assets that focus on transactions and transactional volume and liquidity and counterparty risk. So this is the set of standards we're making to manage all that complexity and allow this Internet of contracts to come into existence. I think 2024 should be a very exciting year with a lot of progress based on the willingness and the capital put towards creating all these applications. As always, I'm very, very grateful to all the amazing teams we work with, all the insight they share with the Chainlink community and the people building chainlink. And I think we are very well on the way to creating these global standards right now, which I'm extremely excited about. Capital markets are a complex place that has evolved over decades to manage various, both counterparty risks and certain amounts of legal risks instilled in the system by various different jurisdictions views of the law and what's legal or acceptable or unacceptable from a society's point of view. So it's a very complex system that has multiple parts to it.
00:09:05.180 - 00:10:16.770, Speaker A: If you were to break it down into three of the simplest parts, you would see banks, asset managers, and CSDs. So basically, the banks, the global banks, which have experienced a lot of consolidation, you would see the asset managers that hold a lot of the value in the world and manage that value. These are people like Blackrock, Fidelity, Vanguard, and so on. And then you would see financial market infrastructures like the DTCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, various infrastructures. Now, it's pretty obvious that vast pieces of the global financial system will move into this blockchain based state because of various efficiency gains, various security benefits, various counterparty risk reductions, and actually the ability to open up entirely new markets that were previously not in the global financial system. If you really look at these three groups, you need to get all three of them, and you need to get all three of them to work together successfully. And this is what Chainlink does better than any other platform, from what I can see of all the other platforms, because Chainlink can create the golden record.
00:10:16.770 - 00:11:17.734, Speaker A: So the golden record is basically the reformatted, refactored version of all assets, of all records, of all things that are basically not on chain right now. And the reason it's often called a golden record is because it has these golden properties of highly transparent, highly in sync with various systems, and able to be efficiently moved and managed, which is not what current records have. So Chainlink, I think, and from what I can tell of all the other offerings out in the market, is the only platform that can create the golden record on any number of chains. So it's completely independent of the chain. It can help you create the golden record with all the data you need to create that golden record. One good example is Rwas. RWAs are now an increasingly well known type of golden record that basically says, let's take all the real world assets, all the real world things, in the traditional financial system.
00:11:17.734 - 00:12:05.730, Speaker A: And let's put them in the blockchain. Let's put them in this web3 digital asset, decentralized version of the system. What real world assets actually depend on is data. They depend on things like proof of reserves to prove the status of the asset. They depend on identity data to be provided so they can comply with AML, KYC and travel rule restrictions. They depend on price or nav, or various settlement data to mark to market and allow the value of the asset to be recorded on a daily basis, which is a requirement in many cases for the asset to be held or owned. So Chainlink has historically provided over, I think, 10 billion data points processed, over enabled the processing of over 9 trillion in transaction value through the provision of things like this data.
00:12:05.730 - 00:13:02.680, Speaker A: So Chainlink can firstly generate the data, all types of data, not just price data. Some things just do price data, some other things just do identity data, some other things just do proof of reserves. So right there, Chainlink is the only thing where you can get all three in a highly reliable, secure system that has the longest security track record with the most value transacted and secured, which, by the way, is very important for banks and asset managers. So now you've created this golden record. This golden record would initially be created by probably the bank as the people who package assets, and in some cases as the asset manager that sometimes repackages other assets, like repackages assets that were created already. So now you've created this real world asset, this golden record. Now you want this real world asset, golden record to have liquidity, to have access to other systems, to have access to counterparties, basically the market.
00:13:02.680 - 00:13:49.800, Speaker A: This is where cross chain connectivity is very important, because if you just make this golden record on your system, your chain, you're not allowing others to access it, which is a very serious issue, because your market remains your chain, the people in your ecosystem, which is not why you made a blockchain. You made a blockchain as capital markets participant or as a DeFi protocol to gain access to a large market, ideally global market, ideally the entire global market, in a way that they can transact with you without knowing who you are, depending on your security or depending on your brand. And so, okay, you've made the golden record. You're a bank most times. Sometimes you're an asset manager. Then you've generated this record and you can keep it updated. Now it has to move.
00:13:49.800 - 00:14:56.810, Speaker A: So Chainlink is the only one that can both help you generate this record, maintain it securely, reliably, and allow it to move and connect it to all the counterparty participants that will buy it. If you don't get connected to those participants, well, then you don't have liquidity, you don't have a big market. And the reason for you to make a real world asset is lower, and the value of the golden record is lower. So that's really the second problem. This movement question is often where the CSD gets involved, because the CSD right now is the thing that facilitates movement between counterparties by allowing transactions to become legally binding. And I think you can tell we're in conversations and working with many of the world's top CSDs, because the Chainlink system isn't just focused on moving an asset in a way that won't work for 90% of the banks and asset managers. We're focused on creating a system that can comply with all their requirements, and we're focused on making a system that can be secure, and we're focused on making a system that can allow all of the banks and asset managers to use the system and therefore get their value into the blockchain world.
00:14:56.810 - 00:16:03.330, Speaker A: Which means that working with the CSDs is actually quite important because they are the ones that traditionally play that role, and we're very excited to work with them, as well as various central banks, which sometimes the central bank and the CSD are the same group, sometimes they're different groups. So now you've created the golden record as a bank or an asset manager, you've moved the asset across chains, both public and private. Hopefully, you've synced the movement of that asset in ways that allow the bank and the asset manager to actually use it, whether that's with a CSD or a central bank or whoever, and then the asset ends up somewhere else. It ends up on a different chain somewhere. Now, the very big challenge is how do you keep the asset updated with that same proof of reserve data, identity data, price data. And because Chainlink is the only platform in which you can originate the asset in a data driven way, and where you can also move the asset, it is then therefore the only platform where you can continue to keep the asset updated in a reliable way. This is really what I think we'll see in the coming year and in the years after.
00:16:03.330 - 00:17:31.340, Speaker A: Is Chainlink helping to generate high quality RWA, high quality, tokenized, whatever type of asset from the existing system, and advance more attractive assets from web3 world, doing that under a set of standards that allow them to be used and transacted in both web3 World and Bank World creating the transactional and movement mechanisms to allow that value and those records to flow. And then as that value and records flow across many different chains, allowing them to retain that golden record property. And then that golden record property being retained over time allows the asset to remain valuable over time because it's providing the fundamental value of blockchains and smart contracts. So the big trends that I really see are banks issuing assets, asset managers custodying more assets and providing them to their client, creating a nice cyclical market dynamic, and then CSDs and market infrastructures catching up to service that cyclical market dynamic. And then us working with all of them to accelerate their adoption of blockchain technology and smart contracts. So that that cyclical market dynamic of banks generating assets, asset managers offering to them their client and growing the market. And then also the web, three protocols offering assets and also using assets from the capital markets continuing to accelerate and grow.
00:17:31.340 - 00:18:14.170, Speaker A: This is really where I think we'll be in the next year and then in the subsequent years. I imagine if we do a good job at this coming year, it'll accelerate. I think we're really going towards a world where Tranfi will be the largest customer of Defi. I really believe that's the case. From all the many conversations I've had, I think I've also seen many DeFi protocols want to work with asset managers, banks, because at the end of the day, both of these groups are really just trying to engage in transactions and they have slightly different user bases. But at the end of the day, they will all have the same big global user base. And so I think it'll all just become one big Internet of contracts.
00:18:14.170 - 00:19:21.920, Speaker A: I think it's important for Chainlink as a protocol, as a system, as a community, to stay ahead of what's next and to power what's next, to help define it and shape it into the right version of how this industry works in a secure way. And so that's what's happened with Defi, that's what's happened with Gamefi, that's what's happening now with a lot of capital markets, use of blockchain technology, which actually, just to be clear, we've been working with banks, asset managers, financial market infrastructures for many, many years, well over four or five years in many cases now. I think it's just accelerating because they're in the position to accelerate and we are now meeting their demand. I think you'll see much more of that in the coming year. I think CCIP isn't really fully understood yet by many people. And the powerful features that are there. I've noticed this sometimes happens when you have very security oriented features or features that take into account a problem that isn't fully understood yet.
00:19:21.920 - 00:20:16.062, Speaker A: One of the key defining features of CCIP is that it has the risk management network. So not only did we build CCIP in a way where it's made up of multiple separate networks, whereas other bridges are often only one or two nodes, sometimes run by the same entity or the same private key, which really is not secure, which is why there are so many horrible bridge hacks. Some other bridges, like, generate a single network, and they pump everything through that, which at this moment doesn't seem particularly scalable. And it has various other limitations where you're commingling things and doing all kinds of weird things that people might not want. Chainlink allows you to generate distinct individual lanes and bridges for distinct individual connect chain connections. And it allows you to do that actually with multiple networks powering each of those lanes and bridges. And this is because Chainlink as a platform is not about just making a single network.
00:20:16.062 - 00:21:33.980, Speaker A: It's about a way to make thousands, hundreds of thousands, eventually millions of networks. So what the chainlink network does is it creates decentralized microservices. The chainlink network has now gotten so good at generating these decentralized microservices in the thousands, is that you can now generate a decentralized microservice made up of multiple networks. And CCIP is the first thing from the chainlink network that is a decentralized microservice as an individual bridge that is made up of multiple networks, not just even one network for one bridge, multiple networks. And this is defined as the fifth level of crosschain security, which we have a blog post on which I encourage everyone to go read. But one of the very unique properties of doing it with these separate networks is we can make a distinct network responsible for risk management. Now, why does risk management matter when you're talking about the movement of value, the various risks of transactions that move value and information across various systems? Well, risk management is actually the name of the game for moving value, moving valuable, sensitive information.
00:21:33.980 - 00:22:35.674, Speaker A: This is how every system that moves valuable and sensitive information is made to be successful. Systems that move valuable, sensitive information don't just send all the information to places they don't understand and places that they can't verify the security of. They can't understand what the consequences will be. There is actually no other similar system that I can tell that I have seen from bridges to manage this risk. All other bridges just say, oh, let's just send this highly sensitive, highly important information or value over here, even though the security of that thing could be broken or doesn't relate to our beliefs about security or reliability or whatever other property of the system we want. And so this is where all the attacks actually come from, is that you don't have something that says, wow, sending that over there is a massive security risk, is a massive reliability risk, is a massive other type of risk. And the way that all the other systems, all the other bridges will deal with this problem is they will have to force update the protocol.
00:22:35.674 - 00:23:24.894, Speaker A: They will just have to ship a new version. They'll probably ship breaking changes, they'll probably have to force everyone to update. But that doesn't work, because the rate of change, the rate of new risks that appear, the rate of new attack vectors, the rate of new legal requirements, the rate of new requirements for how value moves between a web3 D five chain and a multitillion dollar bank chain. These requirements evolve so quickly, and the security dynamics revolve so quickly that you won't have time to change the protocol and force everyone to update with breaking changes. That's just a bad model. The better model is the one that CCIP has, which is where you have what's known as a thin pipe, an efficient system for transactional throughput. That's where the committing network and the executing network live.
00:23:24.894 - 00:24:24.894, Speaker A: So there's actually two separate networks responsible for efficient, secure execution. And then you have a separate network, which is kind of like the smart part of the system, where you can define various policies, various risk parameters, various security parameters, such as if that chain is going through endless reorgs, don't send the value until the reorgs stop. If that chain seems to have been hacked, or that account seems to have been hacked, go check this aipowered smart contract security analysis tool. If the contract doesn't meet the security analysis threshold for me to send value to it, then require another approval or something like that. This is how all systems that move value work today. They require a deeper understanding of what they're doing in order not to lose value, in order not to do the wrong thing. And none of these other bridge or connectivity systems have this.
00:24:24.894 - 00:25:05.840, Speaker A: From what I can tell, their whole goal is to just ship something as quickly as possible with a minimal amount of audits and a minimal amount of worrying about security, which is why they so often have all these hacks. They often say that they have decentralized security. When. When you look at things like multichain and others. What you really see is that it's one or two people having all the keys, which then becomes a horrible thing when the system breaks. But before it breaks, it's still obviously a horrible thing, but no one seems to question it, which I think will change as more of those systems break. And they definitely don't have a conception of managing these risks and these problems in a meaningful, scalable, reliable way.
00:25:05.840 - 00:26:21.240, Speaker A: So I think what CCIP does is not only does it create this extremely high level of security, which people don't understand, because security is a kind of an esoteric thing, but to everyone that we show the level of security that CCIP provides, they all agree that is the highest level of security they've seen in any cross chain system. That's consistently been what we've seen. But even after the security, you have all of these other properties of what would allow a cross chain transaction to happen securely and reliably and in a way where banks and asset managers in the rest of the world could use them. And this, I think, will be one of the key defining properties of CCIP that allow this connectivity to happen. And it'll have the greatest amount of counterparties, it'll have the most banks, most asset managers, most systems, in my opinion, because it can facilitate a proper transaction with those systems. And this is where you see us working with large global financial market infrastructures like SwiFt, large CSDs, large banks, large asset mean. CCIP's goal is not just to create what I would call a kind of dumb bridge that doesn't really verify anything, doesn't really create much security, places keys in one person's hands or one laptop's hands.
00:26:21.240 - 00:27:44.260, Speaker A: Its goal is to create real security so it can process trillions of dollars in throughput, and to create this kind of flexibility to adapt to the changing landscape of legal security, reliability and other requirements which the counterparties have. And what you want is you want all of those counterparties on one cross chain system so that everybody can transact with them efficiently. And I think CCIP is very far ahead in creating that type of network and to leading the world towards a single global Internet of contracts. So I think right now, CCIP is still pretty misunderstood, both on the real security it provides, the risk management it provides, and also various other efficiencies that it has that other bridges don't have. I think what we'll see is that the adoption of CCIP by large institutions, large infrastructures, large DeFi protocols, will show the value of those features. And that's what we have made a lot of assumptions on, we have basically said, let's build a crosschain system, the secure, proper way to manage all these risks, to create real security and to allow rapid adoption into a single global Internet of contracts in an open source, global, community driven way. And that is, I think, a very big difference.
00:27:44.260 - 00:29:04.070, Speaker A: I think the leadership status of Chainlink is based on its security and its ability to resist various attacks from adversaries that are able to manipulate various other systems. I think you've seen a consistent set of outages with various other data oracles. I think you've seen various situations which basically lead to an understanding of a lack of security in their system. And I think a lot of these failures in other oracles are recurring. I don't think it's easy to create real security for decentralized data or validated data, and I don't really see protocols that have been able to do it at the scale, speed or quality of Chainlink at this point, while maintaining the security guarantees that Chainlink generates. So I think as long as Chainlink is the most secure and reliable resource for data, it will continue to be very widely used because the data has a very important role to play in these defi applications and allowing them to settle and function properly. There are a lot of initiatives in the chainlink ecosystem around making data more efficient in how it is delivered.
00:29:04.070 - 00:31:05.534, Speaker A: So more low latency feeds through streams, which is very exciting because there's a lot of demand for that. And I think once again, we've taken some time to get the security right, but I think we've gotten to a place that's increasingly better than other competitors and other folks from a security and other points of view. And then there is also functions where developers can come and actually self configure any API which goes towards Chainlink becoming increasingly efficient in how it services developers in a quick way. So the developers at hackathons for early stage projects, MVPs, can come and use systems in a very efficient way where they don't need as much expertise about how Oracle networks work. By making oracle networks easier to set up, easier to monitor, easier to manage, easier to run, generally speaking, I think the direction that will be going in generally in the chainlink ecosystem will be more high quality data that's more specifically packaged into different, more specific parts of the protocol, like data streams, and more efficient, low effort usage of the system, but with a continued focus on educating developers about how they manage the risks of oracle networks, how they understand the data sources, how they understand all the reliability questions of Oracle networks in a reliable, thoughtful way. So I think it's really a matter of more high quality data, more specific parts of the data protocol that break out into low latency or some other indexes or some other properties, and then also allowing it to be self service while enabling developers to be educated about what they're doing when they are connecting to a certain set of APIs and the risks that they're taking and how they should or should not attach value to that data. Which is a complex question, but I think that Chainlink's reliability and security track record is second to none.
00:31:05.534 - 00:32:43.650, Speaker A: That's definitely the case because centralized Oracle networks were basically pioneered and originated by the Chainlink ecosystem. And I think what we're going to continue to see is the security model of oracle networks working, the security of Chainlink being valued, and as long as the quality of the data and the other properties keep up with that best in class security property, then I don't really think it's going to be wise for protocols or smart contracts to take any kind of risks on a lower security data resource, because that lower security data resource could be a very serious problem for them. So that's the same dynamic that's gotten us here, will probably be the same dynamic that gets us to go very far ahead, because this industry is a very serious place with very serious amounts of value. And security is the assumption under which people are looking at it and thinking about using it. And when security isn't provided, whether that's from some structural set of decisions, like how some entity works as an exchange and then it wasn't solvent, or whether it's because of a hack where value was stolen from a bridge somewhere, or whether it's a manipulation of some data, Oracle, other than Chainlink, where the protocols get money taken from them. All of these things diminish people's faith in the overall reliability of our industry. Whether it's exchange failures like FTX, whether it's hacks of bridges, whether it's any number of other failures.
00:32:43.650 - 00:33:52.786, Speaker A: If our industry is not able to generate infrastructure that creates real security, real 24 7365 uptime reliability guarantees, then real value will not move into the industry. Real value will stay in the current systems that are less efficient but provide proven reliability and some amount of proven security. Security is really what our industry is based on, and the developers that value it, in my experience, tend to exist for extended periods of time. Our goal in building chainlink with the community and into a larger ecosystem is that we all have a serious view of security and can create an infrastructure that can allow developers to rely on that security to create a reliable, secure application. And there are plenty of teams out there that generate systems that are not secure. Make a website. They say they're decentralized, but really they have one or two nodes, one or two servers.
00:33:52.786 - 00:34:45.974, Speaker A: I don't understand how that's decentralized, especially if there's the same key holder controlling both servers. Some of them, like, good example is the previous multichain thing where the whole set of bridges was turned off because all 20 something nodes were controlled by a key in a single laptop. All of these things don't really work, and they don't create the security and reliability that we want people to see in our industry. And each one of these setbacks, whether it's FTX related, structural issue of how an exchange works, or whether it's a hack of a bridge, all of these issues set the industry back. So that's just not what it's all about. Frankly, it's hard to make security. And so a lot of other people who don't know how to make security, they've never made security.
00:34:45.974 - 00:35:52.686, Speaker A: They have developers that don't have PhDs in cryptography. These developers used to build iPhone applications, or they used to build ecommerce websites where security wasn't a problem because all they had to do was connect to SSL and a payments processor, which handled all of it for them. And that's it. I mean, for people that don't know what they don't know, the world's a simple place where they don't have to worry about a lot of stuff. But for people that know how security works and how reliability works, because their systems have processed trillions of dollars the way Chainlink has processed over $9 trillion, they are worried and they are inclined not to screw around with the security and reliability guarantees of those systems. Security and reliability does take time. Building a system that just is standing there like a house of cards, where the first time someone comes and knocks on them, that got an audit from some junior auditor that didn't ever do it before, and they had to get it out the door to get their token live or get their website live, or the investors had something for them to do, or whatever the reason is.
00:35:52.686 - 00:36:28.520, Speaker A: Yeah, that's not how you build secure systems. How you build secure systems, you have multiple backups, you have redundancies, you have multiple audits, which takes time. That takes time because you have to think through the redundancies. How does the redundancy failover happen? How does this redundancy, redundancy come into effect. All the audits take time, because sometimes the audits discover some things, and you want to discover those things before there's value on the system. And I completely understand. People want to see progress, people want a feature, they want to go live.
00:36:28.520 - 00:37:02.930, Speaker A: But if you really ask them, would you like us to rush it out? And you'll take this security risk that you never heard of before. They always say no. The difference is that the other people who rush it out for them don't even know about that security risk, and so they don't even ask them. And now they're sitting in this boat full of security risk together, and they're oblivious to it. Okay, fine. That's your choice. You don't know why all the other things made by three developers who never built a secure system in their life don't take months to ship.
00:37:02.930 - 00:37:24.970, Speaker A: That's the reason they didn't do the audits. They don't have any backups. They never built a secure system. They're oblivious to the 15 things that could go wrong, by the way. They have nothing to lose because they have nothing. And so they might as well ship it, cross their fingers and hope for the best. But that's not really how I prefer to do things.
00:37:24.970 - 00:38:09.320, Speaker A: I don't think it's the right way to build secure systems. Anyone who's built real secure systems can tell you that's a ridiculous way to approach building one. And we've been very lucky to be working with the best academic researchers in security, the best security professionals, the best auditors since the very beginning of Chainlink. And that's why the system secures tens of billions of value at rest, has secured over 100 billion at rest, at some points, reliably, has processed trillions of dollars in transaction value. Because we are not oblivious to these security problems. We are very aware of them and very worried about them, and we in the community are spending a lot of time on them. That someone has come to you and said, here's my free service that I slapped together in three months.
00:38:09.320 - 00:38:44.530, Speaker A: I have no idea why all those security people over there are so worried. They're probably going to delay the launch of the thing again, because they're weird security people. They don't get what the world is. Yeah, okay. Maybe that's the way to look at it. Or maybe the people that you're talking to who are telling you about how great their system is, who never built a single system, securing or processing value, who don't even know the 15 problems that we explain to you and the community explains to you when you talk to them. Maybe you're just dealing with a lot of people that don't know how to make secure systems.
00:38:44.530 - 00:39:10.780, Speaker A: Maybe that's what's happening. I think that's what's happening in many, many cases where I see someone ship some feature on some other thing, and I don't think we're going to do that. I don't think it's a good move. I don't think it ends well. I don't think it goes in the right direction. And if it takes a little bit longer to build the real secure system that can handle real scalability and real value, that's what banks want to see. That's what asset managers want to see.
00:39:10.780 - 00:40:10.830, Speaker A: And to the best of our ability, we're going to try to do that. We're going to pay for audits, we're going to do reviews, we're going to try to make redundancies, we're going to try to do what we can do to make a more secure, reliable system so that the whole industry can have a secure, reliable infrastructure. And if other people want to do something else, that's their business, that's their choice. But this is the choice I think we will consistently try to make. Chainlink Economics is focused on creating the various protocol improvements, the various incentives for user fees to efficiently flow into the system, to increase the system's security. Because what you want is a virtuous cycle. You want a loop between more security leads to more adoption, leads to more fees, leads to more security, leads to more adoption, leads to more fees.
00:40:10.830 - 00:40:57.182, Speaker A: That virtuous cycle does depend on the market, it does depend on the amount of users willing to pay fees. It does depend on their willingness to pay for greater security. It does depend on the efficiency with which they can access the system and pay into it in a form that they find attractive. So I think that economics 2.0 is trying to get us to that place. It's making various improvements gradually. But all of those improvements fundamentally depend on a market appearing for the security provided by the protocol, for the services provided by the protocol, whether the data services, compute services, cross chain services.
00:40:57.182 - 00:42:08.100, Speaker A: In most cases, I think it'll be all services, all of those services combined and used by multiple applications at the same time. Right now, the market dynamic, the market level adoption is not in the millions of developers. It's not in the world of all the banks and all the asset managers and all the web, two systems on chain. That's the World Economics 2.0 is being built for in that world, you would have an efficient payment system that allows users, developers of the protocol, to pay into the system however they like, in whatever form they like their own token, native tokens, some other form of payment, cash payments, whatever payments, and for then that to be converted into the token of the system to create the necessary security for the system. So you can arrive at a kind of universal billing, universal payment system, universal payment token model, because that reduces the friction, that reduces the effort through which a developer has to go through to pay to the system. Chainlink, I think is one of the only things that can do this, because it can provide the price data.
00:42:08.100 - 00:43:08.540, Speaker A: And eventually I think a universal billing system, payment system will even become a product of a kind for other protocols, because you do want to lower the friction that people have to go through to pay for anything, because then they pay more. And once again, the goal is to get as many fees into the system as possible, so those fees feed back into the security of the system. And then as long as you have a growing market and the market values that security, that additional security should increase adoption, which should increase fees. So right now, I think what Economics 2.0 is doing is getting set up technically for that market with a better payment system, universal gas token type system, universal billing system. I think there's a lot of ways in which the 2.0 versions of data of various compute properties of Chainlink, of the cross chain system will make it easier and easier for people to pay for incremental units, incremental units of security, incremental units of value from the system.
00:43:08.540 - 00:45:00.002, Speaker A: And I think eventually you will arrive at a very efficient global market dynamic, where you have decentralized computing market, which I mentioned at the end of my presentation this year at Smartcot. And the decentralized computing market is really where all of these other innovations of the economics 2.0 system end up in. Where any developer web3, developer web two, developer tradfi bank capital markets developer can go to an interface and request decentralized data, decentralized connectivity, decentralized off chain computation that can allow them to even interact with chains in efficient ways and for them to get back the level of security that relates to their budget. So the thing that we found in talking with many users is that different protocols value security differently, and even the same protocol will value security differently at different times. So there could be a protocol that starts with a low assumption about security, but as the value in that protocol grows and or as the neighboring protocols experience security issues, their valuation of security goes higher, which means that even if they start on some homemade oracle system or some other oracle system, my belief is that as the successful protocol's value increases, they will always default back to the most secure, reliable system, which in this world right now is chainlink, and will, with the effort of our community and everyone else, hopefully continue to be chainlink. So the decentralized computing market should completely systematize and automate that interaction where any developer could show up and say, I value security this much for this data and this compute and this connectivity.
00:45:00.002 - 00:46:22.760, Speaker A: Here's my budget for these three things and the security at being at level seed level security, level three security, whatever we call it. Then they get more value into their protocol and their assumptions and valuation of security rises. So they come back to the marketplace and say, oops, guess what? I have more value in the system. I want to pay more for security and the system. The chainlink network, the decentralized computing marketplace, should be able to very efficiently get them more node operators, get them more high quality data, get them more reliable, more intensive AI models, get them more secure connectivity with more checks, more nodes, more whatever type of security they value. And that is really what everything's being built towards. Everything is being built towards this model of developers from web two web3 capital markets, trade, finance, gaming, insurance, ad networks, anything showing up, being able to easily define their security, define their data needs, define their compute needs, define their connectivity needs, and get that return to them in an extremely efficient, reliable market where the best nodes earn more, where the best data providers earn more, where the best AI models that are run in Oracle networks earn more, where all of these things earn more because they're better.
00:46:22.760 - 00:47:55.822, Speaker A: And the chainlink system will have, and already has in some ways, but will continue to have a more and more robust reputation system for defining all of this and matching that budget for security and reliability and data quality and all these other properties with the computing provider that provides that in a decentralized, trust minimized manner. And the current work on economics is getting everything set up for that. And the subsequent work, I think will drive it more and more towards that final goal. But that's really the end state I think we want to end up in, because that's the end state through which I see developers being able to scale their application in a secure way, and the way in which I see the security that the chainlink network provides, that CCIP provides, that validated data provides being valued properly, because then everybody's different valuation of security can be captured within the system which is what you want. You want the maximum amount of fees because you want them then sent for the purposes of creating a maximum increase in security, which then makes your system the most secure system. And in a world of security sensitivity, that system continues to gain the majority of adoption, which continues the cycle more and more in that direction. There is very active research on how to expand the staking system to a greater collection of chainlink services, Chainlink networks.
00:47:55.822 - 00:49:38.754, Speaker A: One of the first places where we're looking to expand it, where I think it can provide a lot of additional security, is CCIP, and to allow the staking pool to expand, to cover various CCIP bridges and to allow it to provide greater and greater degrees of crypto economic security for those bridges, which I think with the amount of value in staking and the reliability, can actually lead to a very impressive and interesting set of security properties that we're actively looking towards doing. The verifiable web is a simpler, more direct way of saying that all cryptographically guaranteed systems are better. And the reason it's called the verifiable web is because it's focused on the concept of verifying how a system works and knowing that that system will always work that way, which you could only really do with the help of encryption technologies promising you not through words, not through legal agreements, not through brands, not through whatever, but through math. Right? So the first property of all the cryptographically guaranteed systems is when someone looks at it, they can verify that the system will work in a certain way. That's the first property, and that's why it's called the verifiable web. I'll give you an example. When you look at end to end encrypted messaging 1520 years ago, nobody really cared or knew what that was, because everyone was just happy to message with each other through telecommunications companies, on SMS, unencrypted, or through social media platforms.
00:49:38.754 - 00:50:17.470, Speaker A: But then the telecommunications companies got hacked, and the social media platforms misused the data. And that led to a kind of crisis of faith, right? Everyone had a crisis of faith where they said, I can't verify what happens with my messages before I send them, so I'm not going to send them. I'm not going to use you to send them anymore. Telecommunications company or social media company, I can't verify what happens after I send a message, so I'm not going to use the system. Well, how is that solved? That was solved through end to end encrypted. If you go to WhatsApp, you open up any message session at the top, it explains what end to end encrypted is. So what happened? An encryption technology was applied to a crisis of faith.
00:50:17.470 - 00:51:07.140, Speaker A: Everyone looking at that end to end encrypted message can, with mathematics, verify a certain level of reliability of how the system works. And that resolved people's cris of faith so that billions of people could message with each other and know that their messages are private to a certain extent. So it's the verifiable web. The verifiable web encompasses end to end encrypted messaging. In this example, the next property of the verifiable web, which is where blockchains excel, is the ability to verify how the system is operating on an ongoing basis. So you verify that the system operates in a certain way before joining, and then you want to know what's happening. This is particularly important for transactional systems or financial systems, which is what blockchains predominantly relate to.
00:51:07.140 - 00:51:33.286, Speaker A: You want to know if the bank you put your money into is solvent. You want to know if the insurance company is paying out its other policyholders. You want to know if the ad network you're connecting your ad budget to is full of fraud or not. You want to know all these things and you want to know them over time. So you don't just want to verify them once. You want to make sure to know the bank is still solvent. You want to make sure to know the insurance company is still paying out its policyholders.
00:51:33.286 - 00:52:37.610, Speaker A: You want to make sure to know that whatever system you're using is continuing to operate as expected. And this is what blockchains and Oracle networks and smart contracts do very well. They provide a consistent stream of verifiable, cryptographically guaranteed information. This is, I think, probably the big innovation at a high level, what blockchains, oracle networks, smart contracts, decentralized computing is doing. The third property is the ability to leave the system under the conditions which you verified initially. And this is really the reimagining of private keys as a new technology for users, whereas it's actually a very old technology for companies and institutions and systems. If you can actually give everyone private key level control and they can verify the system and they can verify how the system is behaving, well, then you have a completely different dynamic with users, because right now, if there's a problem with your bank and you try to withdraw your money, you can't.
00:52:37.610 - 00:53:57.160, Speaker A: Right before Silicon Valley bank, many people would have doubted that statement. After Silicon Valley bank, people don't doubt that statement. Unfortunately, I personally believe that there are many more Silicon Valley banks to come. And therefore this third property of being able to leave the system against the conditions which you verified before joining will be very valuable because many systems will begin to disallow people leaving that system, and people will unfortunately realize that difficult, hard way of not being able to leave when they want to leave. So I think the verifiable web is really an evolution of the information technology world of the, which was focused on information transfer into which verifiability was kind of added. And what the verifiable web does is it forces systems to be built on infrastructure like Chainlink that necessarily force verifiability at the very inception of an application. So when you build an application in a verifiable web way, in a verifiable application way, in a decentralized computing way, the very system that is running that application is forcing certain minimums of reliability and transparency and verifiability and so on.
00:53:57.160 - 00:55:09.582, Speaker A: And this is what I think the verifiable web is. The verifiable web is this transition from an information rich, information focused Internet to a verifiable Internet and a unilaterally controllable Internet by users. So whenever you hear people talking about self sovereign identity and owning their own data and controlling their own financial life, it's all the verifiable web. As far as I'm concerned, it's all the same thing, because all of that will be achieved through the use of encryption and cryptography and in many cases increasingly decentralized computation. So I think there's already been a history of some verifiable web work and technologies. And I think blockchains and Oracle networks are now an additional set of cutting edge technologies in that stream of work. And when you combine those two, the old verifiable web technologies with the new blockchain, Oracle network smart contract technologies, you can realize that full vision of those three properties of the verifiable web where you can verify the system, you can verify how it's working, and you can choose to leave at any moment based on the conditions which you verified, which I think is a net better system.
00:55:09.582 - 00:56:22.600, Speaker A: I've yet to meet a single person who I explained this choice to, that is to say to me, you know, no, I don't want to verify the system, or I don't want to verify what's happening with my money, or I don't want to have the optionality to leave the system. No, obviously every rational economic agent will want those properties. The problem is they've either been convinced that they already have those properties where they definitely don't, or they didn't know that those properties were possible. So that's the challenge of our industry. The challenge of our industry is to make those properties possible and to force them into applications at the infrastructure level, not as an add on that can then be removed, but at a very base, foundational level. And this is what is attractive about this industry, in my opinion. It's very easy to get caught up in all the things that one has to do, all the things that need to be shipped, all the users that need to go live and to in the process of doing that, not keep in mind all the people that are working so hard on making it happen.
00:56:22.600 - 00:57:48.398, Speaker A: But every once in a while, I like to isolate myself from various information distractions in a kind of like deep work sense. And one of the things that I find most helpful is to think about what I am grateful for and to think back on my life and the things that I've worked on and what I'm going to do and what it is that I'm grateful for. Because I find that being grateful is very important for how someone lives their life, for not only appreciating what they have, but for seeing reality for what it really is. And it's very important to see reality, in my opinion, not to turn away from it and to see what it really is. And when I do these kind of little think thought periods where I abstract myself away from all some of the day to day problems, and I try to do some deep work in planning, and I get to the gratitude part of this. I am consistently really touched and grateful for how many people share my views and our views on how the world should work in a decentralized, reliable way. Initially, this is actually why I joined the crypto industry, because I would go to meetups, and there were only bitcoin meetups when I joined, and some small bitcoin conferences and like really weird venues and basements.
00:57:48.398 - 00:59:19.306, Speaker A: It was like really low budget, and that was fine. I liked it, actually. And I met a lot of libertarian people, huge amount of libertarian kind of people. And it really attracted me to this industry that there was this group of people that I shared a worldview with that everyone can have choice and control and information and informed decisions on everything from their financial life to voting to anything. And as time has gone on, I'm actually very grateful that there is now a subset of the crypto industry that I have the opportunity to work on with people who not only share that very general view but share a more specific view, which is kind of the chainlink ecosystem, Chainlink community view of how we could actually get there. So I think whenever I think about this question of what I'm grateful for, I'm always very grateful to be working with a community of people that want to see the world evolve and change in the way that I find important and useful and something that I and they can be proud of. And to have a group of people like that where you, together, want to see something change and together are working towards that is not that common a thing, in my opinion.
00:59:19.306 - 01:00:37.654, Speaker A: And I think it's something that I really value. So I think the first thing that I would say is I'm very busy on trying to deliver on various ideas. And so I do not spend a lot of time communicating with a lot of people because I don't believe that those communications are what is the most value added thing for me to be doing for these shared goals of ours. But I like to take these opportunities to just make clear to people that even though my frequency of communicating, this is not high, I feel that the intensity with which I feel it is probably pretty high relative to other people, because I have gone through life, much of my life, working on things that didn't matter. And much of that work was ignored and considered useless or wrong, even in the bitcoin. It was called the bitcoin industry when I joined it. I spent at least five years since 2010 hearing how it was all a scam and how it was all horrible, and I really didn't care.
01:00:37.654 - 01:01:12.622, Speaker A: I really didn't care because a, I thought I knew the truth, and the truth is now becoming more clear to others. So I thought I saw reality, and that's good. And I think I was right about many of those points on reality, which people that disagreed with me before now admit. So seems at least we now have this shared reality. And then I had people around me, even in those early days, that had the same worldview. And I think that's very important. And I'm very grateful to everybody who's supportive of us, whether they're technical or nontechnical.
01:01:12.622 - 01:03:00.360, Speaker A: I think there are technical people that support us by contributing code, by contributing ideas, by giving us feedback as users of the protocol. I'm very grateful to them because they're making a big contribution to building this different, verifiable, web deterministic society, decentralized computing, smart contract world. I'm also very grateful to all the people that aren't technical, that provide various other types of support to the system that participate in its security in various ways, that educate people, help us make events, to inform various groups, build a bigger community. And I look back at this sometimes I kind of come up from these periods of work, and I look at it and I'm like, man, how many people are involved? How many meetups did we have? How many kind of developer events did we do? And I'm always really impressed, and I'm always very grateful that there are people who are willing to contribute their time and effort not only to the general idea, the general idea of the crypto industry, but the version of the idea that I'm working on together with them. So I think the thing that I would say is, I'm very, very grateful to all of these people for even the smallest contribution that they've done. And it's just important to me that my lack of communication doesn't get misinterpreted for a lack of gratitude. The thing that I would say in this vein is that if you find our body of work important, I encourage you to find a way to contribute to it in a productive way that creates a net benefit for the system.
01:03:00.360 - 01:03:42.690, Speaker A: And I think that various groups, technical or nontechnical, have various ways that they can contribute to the system. And I know that sometimes it's hard because it's not clear how the world's going to evolve. And sometimes things take a little longer to build securely. And sometimes adoption or the growth of the overall crypto industry isn't high, but that is what people need to overcome in order to be part of something big. That's it. There isn't a single historical example that I can find where everything was just going great every single day. That doesn't exist.
01:03:42.690 - 01:05:38.870, Speaker A: The only way it works, from what I can tell of my study of all kinds of history, technical history, political history, all kinds of history, is you have a worldview, you have a technology, or you have a plan that's based on a worldview of how the world will evolve. And you continually put your effort and your thought and your time into that technology, into that worldview, into that plan, and you make a commitment to do that, and you do it. And then, if you're right, over an extended period of time, it works out because your plan connected back to reality. The incremental positive or negative dynamics that happen on a weekly or a monthly or even a biannual basis to me, do not matter so much, because the fundamental truth of a verifiable web, a deterministic society, cryptographically guaranteed relationships, is all there. It doesn't matter to me if I'm in 2010 or 2011 and everyone's trying to tell me how bitcoin is never going to grow, it's going to get regulated out of existence. Or if we were in 2024 and someone still doesn't believe that some oracle network compute model is the more scalable, efficient way to do things. I know in my mind what the right answer is, and what's really helpful to people like me is other people that can see the truth of that situation and be part of it in a productive way, in a productive value added way, where they consistently, through the ups, through the downs, do what is needed to overcome challenges and arrive at a successful state of affairs.
01:05:38.870 - 01:06:23.780, Speaker A: So I'm very grateful once again to everybody who has contributed to our success, to the people that have stayed up late with me, to the people that have worked very hard in our community, to all the developer advocates, to all the developers that have contributed, to all the community members running meetups, to everybody. I'm extremely grateful. I'm actually sometimes overwhelmed by the gratefulness that I have to these people and still surprised that I'm so lucky to have so many people interested in what I'm working on. Thank you for making 2023 a landmark year for the Chainlink network. Deeply appreciate everyone's hard work. Looking forward to 2024 and wishing you all a happy, prosperous and successful new year. Thank you.
