00:00:00.250 - 00:00:42.300, Speaker A: Um, and we're trying to allow people to earn money wisely. And so what we're trying to go after is the crypto curious, crypto nervous people that are really uncomfortable with digital assets. The majority of people, right, that are still digitally native but just don't understand the space at all. And we always hear, I know this is a weird audience because we're in a hackathon for ETH, but most people just think that there's no risk and it's too difficult and that's a scam. And that's what our project is. We're trying to address that market and convert people that are nervous into believers. So how we're doing that is through financial advice for the new age.
00:00:42.300 - 00:01:46.350, Speaker A: So most traditional financial advisors care about stocks and bonds and cash, but our application really brings together stable coins and volatile coins and we're a robo advisor for allocating across all of those asset classes. So bringing main coins and stable coins into investors portfolios. So how we're going to do that is by taking people we have a suggested allocation that we give to an investor. We have advisors on the other side that will invest that money for them into their own vehicles that they want. So there's a stable coin pool and a volatile coin pool for each individual advisor and the investor can select which advisor they want to go with. And yeah, so there's a lot of nuances behind the scenes, but the idea is we're making it really easy for people to get into DeFi. The advisor is doing the work for the investor.
00:01:46.350 - 00:02:56.590, Speaker A: So that's what we're trying to accomplish. Did that come through? Yeah, one question was which parts are you hoping to build? Is this going to be like a smart contract that's going to be allocating these investments and an interface and everything? Or is it just some parts or others or kind of what's the plan? Yeah, sorry, was this not the end of the presentation? Sorry, no, it was I think that's a good question though. But yeah, there's a lot going on behind the scenes. We are investing the investors money into a contract. So there's some token economics behind the scenes. We're taking investors money, the advisor has the ability to invest on behalf of that investor and then token comes back to them. So there's a lot going on behind the scenes, but really we want the platform to start from the investor and go all the way through, which is an ambitious project for this hack, but we're going to see how far we can get.
00:02:56.590 - 00:03:57.568, Speaker A: One innovation in the space in the last year has been because gas is so expensive when you're managing someone's money or you're managing assets, if you can do it, first of all, permissionlessly, which we can talk about here, but also you can do it gas efficiently. So one thing that they've been able to do is sort of set up these strategies and implement these strategies on behalf of a whole bunch of people at once. And I think that's probably something that you'll want to kind of look into. These systems are very complicated and you really roll up a lot of transactions to get into place to make these work. But I would say that this is almost more of a marketing project than it is an engineering project. If you wanted it to be an engineering project, there's some key things here. Like you're custodian, you don't want to be custodial, right? You want to be noncustodial, you don't want to be in control of other people's money.
00:03:57.568 - 00:04:50.368, Speaker A: That's kind of what you're doing here. So maybe if you could do it in a contract where it's a little bit more trustless, where you're assigning some kind of strategy and not like just for one person but for a lot of people. If you could figure out a way to kind of group those together in a trustless way where you can kind of manage someone's money without actually being custodial, I think that's pretty key. But there's some subtleties there too. Yeah, it definitely reminded me of a professional, more complex, more powerful version of these wire vaults where with urine vaults they try not to do anything too crazy. It's like, oh, you deposit like a stablecoin, it's going to farm and buy more stablecoins or something. But this is going to be kind of the same similar style system but doing more active investment, which seems really cool.
00:04:50.368 - 00:05:34.032, Speaker A: One just like little feature I thought of that might be cool is because you're going to have these advisors that are going to be changing the strategies and again this might add a bit of complexity, so no worries. But if there was like a time block kind of thing. So basically the advisors are like, hey, we want to switch strategies and the owner people who own the money could have two days to opt out, like rage, quit and be like, oh, you said you want to put all your money into yams or something worse, something that they don't like. It's like I don't know if I want to do that. That was just random idea. But yeah, it seems really cool. It seems like a very professional idea.
00:05:34.032 - 00:05:56.004, Speaker A: So I like it. Awesome. Sweet. Great feedback. Yeah. Sorry, I do need to cut you off just in the interest of time, but if you're still on call a bit later and we've gone through all the projects, we can always touch back with some of the projects that went first. And David is in the discord so if there's any like and Austin.
00:05:56.004 - 00:06:48.136, Speaker A: So if there's any specific questions, you can also tag them in the channels. Cool. Next up we have Project Kaldir with Drew Patal. Are you on the call with the first? I'm going to lay out like status quo and why we're trying to actually solve a problem. So right now in DeFi if you want to ensure your deposits, you really only have one option and it's Nexus Mutual. If you look into Nexus Mutual, on the surface it sounds great, but if you start looking into it and if you attended the first class of an econ class in college, you'd realize that the incentives never align and that when the big hacking event happens, the thing's going to blow up. Because the people that are underwriting the insurance, the LP pool providers, they are the ones who get to decide if a claim gets paid out or not.
00:06:48.136 - 00:07:25.776, Speaker A: Right? So you have misaligned interest. The LP pool providers want to maximize the amount of insurance they sell and minimize the number of claims they pay out. And then a purchaser wants to pay as little as they can for insurance and have a guarantee that they claim be paid. And so this has led Next Mutual to only accept three out of 26 claim requests on their network. So what we're trying to do is create a completely trustless insurance protocol. So no chain link, none of that. The contract itself will decide if the underlying contract is insuring is hacked.
00:07:25.776 - 00:08:14.124, Speaker A: And you can do it pretty easily by just having the user hand over the claim token to you, to the contract, and the contract then trying to withdraw the underlying asset from like wire. And so a user could deposit, could get some wire and claim token, come to our platform and insure it and get an ERC 20 that represents insurance. And then if a hack occurs, they transfer their underlying token, they transfer their claim token and their insurance token. We burn the insurance token and then we try to claim the claim token. If it doesn't work that we pay out the insurance. So completely trustless insurance and there's a few ways we can implement it. Like we can either have them pay upfront for insurance for x amount of time or we can do an ETF like Vanguard's ETFs, we stick a management fee on the yields they earn.
00:08:14.124 - 00:09:02.144, Speaker A: And then on the other side we have LP pool providers who are like betting against contract getting hacked and they have exposure to a ton of contracts. So if they have one dollars and we can say, hey, here are ten contracts, here are ten smart D Five platforms that your one dollars can insure against. So we're saying that if one of these explodes, we can insure against that and you have exposure to ten because else why wouldn't the insurance provider, the person underwriting the insurance, just put their money in the D Five pool? So that's how we make it worth for the LP providers. Yeah, that's the protocol. Yeah. I think this is a space that needs a lot of exploring right now and it makes a lot of sense to be talking about how to build smart contracts to protect smart contracts. It's an obvious place where we should be playing around for sure.
00:09:02.144 - 00:09:43.472, Speaker A: I don't know a ton, to be honest about it. My understanding is you can go on Open and you can buy an option on some token going below something. And if that token ever goes below something, you can take the below token and your option and put both of those in and get back some money at some below token rate. There we go. That's my understanding of it. But in terms of knowing whether or not the smart contract got hacked and how since the contract itself is deterministic and you could just basically go check it, you're pretty limited to what you can do with that. And an oracle system does kind of open that up a lot.
00:09:43.472 - 00:10:20.270, Speaker A: But again, more complexity means a lot more troubles. I would say my overall feedback is this is great and it's a great place to be attacking and learning more and building around. My own personal knowledge is I don't know enough about the high level economics to be able to weigh in on whether or not it's going to work or not. But I think I'm two thumbs up in terms of this is something that should be built on ethereum. Yeah, to kind of add on that. It sounds great. I have a little bit of just skepticism about.
00:10:20.270 - 00:11:06.116, Speaker A: Is it possible because these hacks are typically so complicated, it can be difficult for a smart contract to determine whether another smart contract has been hacked and what a hack looks like is it the ability to sometimes it's the ability to withdraw a token. But sometimes it might just be like the fact that a token might just lose value or something. So I guess what I would just suggest or if you I don't know if this is necessary for the hackathon, but if you were trying to sell this to me, I would say just go through the list of hacks that have happened, and there's plenty to work from. And just kind of if you could say, hey, all the major hacks that have happened, we could have fixed it with this. Then I'd be sold. That's a great idea. Look how this would have been triggered on chain.
00:11:06.116 - 00:11:25.330, Speaker A: Like here's the Dow hack, here's, it getting drained. And if they would have bought options on this here, they would have been able to swap them or something like that. That's a great idea. Like using historical hacks. Totally. They're so complicated. Whether or not something gets hacked is such a subjective thing, right.
00:11:25.330 - 00:11:52.552, Speaker A: Even flash loans, when they first came out, all of us were just like, wow, that's a neat trick. I don't know if it's good or bad, but it is really cool and so you can't even imagine what sort of things can happen. I don't know, it's tricky, but two thumbs up on the direction. This is definitely a place where we should be innovating. Perfect. Thanks guys. Thanks so much.
00:11:52.552 - 00:12:27.440, Speaker A: Drew, moving on to the next project, Distributive Town with Alex. Are you on the call? Hey, guys. Yes, I'm here. So you have some connectivity problems. So I will not switch on my camera but I promise I will be more entertaining next time. Anyway, good evening to everyone. I'm the tech lead of Distributed Town and in general we're trying, let's say on a high level to build a network of dows that lets people organize in self sovereign communities and is based on a mutual credit system or counting.
00:12:27.440 - 00:13:27.688, Speaker A: So instead of using, let's say, the dow concept for speculative purposes or something like that, basically every person will select a set of skills at the registration when they want to join a new community. And instead of having, let's say, validation pool for confirming these skills, whether this person has a skill or not is a subtractive model. So for example, you can choose your experience in one specific skills, let's say gardening between one and ten. If you declare you have ten then before you are able to use the credit that you are assigned by default, you need to validate the skill by taking a gig in the community. And of course, if I assign you a gardening gig and you burn down all my plants, then probably you're not a very skillful gardener. So your rate will go below. And the amount of credits the ito's credits that you have will dynamically go below the main.
00:13:27.688 - 00:15:04.672, Speaker A: Let's say goal that we have for this act is to well, first of all, let's say have a proof of concept with a few communities and also to start building, let's say, the foundation for a Skill wallet. So that basically to be a universal login that you can use for mobility purposes, moving from a community to the other, following this, let's say, multilateral barter kind of approach. And instead of having, let's say, universal login based on identities sensitive data and blah, blah so we forget about passports, resumes and these kind of things, but you log in basically to validate your skills. So based on the contribution that you give to the community and then later on to the network, you will be able to use your credit wherever in the world without having any bureaucratic limitation. So at high level is this. And by the way, we use since we live in a kind of a hybrid world where of course multilateral barter or any kind of mutual credit would take a lot of time to be sustainable. We use also DeFi protocols for letting the community members, like the members of one specific community, to pull in and create their own saving pools, let's say, with their own independent vault strategy in a way that they can find, let's say, the possibility to sustain internal projects within the same community without waiting for governmental grants and this kind of stuff.
00:15:04.672 - 00:16:02.148, Speaker A: So to keep it, let's say, hybrid between taking the best, between one word and the other. And we don't leverage on the mutual credit that we have in the platform, because in order to receive your shares, let's say, your share of profit, you need to have the ito mutual credits. And the more you have so the more you contributed to the community, the more you are going to earn. So this is the very high level version and if you have any question or feedback that would be great. Yeah, this is another really cool place within Ethereum, like another kind of branch of Ethereum that's a cool place to explore right now. Kind of coordination games and coordinating around. Going back to I think Moloch was mentioned earlier but trying to find coordination platforms that can work and experimenting with coordination platforms is exciting.
00:16:02.148 - 00:16:42.500, Speaker A: There's a ton going on here though. I would say that everything that you've laid out take that vision and apply it to what's currently created and what you're going to find. And a lot of people find this when they try to build something complex on Ethereum. Is there's holes, there's, blind spots, there's missing things where the tooling isn't there or there's not something there. Take that grand vision and apply it and find spots that are just totally not there. Like you said, we need a wallet to be able to move stuff around. I know some guys on this call that can give you a good forkable wallet but things like that where you'll find holes in the current setup, in the current infrastructure and the current tooling.
00:16:42.500 - 00:17:29.808, Speaker A: Find some small piece of this that might be very high leverage for the future builders that are building this. But also maybe it's the guild as a whole. Like you have this kind of coordination set up where you have skills and gigs, whether those are virtual, you have a credit system. This is a perfect setup for a smart contract. There's a lot going on there and a lot of moving parts and you kind of threw in DeFi there at the end. I would say just either find a simplified version of this for a hackathon kind of build or find something within here that's missing in terms of infrastructure and tooling in the space and try to fill that gap first. But maybe the whole thing just works and it is a good application of Ethereum.
00:17:29.808 - 00:18:28.984, Speaker A: Like to hear what David thinks of this too. Yes, kind of going down the same direction. What I was hoping is it sounds like a very cool and it sounds like you've given a lot of thought to how the system is going to work. What I would love to hear or see when it comes to presenting is one specific use case this addresses because what you've described sounds like it could cover a lot of different use cases but I think it'd be maybe easier to build and also easier to present if you're like. Here is the problem that we can solve. And here's a way. Like you mentioned gardening when you were going through it and that helped it made sense, but I was like, also maybe something that's more crypto native might be easier to mentally kind of fit in with other projects in the space if it's like, oh, it's like managing money or a game or something like that.
00:18:28.984 - 00:18:59.600, Speaker A: Something that we're already really used to in crypto that might be kind of cool. I'm building something similar to this with developers and tasks, just trying to figure out how to coordinate around a couple of different projects, getting tasks done at the same time. So very similar. Something where gigs would be more virtual. Maybe it's like a bounty system on something. Something where someone can check in, complete a gig and get paid in some kind of social credit. All virtually kind of world is flat style.
00:18:59.600 - 00:19:36.444, Speaker A: Yeah. Thank you, guys. It's very good advice. And also, I mean, it makes sense because one of the main inspirations was the CPS, so collaborative problem solving. And the main idea basically is that you have the possibility you were mentioning, alex, I'm really sorry, but I'm going to just have to cut you off because just in the interest of time, I'd like to give all the projects an opportunity to pitch the idea. But if you stay on the call and there's time at the end, we can revisit the conversation with the will. I will just reply later to David about the use case and you guys can go on for now.
00:19:36.444 - 00:19:45.760, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you very much. Bye bye. And thank you, Austin. Bye bye. Cool. Next up, nifty crates with Abhishek.
00:19:45.760 - 00:20:39.276, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, can you guys hear me? Great. Hey. So Nifty Crates is basically a new type of ERC 721 token which can itself compose other ERC 721 tokens within it. And the idea for this is sort of the problem I sort of identified is a lot of people have a lot of common NFTs that get generated from all sorts of games and breeding algorithms and they get very few that are quite rare and valuable. And you want to liquidate, let's say, a set of NFTs for as much ETH as possible. And loot box mechanics are very popular in games. What I wanted to do was sort of boil that down to the purest idea of a loot box and create one on ethereum using smart contracts.
00:20:39.276 - 00:21:32.000, Speaker A: So the first, most obvious Use case is geared towards NFT whales who have a lot of tokens and that want to turn their NFTs into a profitable loop box others can use. And the way it will work is you would buy a crate and then you would put some NFTs in it and then you can set the ranking for each of the tokens inside of the crate. That will in turn determine the drawing odds. So how likely each one is to come out of the crate. And then you can configure sort of the price and pricing mechanics and sort of set it to whatever level you'd like. And then other people can come. And open the crate and hopefully draw an item from the crate and hopefully this will create sort of a fun, very quick and easy to understand user experience around NFTs that kind of gives people exposure to different games.
00:21:32.000 - 00:22:29.072, Speaker A: Also sort of replicates the really fun aspects of all the best NFT games like CryptoKitties. The fun part is suddenly seeing something that is valuable and rare come into your ownership and kind of have that moment of joy on a simple and easy to understand game. So that's kind of the high level idea. We've gotten the smart Contracts going a little bit and what I wanted to kind of get from the audience here was an understanding of what do you think is sort of the economy for this? Is it viable? And then perhaps other projects you might have seen that kind of try to do the same thing. Maybe some hurdles that they've hit. Yeah, I just kind of wanted to get the pulse to the audience around what they feel is happening in NFT games. And if this is valuable, it reminds me of Mochins.
00:22:29.072 - 00:22:47.050, Speaker A: Remember Nick Mudge did Mokins and they were like NFTs that owned NFTs and it was a way to package them. I think it's similar to what you're talking about. I would check those out. So just like tokens but with an M. Mokens. I think that's what it was. This is similar to that, I think.
00:22:47.050 - 00:23:37.816, Speaker A: Check some of the token standards too. I think that at this point this is one of those things that probably someone is trying to standardize and there's probably some different arguments about which one's the most gas efficient and stuff like that. David might know more about different tokens, but like 1155 or something like that. I don't know a ton about this. It's definitely something that I've seen a little bit. I think that the twist I would add to this to make it more interesting would be the actual loot box mechanic where you use ZK or some kind of commit reveal some kind of incomplete information scheme where basically loot box could be bought and sold and then kind of opened and then randomly you would get you could take a bunch of things, put them in a whole bunch of loot boxes and sell them. And one of those could be worth way more than the other one.
00:23:37.816 - 00:23:58.290, Speaker A: And it's about the random discovery of opening them up. That would be cool. That's where I would kind of lean on that's cool idea. You could definitely do that with that commit reveal. I think it's a two face commit reveal sort of scheme and it's kind of similar to what other games sort of best practices. Cool. Very cool.
00:23:58.290 - 00:24:37.036, Speaker A: I think this may be adjacent. I'm not as deep into the NFT side of the ecosystem. But one I think problem that I have heard kind of exists in NFTs is just like liquidity and valuation of NFTs because obviously, ERC, 20s are very liquid. It's much easier to have price discovery. It's a bit more complicated with tokens that there only exists one of. I was wondering if just kind of throwing this out, like if there's any way that bundling these things at all makes that easier because you can kind of get the value of a whole box as a package. That might not make any sense, but it's just kind of something thrown out.
00:24:37.036 - 00:25:22.252, Speaker A: I think that totally makes sense. So that was kind of the ranking. So when a person creates a new create and they set it up, they set a ranking for each of the items inside of it. So that gives an implicit sort of saying, hey, this is the rarest token in this crate and these are all the other ones that are sort of like just really basic. And that ranking will travel with that NFT everywhere. So it's kind of independent of the NFT itself. So, yeah, hopefully that leaning into my ZK idea here and saying, how cool would it be if you could see on chain the outcomes? Like, basically I took all of these things and I packaged them up into all of these things.
00:25:22.252 - 00:25:51.936, Speaker A: And you can tell on chain, you can trust me that those things are packaged up, but you don't know where they are and people can randomly grab them. Definitely. That's a ZK thing. That's perfect for it. Probably you don't even need ZK. You can do that with commit reveal, right? Yeah, I think you could do that with just commit reveal right now. And the way it works is you can see everything inside of the box and you can see exactly ODS to be visible, but not the actual items until it's opened.
00:25:51.936 - 00:26:25.520, Speaker A: Well, I don't know if that's possible, but unless he's creating the items, I don't know if that's possible because if he's taken some, it'd be like tornado, right? You would have off chain slips that represented each of them. Yeah, but even in tornado you can still see like, I can go look at how much dye is in tornado cash. I would make 100 loot boxes and I'd fill them up. But the ownership each one like, you would be buying a slip that would get you a random one of those, but you couldn't tell which one was yours until it happened. Something like that. We're taking up too much time. I'm sorry.
00:26:25.520 - 00:26:44.392, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks, guys. Yeah, like I said, if there's time at the end, we can revisit some of these projects again. Next up is Hoodie with us. Hi, guys. Can you hear me? Yeah. So I was also working on a subscription protocol, actually.
00:26:44.392 - 00:27:35.288, Speaker A: I know we've already had one, but just hear me out. So what I was thinking is create a central contract similar to a uniswap model. Like each content provider can deploy his own subscription contract giving all the parameters of how much amount the subscription should be, which tokens he wants to accept and all that. And then basically the users can select their plan and then they can approve multiple installments in one go or as they wish. Basically they can do the approval part on their own. But now what we do is we let anyone call the transfer function so then anyone in the ethereum can call that and get part of the fees for himself. And we just batch this part.
00:27:35.288 - 00:28:13.584, Speaker A: So then we can kind of do the subscription that way. And on the distribution, on the receiving side I was thinking maybe just the basic one can be there. Like I just send it to some content provider. Or there can also be complicated models like if there is a blog who has multiple writers and you want to stream money to all of the writers, we can maybe do that. So I'm still exploring stuff over there. But that is the basic idea mostly because of all the community tokens and the social tokens and personal tokens. So I was thinking these can be used somewhere.
00:28:13.584 - 00:29:04.516, Speaker A: They can either be used on the distribution side or on the payment side. So somehow doing it for them basically. So any thoughts on that? Yeah, it sounds good. I think the part that I was interested about was the part where you said that something was aggregated and could be post as one. Can you just go over that one more time? Yeah. So what we can do is basically just take a small payment in the first go, like whenever the next batch starts, like a monthly batch or a yearly batch. You can select whichever you want to be a part of and then yearly, like on the first of each month, maybe we can have any random person call the transfer function and the subscription basically gets executed at that time.
00:29:04.516 - 00:29:41.250, Speaker A: All the subscribers, he will transfer the funds for all the subscribers in one go as much as possible, as much as the gas fees would allow, basically. But for doing this he can get some part of the fees. So then he is also incentivized to do this. And basically anyone can do it after this. Maybe the content provider himself does it, maybe some random person does it. One kind of idea that I thought of while you were kind of going over that the first time was I think there's an opportunity for these subscription and payment stuff to work with metatransactions so that the user doesn't have to send a transaction. Awesome.
00:29:41.250 - 00:30:14.468, Speaker A: I am too. So the user wouldn't have to pay gas to actually subscribe to something. So that could be cool. I was just thinking if you use Die, which has the permit function. In it, the user could just sign a message and send it out and then a relayer could kind of process that and take it from there. That might not be possible with all tokens. Like you said, Dai has a permit function, but like, USDC, I don't think it has like, some other coin, maybe all the permit tokens.
00:30:14.468 - 00:30:29.424, Speaker A: USDC actually just added it because theirs is upgradable. They added side note. But check out USDC 2.0. It's got like all these meta transaction things. But did they do your seven seven seven stuff? By the way? They don't do seven seven seven. They just do just meta. That's cool.
00:30:29.424 - 00:31:18.632, Speaker A: They could though, actually. They have, yeah. This is another discussion over beers. No, I was going to say, yeah, you couldn't do any arbitrary token with metatransactions, just like the few that support it. Yes, I linked up a metatransaction contract that we came up with that was basically like basically using the nonce as a timestamp for replay protection. So you have them sign a meta transaction that says, I will allow you to, or allow a relayer, even a third party, to send these on my behalf within some kind of timestamp range and it becomes valid. A relayer or someone pays the gas, moves the tokens and then it's invalid again until that period elapses.
00:31:18.632 - 00:31:57.130, Speaker A: And I posted that into Chat. But I think there's definitely it seems like there should be more stuff going on around subscriptions. It seems like we should already have like a patreon. That's just great. And we sort of have some clones and ideas about this, but I think it's the coordination mechanisms around the streams that are going to be kind of the interesting part to bring things together. Also, guys, sorry to kick in, but for ARF, there is also a standard that Gitcoin proposed a couple of years ago for subscription models. So maybe I can look it up and share it with you later.
00:31:57.130 - 00:32:14.132, Speaker A: That's the leak standard. So I linked to my contract that kind of became the thing that elite standard 1337. Yeah. All right, great. Sorry, guys. Go ahead. Thanks so much, Arthur.
00:32:14.132 - 00:32:39.444, Speaker A: I'm going to move on to the next project, which is Lucidity with Andrew Hong if you're on the call. Yeah, hey, sorry. Let me put away my other work. Yeah. Oh, boy. I guess so. Starting a high level, what we're trying to do is increase transparency with government and public projects.
00:32:39.444 - 00:33:59.816, Speaker A: So, like, anything with infrastructure or community investments. And the way we want to do this is mainly by leveraging open law, ave credit delegation and then a sort of escrow account, which I've decided to go with the Gnosis conditional token just as a starting point. So essentially all it is is the project proposer and a bidder who wants to manage a project have to agree on an open law contract. And as soon as that's agreed upon, we'll have external auditors just kind of check and make sure that this is sound just so there's limited fraud because the whole point is just we want limited fraud. And so once that has all been signed, we can have Pagination kind of on that signed contract for any funders who want to fund the project. So then it's connected to the same open law contract, but then anyone who prizes funding provides it through Ave's credit delegation, which is tied to that original contract of the bidder and the project owner. Stop me if I lost you because I'm not great at explaining this without using a diagram, but yeah, that's essentially kind of how it's going to be managed.
00:33:59.816 - 00:34:56.116, Speaker A: So then the conditional token vault will have all of the Dai funding or USDC funding, whatever we decide to go with from oh, sorry, I forgot an important point. In that original open law contract between the bidder and the project owner, there are going to be set milestones. So like five or six milestones for seeing how far the project has come along. If it's like building a new school, it's like, has the foundation been laid? Have all the materials been sourced? Has parts of the building been audited? Right. And so with every part of every milestone that's met, then the auditors can check off that condition on the conditional token and release that Dai to the borrower. That's essentially the full structure. We have some NGOs in the Honduras and wider Latin America that we're going to try to work with to kind of pilot the project.
00:34:56.116 - 00:35:39.330, Speaker A: That's probably after the hackathon. For the hackathon, we're just using a historical infrastructure project to kind of just show how this would run if I that's where we're at. I don't even know if I have much feedback. This just sounds I've been waiting. I was psyched whenabe launched this delegated credit line thing and I haven't heard anything has that even launched yet or have they just announced it's? Part of the Bounties for this. Got you. Yeah, I'm just excited to see I was excited when they launched it and I haven't heard anything actually using it.
00:35:39.330 - 00:36:35.284, Speaker A: Yeah, that sounds awesome. Yeah, because their credit delegation actually ties into open law. Like it forces you to use open law. So I'm like, okay, I think my main concern right now is I don't know how to handle the auditors. I guess I was originally thinking about do I need to create a Dow where you have certain roles and you're either a funder or an auditor or project owner and kind of use that to manage things. The auditor as in the person who's determining whether the step has been reached? Yeah, so I guess we can call it an oracle because it's just going to be an address that gets signed. But since that's the main centralized component, we're still kind of trying to think through like, do we need a Dow? Because if we have a Dow, then the transaction costs get a lot more expensive and we don't really want to deal with that.
00:36:35.284 - 00:37:10.008, Speaker A: And if we have to move chains in the future, then we have to worry about the Dow. Can move chains. Maybe this is just my impression of this OpenLaw thing, but I feel like this credit delegation, it's already kind of somewhat centralized to begin. Obviously it's using Aave, it's using protocol, but there's like a legal agreement of one entity delegating credit to another. So I think you don't necessarily need a Dow because you're already doing this kind of hybrid system. It's fair to just have an entity that's going to approve those things. It could be the same as the funder.
00:37:10.008 - 00:37:26.384, Speaker A: It could be someone separate. I mean, if you have extra time and you want to throw a Dow at it, go nuts. Yeah. Start with minimum viable decentralization. Yeah, exactly. We started credibility, supply chain. You've got the delegated funds.
00:37:26.384 - 00:37:52.670, Speaker A: Now it seems like the composability is all kind of lining up to make this work. It's all about that pilot and getting it to work. Obviously putting together the tech, getting a little bit of funding, but then putting it in people's. This is another great place to be experimenting. You may be years ahead of actual implementation and it working in the real world. Maybe not. Maybe you're right.
00:37:52.670 - 00:38:17.204, Speaker A: But keep experimenting. Keep building. Yeah. I'm really excited for the use case. I think right now, besides the auditor part, it's like trying to figure out the intricacies of open law has also been taking up most of my time. Cool. But you be the auditor at first, understanding that you can abstract that some other governance later.
00:38:17.204 - 00:38:28.570, Speaker A: Don't let that block. Okay? Yeah. I'm like Nasha. I'm like how much do people criticize these things? I have no idea. Well, they will, but don't listen to the building. Right. Okay.
00:38:28.570 - 00:38:47.748, Speaker A: Well, I mean, that's all I had. Just fingers crossed that there's nothing blaring wrong or missing. Sounds cool. I'm stoked. On it. Okay. If we're wrapping this one up, I'm sorry I have to bounce, but looks like Peter Pan's hopping in to take my place downgrading.
00:38:47.748 - 00:39:16.280, Speaker A: I was going to say upgrading, but all right, take care, everyone. David cheers. Later. Yeah. Next up, we've got Rishi and his team with project supply chain hub. I see you are in the room, Rishi. A minute to unmute.
00:39:16.280 - 00:40:10.296, Speaker A: Can everyone else hear? Okay, well, while we wait for Rishi, there's also another project here, DeFi poly. I'm not sure if Ludo's in the call yet, though. He might still be moving over from the other room. If not, let's see. Is there anyone else here that wants to chat a little bit more about their project while we wait for the other two project people to join? I'm happy to continue. I know you are, Alex. Cool.
00:40:10.296 - 00:40:40.880, Speaker A: Yeah. Let's chat. But I might need Rishi's here. Sorry, Alex team to be shifted to this room. So then I'll continue. Will that be all right? Okay, well, Alex, you can chat. Well, actually, Ludo's in the call, so I'm going to give Ludo the opportunity to present his project, DeFi Poly, and then we'll get to Rishi.
00:40:40.880 - 00:41:01.016, Speaker A: Hello? Can you hear me? Yes. Perfect. Yes. Good. Just trying to put that I don't know if you see my background now. Yes, just a picture, so I don't have any webcam. Hello everyone.
00:41:01.016 - 00:41:51.400, Speaker A: So DeFi. Poly is a board game. It's inspired by Monopoly and Monopoly is now more than 100 years old. It has learned everyone about the traditional banking mechanisms, about the capitalism, how to invest, how to borrow money. And I think it has educated a lot of people about that. And I would like to reinvent the game to adapt the concept and the financial mechanism to what is the DeFi today. I would like this game to educate people about Blockchain, the decentralized applications and DeFi mechanism.
00:41:51.400 - 00:42:44.228, Speaker A: So in that game, the players will have the ability to stake money to borrow, to raise, fund by issuing tokens, like an ACO. And there will be an integrated marketplace to exchange the assets during the game. And I would like this game being full decentralized. So everything will be performed by smart contract. Of course, there will be an in game currency with a classical ERC 20 token, but everything in the game would be performed by smart contract, every rules and every financial mechanism. So it's a challenge. It's a challenge to get it fully decentralized.
00:42:44.228 - 00:43:41.950, Speaker A: And it's also a challenge because I would like this game to be addressed to people that don't know the blockchain ecosystem yet. So I would like the user experience being easy, so people don't have an Ethereum account yet. And so I would need some gas less transactions using relays. I would also deploy this game onto the layer two because I think it's a good option for this kind of game. Layer two offers quicker transactions and cheaper transactions for this kind of game. It's perfect. So I would like to deploy on layer two, this game.
00:43:41.950 - 00:44:27.820, Speaker A: And yeah, that's it. That's what I plan to do. So one question is, traditionally in Monopoly you have play money. Are you thinking of creating just like tokens out of thin air, fullless game, and then using different D Five printers as the different events and little boxes? How would you imagine the gameplay being like sorry, you mean the design? Yeah. How do you play the game? Yeah, it's like normally in Monopoly money, you try to get more Monopoly money and you try to bankrupt everyone else. Right. That's kind of the goal.
00:44:27.820 - 00:45:12.250, Speaker A: The crypto version of this is like, you don't have Monopoly money, you just have Tokens. Right. Do you imagine having tokens as like in game money, et cetera? Yes. At the points. The money in the game is a fake money like in Monopoly. So it's a token created for the game, for the game session, for all players, the same session, there will be, ERC, 20 contract and stunt. Let's imagine in the classical Monopoly, people have to buy property and build houses and hotel on the property.
00:45:12.250 - 00:45:57.192, Speaker A: In the game it will be a bit different. So people are founding crypto startups and they have to invest in the startup to make the project price, to increase the project price and get more revenues from their project. So to invest in the startup, they have to raise funds and so on. That's the idea. It's more of a gimmick than anything, right? You do DeFi as the gimmick of the game. The game runs on blockchain, but really you'll probably want to have it on a sidechain. It's more for exploring blockchain dev than it is and education, right.
00:45:57.192 - 00:46:30.512, Speaker A: Educating people on you could land on the Sushi Swap square or you could land on the Rug Pull square and really it's just fake money that's getting moved around and it's just for fun and people playing around and educational purposes. But, yeah, I think it's a fun place to get out of. Impermanent loss card. Yeah, there we go. Yeah, impermanent Loss is in the corner. Supplied liquidity tokens to shitcoin. There's a lot of fun gimmicky things you can do here and I think that's what I would lean into.
00:46:30.512 - 00:46:59.980, Speaker A: But, yeah, you can do meta transactions, you can do gasless stuff, you could do it on a side chain. It makes it more and more complicated. I would simplify it as much as you can, but still it's just for the gimmick. Lean into the gimmick, play around with that. And I think that makes for a fun hackathon game, which I've made many. I am a build a game out of it and put it on blockchain for the sole purpose of doing that, for fun, so I can support it. Thank you.
00:46:59.980 - 00:47:57.724, Speaker A: You're right. It's to educate people and also to educate myself. I will learn a lot of things technically, but I would like to educate people. I really would like to play this game with my friends and my family once. It will be I could see a really literal take of this game on chain, but you have like, say twelve hour rounds or 24 hours rounds and everyone rolls a dice and they go around this square and they can buy a property that spawns on each square. If you're on the square, you can only buy property which is an NFT with tokens right from the square, and then you could take a very little stance from it all and that could be a really interesting multiplayer kind of experience. But that's generally, potentially really hard to execute, right? So kind of just leaning into the meme could be just funner, right, as well.
00:47:57.724 - 00:48:51.010, Speaker A: Being literal monopoly on chain. If I can lean in for a second as well for Ludo, by the way, nice nickname. So I like what Peter Pan was saying because mean you can just mine NFTs on the game itself and you can use them as collaterals as well. So if you really want to play the DeFi stuff then you can actually do it without people even realizing that they're interacting with a blockchain and they mine NFTs just by playing and conquering the squares. Thanks so much. I'm going to need to thank you cut you off there just to give the last two projects an opportunity before time runs out. But next up is Supply Chain Hub with Rishi and the team and yeah you guys can kick it off.
00:48:51.010 - 00:49:28.670, Speaker A: Yeah. Hi everyone. So I'm rishi. So our project is basically as it's named Supply Chain Hub. So somewhere anybody it's basically a platform where any non technical person or a technical person can come and make a supply chain. So basically from the start one of the uses of blockchain has been supply chain or keeping track of goods. So what we propose is a system where any non technical person can come and create a supply chain for his product or his company.
00:49:28.670 - 00:50:05.610, Speaker A: So basically we are trying to implement the generation of smart contracts through Python code and the user attributes or customized attributes that will be taken from the user. So we are working on that. Interesting. I think you'd need generalizing Supply Chain sort of like coming up with here's the MVP of the metadata you need for a supply chain. We're going to generalize it. Here's a package where you can clone it. So it seems like Oracles would be really important there.
00:50:05.610 - 00:51:41.136, Speaker A: How do you verify information along the way on the supply chain? Basically verifying the information will be tracking it's basically for tracking products as we have thought. So the manufacturer or the one who will create the product will give it a unique ID or one of the products will be tracked to a lot and in that way the QR code of the product can be scanned individually or in the lot which will be tracked along the way. And if the customer wishes to see from where the origin of the product was, he can just scan it. So basically we came to this use case right now in COVID-19 in India, also in India from where I'm from there have been lots of cases of pharmaceuticals creating duplicates or the masks n 95 masks which are being used have been duplicated. So if a customer wants to track his or her mask or the pharmaceutical or the medicines to their origin, that was the basic use case. So a supply chain can be created for any nontechnical person who is creating legitimate mass customer can track his order to that manufacturer. I think this is one of those I talked about this earlier about really big blockchain projects.
00:51:41.136 - 00:52:30.580, Speaker A: Right now when you have a very ambitious project, when you dig into it and you start picking out all the different pieces. You find that in our industry. It's so new that there's a lot of missing pieces and blind spots. I would say just dig into it and find out and you may find that exact thing where what we need is a simple Oracle system that runs on phones that's backed by some token. So anybody in the warehouse scans that thing and it goes in and marks it on chain or something like that. There's probably just like a ton of things that if you tried to build this system, you would find are missing and you need to fill in and maybe attack one of those smaller pieces as a hackathon project leading up to kind of a combo move where you can actually build the whole project. Go ahead, Peter.
00:52:30.580 - 00:53:14.336, Speaker A: Yeah, I second that. It's great framing, actually. I would probably not overthink it too much and just try to start building and see where you start. And it's unlikely you'll solve the whole problem, but you'll end up likely at least building one or at least kind of ideating around and outlining what is one of the building blocks, right? And another just piece of tangent generic hackathon advice that goes out to everyone you build and throw away many times before you find the winner. And it's just part of the process. Not that this is anywhere like a bad idea. Supply chain is a perfectly great place to be innovating for Ethereum.
00:53:14.336 - 00:54:15.668, Speaker A: Just saying as a hackathon developer, don't be too married to a specific idea ideate and iterate and get it into people's hands and see how they use it and build within the space and see where those blind spots are and fill those in with good builds. I also want to discuss one of the issues we are facing currently. So we are trying to create an app for Android or for any app using Flutter or Android. So basically there are no libraries. The Web Three J is a static library or you need to produce static code for that. We wanted something that can connect to the blockchain or the supply chain using the API of the contract or something similar that can create a dynamic system for that. Such a thing is available for React native or some web platforms.
00:54:15.668 - 00:54:50.400, Speaker A: But the Web Three library hasn't yet been upgraded for Android. So any suggestions on that part? Someone in the chat just said it. You just found one of the holes in the ecosystem that needs to be patched, right? That's how it works. You'll find something that's totally missing and that alone could be a hackathon project. I think if I were to give you some advice, go look at so Alejandro with the Open Money Initiative. He and I kind of branched when we were building the burner wallet and I built the web version and he built an Android version. I think the guy building it actually, you may know Peter.
00:54:50.400 - 00:55:20.252, Speaker A: His name is McCall, the guy who did the link drop stuff. Familiar with him? Yeah. So alejandro. Right. Match, yeah, like not sure if it's not, but yeah, back in the know, nearly a year and a half ago. But McCall I think did build like an Android version that did some smart contract like link drop stuff. I would look into that stuff from those guys and hit me up in Chat if you want a link, but they may have something that works.
00:55:20.252 - 00:55:53.544, Speaker A: Again, though, that sounds like a hole that we could be filled in. We're probably using up too much time too. We probably better jump to the next. Yeah. Thanks, Watson. And also, Rishi, you can reach out in the Chat channel, everyone is there, so you can maybe ping the hack support channel and yeah, we can help you async next up, we have optimistic Rollins with Michael and then Aldorado. Cool, thank you.
00:55:53.544 - 00:56:42.176, Speaker A: Yeah, so I decided instead of making an app to actually build kind of a protocol here, so optimistic Rollins effectively are layer agnostic Rollins. Instead of rolling up to a chain from another layer, you roll into the same chain you're already in. So for example, let's just say you're able to reduce your entire state as a user to one merkel route. You can then optimistically tell the network what would happen if you called this function. And then your state routes just build and then anybody can prove fraud in anything you've done before. So where this is useful is, let's say single player games. Most of the time multiplayer games, right, you use layer two roll ups.
00:56:42.176 - 00:57:11.960, Speaker A: But for single player games, hitting the chain is very expensive. Instead of hitting the chain for every single thing you do, you can just say, here's what I want to do, here's what would have happened. Make my state that right now. And then anybody can go ahead and prove that any of my transitions were wrong after the fact. So there is no layer two. You're just effectively optimistically updating your state. Where it's also effective is if you don't have a single state for every single user, let's just say it's more about multiplayer than it is about single player state updates.
00:57:11.960 - 00:57:44.212, Speaker A: You can save a lot of the gas that would normally go ahead with that. Let's just say, for example, it's a zero knowledge proof. So ZKP's 99% of the gas for a zero knowledge proof transaction are verified as zero knowledge proof. So what you could do is say, I'm not even going to make the chain verify the proof. Trust me that this zero knowledge proof is valid and that my state would update here and then anybody can go ahead and prove that. No, if I actually did call the function to validate your proof, it would have failed and therefore I'm going to challenge you. So, yeah, it's just effectively layer agnostic Rollins and I have a working protocol.
00:57:44.212 - 00:58:03.656, Speaker A: ZkZk. There it was ZKZ. It's not ZK. It's not zero knowledge whatsoever. Yeah. Previously, I have built a merkel proof library that does appendable dynamic merkel trees. So you could effectively append it's like merkel mountain ranges, but it's a little different in that there's no bagging the peaks.
00:58:03.656 - 00:58:37.420, Speaker A: But again, it's neither here nor there. The idea here is that there is no zero knowledge proof in this. It's effectively just merkel trees where your state transitions are just larger and larger and larger merkel trees. And then you can go ahead and prune or exit your optimism part of that if you wait enough blocks or enough time. So I have to admit that I know this much out of the mountain of optimistic knowledge there is. So I don't know a ton about this. I think that it sounds more something like you should be posting this in ETH research and getting from the guys at the top.
00:58:37.420 - 00:58:57.936, Speaker A: Right. I realize you're a little more too much. Yeah, go ahead. Once you're doing that, keep building. Get some feedback from the big guys. I'm a lowly fish compared to what can you build? Essentially, it's a cheap way to verify a bunch of on chain interactions about actually the transactions being on chain. Right.
00:58:57.936 - 00:59:09.830, Speaker A: And then you settle it and you proof verify it. Right. The transactions will be on chain. In this case, they're all going to be on chain. Sorry. The data that you would have passed would have been on chain. It's just that the function you call doesn't actually call the underlying pure function.
00:59:09.830 - 00:59:34.284, Speaker A: So anybody can see the transaction and say, these are the events that were launched. This is the call data, but the actual logic was never executed. I see. So I have a working demo. This works right now. I have it running. What are you going to use it for? Yeah, so I have a game that I'm building on the side.
00:59:34.284 - 01:00:15.492, Speaker A: This is why I built this, because I figured I might as well build something for the hackathon. But there was this game that I heard somebody in the first day mention that they were building. Was it dark forest or something? So Dark Forest uses zero knowledge proofs, and again, 99% of their gas costs are probably the zero knowledge proof itself. And they said because of the gas costs and because of the chain being slow, 12 seconds slow. Right. They built the game in a way that a player has to do an update every couple of minutes, because if they were to play and update the state every single time, it would be too expensive. Well, in this case, the player can actually play offline, do thousands of state transitions, and then just say, by the way, I came out of the subway.
01:00:15.492 - 01:00:45.330, Speaker A: Here's everything I've done. Just trust me that this is the final state, or trust me that all of these state transitions produced all of these states and just append them to my merkel trees. And then anybody can say, well, that's either correct or not correct after the fact. So it's really useful for single player games. And so if no one else uses this, I'll use it for my game that I'm building, but that's what I would use it for. And the way it's built, you can actually use it on optimism itself. So you can build a smart contract that does an optimistic roll in on an optimistic roll up.
01:00:45.330 - 01:01:42.084, Speaker A: Yeah, I just want to reiterate, this is above my head enough that you should be talking like, don't point, don't stay in the weeds on this one. Come up for air and talk to people, make sure you're communicating with people in the space about yeah, what I want to get ideas here is what can I use it for? Because I don't know enough about the DeFi space or enough about the game space to know where there are current problems or where there's a lot of gas usage where I can apply this. I mean, I could do that research myself, but I guess that's what I'm here for. I do agree that you will want to build a great example in showing people how to use it exactly. But I think this is at the point right now where it's like, you need to do all the game theory and figure know, make sure that it's going to work and it's solid and go to guys like Vitalik and have him tell you why it doesn't work. And you'll have to find out, right? And you need to know that you need that feedback. So that's what I would say, is go get that feedback from guys a lot smarter than me.
01:01:42.084 - 01:02:24.612, Speaker A: I posted the link if anyone wants to take a look, but if you have any ideas on how I can show it off as an example, do you have a link to a game that I'm building under stealth? So I don't have a link to the game, but I'll just tell you what it is ahead of time. It's a complete entire clone, head to toe of the latest generation of Pokemon. Every single thing, all the code. But there's no IP because obviously it's just data, right? So you bring your own front end. You want to skin it like Pokemon, you feel free, but all the code is exactly the same. So because there's a single player component and a multiplayer component, you can use the optimism to do the single player stuff like say, hey, I did all of this for hours, and then here's my new state. But now I want to exit the optimism layer because I want to fight against this guy.
01:02:24.612 - 01:02:56.516, Speaker A: And therefore we have to do an on chain battle or a state channel. But that's neither here nor there either. Those links, too. I don't know why I posted it twice, but yeah, those. Are the Merkle Tree Library and the example of the optimistic role in I'm going to try to build a Battleship game. So imagine setting up your pieces would have been individual moves, which is kind of wasteful, and then say, okay, well, let's prove that your state of your Battleship arena is correct before you start playing just a little game. It doesn't really show it off that well because it's wasteful on purpose.
01:02:56.516 - 01:03:10.596, Speaker A: The Dark Forest guys actually mentioned Battleship as a good example of a build. So maybe that is a good, like, very simple too, right? There's not a lot to Battleship. Well, I like to reach out to them. I just don't know how to do it because all they have is their telegram and it was nothing. I can connect. You hit me up. Feel free.
01:03:10.596 - 01:03:23.064, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. Thanks so much, Michael. Thank you. I just posted those links because you sent them to me in a private message. Oh, I didn't realize that. Sorry. That's not a problem.
01:03:23.064 - 01:03:56.636, Speaker A: So I just shared them with everyone there. Thank you. The next project is Aldorado savings account with Juan and team. If you want to unmute and finish off the session. Yeah, sure. Can you hear me? Yeah, because I was running out of battery. So now we live in this project in which we are offering fully simple wallets for users, for peer to peer payments.
01:03:56.636 - 01:04:43.090, Speaker A: And we also have an exchange in there. We are focusing on development markets, south America, some areas in Africa as well. And on this event, we had the idea of also introducing savings accounts for people who want to maybe have some money that they won't use for this week, for the months. Yeah, savings, classic. Nothing weird. And we are evaluating what options do we have to introduce this and play with a couple of protocols, see what options we can give to the user. But we don't show off the crypto jargon in the UI much.
01:04:43.090 - 01:05:13.610, Speaker A: We want to keep it simple. We focus a lot on stablecoins. So, yeah, we have a non ramp thing already working with Circle. We just need to get the business know because there are a lot of sanctions and restrictions in different countries that we want to work on. So that's been difficult. We have already company settled on in Estonia. We are working on getting our licensing and everything together.
01:05:13.610 - 01:05:39.696, Speaker A: So that's that's seems to go back to the Open Money Initiative. Again. We were just talking about the Open money initiative in Alejandro. A perfect example. Yeah. So, first of all, I think decentralization is necessary in emerging markets, and that's where we have to go. And you have to make the UX really good.
01:05:39.696 - 01:06:09.160, Speaker A: You mentioned it there. You alluded to we're sticking to stablecoins. We're sticking to a simple mental model of this is a savings account. And if you can translate that, make your UI very simple, make it even a browser wallet I'm pro browser wallet make it very simple. So what you get in the long run is something that makes sense to them. As this is a stable, it's not going to fluctuate with the local currency. I can put money in and earn a small interest on it.
01:06:09.160 - 01:06:42.536, Speaker A: I think that the very simple mental model of this is a savings account. And then my piece of advice there so first of all, validation. It's a good idea. My piece of advice is getting it in people's hands. Go to local I went to bars and I handed out paper wallets that people could exactly and use that money, get it in people's hands and you'll get tons of great feedback on how do we do that during a COVID. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, that's a difficult part maybe to store a meter, but those are kind of illegal some places right now.
01:06:42.536 - 01:07:45.370, Speaker A: Yeah. So we're going to offer two different solutions for different kind of people. We're going to offer a custodian solution and a bring your own wallet solution for licensing issues and depending on the market because some providers, if you want to go on ramp with some providers, we cannot offer certain things. So we have to close sometimes and it's difficult and the regulation is also getting a bit too complex as well. So we want to have initially we're going to go with our custodian way first, see how it works with typical mom grandma who doesn't know anything about MetaMask and anything and just come here. We opened your account and it works and you put money there and maybe you don't have access to dollars, but now you do because you have USD. Try it and you can.
01:07:45.370 - 01:08:48.140, Speaker A: Biggest thing we want to offer is peer to peer payment with NFC or NFC or maybe Q or in the middle of next year we want to introduce Bring Your Wallet. So if you don't trust our provider or whatever, you can just bring your own thing. You already have a wallet with everything together, maybe a hardware one. And you just want to use our UI and all their connections to the savings protocol that we already set up for you because we want to make it very easy. You don't have to be the guru of financial academia or anything. Our offering is I live in the Netherlands now and the best thing I can get here is zero point 25% interest rate to a maximum as well. It's a bit stupid.
01:08:48.140 - 01:09:26.360, Speaker A: It makes no sense whatsoever. The trick of often bringing people into the current DeFi interest rates as well is just unranting. This project in Korea, code Terra Blockchain that they mentioned actually onboard a ton of people because they mentioned the founder was like this ecommerce. He had an ecommerce background, had distribution channels, the Korean financial system, very liberal and forward thinking. So on ramping was no problem. Right, on and off ramping. So I think that's one component.
01:09:26.360 - 01:10:06.970, Speaker A: You were to solve this on a broader scale and then distribution. And I think Netherlands potentially might be interesting kind of test ground because it's like I'm not sure about what things look like there on the ground, but I think that's something to be kind of cognizant of here. It's very cashless, so everything goes with the phone. Not even cards. People phone all the time. So kind of thing that are very used to it. Most of the markets we want to tackle, like Latin American modernization, like Argentina and Venezuela and things like that.
01:10:06.970 - 01:10:37.856, Speaker A: So those are markets. It's vital for something like this to emerge. But then we get problems on the on ramp in the Deserve because there are sanctions against Venezuela. There's probably going to be issues with Argentina. You cannot have any other currency to that. Yeah, we need to tackle that in a way that we offer a legal service. We are not like in the shadows or anything.
01:10:37.856 - 01:11:17.212, Speaker A: But to do that and to have the on ramp, a proper on ramp and be legal, it shots you off a bunch of places, the places that you want to help with. And that's the biggest hurdle that we have now. And trying to custodian someone else's be custodial is going to get you in even more trouble. You probably want to find a noncustodial solution. And you may need to learn some UX tricks. You may have to do things on a side chain where it's okay to deploy a smart contract wallet on behalf of them and then have multiple signers for recovery. Yeah, but that works fine.
01:11:17.212 - 01:11:37.750, Speaker A: Version of Argent works perfectly for us. But if I want to give it to my mom, I wouldn't trust her with that. Because if she loses that, it's like there's no way. You've got to find a way. That's the trick. That's the trick. Yeah, but that's why we are working on that actually currently.
01:11:37.750 - 01:12:28.948, Speaker A: But until we don't get that 100% perfect, people can lose funds. That's no joke. So until we get that 100% recoverable without us, which is kind of tricky, that's a big thing. I think it's the biggest thing for blockchain. Until we find that solution, we probably won't get that it's going to be someone bigger than us. Until then, we will have this dual solution, one for regular people and then one for more or less tech savvy who wants to I don't trust your provider. I'll bring my own thing, my hardware wallet or whatever and just hook up to our ecosystem because we have peer to peer payments when you use like handle instead of addresses and things like that.
01:12:28.948 - 01:12:56.350, Speaker A: So just bring more goodies into this ecosystem that you just want to build now. More than one savings solution. That's the goal for this event for us. Cool, we'll keep hacking. Yes. My one advice is just put it in people's hands and also don't be custodial. I would look at.
01:12:56.350 - 01:13:23.556, Speaker A: All right, I think we're good. Yeah, we've come to the end of the session. Thanks so much, austin and Peter You've been great. And thanks so much, everybody, for joining. If you do want to connect with them in the discord, they are there. Ping them, obviously, within reason. But yeah, feel free to reach out in the hack support channels.
01:13:23.556 - 01:13:47.168, Speaker A: And Austin's just dropped his Twitter. Cool. Guys, you can leave this room. I'm not sure what's happening in the main room, so there's, like, a button at the bottom there says leave room, and I think that takes you to the other part of the zoom call, so you can try doing that. But yeah. Thanks so much. See ya.
01:13:47.168 - 01:13:49.500, Speaker A: Eight. Bye.
