00:00:02.040 - 00:00:04.310, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch.
00:00:04.342 - 00:00:38.964, Speaker B: Podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto. And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement. With that out of the way, let's jump right in.
00:00:39.304 - 00:00:44.904, Speaker A: Today's episode is brought to you by Protocol Labs, the team behind Filecoin. And with me today is Colin Efrin.
00:00:44.944 - 00:00:50.616, Speaker B: From protocol Labs, who leads ecosystem there to tell us why people should choose Filecoin over alternatives.
00:00:50.680 - 00:00:52.416, Speaker A: So, Colin, why should people be using.
00:00:52.480 - 00:00:54.404, Speaker B: Filecoin over other competitors?
00:00:55.024 - 00:01:27.894, Speaker C: Filecoin believes that web3 will only win by offering a better product at a better price point. When it comes to storage, Filecoin offers the most scale at the cheapest price, with the strong guarantees uniquely enabled by its open market of storage providers and its crypto economic incentives. Now, smart contracts on Filecoin, which launches in q one of 2023, only make this more powerful. It enables users to create perpetual storage deals to store data forever at costs that are a small fraction of centralized storage providers like s three.
00:01:28.744 - 00:01:29.352, Speaker A: Hello there.
00:01:29.408 - 00:01:32.152, Speaker B: Now, before I move on, I'd love to thank the hundreds of you who.
00:01:32.168 - 00:01:34.016, Speaker A: Have subscribed to blockchain.
00:01:34.040 - 00:01:37.608, Speaker B: Because with your support, I've been able to share my real thoughts on specific.
00:01:37.656 - 00:01:39.584, Speaker A: Projects that I don't usually share, on.
00:01:39.624 - 00:02:01.086, Speaker B: Interviews in a format that I enjoy more, which is bi weekly written posts. We've also been able to offer exclusive AMA's, sharing my investment frameworks, interactable models, and breaking down important trends before they become big. Now, we even had Elon Musk comment on one of our threads recently. So if you haven't already, head on over to theblockcrench.com VIP and you can access dozens of hours of research for.
00:02:01.110 - 00:02:44.570, Speaker A: What you'd spend on a coffee a day. All right, hey, everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, as of the recording of this episode, three of the biggest banks in the US that support crypto companies have been shut down. Now, that's Silvergate Signature and Silicon Valley bank. Now, that sparked a temporary Deepak in USDC just two weeks ago, which is a $4 billion stablecoin and also mass market panic. Now, as a response to the panic, the US Fed added $300 billion to their balance sheet and loans to the struggling banks, which some have interpreted with a bit of controversy as a form of de facto easing. So with this chaos unfolding, we're really lucky to once again have a friend and a sharp trader who has been accurately calling quite a few of the recent market turns.
00:02:44.570 - 00:02:49.934, Speaker A: The founder of North Rock Digital, Hal Press, on the show once again. So, Hal, welcome back to the show, man.
00:02:50.614 - 00:02:54.142, Speaker D: Thanks. Thanks. There's a lot to discuss on this one.
00:02:54.318 - 00:03:08.834, Speaker A: Yeah, so a lot of stuff happened. Why don't we start with the big one, which is the bank situation right now that commonly coined as choke. .2.0. Can you give a little bit context about just what is going on with the crypto banks in the US and how bad is it?
00:03:09.534 - 00:04:02.084, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. I mean, I think there's a couple separate dynamics, really. Two main ones. One is what you mentioned, which is the, what's being referred to as choke, .2.0 which is the administration has taken a view, the US administration, that they want to shield the existing financial, traditional financial system from any sort of crypto collateral impact. And basically, the way that they've decided to try to accomplish this is to sever any sort of on ramp and off ramp as best they can between the two assets, between the sort of crypto ecosystem and the traditional finance ecosystem. And that has the effect of basically removing banking access from a lot of crypto applications.
00:04:02.084 - 00:05:13.542, Speaker D: And there's some things that they're doing to try to pressure banks to not service crypto customers and crypto companies. And then on top of that, there are these banks that actually, I mean, this is sort of a controversial topic, but mostly, or at least partially, they sort of went bust or bankrupt for other reasons, not because the government shut them down, but because they just were no longer viable businesses going forward. I mean, there's a lot of controversy over whether signature really was a viable business or whether it was sort of shadow shut down because it had crypto dealings. But certainly Silvergate was not really a viable business going forward, and neither was Silicon Valley bank. And Silicon Valley bank also, by the way, it wasn't really just a crypto bank. They did service a few crypto clients, but also had exposure to tons of other tech companies. So there's sort of that regulatory effort going on, and then there's also the other form, broad macro banking contagion tightening event going on in the background as well, which is having an additional impact.
00:05:13.542 - 00:05:18.074, Speaker D: It's a fascinating time to be sort of analyzing the financial markets.
00:05:18.454 - 00:05:44.514, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the big question from that is really whether on ramps for crypto players and crypto funds or crypto projects are curtailed from the market in the US, because if that's the case, then we got to find out where the marginal buyer is coming from. You know, I think some people say it might be from China and so on, but before even that, like, is it true that the on ramps have just been cut off in us, like, for funds that are looking to bid, institutions that are looking to buy? Can they still access crypto now?
00:05:45.294 - 00:06:12.318, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, it's not true. So I am one of those funds, frankly, that was unbanked. So we use signature as our banking partner. We no longer can. However, there's five or six other banks that are willing to work with us and allow us to open bank accounts and receive money and create that on ramp off ramp. So, no, it's not true that the on ramp has been severed. It's been disrupted.
00:06:12.318 - 00:06:27.714, Speaker D: And certainly there's a lot of people, a lot of funds doing what we're doing, which is reestablishing banking relationships with other banks. But there are certainly still banks that exist in the United States that will take crypto funds and allow them to onboard fiat capital into the system.
00:06:28.254 - 00:06:35.366, Speaker A: So there's still a long tail of banks that are supporting crypto funds. It's not like, as if every single project and fund is just, like, done now, because those three big.
00:06:35.430 - 00:07:05.154, Speaker D: Yeah, and I think. I think there's a lot of sort of commotion and turbulence right now because everybody's trying to go open an account with these five or six banks that will offer those services. And as a result, all of those banks are extremely overwhelmed. And so there's a little bit of difficulty right now. But in a month or two, when things settle out, I don't think there'll be any issues for new funds that are opening bank accounts at any of these places.
00:07:05.774 - 00:07:26.994, Speaker A: And just to kind of close up this part on banks, obviously, it's hard to call policies or regulations, but how likely is it for these remaining banks to also become target of regulation or shutdown? And particularly, how likely are they to be shut down, regardless of the performance of the bank itself? How likely are they to shut down as part of a wider crypto crack down?
00:07:27.414 - 00:07:54.676, Speaker D: So my personal view on this is that, and a lot of people disagree with this, but my personal view is that I actually do not think that signature was shut down because it was a crypto bank. Yeah. And I don't know that for a fact. Right. Like, I don't know exactly what happened. I wasn't in the room with the regulators when they decided. The regulators are probably, you know, viewing it as a, as a nice side effect that they got to shut down one of these crypto banks that they probably wanted to shut down.
00:07:54.676 - 00:08:37.842, Speaker D: But I think signature had legitimate issues as a bank, just like a lot of the other banks have had issues that have nothing to do with crypto. And so I don't think they were shut down because they were a crypto bank. And certainly they weren't openly shut down because they were a crypto bank. And the other banks definitely weren't shut down because they were crypto banks. So I actually don't think any bank has been shut down because they were a crypto bank. I think the regulators will do things in the gray area where they can to try to make life more difficult for these banks if they want to, similar to what they did with online poker back quite a few years ago. But I don't think that any of these banks would outright be shut down because they are crypto banks.
00:08:37.842 - 00:08:58.324, Speaker D: I think there is a possibility that some of them go bust because a lot of banks may go bust. But I don't think it's as if any bank that goes and tries to bank crypto customers will be shut down. I mean, frankly, JPMorgan banks, certain crypto customers, and obviously theyre not going to be shut down. So, yeah, I dont think its likely that any of them will be shut down because theyre crypto banks.
00:08:58.744 - 00:09:28.800, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think just often color from our side as well. A lot of portfolio companies use these big banks like JPMorgan as well, and they run into no issues. So I think I tend to agree there. Theres a bit of a reactionary response to banks being shut down. And just so happens all three of them are kind of crypto related as well. But at the same time, during this whole bank run panic, bitcoin at one point started to decouple from risk assets a little bit, and some people are starting to attribute that to maybe a digital gold thesis or narrative taking hold.
00:09:28.800 - 00:09:36.044, Speaker A: Is that what youre seeing as well? Do you foresee bitcoin as a potential safe haven asset similar to gold, or is that too early for bitcoin?
00:09:36.344 - 00:10:32.586, Speaker D: Yeah, its a good question. I think before we get to that, its important to look at what is actually happening with the banking issue. Like what is it at the first principle? What is the first principles of the issue and what's going on there and how did it come to be? And then from there, I think it's easier to draw laterals to sort of the other assets reaction to it and why they're happening. And so just at a high level, my sort of understanding of what's going on is that you had a pretty COVID had a lot of unintended consequences. And really, I think that this is one of those unintended consequences where COVID happened. Central banks took interest rates to zero and pumped a lot of money in the system. And so the effect of that is that the price of a bond, especially a long duration bond or any sort of long duration fixed income instrument, is inversely correlated to the yield.
00:10:32.586 - 00:11:20.290, Speaker D: And so when the Fed took yield to zero, they boosted the price of all these fixed income instruments. So they pushed them to really record highs. And then they pumped all this money in the system, which naturally found its way back to these banks. And so banks got record deposits in 21 and 22. And when banks get deposits, what do they do? The business model of a bank is to lever those deposits and buy fixed income assets with them. And so basically the Fed pumped a bunch of money into these banks and then told the banks, well, they didn't tell the banks to do this, but the bank's standard business model is that they go buy fixed income products with that money. And it just so happens that those fixed income products that they were buying were at sort of record unnatural highs.
00:11:20.290 - 00:11:57.876, Speaker D: So they got tons of money, levered it and bought these assets that were at very high value, high prices. And then another unintended consequence of the COVID was that you had this inflation. And so as a result, to deal with inflation, the Fed decided that responsibly, they had to raise interest rates a ton and start sucking money out of the system. The problem with this is that, one, all the deposits dry up. And that was the main issue with Silicon Valley bank, is that that industry was hit particularly hard. But two, now that the interest rates have gone up, the price of those fixed income assets has come way down. And especially when you're levered like these banks are.
00:11:57.876 - 00:12:19.996, Speaker D: And for the ones that had more duration, the worst it was. And all of a sudden you have huge losses on a levered portfolio and your deposits are nonexistent. And now you're starting to see withdrawals. And so you have to crystallize those losses. And frankly, in a lot of cases, there's more losses than equity value. And so the banks are actually insolvent. And this is really a structural issue that exists.
00:12:19.996 - 00:13:29.206, Speaker D: And there was really this very unique sort of set of circumstances that amplified it in such a way that a pretty sizable issue for a lot of banks. And so that's really the crux of the issue. And that's a very sort of fundamental issue that really hits on just the first principles of a fractional reserve banking system, which is our basically developed world fiat monetary banking system across the world. And if that system is sort of threatened and shown to be problematic, it has extremely broad and far reaching consequences on the immediate future. You know, people worry about their bank deposits and their ability to withdraw capital and access capital, then that provides a lot of value for an s or value, because you know that fear causes people to rush to safety. But the sort of more significant impact is that it just calls into question the whole existing legacy financial system. And that obviously also lends credence to alternative financial systems.
00:13:29.206 - 00:14:31.942, Speaker D: And I think that's one of the large sort of that's created this interest in crypto as a result of this. And then, frankly, one of the most important effects of this is that it creates a lot of potential economic weakness, because credit in the system really starts to get tight and money gets sucked out of the system. And as a response, the way that central banks normally combat this is by basically printing money and stimulating it back into the system. And that creates the potential for a very sharp shift in monetary policy that is usually correlated with positive crypto environment. And so I think all of that is to say, you've really had two sort of unique dynamics that occurred at the same time, which is that you had this questioning of the legacy financial system, which pushed a lot of people to seek out alternative stores of value. So you've seen gold go up a lot. But interestingly, you've actually seen bitcoin go up a lot more than gold.
00:14:31.942 - 00:15:05.256, Speaker D: And the thing that I've mentioned this before, the thing with a store of value, is it has to perform like a store of value. Right? So in prior times, bitcoin has not performed well in risk offsetting where gold has. And I've always made the point, well, that's not really establishing bitcoin very kindly as a store of value, because it's not proving to be a store of value. But this time is very different. It has actually worked very effectively as a store of value and has been the best performing asset in a period of extreme financial stress. So that really does start to build credibility that. Well, wait, hold on a second.
00:15:05.256 - 00:15:41.474, Speaker D: This may actually be a credible store of value. Like if you had bitcoin in your portfolio last two weeks as a hedge against some sort of disaster. It worked. It did its job. And so that makes people start to believe that it actually is a store value. And then the interesting thing is that that scenario not only triggered this sort of proof point of crypto's value as a store value, but it also occurred simultaneous to essentially locking in much easier monetary policy, which was a sort of double whammy positive impact for crypto. So you saw initially, like crypto, follow risk markets lower.
00:15:41.474 - 00:16:13.754, Speaker D: And then as people started to figure out the thesis and why these might affect crypto differently, it decoupled very sharply in the other direction, which I think makes sense. And then now you're in an interesting position where you don't really know whether crypto benefits from more banking fallout or banking resolution, because on the one hand, you have the beta to equities and sort of the other, broader risk markets, and on the other hand, you have sort of the benefit from these risk off effects. So it's created a very interesting dynamic that's really quite unique in terms of what we've seen over the last couple of years.
00:16:14.094 - 00:16:58.672, Speaker A: Yeah, I absolutely agree there because I think a few weeks ago, when USDC de pact, I think the mentality for retail was very clear. If you can't trust your stable coins and you can't trust your banks and you don't really know the exposure that exchanges have, all you can do is really buy crypto assets and move it off, exchange in self custody. And I think that took some time for the market to figure out, but that seems to be a big driving narrative behind this. Now, to take it to its extreme, Balaji recently tweeted a pretty controversial tweet. He basically claimed that taking your argument to the logical extreme, we're going to get hyperinflation within 90 days. And he personally pledged up to $2 million. If that doesn't happen, and he said, bitcoin is going to go to a million dollars, then.
00:16:58.672 - 00:17:05.084, Speaker A: So I think a lot of people in our circles kind of thought, okay, he's kind of crazy, but I'm curious, you know, what your take is there.
00:17:05.664 - 00:18:00.254, Speaker D: Yeah, so I have seen the take. I haven't seen the full. I think he made, like, an oral argument that was recorded, and I haven't seen the full. The full discussion, but the gist of it, I guess it depends on the timeframe, and I don't really know his timeframe. If the question is, do I think there could be a lot of money printing in the next 90 days to combat some of these issues, the answer is yes, I would agree with him, I think there could be. I mean we've already seen money printing and I think there could be a lot more if the main contagion sort of spreads more broadly, which I think it may. Now do I think that that means that bitcoin will go to a million dollars? No, I don't think that's really plausible.
00:18:00.254 - 00:18:39.368, Speaker D: And actually let me pull up 1 second, there's one calculation I did. I think it's about 630 bitcoin minted or emitted a day. So if bitcoin were to be a million dollars, it would be almost a billion dollars a day of bitcoin emissions. So don't think that that's practical. I don't think that there's enough money in the world to sustain a billion dollars a day for very long on bitcoin. So I don't think the billion dollar price target is really feasible. I think I said the million dollar price target.
00:18:39.368 - 00:19:01.788, Speaker D: I think that's also somewhere along the lines of like $30 trillion market cap. Like. Yeah, no, I'd be pretty comfortable taking the other side of that beta. Do I think bitcoin can go up? Certainly. But do I think it can get to a million? No, I'd be. I mean nothing's impossible. These things can like you know, get to crazy values for very small amounts of time due to liquidity sort of dynamics.
00:19:01.788 - 00:19:53.504, Speaker D: But I would be, I would definitely be willing to take the other side of that for any extended period of time. And I also don't think it will get there even ever, but certainly not for extended period of time. And then on the hyperinflation issue, I do think you could see money printing and some potential inflationary impulses in the short term. But I really do not think theres much risk of structural hyperinflation, which I think would be the bigger concern. I mean what inflation does over any small period of time is not really that relevant. Its more the structural dynamics of it that matter. And I dont think theres any risk frankly, of long term structural hyperinflation here, because I think that really just depends more on population growth and productivity growth, which are pretty entrenched and not really impacted by any of this.
00:19:53.504 - 00:20:02.584, Speaker D: So I would say, just to sum that up, I agree with some parts of it and disagree with other parts of it.
00:20:03.164 - 00:20:27.410, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. And for bitcoin to hit a million dollars in 90 days, I think that probably implies that us dollar is a worthless shitcoin and society is going to collapse. So I really don't really want that to happen. I kind of half expect him to come out in three months time and say, hey, the three month thing was just so that I could create urgency so that you guys start thinking about this issue. I didn't really mean it, so we'll see how that goes.
00:20:27.482 - 00:20:28.094, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:20:28.954 - 00:20:59.144, Speaker A: And speaking of high profile people on Twitter as well, Arthur Hayes, the former founder of Bitmex, also published this really popular blog post recently talking about the Fed's new bank term funding program. And he basically likened it to having the same effect or similar effect as the COVID QE. And interestingly, I think people outside of crypto seem to think that this is either misinterpreted or alarmist. So I'm curious what your take is on that kind of BTFP. Is it going to be similar to QE on crypto? Is it slightly different?
00:21:00.244 - 00:22:16.942, Speaker D: I don't know the exact mechanics of it well enough to really have a sophisticated view. The more interesting thing to me than just this specific program is the long term effect that all of these events will have on monetary policy going forward. I think the economy was already sort of on the precipice of weakening quite materially. I think we had been dealing with a lot of sort of the tail ends of COVID backlog and that was keeping things afloat, as well as some seasonal strength in January and February. I actually expect the data to weaken quite materially in March before any of this stuff happened. And I think that this is going to be a somewhat substantial shock to an already weakening system or an already weakening sort of economy, to the point where I do expect data to weaken and I actually expect inflation to weaken. So I would disagree with biology for a couple of reasons, which is why I said earlier that didn't really agree with the hyperinflation call, because I actually think this is the events of the last couple of weeks are probably going to make people pull back more than anything.
00:22:16.942 - 00:23:14.420, Speaker D: Even if you are sort of pushing liquidity into the banks, I don't think that people are going to be putting that capital to work. The impact on the economy is really a function of two things. It's not just broad money growth, it's also the velocity of the money. And so even if you do have money growth and m two goes up, if the velocity of money comes way down, your actual impact can still be negative. And that's probably what I would expect to happen. I think a lot of businesses are seeing this and are probably getting spooked by it, and so they're probably curtailing spending plans, curtailing hiring plans, canceling backlog, taking conservative actions to try to insulate their business as best they can from any sort of coming economic impact. So all of that is to say, I think the economy is going to weaken over the next few months, and that is going to have the impact of allowing central banks around the world, frankly, to start to reverse their monetary impulse.
00:23:14.420 - 00:23:47.984, Speaker D: So instead of tightening, they will first pause, and then eventually, if things get bad enough, they will ease. And that's going to be a very interesting impact. And I don't think that's fully been understood by sort of broad markets yet or crypto markets. I think crypto is starting to price that in a bit and is also responding to the banking issues. But if we do get more structural regime shift in monetary policy, I think it's going to have quite a profound impact on all long tail secular growth assets, of which crypto is one.
00:23:48.844 - 00:24:08.174, Speaker A: And that actually brings me to my next question, which is, if we do expect the economy to contract in a recession, do you foresee that this whole banking issue, this increased awareness of bitcoin as a potential flight to safety, is the thing that helps crypto decorrelate from wider equities?
00:24:09.034 - 00:25:11.254, Speaker D: Im a bit more skeptical than I think maybe some others are, just because for crypto to really decouple in that meaningful way, I would say that crypto can decouple from equities because there are subgroups of equities that also decouple from the index. Like, I think the question is not can crypto decouple from equities? It can crypto decouple from other long tail secular growth equities. Like if we're in an environment where the high flying tech sort of secular growth equities are going down, can crypto go up? Because there's, I think there's environments where the s and p can be down and those certain sectors can be going up and crypto can go up with them. And that is for sure. But that's not, I don't view that really as decoupling from equities. I just view that as certain subclasses of equities decoupling from the broader index. But for crypto to decouple from that sort of secular growth subclass of equity would be a more meaningful thing.
00:25:11.254 - 00:26:33.614, Speaker D: And I think for that to happen, you would really, I think it can decouple for periods of time, but for longer periods of time, it's hard because you really need to drive those structural flow changes. I think you did this somewhat in COVID when you pushed a ton of people into the crypto ecosystem. But if you just kind of create some banking fears where people allocate to crypto as a portion of their portfolio during that period, it's not clear to me how you get those structural flows. You have the structural flows you actually need to drive users to the space. So I think the key thing is going to be, does this episode actually push individuals into the crypto ecosystem more than just like Boeing and allocating 10% of their portfolio to bitcoin during the two weeks that this is going on? The question is sort of, do those participants then trickle down into the rest of the crypto economy and become active participants in it? If that happens, then you can have a more material decoupling. But if it's just the sort of allocation of funds while these issues are going on, then I think it's more of a shorter term decoupling, because eventually these issues will alleviate and people will stop reallocating once it alleviates. And then if you haven't actually driven the individuals into the ecosystem, then the decoupling will end there.
00:26:34.144 - 00:27:13.244, Speaker A: That makes a lot of sense, I think narrative driving, price price driving, adoption, adoption driving narratives. Again, I think that's the positive loop that crypto had before, and that's what we need for sustainable growth as well. I think now is a good time to zoom in a little bit and look at crypto specific topics. So last time you came on the show, which was, I think, about a quarter ago, we talked a lot about Ethereum's bullish case and talking about the fact that it was becoming deflationary, whereas bitcoin was more unloved as an asset. Right now, it seems like bitcoin is kind of center stage right now. So what do you think about bitcoin dominance? You know, what's your outlook on ETH or BTC?
00:27:14.104 - 00:28:19.206, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a really interesting topic, and I think you've had sort of a perfect storm, really, for this entire year, and then especially these last few weeks, where you have positive bitcoin dynamics and negative ETH dynamics simultaneous. So the announcement of Shanghai was last week, and Shanghai is obviously withdrawals, and that's been a constant overhang for a very long time. And I think the issue with Shanghai is that there's a lot of uncertainty and very large numbers around it, and so people just want to reduce risk and not sort of have any exposure to the event, because there's just so much uncertainty. They don't know exactly how things will play out. And so that creates this real hesitance to have a large ETH position into withdrawals. And I think that's caused a lot of people to shy away from it, especially institutions that maybe don't understand the technicals of the event that well, to really just try to steer clear of the asset until that event passes. So that's been a headwind on ETH.
00:28:19.206 - 00:29:08.520, Speaker D: And then on the other side, you've obviously had the slv narrative and the flight two sort of the accepted digital gold, which is bitcoin. So you had both of those forces pushing in the same direction, but from different sort of standpoints. And that's caused this really sharp outperformance of bitcoin overeat to date. And Shanghai is scheduled to occur on April 12. So it's only three weeks away now, and we're really reaching sort of the climax of these dynamics now. Personally, I sort of disagree with both of the dynamics. As a trader, with my trading hat, I've sort of recognized that these dynamics were going to be in place until we get closer to Shanghai.
00:29:08.520 - 00:29:47.422, Speaker D: And so I have not really tried to fight it. So just as a fund, we have not really had any ETH BTC position, whereas we normally sort of have that as a structural position. We haven't done that just because we've thought that these dynamics were probably going to play out in this fashion. But the fundamentals of those two dynamics, like I said, I do disagree with for a couple of reasons. First of all, I actually think that ETH is a superior sov to bitcoin in the long term, and can start to pick up some of those funds as people start to better appreciate this. I think that bitcoin is sort of the obvious on ramp into the space. When new money comes in, it generally comes into bitcoin.
00:29:47.422 - 00:30:35.904, Speaker D: But the typical trend that you see is that it starts in bitcoin and then trickles to other areas in the market. So it makes a lot of sense that bitcoin outperforms when new money initially enters. But once that period of initial rotation into the space occurs, and then they start to explore other options, then I think it's pretty reasonable to expect to see that outperformance slow and then actually, at some point shift to underperformance. Because once all the money has flowed into bitcoin, then there's no more money to buy bitcoin. But there's actually a lot of money to sell bitcoin for other assets, then create that underperformance. And I think that's actually supported by fundamentals. When you dig in to the fact that ETH, in my opinion, is actually a superior sov to bitcoin long term because they have actually answered the question of the security budget, whereas bitcoin has not.
00:30:35.904 - 00:31:27.094, Speaker D: And there's a lot more detail on that, but we don't need to bog down on that one. And then the second point about Shanghai, I actually think is massively sort of overblown. And I don't expect a lot of self pressure to come from Shanghai. And so I'd expect it to be sort of a sell the rumor by the fact event where, you know, there's Max fear, and then when the event actually happened, people realize, oh wait, this wasn't so bad. And I, yeah, I don't want to get into too many specifics, but I would expect Shanghai to be less bad than feared by the time we actually get there. And so it's the dynamic that we're watching extremely closely. And it's a pretty interesting one that may give rise to some interesting opportunities down the line.
00:31:27.674 - 00:32:03.734, Speaker A: Yeah, one thing about bitcoin that we haven't mentioned is also halfing. We're one year, almost exactly a year away from next halving and comparison to past cycles with a grand total of three data points. Every time there's a halving, it's been a material driver of bitcoin price. But I guess what's different this time compared to the past three? Halving is the macro backdrop. All of the halvings happen in an easy monetary environment. This time, not so sure. So is that something that you think is relevant and worth looking out for or this time it's just, it's become less relevant as the impact of the halving is lesser every cycle.
00:32:04.794 - 00:32:40.784, Speaker D: I definitely think it is relevant. And it's not clear to me that the impact of the halving is lesser each cycle because the price of bitcoin is also higher each cycle generally. And so the dollar impact can be similar. I do think it's a relevant dynamic, if nothing else, will provide a very strong narrative. And then I do believe in structural flows. And so I think when you reduce bitcoin emissions by 50%, it is going to have, over the time, positive impact on the price of bitcoin. Now, it comes with a fundamental negative, which is that bitcoin security budget is reduced by 50% because bitcoin security relies on emissions.
00:32:40.784 - 00:33:00.704, Speaker D: Which raises all kinds of other interesting questions which we can touch on. But generally in crypto, the way things work is that flows rule the day and fundamentals come second. And so I would expect it to have a net positive impact, and I would also expect it to have a net positive impact in anticipation as people try to, or as the narrative builds and starts to attract attention.
00:33:01.724 - 00:33:41.930, Speaker A: Speaking of security budget, I think one paradigm shift in bitcoin that led to a potential way out is the rise of these ordinals, which are on chain nfts. Not for the first time on bitcoin, but for the first time it's grown to this scale. I think as of a month ago, they generated about $2 million in fees. So some people are saying, maybe this is the way for bitcoin to generate a security budget, to have these on chain nfts or on chain use cases. And I really like the fact that I think we came to the conclusion separately, maybe a month or so ago, that a potential way to play this is through stacks. I think we have slightly different past that we came to this. But you recently published your thesis on stacks as well.
00:33:41.930 - 00:33:46.574, Speaker A: Can you talk a little bit about that and what led you to be bullish on stacks?
00:33:47.034 - 00:34:46.130, Speaker D: Sure. I think before you get to stacks specifically, it is interesting to touch on the dynamics playing out on bitcoin, which is there is this existential issue on bitcoin, of bitcoin needs to generate security budget from somewhere right now. They generate it from emitting tokens. However, those emissions have every four years, and therefore the security budget also has every four years, which is not a sustainable long term dynamic, because eventually the security budget will be too low and the network will be very vulnerable to a 51% attack. So there's really only a few options to deal with this. Firstly, you can implement tail emissions, which nobody likes, because that removes the hard cap on bitcoin supply and sort of ruins a lot of the core tenants around it. Two, you can subsidize mining, which people also don't like, because then it relies on someone else eating the loss for the miners, and therefore results in much more easier censorship because those people control the mining.
00:34:46.130 - 00:35:36.110, Speaker D: It would have to be, for example, a government that had taken an interest in the bitcoin network and was willing to subsidize miners, but then that government would also control the miners and the network would be significantly less decentralized. That also doesn't really work. And the third option, which is really the only viable one, is that bitcoin could generate a fee pool such that the fees were enough to compensate the miners instead of the emissions. Now, that is the most attractive of the three options by far. But it is also extremely hard, to be honest, in my opinion, it's quite, quite unrealistic, actually. I don't think it will happen. I think that the bitcoin l one layer is extremely difficult to build on top of for a lot of reasons.
00:35:36.110 - 00:36:33.162, Speaker D: And I think it's going to be very hard for the community to reach a consensus to change this. And they don't think they have the developer resources to change it either. However, I do think they're going to try because it's the only option that they really have. And so I do expect it to be a major theme as we progress from here, especially into the having, is how do we sort of build composability on bitcoin. And that's really what drove us to stacks, which is that the obvious sort of investable asset that benefits from that dynamic is stacks, because it's really the only token that is trying to build on bitcoin in some capacity. And the reason that we came to stacks was actually separate, which is that just as an, as an investment firm, we often invest in sort of a longer term catalyst, and the merge was an obvious example of that. And after the merge, in our opinion, the largest sort of investable catalyst that coming on the horizon was the halving.
00:36:33.162 - 00:37:17.664, Speaker D: And so I had actually asked one of our analysts to look at bitcoin and come back in a week with what he thought were all the best ways to potentially play the having. Which things could we buy that were tangentially related to bitcoin that might benefit from the having in some fashion? And after a week, he came back with only one token and it was stacks. Because the reality is there's just not a lot of tangential tokens in the bitcoin ecosystem. There's not a lot built there. And so that was the first part point where we started to look at like, okay, is this a. Is this a sort of a good way to position for the having? And I think what we found was it was actually more than that. We were pleasantly surprised when we started to dig into it.
00:37:17.664 - 00:38:06.474, Speaker D: There is a lot of sort of built up potential energy to build some sort of composable crypto economy on top of bitcoin. There's tons and tons of capital there, such that even if it's a very small percentage of that, that actually wants to do something with their capital, still very large notional values. And so if you could ever do something like create bitcoin defi or create a bitcoin denominated NFT market there's a tremendous. There's a tremendous amount of potential for that. And stacks, in our view, was the. Now, I think a lot of people push back because they say that stacks is not an l two, and it's not. I admit that very plainly in the thesis, it is not a traditional or technical l two.
00:38:06.474 - 00:39:07.824, Speaker D: It is essentially a side chain that is building on bitcoin now, because building an l two on bitcoin is impossible right now, given that some of the technical code is not written to support it. So fax is the best option for building on bitcoin today that exists. And I think our whole point has been, just because you cannot technically build an l two on bitcoin today does not mean that the bitcoin community is going to, or even should stop trying to experiment with what's viable as building on bitcoin. And so stacks has taken a creative path to create the next best option, given that it is impossible for an l two. And they have created an ecosystem that sort of revolves around bitcoin, and they are exploring what it would look like to build a more traditional l two on bitcoin. And if we in the future get the hard fork, that would enable an l two to exist on bitcoin. Stacks has said that they will convert to that model and they will become a traditional l two built on bitcoin.
00:39:07.824 - 00:40:15.342, Speaker D: And at that point in the future, then they would already have sort of dominant market share, dominant mind share, dominant TVL, because they will have been building in advance for so many years. And so, in our view, it's a very practical thing to do, especially as this theme builds. And it looks more and more likely that they may end up someday doing this and enabling l two s. And then stacks will convert to the leading bitcoin l two at that time. And then on top of that, you have that underlying picture that's supported by the dynamics that are playing out on bitcoin. And then on top of that, the ordinals really sparked this sort of narrative of, okay, well, hold on, maybe we should explore building on bitcoin, which also supports stacks. And then on top of that, it just so happens that there is a key technical stacked upgrade called nakamoto, which is supposed to occur towards the end of this year, which is really going to revolutionize the chain, because right now, the chain is running at the same cadence as bitcoin.
00:40:15.342 - 00:41:14.934, Speaker D: And so transactions take somewhere between ten and 30 minutes to approve, which is really sort of a handicap when you're trying to build composability. On a chain and build that flexibility. And additionally, there is no version of wrapped bitcoin on stacks and no sort of synthetic bitcoin. But this upgrade, which is coming later this year, is going to enable both of those things. So you will have really sort of two to five second transaction confirmation times and synthetic bitcoin. And so when that happens, it's going to really be a pretty powerful dynamic, where all of a sudden you'll be able to bridge bitcoin to stack quickly and then transact very quickly and do things like interact with a uniswap type application, interact with an Opensea type application and trade NFT denominated in bitcoin on a chain dedicated to bitcoin. So you can already do this on Ethereum with sort of raft bitcoin, but there's no resources dedicated to driving raft bitcoin adoption on stacks.
00:41:14.934 - 00:42:15.818, Speaker D: There will be incentives actively allocated towards driving that adoption. So like one example, and I have spoken to the stack team a bit over the past month or so, and sort of fleshing out some of these ideas, which is one of the things that gave us conviction to make the investment, is you could do something along the lines of once you have synthetic bitcoin, you could incentivize the, um, bridging of that synthetic bitcoin by saying any bitcoin that bridges over to stack is going to get an automatic yield paid out in BTC on l one just for existing. So basically, all you have to do is bridge your bitcoin to stack and you will receive like a one or 2% yield paid in bitcoin on l one. And then you can do anything you want with your bitcoin on stacks from there. But you'll just get this yield as just an incentive. And they can do that easily with the existing treasury. All you have to do is allocate $2 million out of the treasury and you could drive $100 million of tvl of bitcoin to stacks.
00:42:15.818 - 00:43:07.688, Speaker D: And then if you wanted to drive more, you could do 4% of incentives, I mean 4 million of incentives, which they have hundreds of millions of dollars combined in their treasury. So this is not like large numbers for them. And then you could drive $200 million of bitcoin TVL. And once you have the bitcoin on the chain, and you already have the infrastructure built for an NFT ecosystem, then all you have to do is bring on some interesting NFT projects, denominate them in bitcoin. And all of a sudden now you have the first real bitcoin denominated NFT market that ever existed. And that's really quite a profound thing that will be happening right around when the halving is approaching and there's already this sort of urgency to explore building on bitcoin. And then lastly, it just so happens that the stacks having actually occurs at the exact same time as the bitcoin having.
00:43:07.688 - 00:43:45.122, Speaker D: And so that's another added benefit. So all of these things created what I would refer to as a confluence where there's really very few ways to invest in the having. This has a very compelling, fundamental story anyway, and it fits with all the ongoing dynamics at a more macro level at the same time. And so that's rare that you get that in investing, but this was the time where we thought that had existed, and so we thought it was quite compelling. And that's why we went to the trouble of sort of writing that long form thesis and taking a larger position and being more active in supporting it.
00:43:45.298 - 00:44:32.484, Speaker A: Yeah, and we did a full on episode with Munib, the founder of Blockstack, on our show about a month ago as well, where we dug into Nakamoto and some of the trade offs made by the chain, especially some of the exciting things that are coming on the horizon. So really recommend that anyone who wants to dive deeper into this thesis, go check out that episode as well. Hal, I think to wrap up the episode, I'd love to just be throwing a very generic question, because last week you called for a gaming narrative, and I realized that you often have this uncanny ability to call narratives very, very early on in time. So I think the last major example was the merge, which you guys obviously nailed. So I'm just curious, without giving away too much, what is your process for identifying some narratives? What are some things that other people learn from that process?
00:44:34.504 - 00:45:39.044, Speaker D: Some of it just comes with pattern recognition. You know, you've seen prior narratives and what's driven outperformance in this space, but you do have to, at some point, have it be driven by fundamentals. Like, I think there's an effort in this space to take these narratives a little bit too far, where they'll say, Xyz thing is happening. So anything that is even tangentially related to XYZ should just go up because it's in the same universe. Those narratives, I find, are much less sustainable and much less sticky and much poorer investment sort of opportunities versus things that actually have real fundamental backing. And so I give an example of this. Not to sort of pick on any narrative or support any other narrative, but an example would be right now there's sort of a ZK narrative in the market because Matic is launching their ZK EVM, and Zksync is going to do a main net in the next couple of weeks.
00:45:39.044 - 00:46:14.508, Speaker D: They've said they expect to do that. And so there's this view that you can buy any sort of ZK related tokens, and they're going to go up as these events happen. So you can buy dust or mina or loopring. And because these are the ZK centric chains, they will also go up just because people would be talking about the ZK. And that's something that I'd qualify as not a very fundamentally strong narrative, because if you think about it, if you're actually introducing more ZK competition, it's probably bad for these chains and not good. And so there is no fundamental support for that thesis. It's just, oh, people are going to be talking about DK, so they're going to buy everything ZK.
00:46:14.508 - 00:46:57.634, Speaker D: And that is purely like greater fool. And I do not think that that narrative will be sustainable. Now, on the flip side, you have something like the arbitrum narrative. Arbitrum is going to launch a token. And so there's this view that a lot of the arbitrum tokens will do well alongside that, the arbitrum ecosystem tokens. And that is a narrative that, in my opinion, has much more strong fundamental support, because it's not just, oh, there's an arbitrum token, go buy arbitrum project. Arbitrum is finally launching their token, and they're going to then take that token and give it to the project to incentivize TVL growth of the project.
00:46:57.634 - 00:48:18.254, Speaker D: And all of the people in this space are going to just receive free money and probably be looking to do things with it. So they're probably going to go experiment with these protocols anyway, and they're going to get paid more money to do so. So that is actually something that should drive CVL growth on those protocols and also should drive flows into those tokens. Because if everybody just got free money and they want to spend it somewhere, and this got given basically to the most loyal arbitrum users, it's logical that some of that money will find its way to other arbitrum tokens. So that's a narrative to me that has much more fundamental backing and it's much more sustainable in the long term because there's probably going to be a second arbitrageum airdrop that will cause people to use it, and then there's going to be more arbitrum incentives that will cause people to use it, and it's all going to attract a lot of attention to arbitrum and more growth of those protocols. So buying whatever your favorite arbitrum token ecosystem token is based off of that narrative seems a lot more fundamentally driven than buying your favorite ZK coin, because Matic is launching a Zk EVM. And so making that distinction between sort of this narrative is just based off of connecting two things that happen to be in the same space versus this narrative is actually driving fundamental strength in the tokens.
00:48:18.254 - 00:48:31.434, Speaker D: That distinction, to me, is quite important in terms of identifying which narratives are likely to be sustainable and be good investment opportunities, and which ones are more likely to be sort of flash in the pan and not worth your time.
00:48:31.934 - 00:49:00.108, Speaker A: I think that's an amazing synthesis because I do have friends in both camps, friends who are like myself, would like to dig into the numbers and look at the fundamentals and look what's driving narratives. And then friends who are kind of like, oh, that's for suckers. We're only trading the latest chinese shitcoin. So there's definitely different approaches, different way to skin the cat. But this is really informative and we're running out of time here. But really thankful for you to come on again. For people who want to follow your thoughts, what are the best ways for them to do this? Sure.
00:49:00.156 - 00:49:11.468, Speaker D: Yeah. I mean, like, as I've said in the past at Northrocklp on Twitter or northrockdigital.com dot. Look forward to an interesting couple of weeks here.
00:49:11.596 - 00:49:14.116, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely, man. All right, thank you so much for coming on.
00:49:14.220 - 00:49:15.420, Speaker D: No, no worries. Thanks for having me.
00:49:15.452 - 00:49:54.166, Speaker B: All right, that's it for this week's episode of the Blockchain podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didnt know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what you liked about this episode, ill be sure to respond to you as well. Now, if youd like to go even deeper, we have a vip tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and well have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers, so if you're serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theBlockhunch.com
00:49:54.166 - 00:49:58.534, Speaker B: VIP to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the show, and I'll see you next week.
