00:00:03.240 - 00:00:42.444, Speaker A: Hi, everyone, Mike Cahill from Duro Labs, a contributor to the PIP network. Great to be here. It's a very special day for me because today I'm going to make a big announcement in the evolution of the PIF network. Before we get to that, let's talk a little bit about the journey so far. So pith is an oracle, and as many of you probably know, blockchain applications don't have access to data from to the outside world. They only have access to the state of the blockchain and data like the price of bitcoin, the price of Tesla shares, weather, sports score, et cetera, all needs to be brought onto that state somehow. This is where oracles come in.
00:00:42.444 - 00:01:54.924, Speaker A: They update the blockchain state with exogenous data, and that data needs to be trustworthy. The first Oracle networks solve for trust at the expense of speed. They were Rube Goldberg constructions that scraped data from the Internet, averaged it together and then published to the blockchains sometime later. This was ok for first generation defi, like lending protocols on slow blockchains, but would never work for high throughput like on chain perps on fast blockchains. The pith thesis is that Defi needs trustworthy data with low latency. The idea behind pith was to create a data economy where publishers are incentivized to publish directly onto blockchains and cut out middlemen. This removes any doubt on whether they have the appropriate ability to publish and licensed, and also cuts out all that excess latency along the way.
00:01:54.924 - 00:02:54.552, Speaker A: There have been three proof points to determine whether or not this thesis is correct. So the first proof point is, will enough publishers join to overcome the cold start number two? If so, can pip stand out in a competitive oracle market? Will people choose pif over other oracles? And finally, will apps integrate PIF if it's using a differentiated type of integration? All right, so let's jump into this first one. Can we amass enough publishers into the network to overcome the cold start? Well, one of the nuances about financial market data is that it's a very mature industry. It's quite a profitable one as well. In 2022, $6.5 billion in revenue was spent at the top six exchanges, 20% of the revenues of the top six exchanges for financial market data. So you can't just go up to an industry that's worth $6.5
00:02:54.552 - 00:03:25.470, Speaker A: billion and say, hey, I've got an idea. You should turn all this valuable data over to this new technology called Pith to get it onto the blockchain. It wouldn't happen. So you have to find different sources to give you the same comprehensive coverage. So where did those different sources come from for PIF? There are two big groups that have data that don't currently monetize most of it. Obviously, large exchanges monetize a lot of it. But large exchanges without trading firms or without traders have no data.
00:03:25.470 - 00:03:52.374, Speaker A: It's very intuitive. Market data is simply the bids and offers with which traders want to trade and the prices where they just executed. So trading firms have troves of data. They've never monetized it before. So this was cohort number one of the types of people that could provide data to a PIF network. And number two is small exchanges. Generally, large exchanges are the ones that monetized.
00:03:52.374 - 00:04:41.664, Speaker A: So this ended up forming the foundation of the first set of publishers to the pith network. And the idea has taken off. Every month, three new publishers join the PIF network. It's large institutions, including pretty much every large trading firm, almost without exception, as well as exchanges, small ones, and now even large ones, including Cboe, one of the largest global equity exchanges. All right, so we've amassed enough data to have comprehensive market coverage over any asset class. So let's go on to number two. Can PIF stand out in a competitive oracle market? PIF first launched on Solana Mainnet in September of 2021.
00:04:41.664 - 00:05:47.104, Speaker A: There were other oracles live at the time, and there were even more oracles coming, including Chainlink. Within seven months, PIF had a 90% market share from the total value secured on salon. There was 50 applications using PIF as an Oracle on Solana. Several months later, Chainlink launched and never got above 5%. So it was true that people, developers would choose PIF in a competitive environment because of the attributes of it being low latency and high quality. All right, number three, will apps integrate PIF's cross chain using a novel pull mechanism? The intention for PIF was always to provide Oracle data to users, to application developers, irrespective of the ecosystem they're building on. And the goal was to provide the same high quality, low latency data that was available to developers on Solana.
00:05:47.104 - 00:06:32.730, Speaker A: With this goal in mind, in 2022, the PIF network underwent a major upgrade. Pifnet, the first independent SVM, was launched to bring PIF prices cross chain. In. So doing, application developers on other chains had changed the way that they integrated in Oracle. Historically, they would just natively read from the state. This required them to pull prices onto the chain that they were native on and use it. Once polled it allowed for much more streamlined use and to only pay for the data that they use.
00:06:32.730 - 00:07:18.454, Speaker A: There's no waste of pushing unnecessary data onto these different blockchains. So let's look at how the adoption has been since PIF has gone cross chain. This year alone, three new applications have integrated PIF each week. I'll restate that for emphasis. Three new applications integrated pith every single week in 2023, Pith is now available on 35 different blockchains. Three new blockchains every month have been added, and on about a third of those blockchains, PIF has a market share of over 90%. On about half of them, PIF's market share is at 50%.
00:07:18.454 - 00:08:00.534, Speaker A: All right, cool. So we've gone through some of the proof points and let's get on to some fun stuff. Everything so far has been prologue to the pith story. What happens next is all around decentralization and the story itself. So Pith is already pretty decentralized given that it's got this expanse network of publishers. But in order to reach the next level of scale, it needs greater community involvement. So today, today we're announcing the pith retrospective airdrop.
00:08:00.534 - 00:08:57.334, Speaker A: The pith retrospective airdrop will reward users of applications powered by pith on 35 different blockchains. It's a retrospective airdrop, so the observation period has ended. But today you can go to the website airdrop dot pif.net work, put in your wallet address on any of the different blockchains where applications are powered by PIF and determine whether or not you're eligible. There are 75,000 unique wallets that will be eligible on 35 blockchains. This is the largest cross chain usage airdrop we know of. Eligible users will receive pith tokens, which are SPL tokens and will live on Solana Mainnet.
00:08:57.334 - 00:09:52.814, Speaker A: If during the part of the process you don't have a Solana wallet, you'll be able to add one and you'll be able to claim your pith tokens gaslessly. Okay, so what's next? So the next part of the process is to have the community run governance. Community is going to have to establish the governance. The first thing it will decide is whether or not it will be a governance based on councils and elected representatives. Perhaps it will be based on single token votes. This is very important to get right because the application will be controlled by governance. A truly decentralized oracle governance will have total control.
00:09:52.814 - 00:10:40.734, Speaker A: And here are some of the features that are important to be used determining the size of the update fees. So in that model I described to you, where prices are published to other chains, each one of those deliveries contains a fee. Today that fee is set at a nominal value of one way, very small. There's about 2 million transactions per day, fee paying transactions per day that go to other chains. Number two, determining the reward distribution for publishers. There's a reason why the hundred publishers, nearly 100 publishers, have chosen PIF. It's important to make sure that only novelty is rewarded within the PIF network.
00:10:40.734 - 00:11:46.594, Speaker A: Free riders don't have a chance to exploit, and we can continue to see a growth from hundreds to thousands of publishers join the network approving software updates two months ago, Duralabs introduced the Perseus upgrade, which increased the frequency with which pith prices are delivered on chain by a factor of two and decreased the gas cost by up to 90%. Determining what products to be added. There's 350 symbols on pith today. 25% of them are real world assets. The remainder are crypto. There is really no limit to the types of assets or the assets themselves that can be added, given the diversity of the publishers determining how publishers will be permissioned and for which symbols they'll be permissioned, the higher the number of publishers they have for each symbol, the more robust those feeds are. And yes, if governance decides it, there can be a grants program to expand the community even further.
00:11:46.594 - 00:12:36.854, Speaker A: The PIP network started out as an idea on how to reimagine oracle data on blockchains. It has attracted the largest group of traders and exchanges ever to provide the fastest, most robust set of data ever imagined. It's expanded to become an ecosystem of 100 publishers, over 200 applications, 35 different blockchains, and today we've announced the largest cross chain usage airdrop. I'd like to invite you to join the community that's building the infrastructure for the future of Defi. Thank you.
