00:00:00.120 - 00:00:01.052, Speaker A: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
00:00:04.134 - 00:00:05.754, Speaker B: This happens sometimes.
00:00:08.854 - 00:00:19.126, Speaker C: Steve, are you ready? I think you're muted, Steve.
00:00:19.310 - 00:00:20.074, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:00:24.054 - 00:00:25.554, Speaker B: This is the culprit here.
00:00:26.274 - 00:00:29.394, Speaker C: Okay. I heard you a little bit. So.
00:00:29.554 - 00:00:55.794, Speaker B: Yeah, well, this music is the music that I would play before I would teach. So I had this sort of standard loop that I would play in preparation for my online classes. So I always had five minutes of this calming music before I had to confront my class. And now these weird. These high tech speaker headphones I have play the music anyway. No matter what I'm doing, they play this music. So you got a chance to hear some.
00:00:55.794 - 00:00:58.674, Speaker B: Prepare to teach number theory music.
00:00:59.654 - 00:01:00.914, Speaker D: Great. All right.
00:01:01.254 - 00:01:02.514, Speaker C: Are we ready to go?
00:01:03.294 - 00:01:03.982, Speaker D: Okay.
00:01:04.078 - 00:01:25.434, Speaker C: All right, then our. Whoops. Our speaker now is Dick Gross. He is equally retired from UCSD and Harvard, and he will speak to us on the frickin McBeath curve and triple product l functions. Go ahead, Dick.
00:01:25.594 - 00:01:54.114, Speaker D: Thanks very much, Jim. And also, thanks for the invitation. So, Steve and I have known each other a long time, maybe the longest of anyone here. We were in the same undergraduate class at Harvard. Here's a picture of Steve taking freshman year, as far as I can tell. To give you an idea how long ago we were students at Harvard. We took algebra from Richard Brower, this fantastic class.
00:01:54.114 - 00:02:15.893, Speaker D: And then after getting out, Steve went right on to graduate school. I meandered around a little bit, but we met each other again at this. Whoopsie. Now it's not working. Uh oh. I'm not able to advance my slow. So let's try again.
00:02:16.313 - 00:02:18.481, Speaker C: Okay, your find is on also for.
00:02:18.537 - 00:02:19.665, Speaker D: There we go. My.
00:02:19.689 - 00:02:22.093, Speaker C: What is on find?
00:02:25.393 - 00:02:39.270, Speaker D: I'm going to go out of this full screen mode and just do it the way I know how to do it. It's too. It's too annoying. I'll be right back, everybody. I'll be right back. Here we are. Let's share a screen now.
00:02:39.270 - 00:02:54.394, Speaker D: I don't even see share screen. Sorry. Oh, here it is. Share screen. Here we go. Try that. I'm back where I was.
00:02:55.374 - 00:02:55.990, Speaker C: Yep.
00:02:56.102 - 00:03:01.294, Speaker D: I don't seem to be able to advance it, guys. I got to do this all over again. Sorry very much. Sorry.
00:03:01.414 - 00:03:04.618, Speaker E: Maybe I close the find. Is it find?
00:03:04.666 - 00:03:05.614, Speaker D: Where is find?
00:03:07.354 - 00:03:08.602, Speaker C: Oh, it's gone now.
00:03:08.738 - 00:03:21.814, Speaker F: In the upper right corner of your screen, it was opening as if you look for find text, and it might be looking for you to advance over there instead of a slide. Yeah, over there. Slightly more to the right. Yeah, it's.
00:03:23.674 - 00:03:28.338, Speaker C: Anyway, hold on. We can see your screen now.
00:03:28.426 - 00:03:59.632, Speaker D: All right. We both participated in the summer school on automorphic functions at Corvallis, this great summer school that introduced all of us to the Langland's ideas. And I'm sorry, guys, I just can't advance this backwards. Yeah, but it doesn't go forward, doesn't go forward, and my wife is going to help me. I apologize for all the technical difficulties. Oh, here we go. I think I can do it now.
00:03:59.632 - 00:04:37.244, Speaker D: So Steve actually attended the lectures. That was the difference. I didn't see much of them up at the conference because I just gave up. And we wrote only one joint paper together on heights and critical values of the triple product l function. And this paper wasn't that much. We just made a little bit more precise theorem that Steve had proved with Michael Harris a year before, which I'll mention later in the talk. But it wasn't, I think, a useful paper for Steve, because in the last section of the paper, I pressed him on what would happen to the first derivative when the sign of the functional equation was minus one.
00:04:37.244 - 00:05:23.600, Speaker D: So we had to look at how we got the l function. And it was through this miraculous integral representation that had been found by Paul Garrett. And the integral representation involved, critically, a Siegel Eisenstein series of genus three, and in our case, weight two. And when the sign of the functional equation was minus one, we noticed that this Eisenstein series vanished in the center of its critical strip. And so what was important to calculate were the Fourier coefficients once you took its derivative, which was a non holomorphic, modular form, and Steve set out to compute some of these Fourier coefficients. Dan Zagier helped a little bit, and in the meantime, I was out computing arithmetic intersection numbers on the triple product with Kevin Keating. And some of these things matched up.
00:05:23.600 - 00:06:06.060, Speaker D: And so Steve got interested in it. And I think that was the first incoherent Eisenstein series he met, and he developed it into this magnificent program, which has been central focus of number theory in the last 25 years. And for me, though, it was a little disappointing, because before I wrote this paper, I thought of Steve as an absolute paragon of virtue in every way. But I discovered he had a fatal flaw. And that fatal flaw meant that we could no longer collaborate in the future. And I'll discuss that fatal flaw on Wednesday. So, as far as this talk is concerned, the first part is joint work with nomelkes, who I don't mind working jointly with, because he knows a lot more than I do.
00:06:06.060 - 00:07:02.614, Speaker D: And we were guided in that part by a beautiful talk, which you can find on the web, on the frick and McBeef. Curve by Yaap Tupac and the material on triple product l functions was for me motivated by a very surprising result which recently appeared in the literature by Dean Bazogno, Weinland Lee, Daniel Litt and Padma Srinivasan. And I want to thank all of them for that. So before I tell you about the Frikke McBeath curve, I'll tell you about Hurwitz curves, of which the frick of McBeath curve is a special case. So this all comes from a theorem of Hurwitz where he determined the automorphism group of complex algebraic curves. So we assume a curve is of genus, at least two, and let G be the group of its automorphisms. And Hurwitz proved that G was always a finite group.
00:07:02.614 - 00:07:48.454, Speaker D: That's not true for elliptic curves or the projective line and its order was bounded above by 84 times g minus one. Here's a famous paper he published in 1893. This is a nice theorem to prove in a course on algebraic curves, because it follows almost immediately from the Riemann Hurwitz formula. Now Horowitz got interested in the case where equality held, namely where the order of the group was 84 times g minus one. Those curves are rare, we'll call them Hurwitz or H curves. And he showed that if equality held, the quotient of the curve by the group was the projective line of genus zero. And moreover, the Galois covering with group G was ramified at only three points of the projective line.
00:07:48.454 - 00:09:15.906, Speaker D: And moreover the ramification groups were the cyclic subgroups of order two, three and seven in the group. Notice that 84 is divisible by two, three and seven. So there are elements of order two, three and seven in the group. And if you, if you want to think about this in terms of the universal cover of the projective line ramified at three points with these inertia groups, that shows that the finite group g is a quotient of the hyperbolic triangle group, which is in some sense the fundamental group of this situation that has three generators x, y and z of orders two, three and seven and their product is one. The hyperbolic triangle group is a discrete subgroup of the automorphism group of the upper half plane and that triangle group had been studied earlier by one of Horowitz's teachers and mentors, Felix Klein. And here's a picture of the fundamental domain or the tessellation of the unit disk by the hyperbolic, by fundamental domains for the hyperbolic triangle group, a fundamental domain consists of two of these triangles, one black, one white, and you can see the elliptic points of order two where four triangles meet, and three where six triangles meet, and seven where 14 triangles meet. Well, suppose we have a Hurwitz curve.
00:09:15.906 - 00:10:07.674, Speaker D: Its automorphism group is g, and so therefore we have a covering map. The universal group maps to g, and let gamma be the kernel of this surjective homomorphism. And then you have a uniformization of the Hurwitz covering. Namely, if you take the quotient of the upper half plane by gamma, which is a subgroup of finite index in the hyperbolic triangle group, that's the Riemann surface x, and that maps down to p one of c, which is the quotient of the upper half plane by the triangle group. When people try to construct Hurwitz curves, two completely different approaches. Some people try to construct the group g, and some people try to construct the subgroup gamma. So if you want to construct the group G, you just have to find generators for the group which have orders two, three and seven with product one.
00:10:07.674 - 00:10:46.838, Speaker D: Then it's a quotient of this universal group, because then it has just some more relations. So that's what the group theorists do. They prove that groups like the monster occur as quotients of this hyperbolic triangle group. They know of all the list of the finite simple groups, which groups do and which groups don't. However, from the point of view of number theory, we're going to construct the subgroup's gamma finite index using some congruences later. So one thing I want to, one thing we're going to need is that when you have a Hurwitz curve, the group of watermorphisms acts linearly on the differentials of the first kind. It gives a linear representation of G.
00:10:46.838 - 00:11:36.520, Speaker D: And now that representation has no invariance, no copies of the trivial representation occur, because the quotient curve has genus zero, and the invariant differentials would be holomorphic differentials on the quotient curve. However, if you have a non trivial representation, it usually does occur. And in fact, we have a formula for its multiplicity. Well, not exactly its multiplicity, the multiplicity of v plus the multiplicity of the dual representation. You can calculate that using the left shet's fixed point formula because that's the multiplicity of v in the sum of the differentials and the dual representation. And by Hodge theory, that's the first homology group. And so you get a nice formula for the multiplicity of v.
00:11:36.520 - 00:12:22.400, Speaker D: Now this right hand side, the dimension of v minus, the dimension of v fixed by the involution, the dimension of v fixed by the element of order three, the dimension of v fixed by the element of order seven. That's approximately the dimension of v over 42. And since these two multiplicities are usually pretty close, the multiplicity of v is about the dimension of v over 84. And it's known that these groups are almost simple, so that the dimensions of the representations go up. So once the genus is at least a million of a Hurwitz curve, all the irreducibles but the trivial representation do occur in the differentials of the first kind. Okay, now the first few genera of Herewitz curves are 3714, 17, 118. Not every genus has a Hurwitz curve.
00:12:22.400 - 00:13:15.564, Speaker D: For example, there's, there's no curve of genus two with 84 automorphisms, but the first one is the famous Klein quartic of genus three with this equation, and its automorphism group is isomorphic to the simple group PSL 27. You can't see that from this model because you can't see all the automorphisms. But that's the most famous of the Horowitz curves. But the next one, which is of genus seven, is also the unique curve of genus seven with six times 84, which is 504 automorphisms. And it was studied by Fricke in 1899 as a quotient of the upper half plane. He actually writes down in his paper a fundamental domain for it. The automorphism group is PGL two eight, isomorphic to that which is also the group sl two eight, if you want to write it that way.
00:13:15.564 - 00:14:05.688, Speaker D: In this case, as in the case of Klein Kortic, it's a very rare situation. The representation on the differentials of the first kind is actually irreducible if you go back to that multiplicity formula for almost all v that you put in from the character table of PGL two a, you get multiplicity zero, and for a unique one, which is a seven dimensional representation in the discrete series, you get multiplicity one. And there are several discrete series representations of this group. And one knows that discrete series of PGL two are indexed by pairs of characters of the non split torus. Now the non split torus in this case is a cyclic group of order nine. And this discrete series that occurs and that's going to be important to us, are associated to the two cubic characters. They're inverses of each other of that non split torus.
00:14:05.688 - 00:15:02.648, Speaker D: It has another way of characterizing it is it's the unique discrete series that has a rational character. Okay, now why is it called the Fricka McBeath curve? If it was discovered by Fricka because found an algebraic model for it in 1965. He wrote down equations for it, in fact, equations for its canonical model in p six. I'm not going to do that whole theory, but I'll show you how you can get some interesting information about the curve just from the knowledge of the representation of the group on the differentials of the first kind. Because if you restrict the representation of PGL two eight to a Burrell subgroup, it's an irreducible representation. In fact, it's the unique irreducible representation of higher dimension of the Burrell subgroup. The Borel subgroup, the unipotent group is an elementary abelian group of order eight.
00:15:02.648 - 00:16:11.392, Speaker D: That's the additive group of the field of eight elements. And then torus is the multiplicative group of the field of eight elements, which is cyclic of order seven. And one knows that discrete series restrict irreducibly to the parel. And the unique irreducible representation of the Borel of dimension bigger than one is one where the unipotent subgroup acts via the seven non trivial characters, which are quadratic characters. Because it's an elementary abelian two group, these seven different eigenspaces for the unipotent subgroup are permuted transitively by the cyclic torus of order seven. Just knowing the which the irreducible representation is of the full group gives you a very nice restriction to the burrell. Now, if you think about that a little bit, if you let u chi be the kernel of one of these quadratic characters, then the quotient by that Klein four group is an elliptic curve, because there's a unique invariant for u chi on this seven dimensional representation, the other it acts nontrivially.
00:16:11.392 - 00:17:25.543, Speaker D: On the other six eigenspaces, you get seven different quotients of the frick and McBeef curve, which are elliptic curves. But since these characters are permuted transitively by the torus, these seven elliptic curves are all isomorphic. And a little bit more analysis, which I'm not going to do here, shows that the j invariance of this elliptic curve, which determines isomorphism over the complex numbers, is 1792. And finally, and this is actually quite important for us, the jacobian of the friccomic beef curve is isogenous to the product of this elliptic curve seven times. And that's because if you take these seven different quotients and you pull back the invariant differential on e of chi to the frick of Macbeath curve, you get seven differentials which span the different eigen components for the unipotent subgroup. So they give a basis of the differentials of the first kind on the frick and McBeef curve, and they're all elliptic differentials. So I have only two periods, and that gives the isogeny from the jacobian to the product of e seven times.
00:17:25.543 - 00:18:25.272, Speaker D: Now the rest of this analysis is not really relevant for my talk, but you'll see why I'm going to do it, since e doesn't have complex multiplication. 1792 is not the j invariant of something with complex multiplication. And the Jacobian is seven copies of this elliptic curve. If you take the group of homomorphisms from the Jacobian to this elliptic curve, that's a free abelian group of rank seven, you have projections to the different factors give you the basis. Okay? Now on the other hand, this group of homomorphisms can be identified with what we call the Mordell Fe lattice. Namely, it's the same as the morphisms from the curve x to e, the coverings of x to e, up to translation by e. The reason for that is if you have a homomorphism from the jacobian, you can restrict it to the curve embedded in the jacobian that's unique up to translation by e, and that gives a morphism from x to e.
00:18:25.272 - 00:19:11.710, Speaker D: And conversely, if you had a morphism from the curve to e, then e is an abelian variety. And so a morphism from a curve to an abelian variety factors through its jacobian. And if you think of what a morphism is from x to e, that's giving a point in e in the function field of x. So that would be like the more delve group, except that that's an infinite group, because you have the points of e and c. So if you mod out by the points of e and c, that's a free abelian group, and it's a free of rank seven. So all these interpretations of the Mordell Weill lattice are valuable. And the one which gives the morphism some ecstasy shows you that you have a quadratic form on this lattice, which is given by the degree of a morphism, which is some positive integer.
00:19:11.710 - 00:19:59.500, Speaker D: If the morphism isn't just the constant one, and the reason it's a quadratic form, well, that's really the theorem of the square and cube. But just to give you a really, a bare hands argument, suppose we multiply the morphism by n. So the group law here is of course the addition law in e. So multiplying a morphism from x to e by n would be composing it with the original morphism with multiplication by n on the elliptic curve. And that multiplies the degree of the isogeny by n squared. So that might give you some reason to believe that the degree of amorphism was a quadratic form. Okay, so from the frick of McBeath curve and this elliptic curve, we get a euclidean lattice.
00:19:59.500 - 00:20:49.094, Speaker D: And the natural question that Elkies and I wanted to address is, what is this euclidean lattice of rank seven? And miraculously, it turns out to be related to the e seven root lattice. Namely, it's the twice the e seven weight lattice, which has index two to the 6th in the e seven root lattice, as is an even lattice. The theta function of this lattice of morphisms is given below. So there are 56 morphisms of degree three up to translation, and 126 morphisms of degree four up to translation, etcetera. So, I only did this slide because, as Michael said earlier, you can't get a talk in honor of Steve without introducing a theta function. So here it is. Here's a theta function of weight seven halves.
00:20:49.094 - 00:21:35.654, Speaker D: Steve, you'll be happy to hear that not only is this a theta function, but because this weight lattice is its class, is unique in its genus. This is also an Eisenstein series by the Siegel Weill formula. And it's Henri Cohen's famous Eisenstein series of weight seven halves. So these coefficients are actually the values of l functions of imaginary quadratic Dirichlet character is evaluated at minus two. And for those of you like me, who like exceptional groups, you'll see a lot of e seven in this theta function. For example, 56 is the dimension of a minuscule representation, and 126 is the number of roots of e seven, et cetera. That's all somehow miraculously related to the fricamacbeef curve.
00:21:35.654 - 00:22:24.364, Speaker D: Okay, now let's continue. Now the rest of the talk is going to be more about how the frica McBeef curve interacts with arithmetic. And that all comes from Shimura's very great paper on the construction of class fields and the zeta functions of algebraic curves. So, Chamura wrote many, many great papers, but I think this is one of his top three papers. It's really phenomenal results. The whole theory of Chamorro curves is developed in this case, and particularly the Chamorro curves, where the base field is not the rational numbers, which are really quite miraculous. Okay, so what does Shamura do? First of all, he introduces, whoops, did I just lose it again? Could be mm hmm.
00:22:24.364 - 00:22:45.028, Speaker D: This is great. All right. I went backwards. Can I go forwards? No. Here we go. We let k be the cubic field of discriminant seven squared. So that's the real subfield of the 7th roots of unity.
00:22:45.028 - 00:23:18.264, Speaker D: Where did that come from? We're going to soon see. And the ring of integers of this field has a nice property. It's not only a principal ideal domain, but it has strict class number one. So every ideal, like the rational numbers, has a totally positive generator, positive at the three real places, a totally real field. That also means that any unit which is positive at all three places is a square. So since it's cubic field and it's totally real, it has three real embeddings. I'm going to distinguish one by calling it v.
00:23:18.264 - 00:24:27.392, Speaker D: And I'm going to consider the quaternion algebra over this totally real field, which is split at the place v and ramified at the two other archimedean places, and is split at all finite places. So the only ramification is at infinity at two of the places, and it's split at the third. And a nice property of this quaternion algebra, which follows from the strict class number one business, is that all the maximal orders in it are conjugate. So you can pick one. I'll call it r. And the units in r of norm one, I claim, contain elements of finite order four, six and 14, because the order r, because it's unique up to conjugacy, contains the ring of integers in all quadratic extensions of k that are not split at the primes w and w prime, which are complex at those two primes. And in particular it contains the ring of integers in all quadratic extensions which are cm.
00:24:27.392 - 00:25:22.644, Speaker D: And in particular it contains the ring of integers in all cyclotomic quadratic extensions. And there are three cyclotomic quadratic extensions of this ring, namely the ones you get by adjoining fourth roots of unity, or third roots, or 6th roots of unity. Those come from cyclotomic extensions of q. And then because this is a totally real subfield of 7th roots of unity, you can also adjoin a 7th root of unity and get a quadratic extension. So that's an element of order 14, and those elements all have norm one down to a because they're roots of unity. And consequently, if you take the quotient by plus or minus one that contains elements of order two, three and seven, miraculously, and shimura shows, using volume computations of the fundamental domain, that this quotient, this unit group in the quaternions modulo plus or minus one is isomorphic to the hyperbolic triangle group. That's very surprising.
00:25:22.644 - 00:26:14.756, Speaker D: Most of the triangle groups are not related to quaternion algebras at all, but this hyperbolic triangle group is. And so Shimura views the frick and McBeef curve completely differently. And I can't say I really follow his paper. I've tried to read it many times, but I invariably grind to a halt. So I'm going to present the results on Chamorro curves more in the language of the lean in his paper, Trevo de Chamura. So let g be the algebraic group over the totally real field, which is an inner form of PGL two, where the rational points are the multiplicative group of this quaternion algebra divided by the multiplicative group of the field. If the quaternion algebra were split, which it isn't, that would be PGL two inside the finite idyllic points.
00:26:14.756 - 00:27:35.754, Speaker D: Now, the finite idyllic points of the group are PGL two of af because the group is split at all finite prime. So inside of there, we're going to define a maximal open compact subgroup by taking the product over all finite places of PGL two of the local ring of integers. And that's a maximal compact subgroup of PGL two of k lambda. With that algebraic group and that choice of an open compact subgroup of the five Eddie delic points, we define a Riemann surface as an orbit space of g of k b star mod k star acting on the product of the upper and lower half planes, cross the cosets of m in the finite idyllic point. So this is definitely Delen's point of view, how g of k acts on the left of the, of the finite idyllic points by left multiplication. And it acts on the upper and lower half plane through the fact that g of kv, the unique real place that's split in this quaternion algebra, is pgl two r, and that's the automorphism group of the upper and lower half planes. Now let's unwind this orbit space to see what we really have and that you always do in the delign approach to get down to something that looks like an algebraic curve.
00:27:35.754 - 00:28:52.838, Speaker D: So first of all, a miraculous thing in this situation, because we've taken a maximal open compact subgroup is there's only one orbit of g of k on this coset space and that orbit has stabilizer conjugate to the units of a maximal order modulo the units of the totally real field. That's in general, not the case there always a finite number of orbits, but in this case, there's only one orbit. In that case, we can say that this double orbit space reduces to the orbits of the units of the quaternion algebra, modulo the units of the field acting on the upper and lower half plane. The theorem of Eiffler tells you that there is always a unit whose norm is negative at the place v in the units of a star, and that unit switches the upper and lower half planes. So this orbit space can be identified with the units which are positive, positive norm at all real places acting on the upper half plane. Now, the reason it's positive norm at all real places is that at the two other real places, the quaternion algebra is Hamilton's quaternions, and all norms are positive. Good.
00:28:52.838 - 00:29:52.550, Speaker D: Well, as I said, if the norm is positive, it's a positive, totally positive unit, and totally positive units are a square. By modifying this element in the quaternary algebra by the square root of its norm, we get an element of norm one, and it's well defined up to plus or minus one, up to what square root we take. And so this Riemann surface that's defined in Deline's way as an orbit space is actually the quotient of the upper half plane by the units of norm one modulo plus or minus one. And that Shimura had shown was the triangle group. So x of one is the Riemann surface p one, which is the quotient of the upper half plane by the triangle group. Now, how does that help us get her of its curves? Well, we get arithmetic coverings of x of one by taking normal subgroups of this open compact subgroup. Those are the congruent subgroups when you go to the discrete group.
00:29:52.550 - 00:31:16.724, Speaker D: And so here's how Schumera describes a certain number of congruent subgroups, which will be all we need. It takes a prime ideal of the ring of integers of the totally real field with residue field fp, and we assume that q is the order of elements of this finite residue field. Then this finite group, which is PGL two of fp, which is a quotient of one of the groups occurring in the product for m PGL two of apartment, it acts triply, transitively on the points of the projected line with a q plus one points. And so it makes sense to take the stabilizer of one point or the stabilizer of two points, or the stabilizer of three points, and we call those groups m of p. That's the group stabilizing all three points. So that's the group acting trivially on the projective line mod p and we call m zero p squared the group stabilizing two of the points on the projective line in m zero of p, the group stabilizing one point. So just as this group reduces to pgl two of fp m zero of p reduces to a parel in PGl two fp m zero of p squared reduces to a torus in PGl two of fp and m of p reduces to the identity that's a normal subgroup of PGL two and associated to those various subgroups of finite index.
00:31:16.724 - 00:31:43.454, Speaker D: In our open compact subgroup we get Riemann surfaces, each one. So this is what I'd call x of p. If instead of taking the orbits of m of one I took the orbits of this smaller group m of p. There are more orbits in that case and I could equally well do it with m zero of p squared or m zero of p. And when I do that I not only get these maps. Uh. Oh boy, this is so weird.
00:31:43.454 - 00:32:33.336, Speaker D: Try again. We get maps from the different curves as we mount out by the smaller and smaller subgroups covering maps. And these are curves that map to our projective line. And even x of p is a galois covering mapping to our projective line. Okay, now Chamorro proves, and this is the big theorem in his paper, that all of these curves are not just complex Riemann surfaces, but they have canonical models over the cubic field. Sorry, minor interruption. They have canonical models over this original cubic field which is embedded in the complex numbers by the real place v.
00:32:33.336 - 00:33:20.494, Speaker D: So that's his big theorem. And this is extremely difficult to prove because these curves, unlike Chamorro curves over the rational number do not represent a simple moduli problem. And he only is able to get the field of definition to be k after a huge amount of work. And the curves original curve, which was p one and these curves x zero p and x zero p squared are geometrically connected. In Deleen's theory, curve doesn't have to be connected at all. That's why he gets a small field of definition of k. But the curve x of p is a Galois extension of x of one where the group is PGL two of q because you've modded out by a normal subgroup and it turns out to be geometrically connected only in the case where the prime is the unique prime dividing two two is inert in this field k.
00:33:20.494 - 00:34:20.274, Speaker D: But when the prime is odd residue characteristic, it has two components over the complex numbers, and the components are rational over a quadratic extension of little kids, which is the unique quadratic extension of discriminant p. And they give Galois coverings. But the group is not PGL two of Fp but actually Psl two of Fp and their h curves. And Shimura goes on to discuss these h curves in his paper, and they're new examples at the time he wrote the paper. So, for example, the ones of genus 3714 and 118 correspond to prime ideals, where the norm of p is 7813 and 27. So that seven is the unique ramified prime in k, and eight is the norm of the unique prime dividing two. And there are three ideals of norm 13, because 13 splits in this totally real field.
00:34:20.274 - 00:35:15.134, Speaker D: And Chamorro shows that those three Hurwitz curves, which have genus 14 are non isomorphic, and those at the time he wrote the paper were new herovids its curves. Okay, now we're going to focus on the case where p is the prime dividing two and the Chamorro curve x of two. The full shimura curve gives a canonical descent to the frick of Macbeth curve, together with all of its automorphisms to this totally real field. People had written down models of the frick and McBeef curve even over the rationals, but the automorphisms are not defined there. If you want the curve as a Hurwitz curve, the minimal field of definition is this totally real field. McBeath defines it over 7th roots of unity. It's a little harder to get it down to the totally real subfield, just as we did in the complex case.
00:35:15.134 - 00:36:04.924, Speaker D: Once we have the automorphisms, we can take quotient curves by those automorphisms which are defined over k. And when you divide out by the Klein four groups, as we did in the complex case, you get curves of genus one, which Elkes and I show are actually elliptic curves. Namely, they have rational points. And it's an elliptic curve whose conductor is two squared, the ideal two squared over k. And we don't really need equations for this. But for example, if you want to identify it and you have your l functions and modular forms database handy, it's the elliptic curve they call 64.1. A 764 is two to the 6th, which is the norm of the conductor, but it turns out to descend uniquely to the rational numbers.
00:36:04.924 - 00:36:44.394, Speaker D: So if you wanted to have an equation over the rational numbers, it's given by this equation. And notice that it has bad reduction in the rational case at the prime two and seven. But seven ramifies in the cubic extension. And when you get to the cubic extension, it has good reduction at the prime seven and bad reduction only at the prime two. Okay, and just as we did in the complex case, the Jacobian of the frica McBeef curve over the totally real field is isogenous to the 7th power of this elliptic curve. Again, you decompose the differentials of the first kind by pulling back the elliptic differentials from these quotient. Just give the eigenspaces.
00:36:44.394 - 00:38:32.290, Speaker D: Great. Okay, now with that geometric information about the frick and Macbeath curve over the totally real field, let's go back to the theory of automorphic forms and take an arbitrary prime in this totally real field, and recall these covering curves x of p, x zero of p squared, x zero of p, and x of one. And this notation is meant to suggest the notation we use for these curves over the rationals. Now, one consequence of Shimura's theory producing these curves using arithmetic groups is that a holomorphic differential which is on x zero p, or x zero p squared, which turns out to be an eigenvector for all the heca correspondences. And by the way, the hECA correspondences and unramified primes are also all defined over the totally real field in Chimura's case. Well, if you have an eigenvector for all of the correspondences, that corresponds to a new vector in an automorphic representation of the idyllic points of this group b mod k star, if the eigenvector occurs on the curve x zero of p, then that's a automorphic representation of conductor p. And if it occurs on the curve x zero of p squared, but not on x zero of p, that's in order representation of conductor p squared, and the representation at least at infinity, we know at the split prime where the group is PGL two r, the local representation is the holomorphic discrete series of weight two, and at the two ramified primes, where the group is compact, it's the trivial representation.
00:38:32.290 - 00:39:23.172, Speaker D: Now, by a result of Jacques K. Langland's, when you have an automorphic form for one of these quaternion algebras, you can lift it to an automorphic representation of the split group, which in this case is PGL two as conductor p or p squared. And in this case, because the trivial representation of the compact group corresponds to the discrete series of weight two, it's now in the discrete series of weight two at all three real places. So this, in classical language would just be a Hilbert modular form of weight 222 and conductor p or p squared. Anytime you find a differential on these curves, which is an eigenfunction for the heck operators. Now, this representation is unramified at all primes other than p because its conductors p or p squared. And at p you want to try to find the local representation.
00:39:23.172 - 00:40:20.928, Speaker D: You can't say a priori what it is, but if you know something about the subspace of the differentials on x of p that span by the g translates of your invariant differential here, that gives you some information on the local representation of PGL two of kp that occurs in this automorphic representation. So I'll do an example for you. Let's take our favorite case where the prime is two. Then it turns out that the curve x zero of two has gene is zero, so there are no eigen differentials there, and x zero four has genus one. So any non zero differential is an eigenvector for the heck operators. The former turns out to be the projective line. This curve of genus zero has a point on it, and the latter turns out to be the unique homogeneous space for this elliptic curve we've discussed, which is non trivial at the three real places and trivial elsewhere.
00:40:20.928 - 00:41:12.904, Speaker D: You know, you can tell that the, that the local triviality and non triviality of the homogeneous space determines it, because the Tate Schaffer rabbits group of this elliptic curve is trivial. It turns out the birches entire conjecture is true too. We have on x zero of four an eigen differential. And so that gives us a unique cuspidal automorphic representation of the split group with the following local behavior. First of all, as I said, at each real place, the representation is in the discrete series of weight two. Now what about at this bad place? Okay. Well, I claim, well, first, the representation as conductor p squared because it comes from the curve x zero two squared and not x zero of two.
00:41:12.904 - 00:42:12.474, Speaker D: And it's in the discrete. I claim the representation is a depth zero discrete series, and it's compactly induced from our favorite representation of dimension seven, the one that occurs on the differentials of the fricken McBeath curve, because that's the only representation that occurs on the differentials of the fricken McBeath curve. And remember that that's associated to the two cubic characters of the non split torus. By the way, as I say, the non split torus has order nine in this case. And if you restrict the discrete series representation to this non split torus, you get the seven characters which are not equal to chi three and chi three inverse. It's amusing that the two characters that are used to define the discrete series are exactly the ones that don't appear in the restriction to the non split torus. And finally, at all other places, it's an unramified representation, because the only prime which is bad for the fricomicbeat curve is the prime two.
00:42:12.474 - 00:42:58.352, Speaker D: Okay, now we're going to go even further. Take another quaternion algebra, which is ramified at the three real places, all three real places, so it's definite and at the prime two. So previously we had two other quaternion algebras. We had the original one to define the chimera curve, which was ramified at two infinite places. Then we had the split algebra ramified nowhere. And now we go to the definite algebra ramified at four places, and we let g be the inner g be the inner form of the algebraic group with associated points. Well, then again, the theory of Jacques Langlands applies, because for the representations of the split group at these four places, the local representation is in the discrete series.
00:42:58.352 - 00:44:18.180, Speaker D: So we get a unique automorphic representation of this, of this non split form of PGL two, which is now the trivial representation at all real places, and the two dimensional representation of the compact group at the place two, which factors through a dihedral quotient of order six, and whose restriction to the cyclic subgroup is the direct sum of the two cubic characters chi three and chi three inverse. Why is that? Well, first of all, it has conductor P squared, and so that means it's trivial on the one units. And if you take the quotient of the multiplicative group of this depth, of this compact quaternion algebra module over one units, that turns out to be a dihedral group of water 18. And the reason you factors through the dihedral group of water six is that it's a famous theorem that the correspondence of these two representations, one of the split group, one of the non split group, the trace on any torus that embeds in both of them, say the non split unramified Torus zero, namely, it's the regular representation of the torus. And in the group PGL two, we got all the characters except chi three and chi three inverse, where we restricted. So in this compact group, we get the two characters chi three and chi three inverse. And that gives us the two dimensional representation of the dihedral group.
00:44:18.180 - 00:45:05.134, Speaker D: And at the finite primes, we get the same unramified representation that we, we did for PGL two. So here we have a new automorphic representation of a definite quaternion algebra, in some sense simpler than the Hilbert modular form. And why did we do this? Well, one reason we did this is now there's a unique invariant trilinear form on the local representations for every place v. So at the unramified places, it's known that there's a trilinear form form. For the compact group, we have the trivial representation. So if you take its triple tensor product, it certainly contains the trivial representation. And at this place, we have the two dimensional representation of the dihedral group.
00:45:05.134 - 00:45:55.730, Speaker D: And if you take its triple tensor product, which has order eight, it has a unique invariant vector. Whereas if you work with any of the other quaternion algebras, you don't get a trilinear formula. So the point of going to this definite quaternion algebra is to get an invariant trilinear form on the local representations for every place v. Well, that means idyllically there's an invariant linear form on the automorphic representation, which is unique up to scaling, because that invariant linear form is the tensor product of the invariant linear forms locally. Okay? Now, being in a one dimensional vector space doesn't mean you're non zero. And we can define a linear form on this triple tensor product by integration over the diagonal. And that's the period one sometimes says.
00:45:55.730 - 00:46:17.104, Speaker D: And that period defines a g, a invariant linear form. But perhaps it's zero, perhaps it's non zero. And we're going to address the non triviality of this form using the triple product l function. And that's an l function. PI has a Euler. The l function of PI is an Euler product of degree two. This is an Euler product of degree eight.
00:46:17.104 - 00:47:15.706, Speaker D: And it's known by Garrett's integral representation that it satisfies a functional equation when s is replaced with four minus s with sine plus one. In fact, the local signs are non trivial precisely at the three infinite places, and the prime dividing two. Okay, and the result, I'm going to quote, of Harris and Kudla, which they published a little before our paper, is that this period inner form is non zero in this one dimensional vector space, if and only if, the triple product l function is non zero in the center of its critical strip. And that's quite a useful theorem, because sometimes one knows something about the l function and one concludes something about the period. And in some kinds, one knows something about the period and allows one to compute something about the l function. And we're going to use the period to prove that the l function doesn't vanish at two. Okay, why? Well, it looks like this is a very difficult thing.
00:47:15.706 - 00:47:58.596, Speaker D: It's a linear form on a very infinite dimensional representation. But you can often test the non triviality of this linear form by using what I call a test vector, namely a certain vector in the representation for the invariant trilinear form. And the components of this test vector are chosen to span a line fixed by a certain open compact subgroup on which the local linear form is non zero. And the trick is to find this open compact subgroup with the nice test vector property. Well, in this case, without going into any details, one can find the open compact subgroup. I won't give it. And the miracle is that the test function is now defined on a double coset space.
00:47:58.596 - 00:48:59.526, Speaker D: First of all, it's automorphic, so it's on g, a cubed modulo G K. But since it's invariant under this open subgroup of this adelic group, it's invariant on the right by translation by that open compact subgroup. And when you actually work it out, this space, double coset space has only five elements in it. So it's something even I can handle. And you can identify which line is where the test function is using one spherical HEc operator, which gives you a five by five matrix, and you find the eigenvalue for that Heca operator. And this is a computation I did in ten minutes, even with a little bit of making errors and the integration over the diagonal, this period that we're supposed to be testing on the test vector is just evaluation of the function on this line on one of the double cosets, the double coset coming from the diagonal embedding. And you find very quickly that the value of this test function on that diagonal is non zero.
00:48:59.526 - 00:49:24.250, Speaker D: And so, with almost no computation, you prove by the result of Steve and Michael that the triple product l function is non zero in the center of its critical strip. Ok, great. That's a result purely on automorphic forms. You have an automorphic form. It's characterized by its local behavior. You calculate the triple product l function. It's non zero in the center.
00:49:24.250 - 00:50:04.646, Speaker D: Great. Well, how do we use that? Well, first of all, why is it so simple? Why do we only get five elements? Well, the first thing is that we're working on a definite quaternion algebra that tells us that this double coset space we're going to be computing with is finite. But that's not enough. The miracle is that up to conjugacy. This definite quaternion algebra also contains a unique maximal order which has class number one. There are only a finite number of definite quaternion algebras with this property, and this is one of them. And what is the maximal order once you realize it's unique? Well, it's the famous Hurwitz order extended to the ring a.
00:50:04.646 - 00:50:53.320, Speaker D: So Horovitz wrote down a maximal order in Hamilton's quaternions, where the equations are I squared, j squared, k squared, and I jk are minus one. Given by the span of ijk and one plus I plus j plus k over two, that's a 6th root of unity. And if you just extend scalars to a, you get the maximal order in this definite quaternion algebra. Nothing could be nicer than that. I was a little puzzled by this, because I was where's the element of order seven? But of course, there is no element of order seven in the maximal order because the primes seven. Yeah, the prime, the prime two is not the prime. Two splits in the quadratic extension given by 7th roots of unity.
00:50:53.320 - 00:51:19.726, Speaker D: And the prime two is ramified in this quaternion algebra. So you can't embed the 7th roots of unity in a maximal order. So you get fourth roots of unity and 6th roots of unity, but not 7th roots of unity. Great. All right, now let's go back to geometry. If we take the jacobian of this curve x zero of two squared. Well, since it was a homogeneous space for e, the jacobian is isomorphic to our elliptic curve.
00:51:19.726 - 00:52:29.334, Speaker D: And Chamorro proves that this elliptic curve is modular over the totally real field, namely the l function that you define using the tape module of the elliptic curve as an Euler product is the same as the l function of this Hilbert modular form of weight 222. And that allows you to, for example, test the conjecture of Birch and Switzerland Dyer for this elliptic curve and analytically continue the l function to the entire plane. But once you have that, then the triple product l function is also an expression in terms of motivic l functions. It's given by the l function of the triple tensor product of the tape module, which is the symmetric cube of the tape module, and two copies of the original module twisted by minus one. So the l function becomes the l function of the symmetric cube at s times the l function of the elliptic curve at s minus one squared. And the fact that the triple product l function doesn't vanish at s equal to means that the symmetric cube l function doesn't vanish at s equal to. And the original l function of the elliptic curve doesn't vanish at s equal one.
00:52:29.334 - 00:53:13.834, Speaker D: So, as I said by Birch and Switter Dyer, that would predict that the rank of this elliptic curve over the totally real field is zero. And in fact, that's the case. The torsion subgroup is z mod two squared cross z mod three. The Tchafraivich group is trivial, and you can prove the conjecture of Birch and Swinnerton Dyer. Good. Now, the Jacobian of the Frica McBeef curve we saw was isogenous to the sevenfold product of the elliptic curve. And that gives an identity of the motives of rank 14, namely, the first kulmology of the brick and McBee curve is just seven copies of the two dimensional representation coming from the first coulomb of e.
00:53:13.834 - 00:54:00.876, Speaker D: Okay, so that allows us to study the triple product of the friccomic beef curve. So if we let y be the triple product, I claim that the third cohomology of y, the middle cohomology of this triple product, is 343 copies the symmetric cube of h, one of e, plus 707 copies of the original tape module twisted. And the reason is that once you have the cohmology of x, you can compute the cohmology of y using the Kwynneth formula, and these are the only representations that intervene. Now I have another thing frozen. Let's see if I can unfreeze. Okay, let's try again. Good.
00:54:00.876 - 00:54:43.476, Speaker D: Now that's nice, because Baylinson and Bloch have suggested that the chow group of co dimension two cycles homologous to zero on any threefold should be finitely generated. If the threefold is defined over a number field, and it should have rank equal to the order vanishing, the l function of the third cohomology group of Y at the point s equal to. Now, I don't know if one takes this too seriously, it could even go all the way back and attribute it to Swinnerton Dyer. But there's really no evidence for this at all. It's just a hope. Spencer block likes to call it a recurring fantasy. In any case, in this case, we can actually calculate the l function.
00:54:43.476 - 00:55:47.804, Speaker D: The l function is 343 times the l function of the symmetric cube of e, and 707 copies of the l function of e. So, miraculously, for this threefold, the threefold product of the frica Macbeath curve, the order of vanishing at s equal to is zero. Because these two l functions by the triple product L function don't vanish at the points s equal to. Well, that's good. Well, that leads to the following expectation. So, if we take this totally real field and let x be the frick and McBeef curve, then any co dimension two cycle on its triple product, which is defined over the totally real field and is homologous to zero, should have finite order in the child group, because in fact, the rank of the child group is supposed to be the order of vanishing, and the order of vanishing is zero. So if we believe these conjectures of Swyderton, Dyer and Baylinson and block, we're led to this expectation that anytime we can construct a cycle which is homologous to zero, that it should have finite order.
00:55:47.804 - 00:56:40.598, Speaker D: Great. Well, the modified diagonal cycle in the triple product, which is made out of just the diagonal embedding, is defined over the totally real field and is homologous to zero for any choice of e. E is a divisor class of positive degree on it, x. So here it is, it's something homologous to zero from the expectation we're supposed to prove it's torsion. That's really bizarre. And I was motivated in this by this result, as I say, of Bizunjo, Li lit and Srinivasan, who showed that the image of this diagonal cycle under the l attic aboljikoi map is torsion. Well, that's good evidence, but we don't know enough about the Abel Jacobi map for higher co dimension to conclude that the original cycle is torsion.
00:56:40.598 - 00:57:51.334, Speaker D: And they published this. It really jumped out at me, because I had come to the expectation, based on work I did with Chad Shun, that this modified diagonal cycle should only be torsion in very rare cases, like hyperelliptic curves. And the frick and McBeef curve is not hyperelliptic. That led me to investigate this, and at least from the point of view of the triple product l function, and these conjectures of balance and block, it's not unreasonable to expect it to be homologous to zero. But how would one ever prove, not expect it to be trivial in the chow group, but how would one ever prove that something was trivial when it had co dimension two? Well, what you have to do to actually work with the definition, because that's really all we have, is we need to find a collection of surfaces in this threefold wall, which are defined over our number field k, and some rational functions on those surfaces, such that the devices of those rational functions add up to this modified diagonal cycle. That's what would physically be required. They can't be obvious because they're not going to exist on every triple product.
00:57:51.334 - 00:58:42.904, Speaker D: Usually this cycle is very non torsion. It has to be some peculiarity related to the fricamic beef or its definition using quaternion algebras or something like that. And the only thing I can think of, although I haven't been able to work it out, is there are some surfaces which are chamorro surfaces associated to the quaternion algebra ramified at r1 place and the prime dividing two, namely, we've used now three quaternion algebras ramified at two real places, ramified at no places, and ramified at three real places in p. Well, how about the quaternion algebra ramified at r1 place and the prime two that's split at two real places. And so the double coset space I define gives you a surface. And that surface, if you look at its comology, looks like it could conceivably map to y. But I don't have any proof of that.
00:58:42.904 - 00:59:22.826, Speaker D: In any case, I suggest that this might be something we could look at. We know so little about co dimension, two cycles, or codimension greater than one cycles, that this case might actually be valuable to study in more detail. So let me end with a picture. There we are. So here you have a young man exploring space through a telescope and exploring microbiology through a microscope. So there are different ways of looking at mathematics. And Sarah once said to me that he began life looking at mathematics through a telescope, but now he enjoys looking at things through a microscope.
00:59:22.826 - 01:00:05.864, Speaker D: And I think this talk is kind of chow groups through an absolute microscope. But these relations on cycles have been around since the early fifties, when Pierre Samuel defined adequate equivalence relations, homological, algebraic, rational equivalence. We know that they have nice functorial properties, but. But beyond the case of co dimension one, we really don't know how to prove finiteness theorems like the Mordell pay theorem. And I just think a little bit of microscopic analysis in this case might be very useful. So, happy birthday, Steve, and thank you all for listening to the talk. All right.
01:00:06.324 - 01:00:07.944, Speaker C: You can unmute, and.
01:00:10.964 - 01:00:14.914, Speaker D: I'll be happy to take questions. I can understand that.
01:00:15.774 - 01:00:18.394, Speaker C: And he just said he was.
01:00:18.694 - 01:00:20.874, Speaker D: Steve, you're required to ask a question.
01:00:25.374 - 01:00:37.434, Speaker B: Ah. So are there other cases where you can twist around here and see things which are vanishing? We expect things to be non vanishing. In other words, that. Okay, I mean, maybe.
01:00:40.244 - 01:01:13.474, Speaker D: You know, this is just such a unique automorphic form, a unique automorphic representation with that ramification. I mean, you're absolutely right. That one could twist by a character of this totally real field and get something where the sign of the L function was minus one, etcetera but that would prove that some cycle was non trivial, presumably, and that's what we're going to see in Chow Li's talk and other talks. You could sometimes prove that something's non zero in the child group. But I'm trying to understand how we ever get upper bounds and prove finiteness for it.
01:01:13.594 - 01:01:38.648, Speaker B: Sure, sure. Of course, another analogous question is the question, if you have an elliptic curve a rank bigger than one modular lift, a curve ranked bigger than one, it means that the Heckner points are trivial in homology. And I think you once wrote a paper giving some examples in which you could write down the actual modular forms which provide that, that triviality. But I don't know if there's been anything totally systematic about that.
01:01:38.736 - 01:02:22.478, Speaker D: I mean, yeah, I always had the belief, Steve, that, that you might be able to get something in the rank two case from, or the rank three case from the vanishing of the Hagner point. Namely, it would be like a secondary topological invariant, where you use the function whose divisor was supported on the Hager points to construct something else. I never got anywhere with that. Henri has made a lot of progress on the rank two case, but the equivalence relation for cycles of co dimension one are very explicit. You just have to find a function. But when you get higher co dimension, you have to find a sub variety and a function on that. It really becomes quite complicated.
01:02:22.478 - 01:02:26.804, Speaker D: And there's certainly no canonical way of trivializing it. That's the real problem.
01:02:26.974 - 01:03:16.996, Speaker B: No, exactly. I mean, I think I had a paper, this most recent thing that I wrote was looking at these kinds of shimura varieties, where you take a totally real field and you choose an orthogonal group of type signature, m minus two two at some places, and positive definite the other. And then you look at the cycles that I studied with Milson and those guys there. And what happens is, if you look at the co dimensions where the number of non complex places is more than one, then the cycles don't live. The geometrically constructed things, which have a natural construction, like I did with the old stuff with Milson, occur in multiples of the number of non compact places, right? So if you're compact at one place, then you have every, every co dimension. You see cycles. And so you can imagine you could get relations by using those as your sub varieties on which your compact live.
01:03:16.996 - 01:03:29.404, Speaker B: But when you have the number of non compact places is larger, there is no evident modular, or, say, shimura variety constructed varieties of co dimension. One more.
01:03:29.564 - 01:03:30.044, Speaker D: Got it.
01:03:30.084 - 01:04:05.912, Speaker B: One less on which you could look for paramorphic functions and so you can write down the generating series for these kind of cycles of these higher co dimensions, but there's no evident reason why these things should be modular. And so, on the other hand, what I showed in this paper is that, following Weizhan and Xiao Zhang's suggestion about using my old work with Milson, is you can show that if you believe block balancing about the injection into the odd quality, that indeed these are modular. They're all modular forms, but there's absolutely no evidence relations among these cycles which must be there if these are going to be modular form.
01:04:05.968 - 01:04:08.872, Speaker D: Interesting, interesting. Okay, I'll take a look in the.
01:04:08.888 - 01:04:52.414, Speaker B: Sense that they're just, you know, you have all these things. If you believe that basic sort of conjecture fantasy, then these should be modular. And yet there's absolutely no way. And you can write down examples where essentially you have a, I guess, a threefold, I can't remember the exact, similar to the thing case you're looking at, where you have, what you would need is you need some curves, you get some zero cycles, you know, should be trivial, according to Burke, the conjecture. But on the other hand, you need some curves, and there are no curves that you could exactly their way. And so, you know, you're, you have this huge, it's sort of like dark matter, right? I mean, there's something, something working here, if you believe the recurring fantasy, but there's no evidence of what it could be.
01:04:52.534 - 01:04:57.350, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, shimura varieties, sub varieties are like light matter, and everything else is dark matter.
01:04:57.422 - 01:05:07.934, Speaker B: Exactly, exactly. So there's something, there's got to be lots of dark matter. That's what these examples seem to show. And there you are. It's about the same. Maybe there's better. Astronomical.
01:05:07.934 - 01:05:09.950, Speaker B: So we're coming to the astronomical at a.
01:05:10.102 - 01:05:17.554, Speaker D: Good, good, good. I'll get back to the telescope. Thanks. Other questions?
01:05:17.894 - 01:05:19.634, Speaker C: Do we have any other questions?
01:05:19.934 - 01:05:48.144, Speaker E: So here you look at the triple product or something for this automobile over this cubic field. So have you also look at the Rsi O function? So let me. You have a cubic extension already. So, yes, you just consider this non split triple product, where nice. Embed geo two of q inside your cubic extension. Geo two of cubic. I mean, yeah, the root number computation.
01:05:48.144 - 01:05:49.632, Speaker E: Have you, like, look at, or.
01:05:49.688 - 01:05:53.084, Speaker D: I haven't, I haven't looked at it all the way, but it sounds like a great idea.
01:05:53.504 - 01:05:53.912, Speaker E: Okay.
01:05:53.928 - 01:06:08.284, Speaker D: Anyway, by the way, you should now finish your paper with show, since I have both of you on, you both need to finish your paper on the derivative of the triple product l function. Because you know enough now about the arithmetic fundamental lemma to finish that paper.
01:06:09.504 - 01:06:38.120, Speaker A: Yeah, it's embarrassing. So we had a, we met one conjecture in a paper even two years ago, solved the conjecture, and so now we can prove more cases. But I was still, I'm not sure we can prove everything we claimed. So, so the paper still not, is not empty, but I don't know how full it is.
01:06:38.232 - 01:06:44.432, Speaker D: Okay. I still think you're very close. You must be very close. Yeah.
01:06:44.528 - 01:06:53.204, Speaker A: By the way, does he also does a similar thing? I forget it. We. What's even doing? Um. Did he prove something like that?
01:06:54.144 - 01:07:03.034, Speaker E: Oh yeah, he proved, uh, in the case of, I think in the case of rank, rank zero, he proved a similar group is in a triple product.
01:07:03.534 - 01:07:05.142, Speaker A: Or semi group finance.
01:07:05.238 - 01:07:12.150, Speaker E: Right. So none of this torsion is of chow group, but.
01:07:12.342 - 01:07:13.294, Speaker A: Okay, okay.
01:07:13.334 - 01:07:15.854, Speaker D: That would imply that their apple Jacobi images is.
01:07:15.894 - 01:07:16.542, Speaker E: Yeah, it's torsion.
01:07:16.598 - 01:07:17.194, Speaker D: Right?
01:07:17.694 - 01:07:21.406, Speaker E: I think that would imply that actually. Yeah, good, actually.
01:07:21.470 - 01:07:21.622, Speaker B: Right.
01:07:21.638 - 01:07:33.000, Speaker E: I think this triple product result would actually imply already when a single L function has order zero, then those diagonal cycles should actually be torsion in AK.
01:07:33.032 - 01:07:40.924, Speaker D: Right. That's, as I say, what the four author paper proves. But they only use group theory. They don't use anything about triple product alpha.
01:07:45.984 - 01:07:57.212, Speaker A: I mean, theoretically the heights can be computed, right, using my formula, but I don't know how.
01:07:57.268 - 01:07:59.984, Speaker D: But we don't know that the height pairing is non degenerate.
01:08:00.524 - 01:08:13.292, Speaker A: Right, right. Probably not useful. So you need to find another clever method exactly like you and Cha Shon are doing, you know, so some good symmetry.
01:08:13.468 - 01:08:19.080, Speaker D: Exactly. I mean, it's a very large automorphism group and somehow one should be able to use that, but I haven't been able to.
01:08:19.212 - 01:08:22.680, Speaker A: So you believe there must be a good reason why this version.
01:08:22.832 - 01:09:07.267, Speaker D: I do, I do. It's so remarkable for a non hyper elliptic curve of that genus to have a trivial class. It must be some very simple explanation for it. So just out of curiosity, what about the Klein quartic case, the triple product of a client? In that case, the triple product l function has a simple zero and the diagonal cycle is non zero. So it just, it just happens in that case that you don't, that the local representation at the, at the prime seven is the split group supports the trilinear form. So you don't get this phenomenon. And the next case, the next genus.
01:09:07.267 - 01:09:12.203, Speaker D: Oh, forget it, forget it. Much worse.
01:09:17.623 - 01:09:20.043, Speaker C: All right, do we have any more questions for dick?
01:09:20.863 - 01:09:33.655, Speaker F: Yeah, I was wondering, how many of all the Horwitz groups can you get in this manner. I mean, can you get. Can you use, like, congruence groups associated with ideals that are not prime?
01:09:33.759 - 01:09:48.564, Speaker D: Of course. Of course. But they're all. They're all groups of the form products of PGL or PSLP and PSLQ, that kind of thing. You don't get monster groups or anything like that. So the arithmetic. The arithmetic Herwitz curves are very special.
01:09:49.224 - 01:09:55.568, Speaker F: Okay, so this means you probably get only a small fraction, like 0% of all the Horwitz curves, right?
01:09:55.656 - 01:10:04.684, Speaker D: I think that's safe to say, yes. I mean, I haven't done the counting, but yes. Initially, you get all of them at the small geniuses, and then all hell breaks loose. Yeah.
01:10:05.364 - 01:10:07.380, Speaker F: As expected. Yeah. Thanks.
01:10:07.532 - 01:10:08.224, Speaker D: Sure.
01:10:12.684 - 01:10:19.464, Speaker C: Anything else? If not, let's thank dick again.
01:10:21.004 - 01:10:23.444, Speaker D: I'll be back Wednesday. Steve. I'll be back Wednesday.
