00:00:00.330 - 00:00:55.242, Speaker A: You. Version two of Pancake Swap was recently released, providing more reward opportunities for stakers, adjustment options for cake emissions and more. In this video we'll go over what is pancake swap, what can you do with it? What is Masterchef V two and what is different from the version one? Hey, if you're new here, I'm Stefan and on eat the blocks, we help web two developers transition into web3 for the new commerce in web3, or defi. Pancake swap is a type of decentralized exchange built on the binance smart chain. Known as an automated market maker, it has no order books, bid and ask systems, or limit and market orders. Instead, what happens when you trade on pancake swap is that you automatically draw liquidity from one or more so called liquidity pools. Now, if you provide the crypto tokens into those pools, you receive some liquidity provider tokens in exchange and you use those LP tokens to reclaim your share in the future and you also earn a fraction of trading fees.
00:00:55.242 - 00:01:37.270, Speaker A: Now, not only you can trade cryptocurrencies and provide liquidity, you can also farm pancake swap governance token called cake with LP tokens. You can stake those cake into syrup pools to earn more tokens. There is also a lottery event every 6 hours, as well as an NFT marketplace. Now, in a recent Pancake swap update to version two, the team has redesigned the tokenomics and plans to incentivize long term holders. They realized that two smart contracts, pancake swap router and pancake swap factory, could not be upgraded. The lack of upgrade capability meant that they could only handle limited features. For example, the platform's fee structure could not be adjusted and it was not possible to implement auto compounding in syrup pools in terms of the annual percentage yield, or APY.
00:01:37.270 - 00:02:32.522, Speaker A: Besides the regular downsides of staking and farming in general, such as impermanent loss, decreasing interest rates and scams, version one of pancake swap has the tendency to not reflect the true APY numbers. For example, the old v one cake pool would offer a 65% APY, while in reality it was closer to 20% due to the high cake emission rate, roughly 45% a year. Therefore, for pancake swap V two, the team wanted to make deflation higher than emission by building deflationary mechanisms, the goal being for more cake to leave circulation than the amount of cake produced. That led to the cake emission reduction proposal in August 2021, which resulted in cutting down the emission to less than 15 cake per block. Now, regarding the pools, as the team stated, the goal is to make it an all in one cake pools that helps you navigate the pancakeswap ecosystem. Hence, what they did is that they added something called fixed term staking alongside the flexible staking product. Here are the differences between the two.
00:02:32.522 - 00:02:58.918, Speaker A: You can pause the video and have a read if you wish. Now let's see how all of this is possible. Let's talk about the MasterChef contract. MasterChef is the smart contract that is responsible for yield, farming and staking cake. It is the master code that runs all the operations and when the MasterChef contract is instantiated, it creates a default cake pool. We can see that it contains functions to add lp tokens to a pool to deposit lp tokens. We've got the enter staking function to stake cake to the pool and much more.
00:02:58.918 - 00:03:58.306, Speaker A: Now, MasterChief version two is the new main staking contract for farms, while providing more flexibility for adjusting the cake emissions, including the new cake pool burn and other pancake swap products. What's that new cake pool, you ask? Well, it replaces the previous cake pool where you would stake your cake to then be harvested and restaked automatically. But now with the new cake pool and Mastershare V two, rewards are distributed proportionally to all pool users based on shares, which is similar to interest bearing tokens or other share based models. It means that your staking balance will grow when more rewards are being put into the pool. You don't need to harvest and compound your rewards anymore like new cake pool will use a dummy token to harvest cake from Masterchef V two and reward them to cake stakers. The longer you lock your cake, the more shares you receive, leading to a higher yield. More generally, Masterchef V two has two types of pool, special farm pools where only whitelisted addresses can deposit, and regular pools where you will find the classic lp tokens forms like cake BnB, BNB, USD, et cetera.
00:03:58.306 - 00:04:26.250, Speaker A: It is important to note that if you are using some functions of MasterChef V one, you'll need to migrate to the new cake pool contract. Now, if you're stacking your cake in an exchange like finance, you don't need to do anything this upgrade does not affect we've covered quite a few things and it's a lot to take in, so we'll stop there. Feel free to rewatch if you missed anything and let us know in the comments if you'd like to know more. Also, if you want to know how liquidity pools are created on pancakeswap or how to fork pancakeswap, check out Julian's video right here. Thanks for watching. I'll talk to you in the next one. Bye.
