00:00:02.810 - 00:00:56.586, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm enchiero from Kaza Labs. And today I'll be talking about high level overview of what substrate can gives as contribution to starknet infrastructure. So first of all, you need to look at the substrate community as a six years old community, that it's insanely active and doing insane things. Substrate is probably one of the most powerful blockchain infrastructure framework in the whole ecosystem. So you have substrate, which is something that can help you to build blockchain infrastructure easily and with modularity. So what does that mean? Is that anything can be done with substrate. If you want to modify the consensus, you can modify the consensus.
00:00:56.586 - 00:01:43.386, Speaker A: If you want to wrap, I don't know, like Stacknet blocks, you can wrap Stacknet blocks. If you want to have rolling updates, you have the substrate versioning. If you want to, I don't know, transform your substrate node into a light client node. You can do everything. And that's what's insane with substrate. And then you have the Madara team, the Starknet ecosystem team, the whole Stacknet developers that are here for like two years, actively working on the ecosystem projects that decided to unite forces with the substrates and provide the best infrastructure for Stacknet. And to do so, substrate has something that is called pallets.
00:01:43.386 - 00:02:29.398, Speaker A: So pallets are like legos that you just plug to your substrate project, and then you can have whatever you want. And for having Stacknet infrastructure with substrate, we had to first develop a Starknet palette. So the Starnet exploration team from starware started developing like six months ago, the Starnet Palette. I almost sure you heard of Madara, which is one of the biggest engine of Starknet. So what's insane with this palette is that it has a kerovm inside that can execute kero code. It has full Stacknet parity, RPC cores and all. It's basically Stacknet, but inside of substrates.
00:02:29.398 - 00:03:26.080, Speaker A: So what this allows is stuff like Madara, which is a really powerful and fast stacknet sequencer that allows you to do app chains. What are app chains? App chains are like blockchains on top of layers, like the layer one, layer two, Stacknet and all. And that helps you to scale and to have whatever you want on top of the layer two or layer one security. So imagine, I don't know, you have a private company and you want to launch an app chain, you will have your own blockchain. If you want to launch a blockchain, you can use your own app chain on top of Stacknet. So you will inherit all the Stacknet functionalities, but you'll be able to have your own blockchain, your own blocks. You can make it private, you can change the hashing methods, you can do whatever you want, it's your place, but it's powered by.
00:03:26.080 - 00:04:09.526, Speaker A: Yeah, madara. You can see the army is really big. This is a six months long walk, so it's insane. So this is the first infrastructure that has been done thanks to the Stacknet palette, and the second one that it has been done from Kaza Labs. So our laboratory is deoxys. So what's deoxys? Deoxys is the first full node implementation client for Stacknet mainet. So the exploration team came to us like two months ago and they said you can just take what we did, the Stacknet palette, plug it to Stacknet Mainet to the main sequencer, and you'll have a full node.
00:04:09.526 - 00:04:54.246, Speaker A: And we tried out and the results are insane. So how does it work? We have the main sequencer that dispatch the data to the blocks to what we call deoxys origins. So the deoxys origins are the ones that had the authority mode. So there are two types of modes on substrate, two main types, which are authority nodes and full nodes. So the authority nodes just fetch the blocks from the sequencer and then they will dispatch them via the p two p implementation already inside substrate to the other docs full node. So what's insane with that first p two p we have? I may show you. Yeah, so I really like passfinder and I really like Juno.
00:04:54.246 - 00:05:37.774, Speaker A: They are doing an insane work. But if we look, for example, at the optimization that has been done with substrates, this allows you to have a way faster sync time. Those are only benchmark for testing, those are benchmark tested on the performance machine. And of course we don't have any l one verification yet, so it's just a first look. But we believe that when all the full nodes will reach their full potential, thanks to this community of Starknet, and thanks to the substrate community, we will reach some insane benchmarks. So we have data storage optimization. Something that is insane is of course the PTP implementation.
00:05:37.774 - 00:06:22.070, Speaker A: Right now, our p two p implementation only supports deoxys nodes. So if you launch deoxys nodes with the p two p, you will only sync with p two p with deoxys nodes. But thanks to substrate again and again we can just customize the p two p implementation. We have also rolling updates. I don't know if someone from infra alchemy are here, but you won't have any downtimes. And that's really cool. So about our stacknet compatibility, we have all the stuff that has been done from Madara, so of course we are like 100% compatible with Stacknet.
00:06:22.070 - 00:07:10.754, Speaker A: Not yet, but we believe in the next months we will be 100% compatible with Stocknet. So also one thing, I don't know if you know our laboratory, but we launched like six months ago, something called stack node. So stack node are just plug and play, full node that you just plug two cable and you run a full node. So our goal is always to make Webtree high level for every user. So thanks to an implementation from Apur, we now can say that my mom can run a full node on top of Starknet. So that's pretty insane, I'm going to show you. So you just arrived here.
00:07:10.754 - 00:08:18.162, Speaker A: We have three modes for the Auxys. One is work in progress, which is the light client, but we have the authority nodes and the full nodes. So imagine, I don't know, I want a full node, let me show you the light one because it's pretty sick. So I have the full one, I just give it a name and I just launch the node. So right now it stopped, so it says not stop it but basically what do we do? It will launch docs full node, then you will have annex tooling which is the telemetry for example, which is something also built by the substrate community that allows you, it's basically a node scroller for the whole network so you can see where in the world and how many Dexes are deployed currently, which modes and all. And of course it's a whole hub around deoxys. So that's another example of internal tooling developed by the substrate community that is now used on Starknet for deoxys purpose, Madara purpose we know that the main focus right now for Madara is data availability layers.
00:08:18.162 - 00:08:38.240, Speaker A: So we are currently Casualab is working on implementing data availability for bitcoin in collaboration with Taproot. So if you want to come this afternoon at 04:00 p.m. You will be able to know more about this and yeah, that's all for me, thank you.
