00:00:00.170 - 00:00:24.830, Speaker A: Take a look at this code. You can see that this code is not organized. There are some white spaces and some extra spaces and some indentations are off. In this video, I'll show you how to automatically format your code when you hit save inside BS code. The first thing that we need to do is install some packages. So from the left, click on the plugins and there are two plugins that we'll need to install. The first one is called prettier.
00:00:24.830 - 00:01:17.750, Speaker A: Now you'll notice that there are several prettiers that was returned from the search results. For example, there's prettier here by the alter prettier and another prettier with another alter and another prettier with another alter. The one that you'll need to install is prettier code formatter by prettier click on install and once this is installed we'll install the next extension which is called solidity. And the package that you'll need to install is solidity by Juan Blanco so click on install again. Once the two packages are installed, the next thing that we'll need to do is configure BS code. So first open your settings and we'll need to enable format on save. This means that when you hit save on a solidity file, BS code will automatically format your code.
00:01:17.750 - 00:02:04.078, Speaker A: So search for save format. The setting that you're looking for is called format on save. Click on it and make sure this is turned on. Next, we'll set the default formatter to Prettier. So clear the search bar and search for formatter and make sure that the default formatter is prettier by esbemp Prettierbscope select it and the last setting that we'll need to make is on the solidity extension. So search for solidity and what we're going to do is configure the default formatter for solidity to be prettier. So I'll search for solidity formatter and the setting that you're looking for is called solidity formatter.
00:02:04.078 - 00:02:29.780, Speaker A: Notice that at the moment it is none. What you want to do here is select prettier. Then we're done with the configuration. Now we can go back to our solidity file. And just to show you the formatter, I'll make some changes to this file by creating some extra white spaces and then hit Ctrl s and notice that the code automatically formatted. It removed some white spaces and it removed some indentations so that your code looks more.
