00:00:04.330 - 00:00:39.730, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap. First Headline as revealed in mid December, Coinbase will go public later this year. On Thursday, the crypto exchange stated it intended to do so via a direct listing rather than an IPO. In a direct listing, instead of new shares being created and sold to the public, only existing outstanding shares will be sold. This is not only a less expensive process, but also enables Coinbase to avoid certain restrictions that must be followed with an IPO, such as lockup periods that keep insiders from selling their shares. Next headline more institutional investors pile into Bitcoin.
00:00:39.730 - 00:01:59.330, Speaker A: Bill Miller of Miller Value Partners and the former chairman of Leg Mason wrote for Miller Value Partners Q four 2020 letter that it had purchased shares of MicroStrategy's zero point 75% convertible bond. After a detailed analysis of why it believes in Bitcoin's promise, as well as a rebuttal of common criticisms of the cryptocurrency, he writes that the MicroStrategy bond offered, quote, very little downside and an almost free call option on Bitcoin. Meanwhile, CoinDesk reports that the Harvard, Yale, Brown and University of Michigan endowments have been buying bitcoin directly on Coinbase and other exchanges, a fact that was alluded to in Coinbase Institutional's 2020 Year in Review because of the institutional demand for bitcoin exposure. Pantera Capital, one of the oldest funds in the space, is launching a new fund in the next few months for institutional Bitcoin investors, the block reports. Next headline ethereum 2020 Year in Review transferring more value than Bitcoin Josh Stark of the Ethereum Foundation and Evan Van Ness of the Weekend Ethereum newsletter published a 2020 year in Review for the second largest blockchain by market cap. The first takeaway was that 2020 was the year was the first year in which Ethereum transferred the most value $1.6 trillion worth of assets, 60% more than Bitcoin's $1 trillion worth of assets.
00:01:59.330 - 00:03:15.370, Speaker A: Transaction fees on Ethereum at more than $600 million were also almost double that of Bitcoin's. Another trend cited was the growing creator economy on Ethereum, with crypto art volume totaling $23 million, which sounds small but makes it about 5% of the $500 million paid out by Patreon to its creators in 2019. The report also noted the rise in decentralized exchanges, with volumes averaging between $17 billion and $26 billion in the fall. Coinbase's Institutional 2020 Year Year in Review report also saw an increased number of institutional clients investing in Ether, which will also get a boost next month when CME launches Ether futures contracts. Coindes quotes Dennis Vinakurov, head of research at Digital Asset Prime Broker Becoming, who says that many see ETH as a way to get indirect exposure to DeFi protocols. He says, quote not everyone is comfortable with the risks that are still associated with DeFi, but the hypergrowth of these projects boosts activity on the Ethereum network and thus supports capital appreciation. Meanwhile, the Ethereum Foundation and Reddit announced a partnership to, quote, help accelerate the progress being made on scaling and develop the technology needed to launch large scale applications like Community Points on Ethereum.
00:03:15.370 - 00:04:02.890, Speaker A: Next Headline Grayscale files for several new trusts, including some in DeFi On Wednesday, Grayscale Investments, the largest digital asset manager, filed for five new trusts for crypto assets Ave, Cosmos, Polkadot, Monero, and Cardano. Over the weekend. CoinDesk reported that Grayscale had also registered trusts for chainlink decentraland Livepeer tezos and filecoin. It's perhaps not surprising that a few of these are DeFi. Related. The Block reports that OTC desks are seeing an uptick in interest in DeFi. Genesis is seeing trades in DeFi coins such as Uni, CRV, and sushi, richard Rosenblum, the founder of GSR Trading, said quote now that Bitcoin has had time to calm down, people are looking for the next thing to invest in.
00:04:02.890 - 00:04:59.206, Speaker A: Similarly, volumes on DEXes hit $45 billion in January, more than double compared to December. Next headline paradigm's Guide to Optimistic Rollups. Paradigm published an indepth explainer on how optimistic rollups work. It starts with the problem of the system wanting to scale without losing its properties of low cost and low trust, both of which help keep the system decentralized. It explains that the route optimistic rollups take in scaling is to limit onchain transactions and to use fraud proofs to cancel invalid. Quote state transitions or changes to the state of the blockchain. Since fraud proofs are on chain, it also has a method to decentivize fraud called a fidelity bond that's required from so called sequencers, who store and execute the off chain transactions and submit a minimal amount of data about them, called merkel routes to the Ethereum blockchain.
00:04:59.206 - 00:06:15.902, Speaker A: If a sequencer's data is proven to show fraud, then that bond would be slashed and distributed to the so called verifiers, whose role is to watch out for fraud. It's a complex system, but Paradigm does a great job of explaining how it works for those inclined to learn more about what is likely to be the short to medium term scaling solution for Ethereum. Next Headline For the math minded Vitalik's introduction to ZK Snarks Another potential scaling solution for blockchains is ZK snarks, which Vitalik Buterin the creator of Ethereum recently cited as the most promising long term solution as the technology improves. This week, in a new blog post dedicated specifically to ZK snarks, he explains how they make possible solutions to two problems that blockchains face scalability and privacy. As he describes it, quote A zksnarc allows you to generate a proof that some computation has some particular output, in such a way that the proof can be verified extremely quickly, even if the underlying computation takes a very long time to run. Also, he adds, and this is the part that makes it a potential privacy solution. Quote the ZK, or zero knowledge part adds an additional feature the proof can keep some of the inputs to the computation hidden.
00:06:15.902 - 00:07:01.250, Speaker A: He says that this would make it possible to prove that you have the right to transfer some asset without revealing which asset you received. He says, quote this security without unduly leaking information about who is transacting with whom to the public. Those are the main takeaways. But for those interested in the details about how this works, he does go into more detail. But just a warning that it does require a fair bit of math. Time for fun bits. Crypto Twitter can't stop with GameStop if, like me, you can't get enough of this game of chicken between redditors and the zero 1%, here is a roundup of choice tweets from Crypto Twitter author and speaker Andreas Antonopoulos tweeted time to regulate outsider trading lol.
00:07:01.250 - 00:07:41.194, Speaker A: Elizabeth Stark, CEO of lightning Labs. Tweeted 2008 too big to fail. 2021 too small to win. Jake Sharvinsky, general counsel at Compound Labs, tweeted, imagine the SEC denying a Bitcoin ETF proposal because of market manipulation concerns. After all this, Tyler Winklevoss, CEO of Gemini, tweeted if I was the CEO of GameStop, the next move would be to purchase Bitcoin and put it on the balance sheet. Many took the opportunity to promote DeFi with Ryan Adams tweeting Robinhood just banned GameStop and AMC. The wrong people are winning, so they delisted the assets.
00:07:41.194 - 00:07:58.290, Speaker A: Here's what they don't know. They just recruited another 1 million people into DFI. Uniswap. Not Robinhood. Protocols, not banks. This is why we go bankless. And finally, Suna Amaz of Volt Capital tweeted robinhood isn't fit to be called that anymore.
00:07:58.290 - 00:08:20.810, Speaker A: All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Sam FTX and the GameStop saga this week, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the unchanged YouTube podcast channel today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness Shashank and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening, Dam.
