00:00:00.440 - 00:00:23.262, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 21 July 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So hit 10,000 subscribers on the YouTube channel last night. Really, really exciting for me, the big five digits. Hopefully ETH can get to 10,000 soon. So thank you to everyone who has been a long time, short time subscriber.
00:00:23.262 - 00:01:08.816, Speaker A: If you're new to the channel, welcome. I'm really definitely feeling blessed that there's, you know, 10,000 people out there, you know, thousands of you watching kind of like the Daily Gwei every day for, you know, pure unfiltered Ethereum content. It's actually quite amazing to me that, you know, that many people are interested in just watching, you know, non price kind of related content, just like fundamental kind of developments within the Ethereum ecosystem and it's really encouraging. So yeah, thank you again to everyone who subscribed, and if you haven't yet, be sure to subscribe, of course. But yeah, onwards to, I guess, what's the next number from here? Twenty K? Thirty K? Forty K? Let's, let's try and get those kind of numbers up. You know, I don't use any clickbait for this channel. I've discussed this with some of you in the discord before where basically I don't want to have like any of those clickbait thumbnails or titles or anything like that.
00:01:08.816 - 00:01:45.664, Speaker A: You know, this channel is not meant to be one that attracts like moon boys or people who are just interested in speculating on the latest scam tokens or whatever. It's, it's definitely just meant to be kind of, I guess, daily updates on the Ethereum ecosystem and pretty much as far as away from prices you can get, really. I mean, I don't have any charts that I show most of the time and I don't really talk too much about price. I mean, it's unavoidable, of course, and it's a big part of this ecosystem, but I just definitely try to stick to the fundamentals where I can. And you guys know that, I mean, if you're a daily listener or watcher, you know that. So yeah, once again, thank you for subscribing onward to 20k here. So I put out this tweet last night.
00:01:45.664 - 00:02:05.960, Speaker A: I was actually, this was 02:45 a.m. For me. So I was lying in bed and I'm like, you know, what about if we think about Ethereum as like, a generation, generation e or generation Ethereum. And then I put out this tweet where I just said we're all a part of generation Ethereum. And I wrote a newsletter about this today. You can check that out linked in the, in the description. But essentially, what I'm.
00:02:05.960 - 00:02:45.810, Speaker A: What I mean by this is, it's funny because when you think about a generation of people, it's usually split off into, like, age brackets, right? Like, you have. Obviously, people always make fun and make jokes about, like, the boomers, right? The, um, the older generations, the, the baby boomers who came kind of like, after the war or World War Two, and then you. I mean, it's funny because, like, there's a lot of generations that, you know, are alive today or, like, have, have people that are alive today. But you only really hear about baby boomers and millennials in the news. I never hear about, like, kind of the silent generation, Generation X or Zed. Sometimes you'll hear about Zed and they'll call them, like, zoomers. These are like, the young people who are just entering adulthood now and, like, late teens and stuff like that.
00:02:45.810 - 00:03:12.914, Speaker A: But generally, you know, it's the baby boomers and like, the gen Y or the millennials that you hear about. And that it's very kind of, like, age oriented because of fact that generations go by the year you were born, obviously, which. Which means it goes by age. Whereas with Ethereum, with generation Ethereum, there is no concept of that. It's literally, whoever you are, regardless of your age, regardless of where you are in the world, you are part of Generation Ethereum. You are kind of like growing with Ethereum. It doesn't mean you're growing up with Ethereum.
00:03:12.914 - 00:03:50.538, Speaker A: It doesn't mean that you're growing up in a certain kind of, like, part point in time or certain kind of, like, point in, like, in technology or whatever. But you're. You're definitely growing up. Sorry, growing with Ethereum. Like, alongside Ethereum. So I kind of used some examples in the newsletter today where I basically said, think about the amount of people who are never going to kind of interact with the traditional finance system, and they don't even have to be necessarily kind of like, you know, the younger people, like, in their teens or whatever, like someone like me, I actually never kind of interacted with the traditional finance system, and I still really haven't. Besides, like, having a bank account, I didn't set up a brokerage, I didn't buy stocks or anything like that.
00:03:50.538 - 00:04:33.214, Speaker A: I didn't speculate on equities or whatever. I essentially, all of the stuff that I've done with, with finance, pretty much all of it has been on chain, on Ethereum. You know, I haven't even taken a loan from the bank. I, you know, obviously if I'm going to get a mortgage, I have to do that through a bank. It's very hard to do that through Defi still, because it's very capital inefficient and, you know, it'd be, it'd be kind of like much riskier than they're going through a bank. As much as I'd love to do it on Defi, it's not there yet, but still, like everything else I'm doing on Ethereum, and there's a host of people that are doing this and that have basically said, well, I don't want to use the traditional finance system at all, like, or anymore. Maybe they've just kind of like, gone off it completely and basically said, I want to do my financial activities on Ethereum.
00:04:33.214 - 00:05:18.074, Speaker A: And obviously, I kind of like, talk about the benefits of this all the time on the refuel. And Ethereum isn't just for the financial side of things. It's for basically everything. I mean, think about all the stuff that's happening in the NFT space and all the cultural stuff that's happening there, where essentially Ethereum's kind of culture is being encapsulated in all these kind of on chain digital items, I guess you could call them, or digital collectibles, digital art. And that's kind of being kind of, I guess, woven into the generational, I guess, shift that we're seeing within Ethereum. So I guess, like, that's what I meant by this tweet. But maybe generation isn't the right word because that does definitely, I guess, trigger people's kind of, like, mind to go to age bracket like, and they start comparing it between, like, you know, baby boomers, millennials, all that sort of stuff.
00:05:18.074 - 00:05:52.334, Speaker A: But I still think it encapsulates exactly what Ethereum is. It's, it's a group of people who are extremely kind of aligned on, on this mission to decentralize everything, to basically get off the traditional system, to get off centralization, to custody of their own assets, to do all sorts of things in a digitally native way. And I think that's, you know, the most exciting part about Ethereum. So I think maybe generation, maybe it is the right word. I don't know if you've got a better word. I'd love to hear it. But I think that generally it's just like an easy way to refer to kind of all of us in Ethereum today, regardless of our age or whatever else.
00:05:52.334 - 00:07:14.336, Speaker A: I mean, that's still the most amazing thing. I know I've spoken about this a lot, but I think the most amazing thing about crypto, Ethereum in general is the fact that you can be part of this ecosystem and no one even ever has to know who you are. I mean, there are some famous anons on Twitter that no one knows who they are, or maybe their close friends are the only ones who know they are who they are, but they have made a name for themselves, whether that's been by publishing, research, or educational kind of like content or doing things like making themselves famous through on chain activities, all that sort of stuff, and, you know, working for Dao, stuff like that, and, like adding value that way. The fact that, you know, they could be anyone, literally anyone, they could be some 15 year old kid in India, you know, doing it from his, like his home on his laptop and kind of like doing all this stuff and, and no one would ever know, right? Or it could be some 85 year old in a retirement village who, you know, still got his wits about him and basically just contributing to dows and things like that. I mean, that's the most amazing thing to me at the end of the day. And I think that as you kind of, like, as we progress through the development of Ethereum and the option of the adoption of Ethereum, we're going to see more and more of this happen. I already noticed more and more of this happen over the past, I guess, two, three years in 2018 and 2019, there was a lot less anon accounts on Twitter that were at least kind of like semi famous or semi well known than there are today.
00:07:14.336 - 00:07:49.124, Speaker A: And I think there are other people who have alt accounts as well, where they'll have, like, their main account, where their identity is attached to because they've already built themselves up through that account. But then they'll have, like, an alt account, which is basically completely anonymous, and they'll start, like, saying things that they normally wouldn't say on their, I guess, like, normal account, which I think is another cool thing that I guess, like the Internet in particular. But crypto allows you to do, and it embraces it. Like, crypto embraces anonymity. I mean, this whole ecosystem was built on Satoshi being anonymous, right? So, yeah. Anyway, I've got, there's some more about this in the Delagua newsletter today. If you want to check that out, but I'll leave it at that for now.
00:07:49.124 - 00:08:33.540, Speaker A: So, random idea I came up with today. I don't know how many of you have played the game called Rimworld. It's basically a, I guess the easiest way to describe it is like a simulation game where you can basically go in, build your own kind of like world out, and essentially it's like, it's very time consuming because you have to go on there and you have to basically build up your colony, protect it, like do all this sort of stuff. So anyone who played kind of like, I mean, a lot of you probably played the sims and things like that. And there's a bunch of these games out there where essentially you just build up. I mean, there's games like Age of Empires and things like that which are not like this, but they're similar where you would build up your base and kind of like progress through the game. And Rimworld is very similar to this.
00:08:33.540 - 00:09:25.904, Speaker A: It's basically like a colony builder or a colony simulation kind of like builder where you build out your own world. And I kind of put out this tweet where I said a play to earn game similar to Rimworld but built on Ethereum, you know, take all my money because I think that would actually be really cool because the one thing that actually stops me from playing these games all the time, even though I really want to play them, is I know that they're a time sink and I know the only thing I'm getting out of it is a kind of like entertainment value. I'm not getting any monetary value out of it. And I feel like it by, because of that, I'm not actually using my time the best that I could be. But if there was a play to earn game where I could actually build up my, my kind of like Empire or build up my kind of colony, whatever you want to call it, and actually earn money doing it that way, I would feel a lot better about it personally. I feel like I'm actually using my time more wisely even though I was playing a game. And obviously we've seen the explosion of the play to earn genre with Axie Infinity.
00:09:25.904 - 00:09:54.222, Speaker A: You know, there's a lot of grinding that goes into it, too. I mean, for those who don't know what that means, basically you're doing the same thing over and over again in order to achieve some kind of outcome. Um, that's usually what these games are at the end of the day, you know, real, real money or not, they, a lot of them do tend to kind of like go to that specifically towards kind of like the. The end game, or at least kind of like much further along in building out your. Your kind of like colony or whatever you want to call it. Um, it does become like more grindy. But I think that if you just.
00:09:54.222 - 00:10:18.106, Speaker A: If you think about, like, I guess, ways we earn money in general or work in general, a lot of it is grindy. You do it. You. You know, it's repetition. You do like the same thing day in, day out, um, for a lot of different jobs. So if we could monetize that and with Ethereum, and then we could, like, make a video game out of it, I think that would attract a host of people. I mean, we've already seen that it has product market fit with axie infinity, but I think that there's much more that can be done here.
00:10:18.106 - 00:10:37.444, Speaker A: And dark forest is. Is, um, is one thing that I've mentioned before. The. The game that's on Xdai, they've been doing a lot of thing, a lot of kind of like trials around this, and people have been really addicted to it, actually. Uh, it's really fun to see everyone get around that one, uh, that game. But on top of Dark Forest, you also have, uh, there's another game that was being teased. I don't know the name of it, but there's.
00:10:37.444 - 00:10:58.664, Speaker A: There's a few of these being teased. And I think it just really fits in perfectly with what, uh, I guess crypto is. It's essentially, um, a money game. I've. I've talked about money games before, whereas you could evolve it from just being something that's specifically defi. Where there. Where it essentially looks more like a Ponzi than a game to something that's an actual video game where you have all this gamification going on.
00:10:58.664 - 00:11:39.098, Speaker A: People like, grind it out, earn real money, have like, a real economy built on it with real money, like, not kind of like in game tokens, you can't trade for anything. I'm talking about like, real tokens that you can trade on uniswap or something like that. I mean, we already have the financial system for this game built out on Ethereum, so all we need to do is put a game layer on top of it, and the games can tap into it. And the coolest thing about it, and this is going a bit. Probably a bit further than we're going to see for a little while. But the coolest thing about it is all these games can talk to each other, too, because there's. I mean, I've spoken about the metaverse before, but essentially, once you have like a shared infrastructure, like Ethereum, a shared economy, like Defi, you can have all these games that tap into the same economy.
00:11:39.098 - 00:12:08.908, Speaker A: So you could have like five different games tapping into compound, for example, or tapping into Uniswap and using all that infrastructure so you could trade your item from one game for another, for another, for an item in another game. And I mean, it goes way beyond that, but you get, you kind of get the point here. So I think that's something really cool that I hope to see. I mean, as a big gamer myself, like, I still play a lot of games in my downtime. I would love to see this come to Ethereum. I couldn't think of anything more exciting for me, like gaming and ethereum, my two biggest passions in life coming together. That'd be really cool.
00:12:08.908 - 00:12:41.688, Speaker A: So, I mean, if you know of any of these games that I haven't mentioned or I may not be aware of, definitely kind of drop it in the daily grey Discord channel, come join the channel and kind of ping me on there. I'd love to hear about people working on this or kind of games that are in kind of like sort of stealth, but like still early stages. But, you know, I kind of like trying to, trying to push this along here. So Preston van Loon put out a tweet yesterday. There's 100,000 blocks left until London activates on Ethereum mainnet. So this was about 18 hours ago for me right now. So there's obviously less blocks than this.
00:12:41.688 - 00:12:56.346, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, London is getting closer. 1559 is getting closer. It is to less than two weeks out now. That's been the 21 July, 4 August it goes live. That's the target date. Finally here. I just figured I would kind of like bring up like how close we are.
00:12:56.346 - 00:13:38.662, Speaker A: I mean, it feels like yesterday. I think a lot of us in the ethereum ecosystem in like 2019, we're talking about the fact that is 1559 ever going to go to main net even in 2020? We felt like it was taking so, so long. You know, I think some people lost hope at some stages, but it's finally here and I just can't wait at this stage. So there's a few different things going on in Zksync. So I've spoken about Zksync. One point x, their major upgrade that they put for put through the other day, I think about a week ago now, they put it live, which allowed for a bunch of permissionless things to happen on their L2 network, including a lot of got to do with NFTs, permissionless token listings and trading and stuff like that. So there's a few things here.
00:13:38.662 - 00:14:32.290, Speaker A: There's this tweet from Mark who said, um, he did the first ever permissionless token listing to ZkSync, uh, with, with DPI. So the DPI, the DeFI pulse index is now supported on Zksync, Zkrollup. You can actually see all the tokens that are, that are kind of listed here that are available, all of, and their addresses and everything like that as they exist on the Zk sync L2. And then you have the index co op saying that it's not just the DPI that's available, but all their other indexes as well. Like the metaverse index, the ETH two X fly and the BTC two X fly are now on there. So you can basically use them on there and trade them on there, which I think is really cool. And then finally zero X Mons, who I've spoken about a few times on the refuel before, is teasing a pseudo swap v 69, which I think is just like a placeholder there, but basically a new version of Sudo swap, which is basically an NFT swapping platform on.
00:14:32.290 - 00:15:00.122, Speaker A: I think it's going to be on Zksync because they've been kind of like working with Zksync and working with L2s to kind of build a lot of NFT stuff on there as well. So really exciting stuff coming out of there. I mean, it may seem like the L2 space is moving slowly right now. Even with the deployments that we have, like Zksync one point x deployed, we also have optimism. So uniswap and optimism deployed. And I went over kind of the metrics around that yesterday or the day before on the refuel. But essentially this is the way it's going to be.
00:15:00.122 - 00:15:29.140, Speaker A: It's going to be kind of like getting people used to the tech and used to kind of like using it and essentially onboarding onto it. But I think it's going to be faster than many would think, just simply because a lot of people are used to changing networks. Now. Think about how many people change their metamask network to go on to polygon or to go on to BSc, for example. Layer two is exactly the same. You change your network, you bridge assets across, and then you kind of have those assets on the L2 network. So I think a lot of people are familiar with that.
00:15:29.140 - 00:16:32.360, Speaker A: A lot of people that were priced out of Ethereum's layer one and went to, like, BSc, are basically able to come back to Ethereum now and play around with the L2s. And obviously, a lot of the centralized exchanges are going to be implementing the onboarding to the different kind of like side chains and L2, which is just going to increase adoption there. So all this is us basically just laying the groundwork, developers laying the groundwork, getting everything live, so that when a lot of, I guess, the ecosystem grows and as the market gets hotter again, we're going to have more and more people coming back into the ecosystem and more and more people being on boarded, they're not going to be priced out of Ethereum this time. I think that's something that, unfortunately, Ethereum suffered from during the last few months over the bullma. The bull run is the fact that a lot of new users that we could have onboarded went to BSC instead, and then halfway through, or at least three quarters of the way through the bull market, we had polygons, Pos chain get a lot of adoption, which I consider to be a much better than BSC. Obviously, it is still what not. Not what people refer to as a true L2 or anything like that, but I think that socially it's much better.
00:16:32.360 - 00:17:21.772, Speaker A: But then I think finally, the next time we have this bull, this bull market kind of, or another bull market or another market where we were onboarding like tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people a day, we're going to have this infrastructure ready on L2 for them to play with. They're going to be able to experience fully secured networks, you know, using their favorite apps, like Uniswap and you doing NFT stuff. I mean, immutable X, as I mentioned the other day, is also doing permissionless NFT listings and things like that. So all of that is happening, and it's going to be ready for the next time. We have this influx of people, which I'm really excited for. So Sushiswap announced basically this new version of their amm called Trident. So they described Trident as a new Amm protocol built in house by the sushi team with features never before imagined in Defi.
00:17:21.772 - 00:18:04.380, Speaker A: Now, this is effectively Sushiswap V three, but they didn't want to call it v three, I think because Uniswap already had like a v three on them. So they wanted to kind of differentiate themselves there. But essentially they've called it trident as well, because it has a trident has three prongs, which represents the three new pools that Sushiswap is adding to their original constant product pool, which is the 50 50 pool. They have hybrid pools, like, kind assets in one pool, reduces price impact weighted pools supports eight tokens at once. So this is kind of like what balancer has, and concentrated liquidity pools, which is obviously what uniswap v three has. What I find funny about this is that sushiswap has kind of, like, come under fire a lot for, you know, people thinking it's just a fork of uniswap. Right.
00:18:04.380 - 00:18:30.640, Speaker A: Because it did start out as that, but these days, it's much more than that. They have a whole ecosystem that's. That they've been building and things like that. And I've talked about that before, but it's funny because a trident is kind of like a fork, right? So that they're, like, leaning into this meme of being a fork. But also these three prongs, the hybrid pools, I mean, that's curve, essentially, right? Like, for, like, assets in one pool trading, that's kind of like curve. Well, that is exactly curve weighted pools supporting eight tokens at once. At once.
00:18:30.640 - 00:19:17.828, Speaker A: That's balancer, concentrated liquidity pools. That's uniswap v three. So essentially, they're leaning into this fork meme and building out their own kind of, like, flavor of it, but also sticking true to their kind of, like, roots here, which I think is pretty funny. I think it's actually a really good kind of way of doing it and a really good marketing ploy here. But, yeah, this was their major release that they, or at least announcement that they had been teasing since, I think, a while now, maybe a month, I think I covered the teaser on the refuel, but essentially they showed it off at FCC, and you'll be able to kind of, I guess, get, I guess, get more information about this soon, and it's going to be coming soon as well to the platform. So cool to see more innovation or at least more. More competition coming out of the AMm space, because I don't believe that we should have just one amm that dominates or like a two amm that amms that dominate.
00:19:17.828 - 00:19:50.904, Speaker A: I know there's, like, a power law effect going on where uniswap is still, like, 60 or 70% of the total market, but that's not going to last forever. And we, you know, ideally, we don't want just, like, a concentration in any one project. And, I mean, I love Uniswap. I've always loved Uniswap, but I don't think that it's healthy for the ecosystem to have essentially, you know, uniswap be most of the market share and basically no competition coming to market. And people kind of like, not having a choice of where to park their capital or what, or which projects to support and things like that. So, yeah. Cool to see this announcement from sushi Swap.
00:19:50.904 - 00:20:20.294, Speaker A: I'll keep an eye on it and keep you guys updated on when this is live and when you can play around with it. So Maple Finance has unveiled their new landing page here, which is a full redesign, essentially, of their website. So I just like to disclaimer here, I am a seed investor in Maple. I just wanted to kind of get that out there. But, you know, I think just to be critical of Maple for a second here, the old website that they had was very basic. I actually was not a very big fan of it, but I knew that this kind of, like, redesign was coming. So I'm pretty excited to see that it's now live.
00:20:20.294 - 00:20:57.868, Speaker A: For those of you who don't know, I guess, like, what maple is, it's more targeted towards, I guess, like, creating kind of credit for corporations or for institutions, essentially. You know, the lenders can generate yield by lending to top crypto institutions and kind of like, borrowers can. Can premium, sorry, premium crypto institutions borrow under collateralized through maple to expand their business. So it's essentially a protocol that's trying to push forward the under collateralized borrowing and lending by using institutions as liquidity providers. So, I mean, if you were to open up the kind of app here, you can. You can see the liquidity pools that are available. These are two kind of like trading firms.
00:20:57.868 - 00:21:16.576, Speaker A: Such institutions, maven eleven and or falcon, all trading. And you can kind of see the pool balance and the cash balances here and kind of like what you can borrow and things like that. So, yeah, really cool to see this. I mean, you can. You can see it on my screen. The new design here, it's much better than the previous design. I don't have the previous design handy, but it was, as I said, it was very basic.
00:21:16.576 - 00:21:33.126, Speaker A: And if you haven't checked out Maple finance yet, I highly recommend doing so. It is definitely one of my favorite projects. I mean, that's why I backed them. And actually, funny story about Maple. I met the two co founders back in, was it early 2019? So it was a while ago now. And I was. I wasn't even working in crypto yet.
00:21:33.126 - 00:22:20.090, Speaker A: I was working at my old job, and I met them at some cafe in Melbourne. And it was just really cool to see that they didn't abandon the idea that like they, they kind of like built through the bear market and they've launched now, obviously they launched a few months ago, but essentially, I just always loved seeing these projects that essentially start from like a coffee date, you know, like two years ago, and to see these kind of like go live and kind of, um, you know, keep growing here. So, yeah, really excited about that. But as I said, seed investor in it. Um, just kind of a disclaimer there. So Vitalik is back on Twitter, I think, or at least he put out two tweets yesterday promoting a different blog post. So actually, I'll cover this blog post that he co authored with George Os from Paradigm here, and this one basically covers realgs.
00:22:20.090 - 00:22:56.078, Speaker A: After that, the merge in Ethereum. Now, obviously, that the concept or the topic of reorgs in Ethereum has been a very hot topic lately. I went over this on a refuel a couple of weeks ago, got with, I guess, the MEV and how that kind of impacts things. And I'm really, really glad that Vitalik and Georgios have put out this post because I would consider them to be two of the smartest people when it comes to, obviously, the, the MeV kind of arena here and doing research into this and kind of like coming up with ways to mitigate it or essentially, I guess, writing about it and publishing research on it. So I read through the post here. It's a very, very good read. I really enjoyed it.
00:22:56.078 - 00:23:32.572, Speaker A: So I highly recommend giving it a read. But also, I think Vitalik, he maybe a comment about like his Twitter absence. I think he either said it on Twitter or in a comment or something or somewhere, but I think that he's tried to spend less time on Twitter, just generally, and try to focus more on just kind of other stuff going on. But I don't know if I think that's the best use of his account, because if you think about his account, has, what, 2.1 million followers. So him putting out this blog post here and even just talking about the kind of like Ethereum reorgs and giving his opinion on it carries a lot of weight. Like, it's all well and good for me to talk about it on the refuel.
00:23:32.572 - 00:24:06.384, Speaker A: A couple thousand people will watch it and then, you know, they'll go on their way. But Vitalik putting together this post, which is probably going to read by tens of thousands of people, and it's coming from Vitalik, right. The creative ethereum, like, you can't get more legitimate than that. I think, um, you know, I wish fatal did more of this. I know he's active on ETH research, he's still blogging, he's active on Reddit, and I would love for him to just link to that and share that with his 2.1 million followers because that's a lot of people that are following him and a lot of people that could get a lot of value out of him putting a spotlight on things. But I totally get that he wants to kind of limit his Twitter time because it is distracting.
00:24:06.384 - 00:24:49.084, Speaker A: And obviously, you know, him using his efforts and energy on, on just like core research and development of ethereum is, is, is a much better use of time. But just the marketing person in me just thinks that, you know, him putting out kind of like, or just sharing things doesn't have to be things that he writes, but just sharing things that he, he finds extremely interesting or valuable for people to read goes a long way here. But anyway, I guess back to the point here on this blog post, again, definitely give it a read. I think that it covers all of the concerns about Reorgs and it specifically talks about what happens after the merge, aka what does reorgs look like in ETH two. Now, I discussed this when I was discussing the, the real stuff a couple weeks ago, but I won't rehash it here. I want you to go read this blog post. I'm going to leave you hanging there.
00:24:49.084 - 00:25:43.290, Speaker A: And another blog post of italic, kind of, I guess I wouldn't say he co authored it, but he collaborated on optimism. So with optimism on was this thing called retroactive public goods funding, which essentially is a thing, is a way that the optimism. A solution, sorry. That the optimism team have come up with on how to sustainably fund public goods. So essentially the TRDR here, after reading this post and reading through the comments on, on Twitter, is, is essentially the optimism team is going to be committing to giving all of their profits made from sequencing prior to decentralizing the sequencer to public goods funding experiments, including the first public goods exit. Now, I guess I'm going to break this down for you guys. So sequences in L2 are basically block producers where the transactions get bundled and they get sequenced and then the blockchain is produced and added to the, to the chain and all that sort of stuff.
00:25:43.290 - 00:26:29.358, Speaker A: I mean, I've spoken about this before on the refuel, how a L2 protocol is essentially a new blockchain that just inherited security from Ethereum. So that's why it's a layer too. But the optimism team is going to be running the sole sequencer. And because of that, they're going to be the ones extracting the kind of value from, I guess, like the usage of optimistic Ethereum, whether that be kind of like fees paid to the network or excess fees or even stuff like Mav. So what they've committed to is that they're going to give all of their profits made from this back to, I guess, the community in the form of public goods funding, which I think was, was a pretty cool kind of like thing for them to do and a pretty good way for them to do it. I mean, I expect them to kind of have a token eventually as well. So I mean, it's good for them to kind of like do retroactive public goods funding here.
00:26:29.358 - 00:27:19.874, Speaker A: But I think that, you know, when the token goes live, it's going to get even Wilder because there's going to be different token incentives and liquidity mining programs everywhere and all this sort of stuff going on. So I mean, I highly recommend giving this blog post a rate to get the full kind of rundown of what this is and, and kind of like what it entails and kind of the details of it. There are a few comments in here about like people giving their opinions on it, what it can mean, you know, why it's a good idea, why it's a bad idea. I think Hazu actually didn't think it was a very good idea and he had a tweet somewhere. If I can find it quickly, I'll go through it, which I found interesting because I always like hearing people kind of like, at least not going against, you know, any particular person or idea, but just giving their own perspective on it. And no, I can't seem to find it here, unfortunately. It might have been, quote, tweeted from, from optimism's tweet here instead.
00:27:19.874 - 00:27:33.836, Speaker A: Maybe let me have a quick look here. If not, I'm sure you can go on. Hazy's Twitter profile are. There it is. There it is. Okay, so Hazu basically put out a tweet where he said, I'm quite skeptical that this MEV auction based design has any chance in the marketplace of roll ups. So you donate all revenue from running the sequence set of public goods.
00:27:33.836 - 00:28:34.318, Speaker A: That's a heartwarming story, but as a user, I will always stick with roll ups that kick the MEV back to me now, I think in, in this first kind of, I guess, like tweet has, you got like a little bit of his wires crossed here because he was talking more about the MEV auctions, which is essentially the act of auctioning off the right to do MEv on the L2. So this is another idea that the optimism team has had for quite a while. And Hazel was basically saying that I want to use the L2 as a user that will give the MeV back to me as a user instead of taking it from me as like a stealth tax or something like that. And I mean, I get that and I think that's fine, but at the end of the day, as I've said before, I don't think I've said it on the refill, but I said on Justin's kind of like live Ama that we did. Mev is just the concept of those in the know taking advantage of those not in the know. And it Mev doesn't necessarily have to apply to just like what miners or what people on the on chain can extract from unknown people, like through front running or sandwich attacks or, or whatever. Mev can also refer to insider information.
00:28:34.318 - 00:29:35.002, Speaker A: For example, like imagine if you get inside information that a project's coming out with a major upgrade and they haven't announced it publicly yet, but you think it's going to moon the price of the token. Well, and you go buy the token well, you had privileged information, you were in the know, and those who weren't in the know, maybe they're fomoing in, they're pumping your bags or whatever. So it's kind of like that concept. It's the same sort of thing here, but the debate kind of like falls into a couple of different buckets. But I think the main bucket is what is that Mev being used for? So if you're auctioning off the right to do MeV and you're essentially charging some kind of fee for this, and then that fee goes back to funding public goods, whether that be funding the infrastructure needed to keep these things running or funding all these open source teams that don't have a token and or funding bitcoin grants or anything like that. If that happens, like is it fine for MeV to occur? And does that mean like we've basically gotten rid of the negative externality of MeV? Yes, we're still stealth taxing. I guess users and a lot of unwitting users won't know that they're getting taxed.
00:29:35.002 - 00:30:09.754, Speaker A: That's why it's called a stealth tax. And maybe tax isn't the right word, but I think it's just a word that people kind of intuitively understand. But if that kind of money goes to public goods, is that like a net win. And this goes into a large debate. And this is very subjective. There is no real objective answer here because, you know, who decides where the money goes? You know, who decides whether it's right or wrong to take money from people? I mean, then you start getting into, like, the politics of it, and it goes down a very deep rabbit hole that I'm not going to get into for now, but still very, very interesting. I highly recommend giving the blog post a read and then reading through Haas's thread here, which I'll also link in the description for you.
00:30:09.754 - 00:31:08.310, Speaker A: So finally, Jake Sherwinski, who's a lawyer, he works at compound, or at least the general counsel at compound labs here, put out a tweet, and he was, quote, tweeting the New Jersey bureau, Bureau of securities orders cryptocurrency, sorry, the New Jersey Bureau of securities orders cryptocurrency company Blockfi to stop offering interest accounts here. This is a story from the other day where blockfi kind of got targeted by New Jersey's securities, I guess, regulator to stop offering these kind of accounts because they were arguing that they were offering them on security like assets that were securities. Now, in this kind of, like, I guess, order, they said the bureau. And this is a quote that Jake has kind of quoted here. The bureau action comes amid rising concerns over the proliferation of decentralized finance platforms like blockfi. And then Jake adds his own little comment here where he says, New Jersey thinks blockfi is a DeFi platform. That's how badly we need to educate our regulators.
00:31:08.310 - 00:31:46.006, Speaker A: Now, this is actually really scary. I think it's very scary because the worst that could happen, the absolute worst that could happen for DeFi, worst thing that could happen for DeFi is if regulators bucket the centralized exchanges, the centralized services, the crypto banks, into the same bucket as DeFi, because then it all gets blanket regulated and there is no nuance. There is no kind of like detailed analysis of these things. They just think that, oh, well, people are trying, people are kind of like money laundering or people are doing like illegal things or whatever, and we need to kind of regulate this. That's the worst thing that could happen. So we definitely need to keep the education up. But it's a hard thing because education isn't the only thing you need to do.
00:31:46.006 - 00:32:20.976, Speaker A: You need to lobby, you need to pay at least. I mean, you need to donate to these politicians, which aka is a bribe. But that's the, that's the game, unfortunately, because there are a lot of, I guess, like vested interest in traditional finance that don't want this stuff to happen. And you bet your ass they're going to be, I guess, being in these politicians ears and essentially saying, hey, you know, you need to look at this. You need to regulate this because it's, you know, it's eating into our business and it's unfair that the, that they are unregulated and we're regulated. So I really, really hope that we can get these regulators more educated here. I'm not holding my breath because unfortunately, I don't have very much faith in a lot of governments around the world.
00:32:20.976 - 00:32:58.304, Speaker A: I feel like governments are very reactive to this sort of stuff, especially when it comes to new technology. They are extremely reactive and they usually come very late into the game. And a lot of them usually have preconceived ideas and notions about what this technology is. And they kind of like put a blanket opinion on it, which I think is pretty worrying. But at the same time, true Defi can't be regulated. You can still access it, but they can choke the on ramps if they wanted to. They could ban you from withdrawing from a centralized exchange to your own Ethereum wallet, which would actually kill most of the activity on Ethereum and would kill most of the new users coming into Ethereum.
00:32:58.304 - 00:33:27.780, Speaker A: So we had to be very careful that we educate them, we make them, we make them aware of the fact that a lot of this sort of stuff doesn't need to be heavily regulated because there's no central points of failure. There's no one custodying the assets, all self custody. It's all transparent because it's on a blockchain, all those sorts of things. So I'm hoping we can get to there. We'll see. Jake's doing a lot of good work in this area as well. He's helping a lot of different, um, uh, funds and helping a lot of different kind of like, uh, regulatory, uh, I guess, bodies, uh, try to, uh, kind of get through this.
00:33:27.780 - 00:33:43.724, Speaker A: But at the same time, it is an up your battle, it is a long term battle. And we have to remain vigilant when it comes to regulators, I think. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. Thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
