00:00:00.120 - 00:00:07.366, Speaker A: We're definitely betting on the future where things are happening on chain, where a lot of productive economic activity is happening on chain.
00:00:07.430 - 00:00:21.582, Speaker B: And I think you've seen in the last year or two, it's like, what's going to be the big moment for crypto? And we probably need mobile applications, so you need security on your phone, for example, not just in your ledger. That's definitely going to be a thing where crypto gets adopted, and payments is perfect for that.
00:00:21.718 - 00:00:52.566, Speaker C: Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my co host, or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed. This is a special day. We've got a bit of a homecoming.
00:00:52.566 - 00:01:11.884, Speaker C: We got Garrett Harper making his re debut, but this side, on the other side of the fence. And Garrett, welcome back. And you're joined by the one and the only step on. On this side, joined by squads protocol. So, first of all, congrats on the raise 10 million series a led by Electric Capital. But, guys, welcome on the show.
00:01:13.144 - 00:01:14.256, Speaker B: Thanks for having us.
00:01:14.400 - 00:01:36.236, Speaker D: I'm interested in the story. Right, so you. I believe you guys had a hackathon on Solana way back, and then you started slowly building things and adding things to the protocol as you saw fit. And then now you're expanding. You just raised the series a. So I think it'd be valuable to maybe talk about the story of how you got here and why you're doing what you're doing.
00:01:36.340 - 00:02:16.482, Speaker A: I think the story is kind of started, I think, in early summer 21, when I joined the hackathon formation chat that Solana had for Solana season. Hackathon. And me and my co founder, Danny, who I used to know for almost ten years, we just put together two pagers saying we think Solana is really cool. It's fast, it's cheap, we can focus on consumer stuff. So we're trying to build what biology would talk about back then, like group chat with a bank account or like telegram with a multi segment. So that was the original idea for squads. And as we kind of were starting to build it out, we realized that there are none of the primitives that should kind of exist at first for us to be able to deliver such a product to the ecosystem.
00:02:16.482 - 00:03:10.004, Speaker A: And so we then transitioned to focus on kind of all in one Dao infrastructure, right? And so I think that was like the second iteration of our vision. That's when we kind of formed the company and sort of raised the first round and went full time by around September 21. And then we started kind of building this down infrastructure, started talking to different teams and users in the ecosystem, and we realized that not many of them are actually daos. Like they're centralized teams, companies building products, iterating, having a vision. They're building companies, they're not building decentralized communities. And so that really made us think, okay, what is the, out of all the DAO infrastructure, what is the tool that's absolutely necessary for all of these users? I think the other thing we realized at the time is when you make things really cheap and fast a lot more. It used to be that just daos use safe on the vm because safe would be pretty expensive.
00:03:10.004 - 00:04:03.046, Speaker A: You need this decentralized on chain infrastructure for decentralized communities because they don't have other options, because they can't really use a bank account. But then on Solana, what we saw is that a lot of these teams would actually opt in to use an on chain infra for their centralized operations. They would put their VCrace money in there, they would manage their developer workflows, they would manage their program upgrades. Eventually we kind of discovered that validators and tokens also kind of come into the picture. And so we really focused on a multi seg infrastructure powering an app that would be like an enterprise facing app for these teams to just, instead of opting in for a bank account and a bunch of other tools, they would just say, okay, we just have a squad, we have USDC, and we're sort of good to go. And so that really put us on the journey that we're still on. And I think the first iteration of Squad's app and the protocol had its drawbacks.
00:04:03.046 - 00:04:52.138, Speaker A: We had to go back to the drawing board at, I think, early summer 22, pretty much a year after we started doing this, and we redesigned the protocol, really thinking about security and talking to, because I think the first iteration of squads was really about. We tried to do a shiny UI and basically lure people in with the product. And then we realized that all these teams, when we would talk to them about, hey, they want to use squads, we just built it for you. They'd be asking the CTO, the very technical person, to evaluate, and they don't care about the UI. They actually cared about is it open source? Is it audited by the right, teams, is the program small enough so they can review themselves? And so we redesigned the protocol. That was our v three iteration that really took off. And then once FTX collapse happened, also a lot of teams realized, because a lot of teams used to hold money on FTX, and then they realized, ok, we can't really trust centralized parties anymore.
00:04:52.138 - 00:05:35.312, Speaker A: And so we had like another inflow of Solana native teams and a bunch of institutions saying, ok, we're actually going to opt in for a completely unchained version of that. And then the next iteration of the protocol and the product, really, we tried to bring it as close as possible to the neo bank SaaS experience that these teams basically have come to know. And I think that also really worked. And so we're in that phase where we're still iterating and trying to optimize the experience as much as possible. So squads app is like the home base for everything, for all the workflows that these teams need to run on chain. And then fuse naturally grew from that because we saw a lot of individual users come to the squads app and actually use it individually, they would have two ledgers and a phantom. And we realized, well, that's super clunky.
00:05:35.312 - 00:06:16.664, Speaker A: They need to connect different wallets and it's just not the optimal experience. And so really fuse was like, okay, how can we a bring smart accounts to mobile? Because we had this idea, like, we need some kind of mobile presence. We think a lot of things are going to be happening on mobile. And the second one was, how do we make these users that are using squads directly more comfortable? Because they're using an enterprise platform that's not really purpose built for them. That's how fuse grew out of that. That also naturally made us think in very different terms about the protocol itself, how smart accounts are actually multisig is just one way you can configure a smart account and then you can play around with spending limits, key rotation for other purposes, and not specifically for a bunch of people trying to manage assets together.
00:06:17.714 - 00:06:40.954, Speaker B: Yeah, and I can touch on the smart accounts. I think one thing that stuck out to me when I joined squads, just how it's really a product company. And it's interesting, like crypto, two to three years ago, everyone just talked about protocols. You had Ethereum, and then you had protocols built on top. So, like, Uniswap is called a protocol, and it's like, only recently, I think, across every ecosystem. But it's been this way in Solana for a while. Do people think like applications and by that, I just mean they think product first.
00:06:40.954 - 00:07:08.154, Speaker B: So every decision that step does is always from this, like, product perspective. And that's where we started with infrastructure, which is squads protocol. It's like, okay, that's cool, but you have to build things on top that people actually want to use. And that's why we have the squads app. That's really for enterprises now. We have fuse, that's for consumers. Then we have this other side that maybe Steph can talk on later that we call smart accounts as a service and just go into what smart accounts are, trying to avoid the technical talk, because it's not really me.
00:07:08.154 - 00:07:24.876, Speaker B: On Solana. In most blockchains, you have program accounts where you actually put the code and you can design programs, and then you have data accounts. Data accounts are really simple. They're non programmable, and they're controlled by a private key. Everybody kind of knows their seed phrase. If you have it, someone else gets it, all your funds are gone. The cool thing about smart accounts is it really just adds.
00:07:24.876 - 00:07:50.748, Speaker B: It makes it where you can add code to these accounts and make them programmable, and then you can do a lot with that. So I was exploring for a long time how to explain this to somebody that's not in crypto. And the best thing I've got is I saw this thing on Steve Jobs back in 2007 when he was releasing the iPhone. He had this picture of a BlackBerry on a PowerPoint, and he said, that's the problem. And he pointed at it, and it's like, it's the bottom 40. And it's like, what's the bottom 40? The bottom 40 is the plastic keyboard that's on the iPhone. He's like, the problem is it's plastic.
00:07:50.748 - 00:08:17.916, Speaker B: It's always there. No matter what app you're using, it can't adjust the use case, so it's basically non programmable. So, like, say you're playing a game on the phone, you don't need your standard keyboard, right? It should actually react and update based on what you're doing and also just based on the user. That's what smart accounts more or less do. They provide, like, programmable interface for you, for you to be able to create a customized experience per user and also developers. So that's kind of the easiest way for me to think about it. And once you have that programmability, you can start off with things that we'll go into, like spinning limits and two factor authentication.
00:08:17.916 - 00:08:30.100, Speaker B: You can get rid of. Seed phrases have things like recovery keys, which most people talk about as social recovery, but you can just go on from there. But I would say we're more focused with that. Programmability is security, and that's really what squads is all about.
00:08:30.292 - 00:08:43.134, Speaker C: The king of analogies is so back. I love it. I love it. That was great, Garrett. But steph, I want to. You mentioned a fuse there, and I want to peel back the layers on that. So I like how you have the two approaches.
00:08:43.134 - 00:09:31.148, Speaker C: One of more, this, like, enterprise application for Daos, which I do want to dive into in a second, but starting with fuse, that more consumer focused application. This has been an interesting thought experiment that I've had for a while, is today, you log in, you get a phantom or a metamask UI that pops up, you get the clunky seed phrase, and you still have the weird browser wallet integration thing that doesn't make sense to most users. And self custody is great. I love the optionality that crypto provides to be your own sovereign individual with your own sovereign money. I love that aspect. But the reality of it is people like simplicity, probably at the expense of security in a lot of cases. And so I'm glad to see that you're making this effort to make wallets easier to interact with.
00:09:31.148 - 00:09:44.144, Speaker C: Can you kind of, like, expand on what you mean when you say fuse is really built for the individual consumer and what, you know, Garrett just kind of rattled off a few of its really great feature sets. If you can expand on some of those.
00:09:45.404 - 00:10:14.128, Speaker A: Absolutely. So I think the way to think about fuse is that it's the most secure place to store sort of your salon assets. And I think that's kind of Garrett mentioned exactly right. That, like, we're definitely the first thing we're focusing on is security as opposed to kind of other things. Right. And so the push we're making right now with fuse is to make it the place. Like, once you kind of interacted with the ecosystem through phantom or backpack, like, we're definitely not trying to compete with those guys because they're solving a very different problem.
00:10:14.128 - 00:10:51.876, Speaker A: Like, they're solving the most intuitive way for you to, you know, do stuff on Jupiter or, you know, trade and drift. Our idea is that fuses here, once you've traded and you made a bunch of money, this is where you move, like, 80% of that that you don't intend to sort of interact with day to day. And so I think that's where we really heavily kind of leaning in with smart accounts because we can now offer two factor authentication. That's kind of how fuses coming out of the box, you've got different recovery keys. So right now we're offering up to three. And then there's spending limits if you have additional two FA set up with Ledger. And then we're going to open up kind of more possibilities for different two FA capabilities.
00:10:51.876 - 00:11:56.062, Speaker A: And so I think really the focus of fuse is to solve the security component first. Then we can also, I think the second stage of fuse will really be showcasing what you can do with programmability when you're thinking about it in terms of, it's not about interacting with other things, but fuse is the destination. What kind of things and features can you program and offer to a user that make it a very different experience? One example could be, for example, where if you send us DC to your fuse wallet, you can program that 25% of that with auto DCA into Sol through Jupiter. That could be basically completely automated setting within the wallet. And so I think that's where a lot of the focus around fuse for us will be, as opposed to saying like, hey, this is another wallet that's easy to set up, but then go and play around with the ecosystem with it. So I think that's kind of one big thing around fuse. And I think secondly, it's really, it's trying to dance between these two groups of like power users who kind of understand what a smart account is, who trust squats protocol already.
00:11:56.062 - 00:12:41.112, Speaker A: And it's just solving this UX problem for them because they're using Squad's app directly and they want a better experience. And then the second group would be a user coming to slant ecosystem doing stuff. You can see these tweets a lot, like saying, oh my God, I have so much money in my hot wallet, where do I put it? And people are, hey, you should set up, you should buy a ledger and you should order a cold wallet. And I think that's definitely a good start. But we think that the smart account with key rotation, because again, I think once you've got your ledger, you've got your seed phrase. Basically the seed phrase is the only condition that's required to access your assets. And I think that's kind of the problem, right? So I think with fuse, you get this new unlock of progressive custody and programmable custody because you can say, ok, I have this ledger, it's only one of the signers on my smart account.
00:12:41.112 - 00:13:28.114, Speaker A: And then you can have recovery via email, via another ledger, via friends wallet and so on. And then I think the other core aspect here, because we just announced Hughes public test light and people ask a lot about Android. I think the fact that we are more slow in terms of Android support is because we definitely are heavily leveraging Apple security model with biometric verification and a bunch of the fact that Apple is quite close as a system, closed ended as a system. I think that allows us to make a more secure wallet experience, which we are more comfortable with in terms of delivering to the user. I think we will figure out how it can apply to Android. I think saga would be a much easier move for us because it has the seed vault and we can leverage those things. Definitely.
00:13:28.114 - 00:13:43.064, Speaker A: That's a very important component. When we talk about fuse, we say it's powered by squad's protocol and iOS. It's not just built on iOS, but it's also actually like. But you have a leveraging what IAS has to offer. So, yeah, that's how we think about it in a nutshell.
00:13:43.964 - 00:14:04.024, Speaker B: All right, I got to add two things. One, Stephan was talking about the programmability with the USDC. That's such a cool use case to me. We used to talk about a lot, like, to get people onboarded to crypto. I think the best way to do that is to get them paid on chain. And that's one reason deepen's so cool. Well, if I could get, like, I get paid on chain, if I could get, say, 10% of that sent to me, automatically, say, staked.
00:14:04.024 - 00:14:33.326, Speaker B: So it buys soul with my USCC and then stakes that soul, and then it puts it into, like, a time locked vault, which is something else you can do with programmability where, say, like, I can't withdraw from this vault. It takes 48 hours for that to actually, like, happen, for that transfer to happen, which I really like. One, because it gives you, like, diamond hands. Because I've had many times where I've kind of freaked out with the market and I want to, like, insta sell. And then that was a bad decision. And then also, if you think that you've lost your wallet, you lost your phone, and you haven't recovered it yet, it gives you that, like, okay, you have 48 hours. So I just think that's a really cool feature.
00:14:33.326 - 00:15:07.640, Speaker B: And fuse is really for security conscious people that are already using ledger, but it's also perfect for someone that was like me when I first got into crypto. Really, my first two and a half years in crypto, I got phantom, which is awesome. I use it every day. But I took that seed phrase and I copy and pasted it into Google Doc, and then I went and got backpack and I copy and pasted that seed phrase or no, I didn't even copy and paste it. I took a photo of it and kept it in my Apple photos. And I know that sounds ridiculous, but I guarantee you at least like 50% of the people listening to this podcast have done that before. So this is something that completely extracts and abstracts that process, and you have security by default.
00:15:07.640 - 00:15:09.044, Speaker B: So that's why I think it's really cool.
00:15:10.024 - 00:15:10.736, Speaker D: Awesome.
00:15:10.880 - 00:15:45.008, Speaker C: My friends, big, big news. Blockworks is hosting permissionless three in Salt Lake City this year. So we're heading west for three days starting October 9. Permissionless is our industry's premier defi event that brings together crypto natives from all over the globe. I've personally been the last few years and can honestly say that the attendees are incredible. It's people who actually care about crypto. We also have more than 200 industry titans speaking at the event, and this includes builders like Lucas Breuder from Gedo Labs and Brian Pellegrino from Layer Zero, or investors like Kyle Simani and Joe McCann, and even elected officials like representative Tom Emmer, who is fighting the good fight in Washington.
00:15:45.008 - 00:16:06.930, Speaker C: And it's narrative season, so we're going to be covering the seven hottest themes in crypto. This includes things like modularity and restaking, or bitcoin and l two s, and even AI and crypto. Crypto. The goal is to keep you up to speed on major developments in the industry. Ticket prices will be structurally increasing over time, so get your ticket today from my lightspeed family. I got you. We're going to use code lightspeed ten in all caps.
00:16:06.930 - 00:16:13.354, Speaker C: No space for 10% off your ticket. All right, everyone, I look forward to seeing you at permissionless three, and let's get back to the show.
00:16:13.514 - 00:17:11.980, Speaker D: Well, talking about security, actually, one of the things that most people don't know, and I think should be highlighted much more, is squads. I think one of the programs is the only, the first and only fully immutable program on Solana, frozen and also formally verified, which is a pretty big guarantee, and you don't really have that anywhere on Solana. So I'm curious, first, what was that like? What was a process? And also, what do you think of the state of that entire programs being immutable and whatnot for security reasons? On Solana, for example, just to give the audience some context, we use squads for our on chain treasury and all payments and all types of different wallets. And it's the only thing I feel comfortable actually storing money in and off ramping and on ramping and stuff like that. So it actually does make a pretty big difference.
00:17:12.152 - 00:18:01.684, Speaker A: The first question in terms of the journey to formal verification, why we even did it was really because when I got into figuring out the right design for the protocol from my CEO kind of perspective, talking to Sean, my co founder, who was the technical lead, I had these very clear cues from our users who were saying, we want that, we want this. And somebody brought it up. I think it could have been, maybe it was Edgar from margin five, maybe it was someone else. But somebody brought it up very back in the day and jokingly, in a sense, where asking is squads formerly verified, and knowing that it's not, and, like, not expecting, like, the answer that it is or it will be. And so that kind of put a sort of chip on my shoulder. We're like, okay, we gotta, you know, somehow, somehow figure it out. And so once quads v three was a bunch of times audited, I was like, I was talking to Robert from othersec and saying, okay, you know what? What else? Like, I understand how sort of security orders work.
00:18:01.684 - 00:18:11.664, Speaker A: I understand the process. Now, what's the next level? He was like, form verification. And I kind of remember that, and we started talking about how to even achieve it, because at the time, there was no framework that would apply to.
00:18:12.104 - 00:18:14.524, Speaker D: Can you actually define what it is as well? Just. Sorry.
00:18:14.984 - 00:19:01.216, Speaker A: So the way I think the best way I've come to be able to describe it was when you think about, like, a security audit, when you hire, like, an auditor, they really look at the code and think, like, you know, an attacker and try to find sort of vulnerabilities that they can exploit. Formal verification is a very different process. Process. It's basically you break down the code base into math, and you kind of, you prove it as, like, you prove different properties of that mathematically. And so you can mathematically say the program does this or it doesn't do that. And so that's a very different approach where, like, there's sort of less thinking around. You know, how can somebody exploit it? There's much more thinking around, like, what are the core properties? And, you know, can we mathematically verify what are the right sort of outputs? And if something is off, like that can showcase that, okay, this is not what the program was supposed to do.
00:19:01.216 - 00:19:54.902, Speaker A: And so we started talking about this with Robert, and, and it was like a big project for ultrasock. We engaged them to figure out what's the right framework and how to do it. And we were sort of squaz v three was the first program to be formally verified on Solana, and then sort of since then Sirtora, who sort of specializes on formal verification, also got really involved in ecosystem. And then we did sort of for v four, the next iteration of the protocol, we did both Sertora and Ottersec. And I think that process, at least to me, as somebody who is, is actually talking to users who are using this app and protocol every day, that gives me great comfort that at least this is a very different, next level thing that we can deliver in terms of security. I think for the ecosystem broadly, it's harder because, for example, squads V four, we shifted the protocol, went into production, I think in September 23. Since then we did one upgrade in December 23.
00:19:54.902 - 00:20:57.570, Speaker A: We haven't touched the on chain code since that allows us to have it formally verified every time because we upgraded rarely, the program is simple enough for us to never have to do it, that we can formally verify and update the form verification every time, because otherwise it's going to be too long. Because a lot of these different protocols, they need upgrading every week, every couple of weeks, that becomes completely unsustainable. I think once these large deFi protocols get to a place where majority, they're feature complete and most things are figured out, I think a lot of them should, and I hope they will embrace form notification as well. It's costly, it takes time, but it's definitely worth it, particularly if you're optimizing for security, which I think kind of everybody should. I think in terms of immutability, that was another user ask. We've got a lot of requests around when the program will be immutable. And so I think we had this countdown in terms of, we had a public checklist on Twitter, what are the things we need to do before we make it immutable? And so that kind of really worked out and gave a lot of confidence to people to continue using the protocol.
00:20:57.570 - 00:22:07.874, Speaker A: And new users also started coming in, I think immutability right now when we talk to, because there's a lot of kind of, there's different opinions. Like some of the larger users we talk to actually say we would prefer if the program was upgradable because we think that you are funded, you're motivated to continue sort of iterating on the program, making it more secure over time, making it more optimized, making it a better experience, but also the fact that you are going to be there during the best and the worst when the program is immutable, really, there's not much you can do. Despite the fact that we're still kind of playing around with it, and we're talking to some of the security people about potential, like, circuit breakers or some things that you can leave as admin functions that can remain in the program once it goes immutable. But I think for immutability, it's even harder for basically any other protocol than ours, just because ours is really static. As I explained before that we don't really touch down chain code. All the upgrades and all the updates for the app that you see, they're all front end and the kind of logic that's plugged into the program, but they're not down chain code. So I think it's definitely, we kind of expected more people to jump on formal verification once we did it more than a year ago.
00:22:07.874 - 00:22:17.154, Speaker A: But I think it just, it's kind of a thought after a certain period of your life cycle as a project that you start thinking about, okay, what else can we do on the security side?
00:22:18.094 - 00:22:33.834, Speaker B: I think formal verification is really cool, and it's going to take off. Immutability, I don't think. I don't know what step actually thinks on this, but I feel comfortable saying it. I think you should always have the option for immutable protocol. You should have an option for that. So there should be a multisig that's immutable. And that's the coolest thing about crypto.
00:22:33.834 - 00:22:43.254, Speaker B: There's low, like, switching costs, and you have that option. But I think the take that every protocol and application and crypto should be immutable is like the ultimate mid curve take. So just leave it there.
00:22:43.834 - 00:22:44.814, Speaker D: Oh, God.
00:22:45.434 - 00:23:11.142, Speaker B: Hold on. Software has bugs and you have to update it. Like, we're so early in the lifecycle of crypto that I think to make anything immutable at this point, not anything. We have V three, which is immutable, and I think that's awesome. If you're a team on Solana, you can use V three. It's free and it's immutable. But to say that most protocols or applications on Solana or any ecosystem should be immutable, I think it's just way too early for that.
00:23:11.142 - 00:23:36.514, Speaker B: I think that's almost like looking against progress. You should be looking for things that are improving, and all of this is software, right? It's software that's really important in actually controlling your funds, and that's why steph, I know 24/7 is thinking about security, and that's what we have to do at squad. The nice thing is, once you have the programs deployed. I think it's like 99% of our code is not on chain, and that's true for any company in Solana that's building an application.
00:23:37.734 - 00:23:41.394, Speaker D: Does that mean l two s won't ever get rid of the multisigs?
00:23:44.074 - 00:24:19.886, Speaker A: I think that's a question for another ecosystem, but I think definitely, definitely there is. I think there's value in keeping. I think what Garrett was trying to say is that immutability is decelerationist and upgradability is yak. I think that was kind of where she was going, but I think, no, I think some things should be immutable. For example, I think some very simple primitives definitely would benefit from that. For example, maybe a very simple, small lending protocol, which is very liquid and just does one pair or something. Maybe that should be immutable, because then it does this one thing.
00:24:19.886 - 00:24:40.620, Speaker A: It does it really well. But some things that need active development and iteration, they probably should stay upgradable. But I think, again, take care from your users. I think these l two s have tokens. Maybe they can use them to vote on that. They can just go and have a proposal and say, we want to make it immutable, and then let's see what the foundations do. Actually not following the vote.
00:24:40.620 - 00:24:43.580, Speaker A: So I think that's probably the best solution to the problem.
00:24:43.692 - 00:24:49.184, Speaker B: If everything goes immutable, governance tokens go to zero. So I think it's against everybody's best interest.
00:24:50.204 - 00:25:04.994, Speaker D: All right, what is the vision for squads? So, it's a noisy world out there. People pay attention to all sorts of weird coins and stuff. When they hear the word squads, what do you want them to know in the end game?
00:25:06.014 - 00:26:03.354, Speaker A: I want them to know that we're definitely betting on the future, where things are happening on chain, where a lot of productive economic activity is happening on chain, where merchants are transacting, where you hold your money, where you pay merchants, you send money between friends, you pay for services. That's definitely at the core of our vision, that we think all these things will eventually migrate on chain. And one of our core beliefs is that this is going to happen. The other core belief is that blockchains will continue scaling and that they will get faster and cheaper over time. And so the protocol and the products that we're building are really betting on that future and making products and technology that is going to make that transition happen faster and make that kind of acceleration happen. And either through solving security, solving ux, it really is centered around self custody. Smart accounts are all about where the assets reside and who has access to them.
00:26:03.354 - 00:26:32.442, Speaker A: But I think that's sort of when you think about squads, definitely what we want people to think about is definitely our mission in terms of growing. The on chain economy really translates into that. The reason we're excited for it is because we've been on Solana for three years, and we are seeing that happen. A lot of these, for example, very centralized teams and companies that used to hold money in the bank or with different centralized entities are now completely on chain, and they're completely comfortable. They're doing payroll on chain. They're paying for audits, they're paying for other services for RPC providers and so on. Right.
00:26:32.442 - 00:26:56.474, Speaker A: So I think that's one of the more bullish things when we think about our journey so far and where we're going. And I think that's definitely what gets us most excited. And so I think when people think about squads, we want them to think about, these guys are trying to make this transition happen, and they're building really well designed, you know, well crafted products and really secure tech to help us kind of bring that about quicker.
00:26:57.534 - 00:27:06.994, Speaker D: You mentioned you've been on Solana for three years, and my question is, why have you been on Solana for three years? Isn't it centralized vaporware?
00:27:08.574 - 00:27:42.040, Speaker A: It's a good question. I think for us. The first of all, it's, you know, it's a kind of historical thing, right? Because we, we, our whole team that was never really in Ethereum. Like, Sean Michael, founder, was always in bitcoin. Like, he was mining bitcoin for the last ten years or so, and so he kind of missed the Ethereum train. I was doing corporate m and a before I got into doing this, right? And so I think we just saw that really cool video for Solana season hackathon that had a bunch of, like, clips from movies and people talking about hacking on the blockchain. And we really liked the vibe.
00:27:42.040 - 00:28:25.518, Speaker A: And then we joined the chat, and, like, the people were cool. And, like, we posted a two pager saying, like, this is, me and Dany were trying to do this thing on Solana. And then, like, 40 people responded. Because we're both non developers, right? We're more technical. We became more technical over the last three years, but we're still not devs. And so the fact that, like, there are 40 developers now with us on the Zoom call after we just posted this, like, two pager was transformative for us as well. And so I think even a year later, we couldn't really imagine ourselves being anywhere else because I think the sort of the culture of Solana, even, like, you know, if you think about our tech and our product, they really are very in line with the ethos of the ecosystem where we are building for sort of these teams that come to this place, and they're very much aligned because they're like, they're building businesses first and foremost.
00:28:25.518 - 00:29:13.814, Speaker A: They're thinking about revenue, and I think that's where a lot of the features we're trying to bring to squads also, they come into play. And so definitely we feel like we wouldn't really exist well in other ecosystems. I think we've been approached before about going multi chain. We also get this question a lot, like, why are you stay in slot only? And I think for us, it was always about, if you go really deep and basically you can discover a lot more things, and you can build better features, you can build better products, because right now, if we had to support multiple chains, we wouldn't be able to deliver as much value for our users that are here. Our approach is really to stay on Solana and make sure that our users here get the best experience possible, and there's still more work to be done. But I think that's definitely something we're prioritizing over horizontal scaling to other places.
00:29:14.114 - 00:29:54.194, Speaker C: I think that approach makes a lot of sense, really, just given that one point you made about being able to go all in and really provide a deeply integrated solution to the problems that Solana, in this case, Solana specific developers, experience. An interesting twist on that question is, let's say there was an SVM L two, where used the same Solana code base, or even just a Solana fork in some. Regardless, there are chains that exist. And even, like at one point, Makerdao is exploring forking the SVM and having its own chain. Right. If you had this same equivalent environment, I could kind of see how it would make a little bit more sense. But I'm curious if you have any thoughts there.
00:29:55.014 - 00:30:53.728, Speaker A: I'll let maybe Garrett comment on sort of the broader picture of this, but I think the way I think about it is really, it's the change in our approach can happen if our users kind of indicate to us that we actually want to exist on this SVML two, can you come there as well? I think that would be the biggest factor that we would consider. There are things that we definitely excited about. For example, I'd love to have squad support for bitcoin in some shape or form if there's an SVM. I think there was one announced a couple of weeks ago, SVM Bitcoin L two, that would be super interesting. But again, we wouldn't just deploy out of the blue and try to figure out who can we service best in this ecosystem. I think the way for us to go there would be for Jito or Helios to say, hey, we actually are going to do stuff in this ecosystem and we need a good multisig, we need the right kind of app and experience to manage our assets there and secure our treasuries and programs. I think that would be a really good signal, but I'm not really sure what else needs to happen for us to make a transition.
00:30:53.728 - 00:30:59.044, Speaker A: Garrett, maybe you can comment on the general sense around SVML two as you see them.
00:30:59.784 - 00:31:30.304, Speaker B: Yeah, I really feel the same way as Stefan does. It's your customers that draw the product out of you right now. In Solana, just a year ago, most people thought Solana was dead. Now you have John Collison talking about Solana on one of their biggest meetings of the year. It's been such a change, but when you think about that, it's only been a year. We're just getting started. Jitto kicked off the token launch and airdrop trend that we've seen over the last few months, but that still has a long way to go in the number of protocols and apps that we'll see on Solana.
00:31:30.304 - 00:32:16.260, Speaker B: In many ways, I think it'd be silly to divert resources somewhere else. But at the same time, like, I think it's awesome that eclipse is doing an SVML two and whoever else is, and the more widespread the SVM is, the better that the tooling gets. Something as, like when I was just podcasting and you think you know what you're talking about, and for me, you know, and you hear about how important developer tools are. And I wasn't a developer tool, so you don't get that experience firsthand. But now, like being the ecosystem and being all these chats with apps and infrastructure, you do see how important having these core primitives are, just like multisigs and smart accounts, and that's something as exciting as, like, swe or aptos or, you know, different move chains are. There's so much work to do just to get those core primitives to even have an application system ecosystem. And I think that's something that I overlooked and probably a lot of other people do.
00:32:16.260 - 00:32:26.744, Speaker B: It's like, it's not even all about speed or latency, et cetera. Salana has that, and that's awesome, but it's also about the culture and the point that it has this network effect now. And that's something that we want to lean into.
00:32:27.944 - 00:33:12.398, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, at the risk of shielding my bags here, that is also why we start helios and why it's Solana only because, turns out once you're vertically integrated and specialized in an ecosystem, people want to export that to other ecosystems. So with SVML two s, for example, but also just cosmos things as well. And so we actually do plan to support a bunch of these SVM L two s, mostly in stealth. And so that also means a world where squads also explains to them as well, because the infrastructure will be there. I also want to ask, as both a curious user and, let's say, an investor. I am an investor. What is the monetization strategy for squads? How do you guys make money?
00:33:12.566 - 00:34:00.274, Speaker A: We actually sort of pioneered the on chain subscription model about a year ago that we started. And people, surprisingly, we're really excited in the sense where we just said a bunch of features in the app are gated by subscription. You pay it in USDC, once you pay it, it unlocks the features. We're still very much experimenting with what that actually means and how it works. I think we've got a really good response up to now, but we're at the stage where we want to see how to take it to the next level and what features are pro, what features are free. But it was really important for us as a statement also internally and externally, to show these are paid features, these are free features. We're definitely building a business here, and that's the app.
00:34:00.274 - 00:34:57.936, Speaker A: There's also a small deployment fee per smart account that we charge. I think definitely that really bets on scale of smart account adoption of squads, adoption of use, adoption over time. We're definitely betting on growth of the smart account infrastructure and can monetize through that. Then the bigger bet, as we are building out a lot of the tools around it, is really. Garrett touched on that earlier. Smart account as a service, this is the idea that you're as a developer, you're building an application, you have a component in your app and your protocol that deals with user funds in a place where your users will be keeping their assets. You can build all that stuff yourself and then try and audit it from verified, or you can pay a small fee and then create this smart account from squats protocol that already secures over 10 billion in value and used by all the major teams in the ecosystem to secure their assets, to just plug it into your protocol and use it like that.
00:34:57.936 - 00:35:11.604, Speaker A: So I think definitely a lot of our monetization strategy will be centered around the ecosystem growth as it has been so far, and both in terms of developer adoption of smart accounts and retail direct consumer adoption of smart accounts as well.
00:35:13.754 - 00:35:55.124, Speaker C: And expanding on this business. From this business lens, it feels like, especially from the fuse angle, this looks more and feels more like a savings account, which starts me thinking, all right, well, what a traditional banks do that, what does my bank offer me when I get the ability to, whether it be wire funds in the most basic form or they use my deposits, which I'm not at all suggesting is a good idea. But I'm curious, what are their, given that you have users in their funds in this one location, what other services do you think about being able to offer the users? I feel like there's a couple different directions you could go with, given that you have that relationship with the user.
00:35:56.064 - 00:36:51.000, Speaker A: Yeah, I think one of the things we're still discovering is, I think in crypto specifically, I think there's also some kind of subscription fod going on. Broadly beyond crypto, people are less excited about subscriptions than they used to be. I think a lot of the feedback we get from users is that we'd rather pay one fee upfront, let it be a bigger fee, as opposed to something that we have to do every month. We're thinking a lot about in terms of annual fee, annual subscription, or something like that, where you paint once and you know exactly what the fee is, and then there's no swap fees, there's no in app fees that you kind of write. And so I think that's a lot of the feedback we get is really around there. I think one of the ideas that we are gravitating towards is basically having this kind of added value for your smart account, particularly like confused context. For example, if you want to access custodial recovery or feed less off ramp, that's where you would pay an extra, maybe in the form of a yearly subscription.
00:36:51.000 - 00:37:53.538, Speaker A: Or we're still discovering what exactly that will be. I think the focus will really be around what's added value for your savings account and how we can monetize for that, as opposed to saying every swap has a fee or anything that's more concealed or in app. I think we're trying to go around. And so for fuse, as we progress, I think a lot of the things, a lot of the features we want to introduce in fuse, they will interact with DeFi, they will interact with other applications, and that will also give us an opportunity to come up with an arrangement and have a fee structure that makes sense for all the parties involved. But we definitely are prioritizing right now the growth of smart accounts, and we definitely don't want to kill the party with fees everywhere too early. And so I think out of all the apps, even in the crypto ecosystem, we are definitely kind of at the forefront of experimenting with business models and trying some more traditional things, some less. But that definitely takes growth, definitely takes priority at this stage.
00:37:53.538 - 00:38:09.514, Speaker A: That said, the stuff we already introduced was pretty successful, and so that gives us a lot of opportunity to continue the rating. And I think Fuse is an interesting one because we really haven't had a consumer facing product, and we're definitely interested to see how users respond to things we're going to be introducing there.
00:38:10.374 - 00:38:46.640, Speaker B: Yeah, the only thing I'd add to that is, as you talk to more customers with right now it's mostly squads apps, it's all the enterprises protocols. But soon with Fuse, it's everyday consumers. You are solving one of their problems, but then you start noticing all their other problems that they have. I think if we could offer a service, and this is really any company that more or less solves some of those problems, but it wraps it up into one very seamless solution, I think there's a lot of value to give and also capture there. One high level example is if you did want to use services that require KYC with your wallet. Obviously a lot of people don't, but some might. Maybe wallet recovery through a professional service could be something.
00:38:46.640 - 00:39:06.704, Speaker B: Or maybe somehow you could tie your crypto wallet to Coinbase and making this up so you could actually access their liquidity too. You would need KYC for those things. And how things work today is you have to like KYC with every single separate party. If you could somehow just make that you do KYC, once you get access to all four, you automatically get an account set up, like that type of thing. I think that would be really cool.
00:39:06.784 - 00:39:53.074, Speaker C: Rolling back to one of the earlier things you said, this might have been one of the. And your responses to the first question, but you mentioned Dao tooling, and that was kind of like one of the initial efforts you were making on the multisig side is to service developers and Daos. How has that journey gone for you thus far? And then further to that, what improvement still needs to happen on that Dao governance side of things? Solana is actually doing some really interesting governance experiments. We have futarchy coming live and there are few target as a service Solana, the base layer itself is usually social voting through validators as well. I think there's some interesting governance experiments going on over in Solana, but broadly, I think Daos as a whole are still a fairly chaotic construct. I'm just curious, as someone who's building dao tooling, how do you think about this?
00:39:54.334 - 00:40:28.314, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's definitely part of our journey. In the beginning, we were focusing on DaO tools, and we thought every kind of organization ecosystem would be a decentralized community that we need to service. And very quickly we figure out that's actually not the case. These teams are actually building companies, and they're quite centralized. That really forced us to focus on the multi seg. I think as we progress, there are some doubts that still use the multisig, but I think Solana Daos are much more sort of opinionated. And I think on EVM, particularly back then, if you have a multi sig and a snapshot kind of vote system, that you're basically a DAO.
00:40:28.314 - 00:41:19.184, Speaker A: I think on Solana, because sort of Solana s pel governance contract, which is kind of the main governance standard for the ecosystem, was really pushing for, like, a completely on chain governance, where the token holders, with their tokens, directly control the assets that the DAO manages, which is a very different kind of setup, where, because in snapshot, you just vote off chain, and then the multi seg of five people does the transaction. And so there's still an element of trust that you trust the people on the multisig. I think Solana from 21 was really pushing this very kind of on chain native Dao. And for us, it kind of felt like we wanted to focus on something else. And so we really transitioned to kind of focus on the multi seg. I think when I look at the Solana ecosystem right now, I see a lot more tokens being launched. It feels like there's more need for sort of governance infrastructure, and I think there's, you know, there are options, and I think there are cool experiments like sort of metadata, I think is very interesting.
00:41:19.184 - 00:42:04.540, Speaker A: I think for us, we're definitely seeing that there is a, you know, there's room for a different approach to governance infrastructure and dao tooling that we've seen so far. I'm, you know, we're not really actively pursuing this, but we are interested, and I think that's, you know, something down the line might happen, might not. I'm still not sure. I think the way we think about governance right now, like the way we talk to sort of different teams. Is that really governance is particularly like early stages of your life cycle as a project when you, you know, you just launched the token and you need to start thinking about it. You know, approaching governance is just like one of the workflows that needs to be solved for these teams. And it's very much, you know, I think a lot of the experiments on Solana are all about, like, different governance frameworks and, like, cool experiments.
00:42:04.540 - 00:42:49.954, Speaker A: I think the way if we are to approach this, it would really be in a sense of how can we solve this from a product perspective? How can we make this workflow simpler and easier to manage for the team that's actually trying to set it up? And how can the Dow holders get to their core purpose of voting on a proposal as quickly and reliably as possible? If we are to approach this, it definitely would be through the ethos that we have internally, where it's about building nice, efficient products that help you get to things faster and do them better. So I think that's something that definitely is interesting to us and we'll see how things evolve. But I think there's definitely a lot more, it became a lot more interesting now that a lot of these teams are setting up foundations and launching their tokens, I think it's becoming a lot more relevant than it used to be.
00:42:50.074 - 00:43:13.804, Speaker C: From the angle of a delegate, that's a really, really interesting perspective. We, as in blockworks, research our delegates for Jitto, and we use the squads multisig just to hold our delegation funds. And it's kind of like overkill, but we try to go for best security practices. So that's great to hear. Is there anything you can expand on on the governance side of things from the delegate perspective? Just as a user now, I'm super interested.
00:43:14.624 - 00:44:09.602, Speaker A: So I think as a delegate, I think right now, the way it works, I think the biggest problem to solve, and the one that is quite interesting to us is like right now, to vote on proposals, you have to redeposit liquid tokens into a governance contract, and then you get the vote weight and then you vote. I think obviously, a lot of the focus at squads is really around secure smart account infrastructure. So one of the problems that would be interesting for us to solve is how can you retain the tokens in the smart account and then still get the vote. Way to participate in the DAO without taking double smart contract risk. I think that's something that is definitely interesting. I don't have a solution for you on the podcast to explain how we can actually achieve it. I think if we were to approach it, definitely that would be one of the bigger aspects, that everything happens through smart accounts, and then you get the, all you need to do is put it in the squad and then you get the vote weight and you can then participate in governance.
00:44:09.602 - 00:44:26.746, Speaker A: Because we do have a lot of these teams that hold large amounts of different tokens, whether they purchase them or they got them as grants, they want to participate in governance. And a lot of the blockers is that, like, you need to manually move them to another contract. Somebody needs to be responsible for that because it needs to be done individually. And so I think solving that flow would be definitely an interesting challenge.
00:44:26.850 - 00:44:48.724, Speaker D: All right, so I like asking, as the last question, generally to founders, what is the number one lesson you learned so far as you've built squads? Or if you had to, maybe if you were giving a lecture to Solana founders who are interested in maybe following the same journey, which has been quite successful, what would you tell them?
00:44:50.744 - 00:45:43.108, Speaker A: I would tell them I had a tweet about it a couple days ago. But it's like you must kind of stick to the vision and have this very clear understanding, and it can change, but I think your understanding can even change very often. But at the moment when you're defining what you're doing and defining the product and setting the roadmap, you should have a very clear vision, despite the fact that might change. But you should be really flexible on the details, because when you start talking to users, a lot of things will come out that you'll have to adjust. You just have to make sure that it's all in line with where you're going. I think something that you get to program, talk to users, all that stuff, you definitely should talk to them and extract as much information as possible. I think that's the most valuable kind of thing you can get from users, more valuable than money at early stages.
00:45:43.108 - 00:46:20.344, Speaker A: Like, don't try to monetize early, actually try to get more information out of them. But when you are bringing these things and making them actionable, bringing them to your team and making them actionable, definitely make sure that there's a vision there that you're sticking to, because I think that helped us along the way a bunch of times when we heard that this is not what we want, this is not going to work, we kind of, as you dive into the details and you actually, like, understand what the problem is for the user, you end up adjusting the right things while maintaining what you actually were trying to do in the beginning. I think that's definitely the most interesting thing I learned so far.
00:46:20.844 - 00:46:32.224, Speaker D: Yeah, that is great advice. We also have an internal. One of our values is strong opinions loosely held, which is basically what you just said as well, Garrett.
00:46:33.124 - 00:47:05.854, Speaker B: Well, not a founder, obviously, I'm just steps hype man. But for anyone that's, like, in a role like mine, I'm head of business development, but I pretty much try to help with anything that's not developer related, similar to what you just said about opinions. I think it's always have an opinion and offer solutions. Don't just point out problems, especially on small teams. I think the bigger company you're in, it's very easy to see something and not say something like you don't agree with it and you just leave it alone because you're like, that's not my problem. Right. Like you're, you're reading something even on your team's landing page, and you're like, well, that doesn't look that great.
00:47:05.854 - 00:47:25.234, Speaker B: Like, point it out. And then when you see something that's wrong, don't just point it out and say, hey, there's a problem here. Come up with, like, what you think a good solution is and have an opinion and actually, like, hold belief in that opinion. And I think that used to be really hard for me, but I think that's a really good takeaway, especially for people that are new in the job market or working on a small team.
00:47:26.024 - 00:48:13.394, Speaker A: Can I add one thing? I think Keith Raboy, one of the co founders, I think, of PayPal, has this thing about when you're hiring people, you should hire barrels. And what he means by that is you should hire people that can take a problem and not just solve the bare minimum, but actually, we'll try to take it as far as possible and figure out innovate along the way and really solve it for you and also take as much as possible off your plate. And I think that's where we got lucky with Garrett, because definitely he does that a lot. And I think that's something when I'm hiring people now, I'm prioritizing people that not just do the thing we hire them for. Well, but who I understand if they see a problem they can solve, they'll take as much as possible on. And I think that's definitely super valuable and something I'm now on the lookout for.
00:48:14.054 - 00:48:23.974, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that's like the analogy uses with the barrels and the bullets, where there's the bullet, which is kind of just the job, and then kind of goes away but then the barrel gets pointed at first as well.
00:48:24.914 - 00:48:58.104, Speaker B: You know, one thing we didn't talk about on here at all that I just want to point out is that fuse is a mobile application. It's a wallet that's actually on your phone. I just mentioned that because that's one of the big differences. Like when you think about squads, the app, it's used by teams. Fuse is just used by individual users. And I think you've seen in the last year or two, it's like, what's going to be the big moment for crypto? And we probably need mobile applications for that to take off because every person under 30, and I'm 31, is on their phone all damn day. So you need security on your phone, for example, not just in your ledger, that's not on your phone and not with you.
00:48:58.104 - 00:49:17.664, Speaker B: And I think that's a big thing that fuse solves. And hopefully we have applications that kind of double down on, like, what will people do on their phone? Because it's definitely going to be a thing where crypto gets adopted and payments is. Is perfect for that. And that's you. I use USCC, like paying with sole pay or salon of pay. The other day at the conference, I thought it was awesome. And that's all through your phone.
00:49:17.664 - 00:49:24.496, Speaker B: So simple. So it's little things like that. And if that sole pay can be hooked up to your fuse wallet, which it can, I think that's really cool.
00:49:24.560 - 00:50:10.314, Speaker A: The idea is that fuse is sort of the place where you don't need to go anywhere else, right? Like, we will come up with the right native integrations for you. So all you need is just, you know, you create it, you move the funds in there and then, you know, you do DCA swap staking from it. And I think that's kind of a unique approach to fuse that we have because all the other wallets are all about, like, how can I make you connect to all the apps, basically be your entry point to the ecosystem. Our focus is really internal. How can we build these features that will make solid 80% of your needs in terms of what you need to do on chain within just this one app with clicks, as opposed to you taking an extension and doing things or using a mobile browser? I think that's definitely one of the bigger areas of focus. And it's interesting to hear that you'd like the same for squad as we are thinking about future roadmap and features. Yeah, I think it was.
00:50:10.394 - 00:50:27.774, Speaker D: We had Dan Romero on the show and I think his statement was something like if you're doing consumer and you don't have a mobile app, you're not going to make it. And so going mobile first is under looked, but super important. But yeah, that's all I got, actually. Why don't we let Jarrett close this one out to bring back the mems?
00:50:28.434 - 00:50:30.706, Speaker B: Do you still do rapid fire in the show, Martin?
00:50:30.730 - 00:50:31.294, Speaker D: No.
00:50:32.114 - 00:50:33.482, Speaker B: Lame. Okay.
00:50:33.618 - 00:50:34.894, Speaker C: Are aliens real?
00:50:35.914 - 00:50:51.762, Speaker B: Actually, we're going to close out, but I want one question specifically. Dan, I'm going to ask you filling my shoes now. You're obviously ingrained in the Solana community. Now. What is something that you think we're missing that you see in either Ethereum land or with l two s and Cosmos? Like, what do we need to get.
00:50:51.778 - 00:52:00.370, Speaker C: Better at really simple, usable block explorers for people? I think there's two sets of users. There's one that is the user that will never touch a block explorer, and that is we need to build for that user. But there is this in between of people who want to understand what's happening with a transaction or an action or their funds that is not a developer. There is an in between again. So we have very, very simple users on the far right, developers on the far left, and the entire spectrum in between is not a small minority. They need to be advocated for, largely because a great example of this is, I think, the best form of marketing a protocol can do today is getting people touching their data and illustrating the growth of their own protocol. And that becomes very, very hard to do when the standard landing page for Ethereum, when you go look at a contract or any EVM chain, is you go to Etherscan, you click the contract tab, the deployer has uploaded the code, you check the compiled byte code and it verifies, and then that gets displayed on the page.
00:52:00.370 - 00:52:38.108, Speaker C: You know, everything that contract is doing or that program is doing, you can read and write directly to that contract from the block explorer and interact with the chain in a different way. That is. I honestly think that is a huge gap in the Solana ecosystem today, and I would honestly expand that even one step further into just the data side of Solana today. I think we're making meaningful progress. And token extensions are much more trackable than some of the issues with SPL tokens. But it is still, it's not perfect. So that is that be my answer is we need more.
00:52:38.108 - 00:52:59.924, Speaker C: Transparency is largely what it boils down to. So it's great to see that you guys are pushing forward formal verification and things of this nature and immutability. But Garrett, I tend to agree with your point earlier around immutability. Like, there will be centralized entities that build on chain, and that's okay. There will be non immutable things. And again, going back to the original point of crypto provides optionality, and I think that's the beautiful thing.
00:53:00.544 - 00:53:14.040, Speaker D: Yeah, that's actually why we started helius. It was human readable APIs, and we built x ray to be an explorer for people who aren't developers, and now we're reworking it, so. Totally, totally hear that. I'm super annoyed by it too.
00:53:14.112 - 00:53:37.544, Speaker B: Fan of mutability, but if you have a contract on Solana program, it should be behind a multisig, and that's why you should use squads. I'll close this out. I'll just say it's super fun to be back on the show. Dan was the perfect host to come in here. Even before I knew that I wasn't going to be doing live speed anymore. I wanted Dan to join the roundups with me and Merc because I was like, this guy is just like a data wizard. Also really cool.
00:53:37.544 - 00:53:59.466, Speaker B: Was like my best, one of my best friends at blockwork. So, mert, it's fun to be back on with you and kind of have a homecoming and step on. Thanks for, thanks for coming on. Steps, an absolute legend product mind. We have three founders at squads and they're all legends. A different way from like the CEO to completely product focused to then the technical background. So it's been a really fun thing to be part of and be deep in the sloan ecosystem.
00:53:59.466 - 00:54:01.614, Speaker B: So, step, you have any closing words?
00:54:02.834 - 00:54:04.094, Speaker A: Use fuse.
00:54:05.514 - 00:54:09.530, Speaker B: Use fuse. Stay based. All right, guys, we'll see you next time.
00:54:09.642 - 00:54:11.034, Speaker C: I love it. Thanks for having me on, Garrett.
