00:00:07.770 - 00:00:38.440, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon. Good evening everybody. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of ETH Global. And it is my pleasure to welcome all of you to our ETH Online finale. So I have a lot of things I want to chat about and what I'll do is kind of just jump right into it. We've all been experiencing a lot of interesting things over the past few months.
00:00:38.440 - 00:01:38.294, Speaker A: And for ETH Online, what we decided to do was make this a bit more of an interactive experience for all of us. So we're all on Live Ethonline.org and the thing that kind of we wanted to do was create our own shared experience of a world computer. So we decided to make this platform that makes it easy for all of us to kind of experience this whole event in parallel. And we got some creative things around here where we get to experience different themes, different ways to kind of see what's going on in the event. So you can do anything from checking out the schedule to check out the arguably low gas prices on the top right and also the chat that we have a few hundred people joining in on and chatting and commenting on what's going on with all of us today. So I encourage all of you to kind of sign to the chat so you can give us any questions or comments.
00:01:38.294 - 00:02:30.986, Speaker A: And with that, I want to kick off with today's show. So this is a very interesting and important day for us because this marks as the last event for ETH Global for 2020. And of course, it's been a very interesting year. The goal for ETH Global, our mission is simple. It's to onboard as many developers as we can into the Web Three ecosystem and we want this place in the space to survive. And it has of course been a big year. So what I wanted to do was sort of go into what we've done this year as ETH Global and also share what we have plans for as a community and ETHGlobal, and really sum up what's happened in the world of developers for the Ethereum Ecosystem.
00:02:30.986 - 00:03:35.650, Speaker A: And then as all of you are waiting for the demos, for our hackathon, So Ethereum is a global community and Ethgobal taps into this community across the world and runs events in person and online for these ecosystems. And we do this primarily by running hackathons and also summits. So this year we kind of kicked off by doing ETH London. We hosted our only in person event this year, earlier in Q One, and we had 200 hackers from London and a lot of neighboring European countries and we had 50 submissions for this in person weekend hackathon. Then the world changed and in May we ran our first ever online hackathon, Hack Money, which was a DFI focused event. And for Hack Money we had 354 hackers who collectively worked on 116 D five projects. Then we pivoted.
00:03:35.650 - 00:04:23.594, Speaker A: We didn't pivot. We actually collaborated with Protocol Labs and ran our event Hack FS, where we had 466 hackers work on integrating decentralized storage with smart contracts. And Hacker Fest was an amazing success. And we kind of continued our partnership with Oracle Labs for our feature events as well, which kind of got us to ETH Online. ETH online was the month of October. We took the entire sort of month from the second to today to focus on Summits and the hackathon. The hackathon piece was the first three weeks of October that concluded last Thursday, and we have our finale today along with our last Summit.
00:04:23.594 - 00:05:28.690, Speaker A: And we had the pleasure of hosting 700 hackers and over 2600 Summit attendees who spanned from 65 different countries and 19 different time zones. We were absolutely blown away by the interest and the reach that these events have gotten, especially as we transition to a bit more of an online setting. And collectively these 710 hackers submitted and worked on 175 projects. And this is just absolutely amazing because once we kind of put all the numbers together, we had 1730 hackers this year who collectively contributed 473 projects to the Ethereum ecosystem. And the part that makes me happy the most is a few of these projects became some well funded companies. A lot of them stayed really interesting and fun experiments. But 100% of these projects were built because the team that built them really wanted that to exist and they did it for their own benefit.
00:05:28.690 - 00:06:19.262, Speaker A: And that's really the Ethos we try to kind of continue at ETH Global and in this space and today is going to be no different. So on top of all of that, this kind of is really well tied into why we chose today for our impact as the topic for the last Summit. Beyond just showcasing what we've seen in this space from the developer side, ethereum has had an enormous impact in the Web Three, but also just the global economy this year. And we want to really highlight how that's touching a lot of other industries later today. So let's come back to Ethanline. For those of you who are watching in and were not participants, ETH Online was structured to be the Hackathon and Summit. The Hackathon, which was the first three weeks, kind of concluded last Thursday.
00:06:19.262 - 00:07:16.422, Speaker A: Then we had five summits. Our first Summit was our kickoff summit, where we did a lot of introduction sessions on various things that we were going to hint about for the next few Summits, and that took place on the 2 October. Then we moved into scaling and infrastructure where we talked all things layer two, and that happened on the 9th Friday, the 9 October, then our Summit on the 16th for all things DFI on what people are excited about, what people are building and we're going to see in the space over the next few years. And then last Friday on October the 23rd, we had our Summit on the Future of Ethereum, where we talked about all things E two and what all of you can look forward to very soon. And today, of course, is our Summit on Impact. And to kind of see what we have in the works, you can open up the schedule module on your live page and check out all the talks we have planned for today. And I do want to say this thing a few more times.
00:07:16.422 - 00:08:14.634, Speaker A: Your excitement has been absolutely phenomenal. We've seen so many people get excited about the things they've been able to learn, they've been able to build, the help they've been able to get, and just the support they've been able to get, whether it's from our sponsors or other developers and mentors. So these 175 projects presented to our judges over the weekend a few days ago. And from there, we saw a massive spectrum of projects that everybody tackled on. We saw people working on DFI and NFTs, we saw people working on DevTools and decentralized storage, people played around with governance and dows, and people also tried to integrate scaling and layer two solutions into their hacks. And we're really kind of seeing this audience push forward how we want the next few months to the next few years to look like. And it's really kind of amazing to see and get a preview of what's going to be on everybody's list six months from now today.
00:08:14.634 - 00:09:08.150, Speaker A: And we want to kind of give you a peek at that as well. Not just the hackers, we had 120 mentors that were available for this event and we had participation from 36 different companies. These are just some of the faces that we were able to put up on this live deck. But these are people who are there as judges, speakers, mentors. And we had an amazing set of companies that were here as sponsors and just overall companies that agreed to kind of give their time to a lot of our developers to help them not only just understand what they can do with their protocols. But also, were there anywhere from daytime to 03:00 a.m at night to kind of really help address any technical issues these projects were having? A lot of them were beginners to really kind of understanding and giving them advice on best practices to how they can make their lives easier and unblock themselves as they were continuing to finish their hacks.
00:09:08.150 - 00:09:55.270, Speaker A: So I want to thank all of our sponsors for kind of just being with us for the last month as well. And that kind of brings me to the main event for today, which is our demos. So 175 of these projects went through judging and from there we got these twelve teams that are going to be presenting to us on this call. These were some of the twelve most creative things that we found and we're super excited to have all of them kind of come on and showcase to you all what they've done. So what I want to do is just in a particular order, kind of call out all these teams. I want to thank all of them for kind of being with us today on this call to demo. So we have liquid l Two, batua flashbank stop loss syndicate and unite.
00:09:55.270 - 00:10:49.962, Speaker A: And then mindful protect protocol. Croco, finance, space. DX Earthstall and dpay These are some really sweet hacks that we're going to see today and we're going to just sort of talk about how we're going to structure the rest of these demos. And as we were kind of thinking about how to bring the teams on this call for the demo, we kind of noticed some really obvious themes that a lot of these projects tackled. There's quite a few number of projects that are working on consumer adoption, whether that's for payments or for investors, and kind of managing portfolios to people who are solving scaling heads on with really creative solutions that kind of are compatible with what we are doing today in Web Three and Ethereum. And then we have a super interesting theme about people really kind of getting to manage and increase and collaborate with their community. So we have a lot of projects that are solving that problem heads on.
00:10:49.962 - 00:11:51.342, Speaker A: And then lastly, it should be no surprise that there are a lot of D Five projects and we're going to see some really creative protocols and primitives today as part of these twelve teams. And kind of before we jump into the demo, I really want to kind of take a few seconds and point out that just because your project was not on this list of twelve, it does not mean you were not good enough or there was something wrong. This is meant to be a celebration and not a competition. So I really want to thank all the 163 teams here on this slide to kind of really continue building what you've been doing for the past few weeks. This is a place for us to give you the support you need to get to that finish line. And not just because that's kind of what the structure of the event is, but also this is what we want to do after the event finishes. A lot of you have already kind of reached out to us and talked about how you can make what help you need to bring us to reality and really finish what you originally wanted to do.
00:11:51.342 - 00:12:54.302, Speaker A: So we encourage all of you to kind of reach out to the global team, our sponsors, our mentors, with any help you need to kind of continue building. And as you kind of showcase what you've done, put those links and demos and websites on the event discord. There's over a couple thousand people on our discord that are waiting to give you feedback and check out and try your projects and I really encourage all of you to do that. So on top of all of that, every hack that came out of this project is available to see on Hack ETHGlobal Co. So if you ever want to catch up on what these themes are or which teams kind of worked on what problems, you can always go to this domain and see the list of all projects. So that said, I want to sort of jump into our first few demos and we have four special guests who are going to be joining us today to help with kind of sharing that excitement with us. And I want to welcome Andre, who's also known as RAC and a Grammy award winning artist.
00:12:54.302 - 00:13:39.586, Speaker A: I want to welcome Camila Russo from The Defiant, stani from Ave, and Ashley Jap from Uniswap. They'll be with us for the next couple of hours looking at and commenting on and giving a lot of feedback on these twelve teams. And with that, we are ready to get started. So what we're going to do is we're going to bring on our very first category of projects and that is going to be the consumer categories at this point, like to kind of have all of our special guests and judges kind of turn their cameras on and say hi to all of our audiences. And we'll have these four projects come in order. So we have Mindful, Batua, Croco, Finance and Dpay. They'll come one by one and we'll present their projects for five minutes and then we'll invite all of them back for a group Q A.
00:13:39.586 - 00:14:23.376, Speaker A: So without further ado, let's get our first ever demo started. And I want to welcome the Mindful team and I'll let them sort of kick it off with their first demo. Cool. Just sharing my screen here. We can see a crypto degenerate in his natural habitat. He rejects proven safe strategies in favor of being an ape, buying tops and selling buttons time and time again, demolishing his hard earned gains, ruining his chances of accumulating generational wealth. Training is a hard game to play, but what if you didn't have to play it? The daily lama.
00:14:23.376 - 00:14:52.108, Speaker A: Once a discipline smart, contract based investment strategies lead to happiness. Undisciplined degeneracy leads to suffering. It is time to silence Duane and Degenerate. Introducing mindful portfolio alignment for Dgens. Thanks for that intro, David. So now we're going to dig into Mindful what we built and how we managed to solve portfolio alignment for Dgens. So, a bit about the team.
00:14:52.108 - 00:15:40.776, Speaker A: We're all a bunch of degens who all suffered a common problem, and that was that we would trade these crypto assets, farm, pickles, make money, but normally we would end up losing more money than we thought we should have. We always had this issue of buying assets and never really selling them and struggling with figuring out when we should enter and exit into the market. So the solution we came up was a product called Mindful, which we'll dig into now and just a bit about the team. You can see from all our flags that we're from all around the world. And I think that's a really important thing about the ethereum ecosystem to have diversity and variety. So what we built is a tool that lets you create your own portfolio of assets. You can define what assets go into this portfolio and then define some strategies, such as DCAing, into the strategy that will automatically market by the tokens within that strategy.
00:15:40.776 - 00:16:13.844, Speaker A: And then you can sell tokens from the strategy when certain thresholds are met. What makes Mindful unique is that these strategies are set and forget. They're codified into smart contracts and that makes them completely trustless. You own this strategy, which we call a chakra, and you can completely have self sovereign ownership over that. It's automatic. Profit taking is also an important part here in the sense that we have like a relayer network, which we'll dig into a bit later, that will automatically execute these strategies on your behalf. And the last cool feature is that these are balancer pools.
00:16:13.844 - 00:16:43.724, Speaker A: So you actually get fees from using these chakras as people trade against your assets. So we're going to jump into a demo. So we're going to start off by creating a chakra so we can name it and then we can go and specify some assets. So let's put some uni in this. Let's put some cream and let's put some uma. So this is a very Mindful strategy we're going for here. We can specify the ratios and we really put a lot of time and thought into the UX, so we can specify how much we want of each of these assets.
00:16:43.724 - 00:17:09.000, Speaker A: And then we can see the breakdown. Next we can choose what the initial contribution asset we want to use. So we could use something like other interest bearing Dai or USDC. And that means that we're going to actually take tokens out of our wallets and buy in the proportions that we defined in the table here. So we're going to convert 100 USDC into this proportion. Then on the next screen, we can define these strategies. And this is really the key of what Mindful is.
00:17:09.000 - 00:17:39.728, Speaker A: The first one is the DCA strategy. So we could specify the frequency that we want to perform actions, let's say weekly, and then say like, what token we want to actually trade at a weekly frequency. So maybe an interest bearing token again is a good idea. So we specify how many tokens we want to put in and that will then trade on a weekly basis this number of tokens into the chakra. We can then also specify a profit taking strategy. So this will be a percentage of the chakra or a percentage profit. So we'll say for like every 10% increase, we want to take 5% of the chakra in some other token.
00:17:39.728 - 00:18:12.168, Speaker A: So maybe you want to take your profit in wet or you want to take your profit in another interest bearing token. Then finally we get the confirmation screen and we can deploy the chakra. For now, main net deployments are disabled because we got to be Mindful and haven't had an audit yet, which is kind of important. So just to jump across to a sample chakra to show you what the interface looks like. So we can see this is an example chakra with some assets in it which look pretty good. We can see like the historic values over time. We can zoom in and out of this kind of Xerion type interface.
00:18:12.168 - 00:18:52.464, Speaker A: We can also see some information here. We can FOMO in, which is effectively a deposit, FOMO out, which is like a withdrawal. We can edit the strategy, edit the DCA strategy, edit the profit taking strategy. We can view the asset breakdown of everything within the chakra. And lastly, view the history of all the actions that the chakra has done. So how does Mindful work? So each of these chakras is a smart balancer pool which is deployed using the Mindful proxy. And basically the Mindful proxy has special permissions over the chakras, which lets a network of relayers perform specific actions like doing the DCA strategies and the profit taking strategies.
00:18:52.464 - 00:19:44.808, Speaker A: When a DCA strategy is executed, what happens is that the asset that you're trading gets transferred to the Mindful proxy and then traded on Uniswap for the underlying tokens within the balancer pool and then deposited into the balancer pool. We use Uniswap to avoid any kind of slippage, and basically the inverse happens when withdrawing. So what's next for Mindful? So any kind of prize money that we get at the hackathon and any fundraising we get afterwards, first and foremost is going to go for an audit because you can't launch something like this and call it Mindful unless it's been audited. And then the next thing is we want to build like a find a guru strategy functionality, which basically does like copy trading, where you can view other Mindful portfolios and copy those chakras. There's a bunch of other stuff on this list that we want to get to, but in the interest of time, basically we want to make the product as good as possible and accessible to as many people as possible. So this is Mindful. You can follow us on Twitter if you want to stay to date with when we launch on Mainet.
00:19:44.808 - 00:20:09.110, Speaker A: And yeah, thank you for your time. Awesome. Thanks, Chris. So what we'll do is I know there's a lot of questions already we're going to have from all of us here. So I'll just ask all of you to stay on the call and we'll move on to the next demo and we'll just bring all the questions back to the Q A. So next up we have Chris, who's going to be talking for Batua and Chris. Whenever you're ready, feel free to share us your demo.
00:20:09.110 - 00:21:02.340, Speaker A: Okay. Hi, I'm Chris and I will talk on behalf of Batua. Batua is a new concept for cryptocurrency in India. We are an international team of three women and two men with a nucleus in the Himalayan mountains and a satellite in New Delhi. The word Batwa is a phonetic spelling of the word wallet in the Hindi language. The aim was to paint a picture of what is technically possible today, combining some well understood crypto primitives with an emerging layer two solution and some bespoke development to make a robust and usable wallet ready for adoption. The project delivered a simple mobile first web wallet interface with metatransactions on layer two, which allow users of the wallet to transact with rupesa, an ERC 20 stablecoin pegged to the Indian rupee.
00:21:02.340 - 00:21:34.792, Speaker A: India really is a diverse country, but is united in using rupee. Digital payments are already common, with users scanning QR codes and paying real money for meals, out, street food and accommodation. Paper money has obvious challenges in India, and scenes like these happen on a weekly basis. So with a population of nearly 1.4 billion and 700 million smartphones, it's reasonable to expect Batua to find product market fit in India. So let's dive deeper into the project. We started with user research exploring a wide cross section of the population.
00:21:34.792 - 00:22:12.860, Speaker A: One persona was Ramish, the chai wallet. He does not have a bank account, so he cannot accept digital payments, but he does, however, have a smartphone and can use Batwa for receiving money. Our research into language diversity showed eleven widely used Internet languages in India, which were all very much part of the culture. This led us to design a minimal onboarding flow where a user can select their language, ending up in a simple wallet with both light and dark modes. We try to keep a beginner's mindset when designing the payment flow with clear calls to action. We also have an early prototype design for an investor flow for minting rupesa. This brings us nicely to the stablecoin architecture.
00:22:12.860 - 00:23:02.384, Speaker A: So we felt the culture around the Indian rupee was significant to the concept and thus warranted its own stablecoin, and that it also ought to be decently governed and non custodial. So we dusted off MakerDAO's single collateral contracts, deployed them on Gurley as makercao, but with a few small changes, users can deposit ETH as collateral and mint rupesa. The peg price is set by a chainlink Oracle, which gets Ethinr price data from cryptocompair. There's also a governance component with cow as the governance token, and another Oracle from Uniswap, governing rewards and fees when repaying the loan. This architecture can hopefully inspire future projects launching other stablecoins. Now, let me tell you about the gas as payment system. We've got Indian rupee on layer one, but layer one is pretty expensive right now, especially for small transactions.
00:23:02.384 - 00:23:53.950, Speaker A: So it's matic to the rescue with their layer two chain tokens from layer one can be zapped to layer two via the Proof of Stake Bridge, where the Batu Web Wallet can retrieve its balance for transferring rupesa, batua signs and posts transactions to Biconomy's Relayer, which pays the gas and publishes on Matic. So now it's time to show this thing in action. Here is the link, in case you're watching along and you want to use butter as well, you can add Invest for alpha features. I will now switch to the live app. So what you're seeing on the screen now is the live app for Batua. It's getting its rupesa balance from Matic's Mumbai testnet. These rupesa were minted on Gurley and then deposited onto layer two.
00:23:53.950 - 00:24:16.740, Speaker A: There's a way for a user to see their address and also to show a QR code, which makes it easy for receiving payments. And then there's a simple backup phrase with your magic works. So what we're going to do now is we're going to test sending using this. So there's me here's. A QR code is coming. QR code scanner. Further out, further out, further out.
00:24:16.740 - 00:24:59.676, Speaker A: Okay, nice. So scan the QR code. We're going to send Rs10, which is about $13 cents and about enough for one chai from Rummage. And that's going to get sent off to Biconomy for transaction, for processing. And like that, Matic has processed it and it's been paid. So that's the layer two app. What we also have to quickly demonstrate is the layer one app, which is like the Investor Flow, which is an end to end process for someone to deposit girly ETH into a CDP on Makercow, Mint, some rupesa, and then third step, send that rupesa to layer two for spending.
00:24:59.676 - 00:25:29.836, Speaker A: So I can kick off the process here of locking some ETH in a CDP that will take a few transactions on Gurley. So I've already locked some collateral earlier today and I'm going to borrow against that 10,000. That's about $130 and that's going to go off and get mined. And then, because I want to buy some more chai, I'm going to zap RS100 at a layer two. That's going to take about three minutes using Matic's Proof of Stake Bridge. And that will show up there later. Trust me, I've been testing it all day.
00:25:29.836 - 00:25:58.624, Speaker A: It works. So that's the live demo. We're sharing a few ideas on next steps, but I think we're probably just about out of time now. I'd now like to open up the floor to questions. Thanks, Chris. Awesome demo. There's a few questions that I have myself too, but what we'll do is we'll just have the next two teams present and then we'll have all of you come on for Q and A and for all of our kind of judges and guests.
00:25:58.624 - 00:26:28.968, Speaker A: If you have any questions, just make sure you write them down so you can ask them one after another in ten minutes. So with that, we are ready to move on to our third demo for the consumer category and that is going to be Croco Finance. And I think Robert is here ready to present. So Robert, whenever you're ready, go for. Yes. Hi. So I am Robert from Croco Finance and let me show you who we are and what we've built for Ethernet hackathon servo.
00:26:28.968 - 00:26:45.564, Speaker A: We're not seeing the slides yet, but I'll let you do that. Yeah. Okay, let me fix that. Yes. Can you see my screen? Yes, loud and clear? Yeah. Good. So I'm Robert from Croco Finance.
00:26:45.564 - 00:27:14.350, Speaker A: Let me show you who we are and what we did and what Croco Finance is. So we are a team of two people. I've built this with my friend Jan. We are both based in Czech Republic and I was responsible for the front end and my friend was responsible for the backend. And the goal of Croco Finance is to help liquidity providers understand their money flow. We realized that there was a big hype about yacht farming and all this stuff. And I think a lot of people realize that it's not actually profitable at some point.
00:27:14.350 - 00:27:50.964, Speaker A: So we wanted to make it absolutely clear for everybody what will happen with their money when they deposit to some liquidity pool. So let me show you the demo. This is our renting page where we ask the user for his Ethereum address. So I will paste an Ethereum address and go to the app. This will take me to dashboard where we show the user his pools. We have active pools and past positions. And for each pool we can see how much fees he earned, what were his yield, farming gains, how much he paid for transactions.
00:27:50.964 - 00:28:53.724, Speaker A: We don't have it yet for uniswap, but it will be ready in a few days and we can compute his impermanent loss. And here the user see his balance compared to buy and hold strategy. And this pool can be we also have another feature called simulator. So I will go there, I will open this pool in simulator and here the user can simulate how will changes in assets prices, how will these changes affect this portfolio value. So I say, for example, I want to see what happens when the price of repbc doubles. I see on the right here that my impermanent loss compared to the current state will increase by $1,500 approximately and my total balance compared to bindroll strategy will be like -1000 $400 so yes. I don't want for BTC to increase that much in price compared to ETH and user can place with these values however he wants.
00:28:53.724 - 00:29:14.836, Speaker A: I can place 13 here or whatever and we can compute this. We can do this for uniswap and balancer. This is for uniswap. I can choose balancer pool here for Keep where the tokens have different weights. Keep has 80%, Frappe has 20%. I can do the same thing here. I can play with the.
00:29:14.836 - 00:30:09.750, Speaker A: Values and we will compute impermanent loss for the user. So this was the demo and let me tell you how we made it. First we had to derive the equations for uniswap and balancer because we know the equations for automated market maker equation. But we need to derive the formulas to compute impermanent loss so we can separate the gains from fees and the loss from impermanent loss. And once we had the equations we could build it. And on back end we used the graph and Python to process the data and on front end we use react and TypeScript. And our next steps, the first step is to improve the stability and tui of the current state of the app.
00:30:09.750 - 00:31:15.850, Speaker A: We are already working on this. We want to improve the stability by using a custom database because right now we fetch the historical data every time the user paste his address but the history is always the same so we can store it in a database and just fetch the current state and compute the things we need. And we want to adjust the user interface for pools with multiple deposits and withdrawals. For now, the UI works best for pools with single deposit because impermanent loss is quite well defined for pools where you withdraw part of your money and then deposit another part. So this is what we are working on now. And then we want to support more platforms and analyze, make more sophisticated strategies, advise the user what might be a good idea when to withdraw his money and of course keep up with the ever changing DeFi space and adapt to the so that was it. Amazing.
00:31:15.850 - 00:32:14.844, Speaker A: Thanks Robert. And this is something that I do want to talk about in the Q A but this immediately plugs into mindful where if you are a Djen you get to see how good or bad you were. So with that we are ready for our last demo for this category and that is going to be project Dpay. So Sebastian, whenever you're ready, we'll have you kick off with your demo and then we'll start the Q A session for this group. Hi everyone, I'm Sebastian, software engineer from Zurich, Switzerland and I'm going to present Dpay, a decentralized payment processing solution that allows developers to easily offer crypto payments to their users. But first let me explain why build Dpay. The payment experience in a decentralized web is still rudimentary at best.
00:32:14.844 - 00:33:04.430, Speaker A: A lot of websites and D apps out there that implement crypto payments, they often require you to go to an exchange first to get either their utility token or any token the website accepts. This is neither good for conversion nor for adaption. The average user is overwhelmed by centralized exchange KYCs or the risks and underlying mechanisms of decentralized exchanges. When users perform payments, the only thing they care about is how much he or she has to pay. Preferably presented in a way the user understands. I'm glad I was able to raise the payment experience in the decentralized web to a new level. During the hackathon, I've built an easy to implement, easy to use, decentralized payment solution and I'm going to show you in detail how that's working.
00:33:04.430 - 00:33:54.252, Speaker A: If you want to receive payments in the decentralized web, you can now use the Dpay payment widget. You configure what payment you would like to receive for your service or product and you then place this button on your website or DApp. And now when users click that button, they will see an easy to use and state of the art payment dialog. The moment the dialogue opens, Dpay scans the user's wallet for all assets of value. It detects liquidity pools that would allow to exchange the asset to what the seller wants, rates the potential routes and selects the most efficient route for the user. The Dpay payment dialog also focuses on displaying local currency prices and values. In this example, us.
00:33:54.252 - 00:34:47.692, Speaker A: Dollars. This allows the user to grasp and comprehend the amount he or she is going to pay. In this example, Dpay suggests to pay in uni tokens the seller requests that nine Ether. But because the user doesn't have enough Ether, dpay suggests to use uni as the means of payment, swapping it via uniswap to Ether and sending the requested nine Ether to the seller all in one transaction. If a seller requests a token the user actually has in his wallet, dpay is going to suggest to transfer that token directly as it would be the most efficient route. But the user does not have to stick to the preselected route. Maybe I want to hang on to my Dai so I can just select any other token in my wallet that is exchangeable on a decentralized exchange as a means of payment.
00:34:47.692 - 00:35:41.300, Speaker A: But for this demo, let's stick with Dai. Okay? Now let's actually perform this payment and let's be extra generous to miners. This is on Mainnet and we all know how long that sometime can take. We could click this again and it will lead us straight to Ether scan so we can stare at our transaction while it's processing. Or in the meantime, I can quickly show two more ways of taking the Dpay components and reassemble them into two other very useful ways. First, token offerings which allow you to easily offer your tokens to your users on your website directly. Second, token swap widgets which allow you to make token swaps part of your website or DApp.
00:35:41.300 - 00:36:34.858, Speaker A: Okay, let's see if the payment already succeeded in the background. Yes, it did. What happened here is that the payment dialogue handed over to the website again after the payment has been confirmed so that the website or the app can now display a payment confirmation. If we have a look at the transaction, we see that the Dpay payment processor smart contract sent the requested Dai from the buyer to the seller. It also emitted a dedicated blockchain event that helps to identify that particular payment later on. In another example, we see how the Dpay payment processor smart contract takes a particular token from the buyer. In this case, the Dpay token, swaps it via uniswap to wrapped eater and sends the requested wrapped eater to the seller.
00:36:34.858 - 00:37:06.166, Speaker A: Again, all in one transaction. I would love to see you start using Dpay reach out and I will gladly help you to implement it. Thank you for listening. Amazing. Thanks, Sebastian. So that concludes our first group of four amazing demos. And what I'd like to do is ask all of our hackers and judges to kind of turn their cameras on and we'll kind of go into a sort of a really massive Q and A.
00:37:06.166 - 00:37:53.654, Speaker A: And what I'll do is I'll just kind of kick it off by just simply highlighting that majority of these projects are ready for people to use right now. And that is absolutely incredible. I think the fact that we're able to not only just do this in the last three weeks and kind of show what people can do with the tools and the technology we have right now, we can make it easy for them to use this immediately. Almost everything is ready to be used by people right now. And that to me, just is absolutely amazing. One other theme I noticed is that it is a pretty broad way to kind of categorize what consumer adoption looks like. There's people who want to have wallets and money for the first time.
00:37:53.654 - 00:38:29.678, Speaker A: There's category of users who are active traders and they just need tools to be better at their own roles. And there's just in general payments that enables anywhere from e commerce to a lot of other clever integrations that DeFi enables. So these are really amazing, interesting themes here. And I want to kind of open this up for kind of all four of our judges and see if they have any comments and questions or feedback. And to make this a lot easier, I'll ask everybody to unmute themselves so we're not going to ping pong of who's muted. I could jump in here. First of all, I love all these.
00:38:29.678 - 00:38:54.700, Speaker A: These have been super interesting. And like Critic said, they're super all over the place, span a lot of things. Consumer category can be pretty broad. I have just a couple specific questions. I mean, again, this is all pretty broad, but with Batua specifically, I'm curious more on the back end. Actually. I thought the maker cow concept was really interesting.
00:38:54.700 - 00:39:44.634, Speaker A: Are you thinking in terms of I assume there would be sort of an interest rate for borrowing or for creating the Token, right? Are you defining that by governance or by an automated interest rate? Kind of like so as is, we just copy paste a lot of the makerdas stuff. There would be a gov vote. So we'd have these cow token governance tokens to vote, but we were also plugging Uniswap Oracles into MakerDAO here. So on chain Uniswap Oracle, we could get a real on chain price and use that to auto set the fee by comparing it to the peg price. So then it's too cheap. We can mint more or mint less without requiring a governance vote every time. Awesome.
00:39:44.634 - 00:40:43.580, Speaker A: Great job, guys. Very cool project. I have a question for Dpay. So as far as actual payment rails, is that all going through uniswap or is it uniswap and a combination of other things? I had the chance to actually abstract the routing, so during the hackathon, I also plugged in Mooneyswap, and while it tries to calculate the best routes, it considers both exchanges to calculate the best routes. Gotcha. Okay, very cool. And how does it actually look on the receiving end for someone that's actually accepting this payment? Are they just receiving it in the currency that they've requested, or do they have some kind of portal to turn it into their local fiat currency? They request whatever currency they want.
00:40:43.580 - 00:41:08.482, Speaker A: There are a lot of stable coins out there for a lot of local currencies already, so potentially offramp becomes less and less of an issue if you get the stablecoin of your local currency already. Yeah, this is a great project. I really liked it. Looks like a smooth interface. So great work. Thank you. Yeah, I just want to first congratulate everyone.
00:41:08.482 - 00:41:54.980, Speaker A: Everything looks amazing. I can't believe you did all this in three weeks. It's always incredible to be at these hackathons. It's just really inspiring. So congrats to everyone, and I really love the Mindful app. I just thought the UX was super nice and just simple and felt like something a lot of people would want to use right away. My question there, especially when that kind of chart sloping downwards came up, made me wonder if you're thinking of ways to maybe short a strategy as well.
00:41:54.980 - 00:42:29.902, Speaker A: Interesting. I mean, you could put short tokens into your chakra. You could use synthetics as inverse tokens in your chakra to get short exposure to a particular underlying but the way it's designed is you can think of it as like your own balancer pool. So whatever you can put in a balancer pool, you could put in your chakra. You could have like, an inverse chakra that's just a collection of inverse pool tokens. If you're a bear and you just want to take profit on the way down, that could be kind of an interesting strategy. Cool.
00:42:29.902 - 00:43:16.894, Speaker A: And then I didn't really understand how the relayer network works. Will you have kind of incentives for relayers to execute these transactions? Yeah, sorry I rushed over that. But the way it's set up now is that basically 0.3% of the trade size, which is the same as the unisop fee goes to the person who executes the relayer call. So they can permissionlessly anyone can permissionlessly call this. So it's incentivized to have it basically ends up being like a gas wall for who can call it first? In the beginning we would run a bot like this and that could potentially be an avenue for profitability until it becomes competitive and everyone else is trying to do the same thing. Cool.
00:43:16.894 - 00:43:49.506, Speaker A: Awesome. Really nice. Yeah. Congratulations everyone. I mean this was a pretty interesting hackathon and a lot of cool hacks. I could start with Croco finance. I think I've seen recently quite a lot of practically dashboards where you could monitor your positions usually in DeFi, various protocols or aggregators.
00:43:49.506 - 00:44:53.690, Speaker A: They don't offer maybe the best user experience or overview of your whole exposure in DeFi. So dashboards are really good tools and the simulator is amazing. I think that is something that really helps everyone and saves also headache in the sense that you can actually identify how much you get exposure, how much your impermanent loss might be. And also probably you can even further. Develop the product in a way that you have a service that actually could or like a bot that could actually trigger or be triggered by some sort of keeper network, in the sense that it cuts the position if the impermanent loss becomes higher. So that could be interesting. And one of the things when I look at the dashboards they're becoming very beautiful and that's like a nice thing.
00:44:53.690 - 00:46:46.766, Speaker A: But also what's important is this kind of like helpfulness in accounting and taxation. So practically I think many people who are in DeFi today are actually thinking now or discussing with their accountants and tax advisors like whether something is a taxable event or not and that becomes probably more bigger thing in DeFi and people need really a lot of tools. I'm pretty sure that's the case for the mindful. Are those chakras built in a way that anyone can join them or is it something that you practically create and it's only visible for you or is there like a pulled component? Because I remember you folks were saying something about the social trading aspect but the current ones can I basically create one and let's say, could Ashley and Camilla join the same chakra? No, they can't. So balancer has different kinds of pools. This is a controlled pool and the reason it's controlled is because if you want to update the weightings retroactively after it's deployed, it needs to still be controlled so the person who creates the pool can update the waitings. There is a way that you can create pools that can be updated after the fact and like pi DAOs, like DeFi plus and these kinds of tokens where you can change the weightings retroactively governed by a dow could work but there is quite a lot of risk with that.
00:46:46.766 - 00:47:34.730, Speaker A: So if I was to create a pool and then add a token that I can control the supply and then shift the weighting to be 100% and then I could rug pull everyone who's in the pool, basically. So at least in the beginning, that's not what we're going to do. But the copy strategy would basically just update your chakra to follow other chakras and then in the future we could have a more sophisticated system. There is just complexity around who can control the pool because of this. You don't want to get rugged from your chakra when you are depositing. Is that kind of like position tokenized, for example? Each chakras, are they basically tokenized? Yeah. So you would say you go from one asset into your chakra, that asset gets traded to all the underlying and then deposited into the balancer pool.
00:47:34.730 - 00:48:19.306, Speaker A: And then in exchange for depositing you get balancer pool tokens, which are like liquidity provider tokens. They're tokenized representation of your liquidity and then when you withdraw, you basically return those to the chakra. Then you get back the awesome. Awesome. Thanks. I just have a kind of question for the Crocodile finance team. What is kind of the process like for supporting a new protocol, especially as some of them have their own new mechanics that may not just be compatible with something that already exists? And how easy is that for you to add and kind of what else goes into supporting that? So basically all the Croco finance relies on the impermanent loss formula.
00:48:19.306 - 00:49:05.126, Speaker A: So what do we need to do for the new protocols? We need to basically fetch the reserves and match it to those equations. So like, adding new platforms is not as easy as putting a contract address to the app, but it's not like difficult from a software development point of view. Seems like Robert was going to say something. Yes. For the simulator we need to derive the formulas, like theoretical formulas to compute impermanent loss so we can recompute it in advance. So there are these two things to derive the formulas and make the software to fetch the data and recompute it. Gotcha.
00:49:05.126 - 00:49:56.298, Speaker A: And then I also had a question for the butWA team. I guess any of you tried to get some feedback from people using the app. I'm just curious, what have some of the reactions been? Especially for an audience that may have not done crypto before? Yeah, right. So we did get the app, like an early app in the hands of real users in real scenarios, but with test money. For me, the most interesting thing was the reaction that someone could have money stored somewhere without needing a username and password and two factor authentication and all these user experience hurdles. And we were able to explain and explain that the wallet is getting minted in the background and it's stored in the browser session. A lot of surprise by how quickly they got an account.
00:49:56.298 - 00:50:28.840, Speaker A: We're looking, oh, I already have an account, I just loaded the page. Right. We actually just wanted to really step into the user's shoes and as we did that we really realized that we need to keep the app super simple and minimal to create a Fictionless flow for the users. So I think that was the major aim there. And I think if as and when Bhatwa moves forward, UX is something we're really going to dig deeper into. So that's of course, there. Awesome.
00:50:28.840 - 00:50:59.358, Speaker A: Yeah. I added just a question for Mindful. So it's obviously based on balancer pools. I think there's a limitation of eight assets per pool. Right. Is there a way around that or is that sort of like hard coded into just how balancer works? That's a balancer restriction. We tried to keep as much code from their side as possible without modifying it.
00:50:59.358 - 00:51:34.582, Speaker A: And we also borrowed a lot of code from Pydao specifically in how the chakras are created and they have similar logic in their pools and that the strategy is really to write as little high risk code as we can. That's where the issues would come from if things were to break, is at those two points. So yeah, limited to eight. And also you can't have less than 2% of one asset in a pool. Right. I think I maybe saw something on the deck about find a guru type of a thing. From the way you're describing it, since you can't have people join your pool.
00:51:34.582 - 00:52:15.526, Speaker A: Is that sort of like copying it? Is that the approach? Yeah. It would be similar to set protocols like copy strategies, but where you would literally just set up your chakra to mimic someone else's and if they did any specific actions, you would copy those actions. But in the long run, I think depositing into someone else's chakra makes the most sense when we can figure out how to make it rug proof. I had one more question for Croco Finance. I spelled that. You guys in your description mentioned that you created two of your own subgraphs, which is pretty cool. One of them, which I guess was an official uniswap subgraph.
00:52:15.526 - 00:53:20.894, Speaker A: I'm curious, what were the things that you needed that you weren't able to get from the official uniswap subgraph and what was the experience of creating your own subgraph like? So in order to get the yield rewards and to account for them, there was not that information. So we had to create a subgraph for the uni pool smart contract and basically we get all the withdrawals from those contracts, how much the user already claimed, and then we also needed to use the Web Three library in order to get the unclaimed rewards. Yes. Got you. Cool. Very good. I have a question for the batua, and practically, if I understood, you create the CDP in the layer one and then you kind of port the tokens into layer two to the matic, right? Correct me if I'm wrong.
00:53:20.894 - 00:54:32.050, Speaker A: Of course. Yeah, that's correct. So what happens if I want to close the CDP? Do you have to wait to withdraw the funds from Matic and then go and close the CDP on the layer one. Yeah, you have to exit the layer two, get back on layer one and then close the CDP or by new RSA on layer one or by new RSA on and how long it takes to actually close the CDP. If you are in layer two and you need to go back the limitation of the Matic POS bridge is like in testnet right now is just few minutes, three, four minutes. But in terms of exit problem there will be can be delays up to a yeah, yeah. One interesting thing is you could create different kinds of solutions to make it faster.
00:54:32.050 - 00:55:18.690, Speaker A: Let's say you could use for example something like credit delegation. You pull credit from DeFi to an exit contract. Then practically you can have other people financing those exits or some sort of liquidity providers or tokenized exit positions to make it faster. I guess it's not that critical to close a CDP unless you well, actually it is. If the value of the CDP is going down, maybe that's the case but otherwise I think it's not. That something to something interesting actually. Yeah, I did hear rumors about some innovative stuff using pending withdrawals as collateral for the loans.
00:55:18.690 - 00:56:37.360, Speaker A: Look into this next step. Nice. Right? Any final questions? Yeah, I have one for Croco Finance. I'm wondering whether the idea is to become a dashboard that's complementary to something like Sirions or Sappers specifically geared towards yield farming. And I thought kind of the idea of simply visualizing impermanent loss was really good but is the idea to have that plus just like an overall wallet view and this ability to condense all of your wallets in one place. So will you want to expand into this or just drill down on different yield farming features? So we definitely don't want to focus, we definitely don't want to compete with Zapper Finance and we want to make a perfect tool for liquidity providers in Dexis and that's our sole focus because we don't think there is much innovation. There would be much innovation if we started competing with Zephyr and such.
00:56:37.360 - 00:57:09.782, Speaker A: Okay, makes sense. No harm in a little competition though. Awesome. Well, with that, I want to thank all four of our teams here today, especially to a handful of you who are in different time zones, in different parts of the world and in the middle of different things. The Crocodile Finance team especially is in the process of catching a flight. So we were able to make this work out. That's the remaining context that you see on screen.
00:57:09.782 - 00:58:04.626, Speaker A: But thanks to all of our teams. So with that we are ready to move on to our next section. And for those of you who want to stick around for the rest of the demos, we kind of definitely encourage you to kind of stay on the chat, which is join directly on Live ETH online, and we'll be following up with a handful of other announcements for each of you at the end of this call in about an hour and a half. So thanks again and want to congratulate all four of you for presenting and working on your projects and really kind of showing us, especially live, what you were able to do in the past three weeks. And I'm glad that we did not see Murphy's Law in action today. So that said, I am going to present the next category and we'll introduce our next set of projects. The next category is scaling and it's super interesting because we've actually already foreshadowed a handful of themes here.
00:58:04.626 - 00:59:16.880, Speaker A: A lot of our projects were trying to combine scaling as new novel approaches to get this in the hands of users right now and also being able to mix scaling and high throughput with DFI right now. So we have two projects that are tacked in scaling and that's Liquid l Two and Earthstall and they'll both come on one after another and then we'll have them kind of go through the same Q and A process again. And without further ado, I'd like to welcome Tom who's going to be talking about Liquid l Two and I'll let Tom kick off with his demo. Hi, I'm Tom French, and I'm from London in the UK. And for Ethanline I created Liquid l Two. So the problem that Liquid l Two is aiming to solve is that there are two solutions coming essential for ethereum, but there's very long withdrawal times normally. So for example, for Matic this is normally around 30 minutes, but we're getting optimistic roll ups coming along which are going to take up to about a week to actually confirm on Main net.
00:59:16.880 - 01:00:20.018, Speaker A: As Stanny mentioned, this is a real opportunity cost. If I'm trying to close my batter CDP, I don't want to wait 30 minutes to do so and that adds a lot of friction. So the way that Liquid l Two kind of solves this is through credit delegation so that people can get instant access to their funds. Way this works is that lenders can use RV's credit delegation to give loans to users who are withdrawing from liability solutions and these loans are going to be backed by their pending withdrawals. The lenders actually know that these loans will be repaid given, assuming that they will be confirmed onto Mainnet as the withdrawals are managed by smart contracts. So I'm going to quickly show you a rough sketch of the architecture and then I'll do a demo from the user's perspective. So let's say that I'm a user on a Led Two solution and I want to withdraw some money.
01:00:20.018 - 01:01:49.138, Speaker A: I can go to the withdrawal vault factory and initiate a withdrawal that's going to deploy a vault just for me and then this vault will start withdrawing those funds onto Main net. A lender can see that this has occurred by looking at the layer Two chain or through one of the subgraphs that we created, what I created, and then they can delegate credit to the user's vault on Mainnet. I can then pull those funds out of my vault and pay back my Batwa CDP immediately. And then eventually, this loan needs to be paid. So once the withdrawal confirms onto Mainnet, either I or the lender can go back to my vault and say, hey, I want to repay this debt, and the vault will claim those funds, pay off whatever loan it has already, and then forward any remaining funds onto me. So here is a quick interface to interact with Liquid l Two. Let's say that I have 90 USDC on the matic chain, and I want to withdraw ten of these so I can quickly sign a transaction allowing Liquid l Two to take my funds and send that off.
01:01:49.138 - 01:02:50.798, Speaker A: So this has deployed a vault for me and burned those funds. So if I now switch on to looking at this from the gurley testnet, you can see that I now have $20 worth of pending withdrawals, and I've been given a credit limit of $10 by a lender. So I want to get my $10 out to pay back my CDP. So I'm going to just borrow that, use it my entire credit limit, and that's going to deploy another vault to the same address on Main Net so I can claim those funds. And then once that transaction confirms, we should see my balance update. But while that's waiting, I'm just going to show what happened on the matic chain. So you can see here token transfers, where $10 went from my address to my vault.
01:02:50.798 - 01:03:28.766, Speaker A: And then the vault started to burn those funds. So that to start a withdrawal. The fact that these funds start in the vault is what gives Liquid l Two its security. And you can see my transaction is confirmed, and I have my $10. I can now use that wherever I want. If it was the rupees, I could pay back my CDP, send that to uniswap, whatever. I'm happy as a user, I've got access to my funds, but at some point, I need to repay this loan.
01:03:28.766 - 01:04:04.730, Speaker A: So just for the interest of time, I've got a withdrawal that I did earlier, which has confirmed onto the Main chain. So I can quickly click that this is going to generate a proof that these funds belong to me and that my vaults can claim them. Unfortunately, it seems like it's not repaying. Oh, there we go. Finally. Sorry. It takes a little bit of time to construct these proofs.
01:04:04.730 - 01:04:32.726, Speaker A: Anyone can kind of perform this step so the lender can know that they will get their funds back, even if I, as a user, never interact with Liquid l Two again. Cancel that. We don't need that now. Yes. Okay. So this repayment transaction has confirmed now, and you can see that my. Credit limit has dropped to zero.
01:04:32.726 - 01:05:23.720, Speaker A: My amount that I have borrowed has gone to zero again. And you can see that I still have my $10 on Mainnet. Yes, I've got $10 out of Matic in a matter of seconds. Rather than having to wait a full 30 minutes, this sort of solution can I've used a Matic network for this demo, but the actual architecture scales to any layer two solution that uses an EVM compatible chain. All that requires is that we can deploy smart contracts onto that chain. Okay, thank you very much and I'm happy to take any questions later on. Thanks, Tom.
01:05:23.720 - 01:06:00.238, Speaker A: Yeah, this is something I think just immediately addresses what Sonny just recommended. So I'll wait for the Q a piece. But with that we'll just let our stall kind of present and they have a really interesting and novel approach to scaling and I'll let them share what they've done. Hi there. Yeah, thanks a lot for the introduction and welcome to Agile, a new scaling solution for ethereum using trusted execution environments. So this is our team. We are a research team perun maybe some people know us from channels from the Technical University of Dharmst in Germany.
01:06:00.238 - 01:07:06.118, Speaker A: And the five hackers are the brilliant guys here with the diamonds on top of the hats. So to give you an overview, airshell overcomes many plasma limitations with trusted execution environments like Intel SGX. So we have an amortized transaction cost of zero gas and this is because we do not even need on chain checkpoints. The computational demand is still pretty low because you basically only need a single CPU and we observe a very high transaction throughput you can think channels because we only work with signature verifications and signature generations. And if you're wondering if this is all secure, it's based on research from the Chair of Applied Cryptography at the TIO Damshad University and the paper is currently in submission. So the architecture works as follows we have an operator who is basically an untrusted message relayer and we have the users, if they want to enter the system, like in any level two, they send a deposit transaction and later on they can also send exit and withdraw transactions. Blocks are forwarded from the operator into the Te.
01:07:06.118 - 01:07:41.998, Speaker A: So the Te basically verifies all the state that's happening on the blockchain. And this is how this even works. And then once users are off chain, they can send signed transactions to the operator who just forwards them into the Te. And then at the end of each so called epoch, the Te generates balance proofs, signed balance proofs and broadcasts those back to the users. So again, there's a little bit of a similarity to channels where users send signed transactions and get confirmations back. And this all progresses in so called epochs. So you have a deposit transaction and exit epochs.
01:07:41.998 - 01:08:07.222, Speaker A: So those are distinct phases, but all of those phases are actually working in parallel. So everything is possible at all times. Now demo time. So here we have sorry, is something wrong? Do you see my mouse cursor? Sorry. Okay. Anyway, so here's the ganache. It's a blockchain.
01:08:07.222 - 01:08:26.478, Speaker A: Ganache blockchain. I will start it. It's now completely fresh. We have a couple of accounts with 100 E. I start the operator. So when the operator starts, he deploys the contract. We can see that here.
01:08:26.478 - 01:08:48.230, Speaker A: Contract deployment. And now I'm going to start Alice and Bob. So those are going to be two users in our network. I will start by sending a deposit transaction of 100 each. By the way, this is all implemented using Go. So those are all Go, different Go implementations and Go clients. This is the operator and here the two clients.
01:08:48.230 - 01:09:14.590, Speaker A: Here we see two transactions that arrived with a value of 100 E. So that's here and now those are shortly in the system. So now they still didn't receive a balance proof yet. Okay, and now the next epoch starts here. And now we have 100 E in both systems. Okay, now we are completely off chain and now we can send transactions. So here I will send, let's say 50 to Bob.
01:09:14.590 - 01:09:52.730, Speaker A: Okay? And since we just had like a nice balance face shift, now we hold only 50 here. And Bob already sees the 150 here happening. But the real great thing about this, everything is now off chain, right? So we can just send as many transactions as we want in a very short time. So I'm going to show you a benchmark of 1000 off chain transactions, basically microtransactions of 20 ETH. So the 20 will be divided into 1000 little pieces. Sending and that's it. So we now see over 1000 transactions per second.
01:09:52.730 - 01:10:15.490, Speaker A: And what's happening in the background is that Alice is sending all the transactions to the operator. The operator forwards those to the enclave and then the secure enclave processes everything. And then at the end of the epoch, which just happened here, here you see the live phase meter. We got another 30 deducted, 20 deducted. So we're back at 30. And now we can also leave the system. So I will do that now.
01:10:15.490 - 01:10:36.778, Speaker A: Okay, so leave. So I will send an exit transaction and okay, I don't know what happened here. Let's try that again. And also here. So I will send an exit transaction. And once there's a phase shift, we can then withdraw the funds. Okay, so exit got mined here and here, it's also looking good.
01:10:36.778 - 01:10:56.574, Speaker A: Okay, nice. And now we should have exited the system. And you can see in the account suddenly the final balances, 170 and 31. So everything from off chain now applied back on chain. Yeah. So the next steps, the future is testnet. And then finally mainnet deployment, of course.
01:10:56.574 - 01:11:34.530, Speaker A: So within global operator, so we all can have transactions together. We want to build like a really good secure enclave because this is more of a prototype, obviously, that we are running right now. So we will probably use Rust for this, including like, side channel resistance. And now the great thing about this technology is that it can actually scale arbitrary smart contracts because you can quite easily leverage just some EVM execution inside the enclave and then you can quite easily even extend this. Yeah, thanks a lot. I hope I convinced you about this new awesome scaling technology. For Ethereum, visit us at perun network or visit our GitHub parent minus network slash edge.
01:11:34.530 - 01:12:00.630, Speaker A: Thanks. Amazing. Thank you so much. Sebastian. I'd like the Perun team and Tom to kind of come on camera and we'll sort of kick off about a ten minute Q and A here. And there's a lot of things going on here, a lot of things that are also over my personally in my head. But I'll kind of kick this off with a question for Ertstal.
01:12:00.630 - 01:12:57.890, Speaker A: Is the system able to scale? Because you're assuming that the te is kind of the best kind of way for us to fall back on the security guarantees of the system. Or why this versus any other approaches, we have to off chain scaling and sort of if you can compare and contrast that, I think that'll just be a pretty good context for all of us to yeah. So the context. Well, if you want to use intel SJX so if you're saying, okay, the security model for me fits, then this just solves many problems. Right? And I think in reality, it actually does solve like, in reality, I think many people actually would be happy with using this as a scaling solution. And because you have this trusted Enclave, you can basically communicate the users with the enclave similar to channels, right? Because you're only exchanging signatures and the operator is basically assumed to be untrusted. The operator can be malicious.
01:12:57.890 - 01:13:56.890, Speaker A: And when the operator fails to forward messages, because the operator really is only like a message broker back and forth, and then you can always go on chain and then get your funds back, but because as long as the operator behaves nicely and only forwards all the balance proofs, you don't even need to post checkpoints. And this is where this is even an improvement over other roll ups or CK solutions. Got it. Quick follow up on that. With respect to kind of I think you already did mention this thing, but just to clarify, where is this solution with respect to kind of being tested right now live on main Net? Or just are there any unsolved problems here in deploying this or kind of where does this rank? So it's based on research that we didn't even get published yet, so it's very brand new. So it's definitely not on Mainet. But we are quite happy with the protocol internally already.
01:13:56.890 - 01:14:39.494, Speaker A: So we will definitely move this forward to Mainet in the next few months. And I hope we will see more solutions based on this. I had a quick question for you guys as well. So, with regard to the trusted execution environments, use SGX as an example, but I guess you can also use multiparty commutation. Are there any other trusted execution environments you could see being utilized with this? Yeah. Awesome that you're saying this, because actually, usually I would like to have said this, but we didn't say it for time brievity. But MPC is actually another solution that you can use.
01:14:39.494 - 01:15:24.294, Speaker A: So basically we could replace the te by some kind of an MPC committee, and then we could kind of merge the operator with the te to an MPC committee and then also achieve great scaling using this. And you could probably just like you said, you could probably transfer many of the concepts just to this committee. It's also definitely something we're looking into. Would there be any major security trade offs for doing that? You mean with I mean, I guess with MPC. Well, you still need to trust that at least not everybody's getting malicious or something like this. So this is just from the top of my head what I could think of that. Of course.
01:15:24.294 - 01:15:56.206, Speaker A: Well, if everybody's polluting, then you could crash the system. I think it also depends on how you design it. I think you could probably even increase the performance of such an NPC solution if you allow some threshold crypto happening here. So saying, okay, it's enough to have like two out of three or three out of three, I don't know. So I think there's also some parameters you could yeah, it'd be good to have it be sort of like configurable in that way. Cool. This is a good effort here.
01:15:56.206 - 01:16:37.816, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you. I'm impressed that you guys did this so quickly. I guess it sounds like you've been working on the research for a while, but the first GitHub commit is pretty recent. Yeah, it was two weeks, a little bit of weekends and nights, but it was great fun. Looks great. We have a question from our chat, actually, which is for Ertstal again, and the question is from somebody from the Pocket Network team. And the question is, will you be creating a DAP node DNP for this? And this will kind of make it easy for people to just run a node and become an operator.
01:16:37.816 - 01:17:28.072, Speaker A: And how do you think about sort of getting this in the hands of people, I guess is probably the general category of this question. Yeah, I mean, right now, what we implemented, of course, it was tailored towards this hackathon. So we have what you saw on the terminal that was like a user client and then the user client hold all the logic and everything. But I think to have this I don't know if this answers the questions, I'm just hoping I understood it right. But probably what would be best is like an operator reference implementation that just speaks the protocol, forwards the messages, and then you could have that standalone. And then also for the client, then SDK would be the best solution. I think that you can have like, wallets separate from the actual logic because as in many, many off chain, if not all off chain solutions, there's always some watching involved.
01:17:28.072 - 01:17:57.124, Speaker A: Right. I think you cannot really get around this in any solution. So the clients have to watch the operator to always when an epoch ends in a certain amount of time, sends those balance proofs. So this is like one of the security requirements here. And if the operator just goes offline, I mean, he doesn't need to be malicious. Could be a server crash. But then it's very important that on chain, the contract just someone freezes it so that the whole system stops and not an epoch progresses and suddenly everybody's out of balance proof.
01:17:57.124 - 01:18:39.030, Speaker A: So this is just one of the security happening in the background. Yeah. Not sure if that answered the question, though. I'll wait for Albertis to reply in the chat in 30 seconds when he gets to hear the last half of the lag. Maybe I'll start off with a question for Tom. I think this was clarified in the demo, but in case it wasn't, is your approach specific to Matic, even though the demo kind of focused on that? How does this work with respect to anywhere from other streaming solutions to just overall how the problem's been set? Just we just did this whole thing from scratch. Oh, I'm so sorry.
01:18:39.030 - 01:19:28.550, Speaker A: I didn't hear the tom. I'm so sorry. The contracts current are 100% based towards Matic network. But in terms of the kind of requirements for an L2 solution, all it needs is that it can deploy. All that requires is that a withdrawal can only be claimed by a specified address and that it takes a given action on main net to claim that actively. If those two are satisfied, then it's fine. It can be pretty easily extended to cover that L2.
01:19:28.550 - 01:21:03.350, Speaker A: Got it. I was going to say not to kind of put Stannie on the spot, but kind of Stannie for the thing you just kind of recommend in the previous group with respect to the layer two settlement, I guess the settlement operator issue. Do you think there are any other approaches to kind of helping address that or sort of compared to that in liquid L2? Where does that sort of lie in your understanding of how credit markets can be used for this? Yeah, I think it was the liquid L2 solution is pretty interesting because kind of like you practically have the depository or the liquidity in layer one. And practically it seems that you could actually hop, let's say from one layer two back to layer one, but also probably I don't know, was the plan also to kind of like hop from one layer two to another layer two and become kind of like a layer three in some sense. How does it work? Let's say because if you have the liquidity, let's say in Mainnet but let's say if you want to go to another layer two you have to kind of go first l one and then another l two and do this kind of like a detour probably. Yeah. Going from one layer two to another layer two isn't as nice because you do need to kind of bounce through layer one.
01:21:03.350 - 01:22:48.470, Speaker A: Either we would need to kind of give the lenders or like some relay network a kind of assigned transaction that authorizes them to kind of take funds from a given vault and then kind of automatically draw that loan and then send it to another layer two. Yeah. So there could be some scope for kind of some standardized format of the user kind of announcing, okay, I am doing a withdrawal, and this is what I want to do with the funds once they arrive. And then kind of that action being performed, like, possibly through something like Gelato finance once the credit limit is high enough. Got it. One thing I was actually interested in a lot when I was kind of like also looking at this is that you have to run a node right of each of the layer two or you don't have to fraud proofness of the exit. Currently we have a subgraph that runs on the Matic chain so a lender can kind of watch for any withdrawals on that and then they can kind of check against the ethereum mainnet to see if they've been claimed already.
01:22:48.470 - 01:24:19.436, Speaker A: If it's in the subgraph and you trust that that subgraph is going to be truthful and you have a main net connection you should be kind of relatively safe as a lender. But there does need to be that kind of aspect of watching both chains. You can't just sit on main net and kind of do this automatically. This is true for Matic. It would probably be relaxed for something like optimistic roll ups because for Matic the first time that something arrives on Mainnet is once you're actually claiming those funds. When there's something with like a challenge period where you could possibly kind of see whether a withdrawal is in progress on Mainnet. For optimistic roll up you could kind of possibly build that into the protocol so that when you kind of create a loan you are going off and checking that this thing exists which would kind of reduce the kind of risks of being a lender and possibly allow some sort of pooled kind of lending kind of funds.
01:24:19.436 - 01:25:08.672, Speaker A: Because currently the minute a lender, if they aren't paying attention, they could kind of make bad loans very easily. Yeah, but I kind of see this interesting when there will be more liquidity in other layers. Let's say if you have a uniswap swap or something like that, that you could actually use this to pull liquidity into that swap from, let's say, three different layers on, let's say, less liquid token and so forth. It probably opens pretty interesting use cases in the future. Yeah, awesome. So we are running a little bit behind schedule, so I may have to kind of cut this off now. But for any other questions, we'll just redirect to the question direct to the team.
01:25:08.672 - 01:25:50.592, Speaker A: So I want to thank both Tom and Perun team for presenting. And with that, we are ready to move on to our next section. What I'm going to do now is sort of just going to give her judges a small break and we'll do that by doing something else in parallel. And that is there's a lot of sponsors that are also giving out prizes for the best use of their protocols. And we asked a handful of them to make a video for them to announce the prize. So you'll be kind of finding out who won what prize from each of these companies. And while these videos play for the next seven minutes, I'll give that time for our judges to get some coffee or relax or just take a quick break.
01:25:50.592 - 01:26:26.110, Speaker A: So we'll have Ave protocol apps. USDC, uma Teller Economy, one inch and Vega. Come on and just announce their winners over video. And we'll just kick off that video right now. So let's jump in. Oh, ETH Global, we're really happy to announce the winners of the Ave prize. And before we announce the actual winners, we just like to say that some honorable mentions to the following that didn't win prizes, but we really love the idea.
01:26:26.110 - 01:26:54.420, Speaker A: The first honorable mention was stake legends. We really liked what that team was building. Then also ethereum yield curve. We really like what you're building as well. Okay, so for the prizes for third prize of 1500 Adai is Whirlpool. So congratulations to Whirlpool. For the second prize, which is 2500 Adai, it's Osmosis.
01:26:54.420 - 01:27:36.384, Speaker A: And for the first prize of 4000 Adai, it's Liquid l Two. So thanks once again to everyone that hacked on the Ave Protocol and submitted entries. We really loved them. And we'd really recommend everyone, including the prize winners and the honorable mentions, to apply for an Ave grant because we'd love to support just these sorts of projects that everyone was building in the hackathon. So, yeah, thanks once again and we look forward to seeing how these projects evolve. Hello everyone. I'm Molly McKinley from Protocol Labs, and I'm here to announce the winners of the three Protocol Labs prizes for ETH online.
01:27:36.384 - 01:27:56.996, Speaker A: Huge thank you to everyone who submitted projects. There were some really, really amazing ones. And big thanks to Eva and Mike for their help judging on this. Okay, so first to our third place prize. At 500 die each. We had four winners signchain Hay, Chasm, Astral, Dow and ipdb. So congratulations to these four teams.
01:27:56.996 - 01:28:43.828, Speaker A: We're super excited about the work that you're building on top of Filecoin, the work with groups like Slate and Bleak and Ceramic, working with Drand and building cool ways to bring DRAM to ETH smart contracts. Awesome use of DIDs, NFTs and Geodata and making Lapida P and textile threads useful and even more context through databases. So we're psyched about the work you're doing and congratulations. Next, for our runner up prize at two K Die, our winner is Audit Protocol, which is a really streamlined accounting and audit cycle. We really were impressed by the slick UI and Retrieval UX flow, the use of powergate, and just how useful this looks to many, many different groups in the ecosystem. Very approachable. We're psyched about what you're doing.
01:28:43.828 - 01:29:19.830, Speaker A: And finally, our first place prize at 4K Die. The winner is Mayel, an enhanced Retrieval payment experience on Filecoin. We think this hits a really clear need in the filecoin retrieval process, and we're really excited for the improvement for miners so that they can kind of leverage the filecoin that they have in payment channel Vouchers so that they can keep growing and onboarding new storage. So thanks for the awesome enhancement to the ecosystem. Huge congrats to these winners. Thank you so much for all of the work you've done over the past month at In ETH Online. We're jazzed to be a part of this and helping sponsor, so thanks.
01:29:19.830 - 01:30:06.374, Speaker A: Hi. This is Pete from USDC. We have three prizes. 4000 USDC for the Best Tech, 2500 USDC for the runner up, and 1500 USDC for the third place. And the best tech prize goes to tonic, refreshing Money by Tony. And the second place is Liquid l Two by Tom in for the third place, Tides Guest Fever by Flavio. Thanks everyone for participating.
01:30:06.374 - 01:30:39.812, Speaker A: There were lots of great projects and honestly, we are really impressed by almost every project. Have a great Halloween everyone, and see you next time. Hi, I'm Clayton. I'm the head of community at Uma. I'm excited to announce that Yield Scam has taken first prize for Uma in the hackathon and will win $3,000 worth of Uma tokens. Excited to see this product continue to be built. It is an AMM that specifically services expiring tokens on Uma.
01:30:39.812 - 01:31:07.020, Speaker A: So congratulations, guys. Thanks. Hi, guys. It's Mike Zemros of Teller. I'm here to happily announce the winners of our hackathon prizes at ETH Online. The categories we had were best implementation of Teller, most creative use of Teller and best original project using Teller. So the winner for best implementation goes to xliquidity.
01:31:07.020 - 01:32:03.780, Speaker A: Xliquidity is a liquidity protocol where users can deposit their assets and then they get to share in the profits from Arbitrage. It uses Teller to check for accurate Arbitrage opportunities. The winner for most creative use goes to samaj. Samaj is a social networking app that demonstrates a cool UX feature which is to allow users to interact with adapt and pay gas fees using any ERC 20 token. Really convenient and it uses Teller to fetch the price of those ERC 20 tokens. And finally the best original project using Teller goes to Blocksat. Blocksat is creating Oracle for NASA satellite data and it's using Teller to provide the price of financial assets at the time of an event recorded via satellite.
01:32:03.780 - 01:32:37.330, Speaker A: Things like wildfires and solar flares and maybe aliens. So really cool stuff. And that's it for our prizes. On behalf of the Teller team I'd like to say congratulations to you guys who won and thank you so much for all the other projects that made submissions. Cheers. Hey everyone, this is aniket here from Team Byconomy. Over the last couple of weeks we have seen so many awesome hacks being built on Byconomy and honestly it was really hard to pick the best ones.
01:32:37.330 - 01:33:22.376, Speaker A: The two hacks we picked met all the criteria that we listed for the hackathon and more importantly we do see these projects moving forward post hackathon. The first hackathon that we pegged and we are awarding thousand dollar is Patua that is making a decentralized wallet for Indian users. Another second hack that we are picking and again awarding thousand dollar is United Committee that is building a social token distribution platform and using Biconomy to make the experience frictionless. Yeah we wish all the projects best of luck and also want to thank ETH Global for organizing such an awesome event. Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm Jess, and I work on one inch and one inch.
01:33:22.376 - 01:34:05.864, Speaker A: Had a really incredible time judging all you ETH Online hackers. So much so that we ended up with a three way tie for second place of 1000 die each. As well as a very deserving first place hack of 2000 die. So of the three way tie, first we have Tenderized by Nico Adam hey hey. Marco and Kevin. They created a project that combines staking and protocols such as Live Peer Keep, the Graph news cipher with automated market making to create a liquid staking solution. Next we have Yeti Roll by Amadeo and Luke who created a decentralized payrolling platform that integrates one inch to pay employees in whatever asset they so choose.
01:34:05.864 - 01:34:51.746, Speaker A: And last at the three way tie we have Dpay by Sebastian who created an all in one crypto payment processor that utilizes mooney swap, liquidity pools. And of course in first place of 2000 die we have ERC Graph by Pablo. ERC graph is a real time and historic, very beautiful graph showing ERC 20 transfers across the ethereum network. And of course One Inch is a baby of an ETH Global hackathon just over a year ago. So we're super stoked on what all you guys have to keep doing. Hi it's Barney here from Vega. Super excited to announce the winners of our ETH Online hackathon prizes.
01:34:51.746 - 01:35:34.446, Speaker A: Just to recap, we were looking for creative and interesting uses for the rich data feeds that come from the Vega testnet and I'm happy to say this community really didn't disappoint. We've had tons of engagement over on Discord and already worked lots of the feedback we've received into our plans. But now it's time to pick some winners. We have three prizes for teams that built on vega, a grand prize of $3,000 for the overall best submission, 1500 for the runner up, and 500 for third place. In third place is the blockhead team. With their wallets trading front end and vega trading visualization, the team loved the idea behind bringing all of these things together and are excited to see this project get developed further to support more of the Vega protocol. Second place goes to the wonderfully, creative and I have to be honest, slightly ominous sounding darth Vega.
01:35:34.446 - 01:36:09.230, Speaker A: This had hands down the best name of any submission and some of the ideas the team had to develop it further. Sound awesome? I'll definitely be watching this one. And last but definitely not least, first prize goes to the incredibly resourceful Bitcoin Bill, who's managed to extract a wealth of interesting data from the Vega blockchain and make it super accessible. The Whale view and Winners and losers pages are great, but what clinches it for me and really impressed the team was the graph showing the amount of liquidations that would happen at every price level, something you just can't do on a centralized exchange. And that's it. I want to thank everyone for participating and making ETH online awesome and encourage everyone to keep hacking. See you all on the Vega Discord server.
01:36:09.230 - 01:36:51.402, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, that was some of our amazing sponsors sharing who won some of their prizes. We also have a whole list of other sponsors that are going to be disclosing their winners just after the demos end. And I'll kind of be walking through who those projects are. And as a quick note for all the teams, if you heard your name as one of the prize winners, we'll just connect you directly with each of the companies after the event, over email and Discord. So just stay a little bit more patient and we'll get you your prizes ASAP. So with that, we are ready to move on to our second half of the remaining six projects for the demos.
01:36:51.402 - 01:37:40.454, Speaker A: And the next category we have is our favorite DeFi. We have three protocols here that will be presenting their projects. So first we have stop loss finance, then we have flashbank. And then we have protect protocol. So all three projects will be coming on and showing their demo, and then we'll kind of do the same round of Q A and feedback with our judges. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Stop Loss and I'll have them kick off with their demo. There we go.
01:37:40.454 - 01:37:53.726, Speaker A: Yeah. Hi. This is Adrian from Stop Loss. I'm so excited to present for the finally, the team is Nathan and myself. I built the product and Nathan helped me with design. And project management. So I've been involved in Ethernet for quite a long time.
01:37:53.726 - 01:38:24.066, Speaker A: I built a DeFi product that was called Variable, an unconstituted derivative exchange. That's where I met Nathan and after two years in infra and DevOps, I am back building on Ethereum. It has been so much fun. The tools are so great. So we've seen this past year and even more seeing centralized services are starting to being replaced by protocols. Whether it's exchange, lending, insurance, derivatives, every primitive from the traditional finance is being implemented as protocols, as decentralized protocols. It's so exciting.
01:38:24.066 - 01:39:19.078, Speaker A: And we are trying to do that with stop loss. We want to bring tech profit orders and stop loss orders to decentralized finance for the hack. For Ether Nine we build stop loss orders on top of uniswap that acts as insurance against impermanent loss. So impermanent loss really quickly is the fact that when you provide liquidity to uniswap you cannot trading against the market and you can suffer some loss. So with stop loss you set a maximum amount of impermanent loss you're ready to take when provided liquidity. And if your liquidity position is too close to this threshold, you get liquidated by liquidators that are incentivized to do that. So really quickly we have a factory that create stop loss pools that are linked to uniswap pairs and the pool stores the LP tokens of users as well as their stop loss orders.
01:39:19.078 - 01:39:47.070, Speaker A: So now let's get to the demo. We are on Coven, we have access to four liquidity pools daiusdc, USDT and WBTC with ETH. So I'm going to connect as Alice, that is the user. You can see that she has some USDC. For instance, we can go onto the uniswap pool. Here we see that it is live. Alice could swap some USDC for fake ether.
01:39:47.070 - 01:40:29.070, Speaker A: All these tokens are deployed for uncover, right? So here she won't make a swap. She will provide liquidity to the USDC fake ether pool through stop loss and create a stop order at the same time. So here, let's say she wants to provide 600 USDC as liquidity in the pool, but not lost everything. So let's say for instance, set a 530 guarantee. She does just that. And so here what happens is that she sends 600 USDC to the stop loss contract that transform that into LP and at the same time store the stop loss orders. So we'll just wait for the transaction to be mined.
01:40:29.070 - 01:40:58.780, Speaker A: We'll see that she has a guarantee of 530 USDC. Of course, the demo day it won't work otherwise no fun. Okay, that's really the case. Okay, I'm really sorry. It's a new user. So one more transaction, we need to approve the token. I'm really sorry about that, but let's do the exact same stuff.
01:40:58.780 - 01:41:31.342, Speaker A: So yeah, again, what we are doing here is that we are providing liquidity to the uniswap pair and at the same time we set a 530 guarantee. So now let's go to the managed section. It will appear at some point. But the fact is that at the beginning, you provide here, it was an old order, you provide some tokens and you get LP tokens in exchange. So here, let's see that she provided 600 USDC. It corresponds to LP tokens. In the Uniswap pair, she has a Gua warranty.
01:41:31.342 - 01:42:06.634, Speaker A: And for now, the health ratio is greater than one. Because the current value is 600 USDC, it doesn't need to be liquidated. But now let's connect as a whale on Uniswap and we'll try to change the price of fake ether. So here, let's make a swap of, let's say, ten K fake ether to USDC. By doing that, we'll change the price by 10%. And this will create impermanent loss for Alice. So basically, what it will do, we'll take again the view of Alice.
01:42:06.634 - 01:42:34.070, Speaker A: So let's connect again for Alice. What happened? We'll see that the current value of her position, she still has the same LP, is now close to 530. The health ratio went on the one. So she can get liquidated by liquidators. Let's do that. So now I'm connected as a liquidator. I can check using the Graph API NFC position.
01:42:34.070 - 01:42:59.354, Speaker A: I see here the position of Alice. So I can liquidate it since the health factor is under one. So I'm going to do that. So the liquidator liquidates the NFC position. What happens really is that the current value is 543. It's more than 530. So the liquidator will use this value to reimburse of the guaranteed amount to Alice, and he will receive the rest as incentivization.
01:42:59.354 - 01:43:38.298, Speaker A: So here we see that he received some fake ether over time, not on time. So now let's just quickly get back to Alice view to summarize that now we see that, okay, now she has in her wallet the 530 USDC that she was promised to be guaranteed. So that's it for the demo. Our goals for the next phase is to of course, ship that on Mainet. As a product, we need to packages as a legal work on SDK and tokenization of orders. And for the more long term, we are making a call for contributors. We want to take time to beat this and be smart, thinking about layer two other books and stuff like that.
01:43:38.298 - 01:44:03.752, Speaker A: That's it for the demo. Thank you so much. That's a super cool stop loss using Uniswap. Sure, there'll be a lot more questions, so let's kind of move on to our next demo. And that is Project Flashbank. So, Vibo, whenever you're ready, feel free to share your demo. Hey, everyone.
01:44:03.752 - 01:44:24.780, Speaker A: I'm Vabhav. And here I'm presenting Flashbank. We are a team from India. A bunch of guys. Everyone worked on front end, back end and smart contracts. And we basically built something on top of compound. Compound is one of the biggest DeFi protocols.
01:44:24.780 - 01:45:22.660, Speaker A: It has around a billion dollar worth of assets locked. But it does have a missing component, and that is it does not have Flash loan capabilities. Flashloan is this amazing tool built first by Aave that kind of ensures that DeFi systems stay in place. It allows easy access to funds for doing liquidations, arbitraging between different exchanges, hacking, harvest, finance, passing proposals on makeadao. So we thought, why not expose a billion dollar worth of these assets that are logged in compound to this extra yield that's available on compound. So we just built sort of really light wrapper contracts on top of compound that allow users of compound to open up their assets to Flash loans. So it's time for a field trip.
01:45:22.660 - 01:46:00.930, Speaker A: So I've basically deposited five die on compound. This is on coven. It's earning a good 19.25. I'm almost a DJ, so as I deposited die, I got 210 cry. I'll just deposit maybe let's deposit 20 of these, we'll send our transaction. So we have fixed the Flash loan fees to 0.3 for now, but that can be changed later, obviously.
01:46:00.930 - 01:46:37.604, Speaker A: And this is the APY at the moment. Depending on the amount of assets logged, our transaction is confirmed as soon as our assets are into the contracts. You can see that I have some LP shares for this specific pool. I can also directly deposit die, and these set of contracts will internally deposit them to compound and make me the liquidity provider over here. Let me do a quick example. Flash Zone. So it just borrows a bunch of money and gives us some fees.
01:46:37.604 - 01:47:04.880, Speaker A: At the moment, the earnings are zero point $21. As soon as the transaction goes through, we'll see this number increase. Now we just have to wait for the transaction to go through. Here we go. Sweet. And now our users of Flashbank have more money than before, all the while being logged into compound. What we plan on doing next is obviously launch on Mainet.
01:47:04.880 - 01:47:44.290, Speaker A: We are also getting up for a proposal on compound to add the stuff natively so that it's less gas costs for the people. We also want to explore flash mints. There is one bullet missing here that we also intend to create, a sort of generic Flash loan lib. It will internally borrow assets from Aave Dydfx later compound and give it to the user so they don't have to integrate specific protocols. Yeah, that's about it. Thank you so much. Looking forward to questions.
01:47:44.290 - 01:48:13.800, Speaker A: Amazing. Thank you so much. It's just amazing to see that in three weeks, people have extended existing protocols, let alone unlock a billion dollars in a creative way. So I'll leave my comments for the Q A part. And with that, we have our last demo for the DeFi category, and that is Corbin with Protect Protocol. So whenever Corbin you're ready, feel free to share. Hi guys.
01:48:13.800 - 01:48:52.550, Speaker A: So I'm Corbin calling in here from the US. And I built protect protocol as part of the ETH online hackathon. So Protect Protocol is a new insurance protocol for DeFi that focuses on being open and composable. So just as on Uniswap, you can create a spot market for any token. Anybody can do this for any token. With Protect, you can create a liability market on top of any DeFi protocol or any smart contract. So that could be the amount of dye and compound, that could be a multi SIG wallet, any type of smart contract that holds value, you can create a liability market on top of it.
01:48:52.550 - 01:49:41.392, Speaker A: In my day job, I work with a lot of institutional traders that are looking at deploying more capital into the DeFi ecosystem. But their biggest restraint right now is just the risk of underlying smart contract bugs or admin keys getting compromised, right? They hear about the Harvest Finance hack, they hear about the BZX hack, they hear about Black Thursday and they're nervous to deploy even more capital into the space. And so I think protect solves that. In the US. We have the FDIC that ensures all deposits on bank account. And I think DeFi needs a protocol, peer to peer protocol to do something equivalent to that ensure deposits into these awesome new financial projects. Protects kind of designed as a generic version of the Ave safety module or the maker backstop.
01:49:41.392 - 01:50:18.508, Speaker A: It differs from existing solutions in that it's completely open. So anybody can create a liability market on top of any capital pool. Cover is never bought. You basically wrap any kind of pooled asset and fees are extracted block by block from that wrapped asset. The way DeFi should work on the other side of the market, you have shield miners or stakers that deposit capital and assume the liability of the underlying smart contract. And then lastly, Protect has a configurable claims process. So today most insurance products in DeFi are governed by a Dao.
01:50:18.508 - 01:50:59.628, Speaker A: But with Protect it can be covered by a Dao or it can be covered by automated smart contract rules that query the underlying capital pool and see if kind of any kind of hack or any type of exploit has taken place. So it differs from anything that's on the market today. So this is protect. Quick note, I forked the Urine Finance so you can probably recognize some of the design. I have an example of three different Protect contracts sitting on top of compound, on top of Uniswap, on top of Aave. You can see how fees are extracted for each market. You can see the staked asset that backs each one of these capital pools.
01:50:59.628 - 01:51:30.360, Speaker A: And when you drill into it, we want to explain exactly what you're getting coverage for how claims work. This is a type of it's almost like a legal contract. So there's more to this than just entering in one of the sides. We want to really explain what you're getting, but you can get protection right here if you're an insurance seeker. And then you can stake and start earning rewards. If you're a shield miner. The way this works is if you want to set it up, you can create a protect contract here in the upper right hand corner.
01:51:30.360 - 01:52:30.776, Speaker A: So I'm going to show you a little bit of how this works on the back end. And the smart contracts that I created, I'm going to go ahead and start deploying them too to a local network. So if you contact Protect protocol and you want to set one up, the way this works is we have kind of like a two sided token model where anybody that's buying coverage mints what we call a P token. In this case, you would be wrapping CDI from compound and minting PCDI. PCDI has all the same properties as CDI, except it's now covered if the underlying capital pool on Compound was hacked. And by doing that, you're giving up some of your comp rewards to the stakers for that protection. On the other side of the market, you have the shield token where folks can stake ETH or they can stake a stablecoin like Dai or USDC and they're assuming the liability of this underlying market for anyone that has a P token.
01:52:30.776 - 01:53:23.768, Speaker A: One of the really interesting things about this protocol is the fee model. So how you extract fees from those that are buying coverage is configurable and so is the claims process. So like I mentioned before, the claims process can be governed by a Dow or can be governed just by smart contract rules. All that's done through deploying scripts I have over here. So you can see, you can customize the claims manager the fees, and then lastly, the capital that's sitting in the staking pool can be invested in any kind of other DeFi strategy. Right? So these folks are staking ETH that can be reinvested in another lending protocol or put into a market maker and start earning fees. So you can see I have this all running locally and we're starting to reach out to different DeFi protocols and different other capital pools to see who wants to get coverage.
01:53:23.768 - 01:53:54.376, Speaker A: So thanks so much for your time and appreciate any feedback. Amazing. Thanks, Corbin. I'll, at this point, ask all three teams to sort of turn your cameras on and we'll kind of jump into A-Q-A flash loans, stop loss orders, insurance. I think we're going to have a lot of stuff to talk about. So I will leave myself out of this whole equation and I'll let everybody else chime in. This is awesome.
01:53:54.376 - 01:54:34.452, Speaker A: I really loved all three of these projects. I have a question for Corbin. So these liquidity pools, these sort of like the collateral that is backing these contracts, how are you going to bootstrap that? What's the incentive for people to dive in, to be like a first mover? Yeah, that's a great question. So if you look at the way it works today, ave just released their safety module. If you look at what makers had on the market forever. Built into some of these protocols, you basically have a pool of the protocol token that if there is some kind of hacker exploit, that pool is on the hook for the capital. Right.
01:54:34.452 - 01:55:45.082, Speaker A: What I've done with Protect is basically taking that model and spread it across any type of DeFi protocol that wants to get covered. So the way I'm bootstrapping both sides of those markets is partnering with a DeFi protocol. Like, let's say it's the newest lending product that launched today, going to them and be like, hey, can you commit stakers for some X amount of capital and then start marketing this to your users to actually buy coverage? Maybe they add protocol rewards and yield farming type rewards on top of that, but get them to kind of start these different markets. And that's actually who I'm reaching out to now to see who actually wants to get covered. But it comes from the protocols themselves. Oh, sorry. Also for Protect, do you have some sort of like minimum ratio between the funds provided by kind of Shielders and the P tokens that are issued to make sure that you never run out of protection? Yep.
01:55:45.082 - 01:56:38.878, Speaker A: So Camilla, that's a great question and that's actually why the fee model contract. So it has the same interface for every Protect protocol or Protect contract, but the implementation can differ widely. One of my prior projects was something called DeFi Score, which is a risk appraisal and different DeFi protocols. And so not all capital pools on Ethereum are created equally. Right? Like Maker has been out there forever and so might have a lower fee and might provide coverage for a lower amount of staked capital. Whereas the newest food token, you're going to have to have like a one to one ratio because you don't want to assume that extra liability. So based on the DeFi protocol, that fee model is configurable and we have risks coming from DeFi score from a couple other places that actually get the fee model for the underlying lending protocol or market maker.
01:56:38.878 - 01:57:01.622, Speaker A: So it's configurable by protocol. Got it. That's smart. Thanks. I had a question for Flashbank. The first question actually had two questions. So the first question was just around the front end.
01:57:01.622 - 01:57:50.614, Speaker A: Did you guys build all of that out yourself or did you borrow something from other places? Yeah, we did actually build all of that during, I think, 24 hours, actually first time for the first time ever, we had a front end guy in the team, so he did all of that goodness for us. Well, you guys absolutely crushed it. It looks really slick, so nice job. And then I'm also curious, I saw you guys use Pocket Network, no specific question, but just kind of curious. What was your experience? Using Pocket Network? What do you like about it? I think reloc would come in better. Yeah. So we use Pocket Network to get the stats from the smart contract and display it on the front end.
01:57:50.614 - 01:58:06.494, Speaker A: So it was not that hard to integrate pocket network. So it was an easy process. So there was nothing much. It was same like infuriate cool. Awesome work guys. This looks really nice. I'm excited to see a real compound proposal come out of this.
01:58:06.494 - 01:58:33.800, Speaker A: That'd be great. Just what we all need is more flash loans, right? Yeah, definitely. We are on it. Thanks. I have a question for the well the stop loss. I mean it's really fascinating what you guys did with the stop loss polls and especially the managing of the positions, having the manager. That's pretty nice.
01:58:33.800 - 01:59:50.966, Speaker A: Could you actually even add some sort of like a margin functionality to those kind of positions that you have as well? What you mean by marching I didn't really understand. So basically can you add also leverage on those positions as well? Now you basically have spot orders, spot stop loss orders. But basically that you can wrap your position that is already like pre leveraged because you already have the liquidation mechanism. Exactly. So that's exactly the vision for the product. What we are focused on is stop loss and take profit and of course it comes in association with a risky bet and so for this Ethanline, the bet is liquidity providing on uniswap but it could be another strategy, it could be margin trading, it could be like leverage position and stuff like that. I think the mechanism and if there's a protocol, the goal is to make liquidators and users coordinated by a protocol but we aim to do that on AMMS but on other stuff it's uniswap.
01:59:50.966 - 02:01:07.874, Speaker A: Pretty simple. That's pretty cool because I could see that you could borrow that liquidity and create those kind of margin positions and it's quite interesting and about the actual kind of stop loss and I've been wondering for a while basically when you see order books and such why could those positions could be tokenized in that sense? So you still get a LP token right when you create the stop loss. So kind of you could create limit orders and bunch of other type of orders in tokenized form then you could actually create a place or actually even like a uniswap pool where they could be traded against. So people could trade different kinds of positions whatever they have took exposure and whatever order type and they could basically trade those in between exchange exposures and that's quite fascinating. Yeah, that's actually exactly what we are thinking. First step is creating the protocol to replace what was uncertainty but then the DeFi is great because you can do that. And we are working on what is the token we give to a user.
02:01:07.874 - 02:01:57.282, Speaker A: It's between an option, it's a specific LP token that we are working on to really understand how it can be used but would be fun to see what it would create for the space. Yeah, exactly and I think you guys had experience from the past. When I remember variable one of the first projects I followed like the very early DeFi stuff. So I kind of see here the options as well because when you have the LP token you can sell it kind of like you can get rid of the exposure and trade it. So that's pretty fascinating. One thing is when you go to the main net, I really recommend to have audits and do it kind of like properly, especially if you have a good product. So it's always risky to go without any audits and so forth.
02:01:57.282 - 02:03:23.102, Speaker A: Definitely, yeah, especially the Oracle and Flash loans and stuff like that. It's really risky, I think. Yeah. And speaking of flash, speaking of Flash loans, the flashback I'm super happy that you guys did into the compound because I think practically now we have more liquidity to flash borrow and do all kinds of interesting stuff. I think one interesting decision you made is that you actually made the Flash modes practically that there is fee associated, which is interesting because in ave also we have a fee but there is protocols where you don't have a fee in Flash loans. And this is kind of something that we have had a discussion in early year, kind of like should there be a fee or should not and what's your rationale on putting this kind of like economic decision here on having fees there? So at the moment the thinking was since these contracts are not a part of compound's native contracts, so the people using these set of contracts should have some incentive to put up money over here. And if the fees is not there, I doubt that people will put up money in these pools for Flash loans.
02:03:23.102 - 02:04:29.910, Speaker A: I sort of feel once these funds, once Flash loans are natively into compound, the fees should be very low or depending on compound's governance, like what we talk about on the forum, nothing at all like dYdX or something. Yeah, we haven't decided how things will work when this functionality is in compound natively. But yeah, for now this is it. So you're not using compound liquidity. I thought you have to have separate liquidity pools for people using these flash loans. Specifically, compound users have to deposit the CDI to us or deposit to compound via us so that we can open up these assets for flash loans to other people. Once we go through the governance protocol of compound, then this functionality will be available natively and then we'll have full access to the liquidity.
02:04:29.910 - 02:05:03.570, Speaker A: And so the incentive for people to deposit their CDI in your pools would be this fee when people take out Flash loans. Okay. Also yeah, I don't think there are a lot of other places at the moment where people can use their C tokens. So this is also one of those places. Awesome. I know it feels like it's not enough time, but that went by really fast. So if there are any other questions, we'll connect you with everybody here and we'll have the opportunity to ask you more.
02:05:03.570 - 02:05:47.766, Speaker A: But congrats to all three of the DeFi teams here. And just as a note, before we leave, it is always best to not test in Prod. So make sure that if you're going to go on main net you go through proper audits and we hope to kind of use your protocols ourselves, hopefully very soon. So congrats again. And with that we are ready for the last category and the last three demos for today. And this is a particular category I'm super excited about because we are clearly seeing this is an amazing pattern that our ecosystem is aiming to prioritize, building and maintaining communities. And that is the last theme that we saw within our twelve teams.
02:05:47.766 - 02:06:26.942, Speaker A: So community is the next theme, and this includes any category that helps developers, projects. Creators really sort of hone in on being able to talk and chat with who their audience is, and also, in general, make it more. Interactive for an existing protocol or an existing service that we already know to just make it more fun and invite a lot more people in through a different lateral angle. So we have three projects. Syndicate, Unite, and Space DX And I'll have all three of them kind of come in. So I believe Syndicate is ready to showcase what we've done. And I'll have Bill kind of show us the Syndicate demo.
02:06:26.942 - 02:07:05.180, Speaker A: So Bill, whenever you're ready. Hi. This is Bill and I'm from San Francisco. And this is my project syndicate. So what is syndicate? The aim for Syndicate is to become a platform for Web Three communities. And the opportunity here is that almost all crypto native communities currently live on web two chat platforms such as Discord or Telegram. And it's a bit surprising since the users themselves are actually quite familiar with Web three tools.
02:07:05.180 - 02:08:10.690, Speaker A: So what did I built for this hackathon? What I made is essentially a web3 enabled discord. So let's jump into the demo note here that Syndicate is actually live already and if you want to access it, just simply go to this URL. So here I'm at the site and if I press Enter here, I'm going to be prompted to sign my wallet address and I'll sign here and then as soon as you join, you should be faced with something fairly familiar. If you ever use Discord or Slack, the interface is somewhat borrowed from there. So as you can see, this is essentially a chat room and you can chat here. There are different servers or different channels rather, and then you can directly message people as well. Cool.
02:08:10.690 - 02:09:12.526, Speaker A: So what makes this a little bit different from Discord? For example? For one, the user identities are actually their Web Three wallet identities. So I do not own or have really any control over their profiles. Other than keeping their metadata and their unique Web Three features that are only possible when you cool chats coming in. A lot of features are only possible when you build this platform natively from Web Three. So for example, one such possibility is creating a permission chat. So here I have a chat I created called the Ave governance server. What the permission server is, is that every user that wish to join the server must hold at least one ave to join.
02:09:12.526 - 02:10:00.850, Speaker A: So currently I do not meet such requirements and when I click join server, it's not going to allow me to do so. So if I were to switch to a wallet where I do meet the requirements, let me go to my main wallet here, it's going to automatically refresh the page, I will have to sign my signature and voila, I'm inside the server. And once again, this is a server where only people who hold ava can join. And if I go back, you'll see the direct message that was sent to me earlier. And one last thing I wanted to show off is anyone can right now create a server if they wish really quickly. And then you just set the token requirements. If you want to have you don't need to and then just create server.
02:10:00.850 - 02:10:46.370, Speaker A: There you go. Sweet. And that's kind of like a very basic demo of what I made. So how did I build this for the web app? Basically I use Firebase for real time messaging. MongoDB currently holds the metastore data. Hopefully I plan to decentralize this data further either on the layer one or layer two blockchain front end, I use React Node, and for Web Three interactions I just use the web Three JS. What is next? Once again, I want to reiterate the opportunity here.
02:10:46.370 - 02:11:33.038, Speaker A: Almost all communities, and we're kind of used to this, currently live on Web Two chat platforms. And I think in the future it just makes a lot more sense for us to adopt a Web Three community platform. And there's just a lot of possibilities that we don't really even think about when we're in the Web Two mindframe. So for example, Snapshot something that recently became adopted and I think it's very cool. So I hope to implement like pseudo lightweight off chain governance features into syndicate in the future as well. Yeah, there's just a lot of cool possibilities. So I think there's been a lot of great feedback already, but if you want to get in touch with me, simply go to E funderscore glitch on Twitter.
02:11:33.038 - 02:11:57.578, Speaker A: And I'm definitely looking for people to kind of work together with, namely marketing and people. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks Bill. Super cool project. Especially nice to hear that it's already live. So we'll wait a few more minutes for some Q A, but with that, let's move on to our second demo for this category, and that is the Unite community.
02:11:57.578 - 02:13:07.160, Speaker A: So. Alex, whenever you're ready, feel free to show us your demote and met at the start of the hackathon four weeks ago, but rarely. It feels like we've known each other forever. Social tokens have been blowing up lately and Brian Flyn, who has his own social token, recently posed a list of questions, a big one being what are the best ways to do a social token distribution? Our team was thinking about the space, so I jumped in with the idea of giving away tokens in exchange for social media engagement. And Alex Mesmej, who tokenized himself, replied saying that he thinks it's an amazing idea. The next day he tried my suggestion with a tweet saying that he's giving away $5 in Alex tokens to the first hundred people who retweet. He got the retweets and in 17 minutes grew the number of token holders by 25%.
02:13:07.160 - 02:14:16.732, Speaker A: He added that the Twitter algo stopped him from sending DMs to the winners and he had to manually do the distribution in phases. Which brings us to Unite, a tool to automatically distribute tokens to your community and essentially automate the slow and manual process that Alex Mesmej had to go through to distribute his tokens. It works like this first you connect your wallet and log in with MetaMask. Then you need to verify your account by signing a public tweet. We complete verification and log in. Now we're on our homepage where Alex Mersmez would create his first campaign. We want to offer many campaign types, including retrospective airdrops to all Twitter followers and other combinations.
02:14:16.732 - 02:14:43.290, Speaker A: But now we're going to demo rewards for retweets. So we click Create Campaign and begin filling in our campaign details. Because this is a live demo, we're going to call it Test in Prod. And then we enter the ERC 20 token address that we want to distribute. This can be any ERC 20 token as long as you have it in your wallet. Then we need to enter a Tweet URL. So we're going to create a tweet to basically match the experiment that Alex Mesmez did.
02:14:43.290 - 02:15:17.620, Speaker A: So we tweet, grab the Tweet URL, paste that in, decide how many people to reward, we'll just go with ten. The number of tokens per reward will go with 100. Then we begin two step process to send these tokens to the reward pool. First we need to allow permission to spend these tokens, these thousand Alex tokens for the campaign. We wait for that transaction to be confirmed. Then we do another MetaMask transaction. And here's where we're actually creating the campaign and sending those thousand tokens to our Unite reward Pool smart contract.
02:15:17.620 - 02:15:59.832, Speaker A: So wait for that to confirm and boom, the campaign's been created. So a few moments later, Alice is on Twitter and sees Alex's tweet. She decides to retweet and get some of those sweet, sweet Alex tokens. She then clicks the Visit Unite community link to claim her tokens. Like Alex, she has to connect her wallet and log in with MetaMask. She has to verify her Twitter account by signing a public tweet. She then completes verification and lands on our homepage in the background.
02:15:59.832 - 02:16:38.068, Speaker A: Our Twitter bot has seen that she's earned the tokens because she retweeted. And boom, she sees them on the home page, those hundred Alex tokens that she got for retweeting his tweet. These are now on our smart contract in an array mapping her wallet to the number of tokens she's earned. But she can withdraw these by clicking Withdraw, which opens up a MetaMask transaction to execute that withdrawal into her own Ethereum wallet. And we wait for that to confirm and boom. The Alex tokens are now in her wallet. Those hundred Alex tokens that she just earned for spending her social capital and participating in his campaign.
02:16:38.068 - 02:17:34.104, Speaker A: She then visits his website and sees that she can join a private telegram group because she holds Alex tokens. And so she goes through this process of interacting with a bot on Telegram that opens up MetaMask and checks that she has Alex tokens. And she instantly gets access to a private telegram group for Alex token holders. Meanwhile, Alex can see the campaign progress and see that Alex has claimed her tokens and monitor the campaign as it develops. So we were testing out our DAP and something interesting happened. People saw our verification tweets and started to try Unite for themselves, including Coin artist who has her own social token and 37,000 Twitter followers. We've already had almost 200 people sign up, many of whom have their own social tokens and are very excited to use Unite to automatically distribute tokens to their community.
02:17:34.104 - 02:18:16.488, Speaker A: We're currently running on the COVID testnet, but we'll be launching on Mainnet within the next week or so. We're focused on Twitter distribution for now, but plan on adding other platforms and also want to add functionality to let people issue and use tokens on Unite. We already showed you what it looks like to access a private telegram group by holding a token, but you could also access a token gated newsletter, or maybe get early access to concert tickets or other content by holding tokens or even exchange tokens for video calls or shoutouts. But really, the possibilities are endless. Thank you for your attention. We look forward to your questions and hope that you will use Unite to distribute tokens to your community. Awesome.
02:18:16.488 - 02:18:43.574, Speaker A: Well, that concludes the Unite demo. And we have one last demo for the day, and that is our team number twelve. And without further ado, I'd like to welcome Space DX. So James, take it away. Hi guys. My name is James Dawson. I am from Belfast, Northern Ireland.
02:18:43.574 - 02:19:34.726, Speaker A: I've recently quit my job to pursue becoming a solidity developer, and this is my first fully completed solidity DAP. And I'd just like to say before I start, yesterday at rehearsals, I found out about a project called Dark Forest and I just like to say I checked out the project and it is so cool and totally awesome and that this is my own kind of interpretation and implementation of a space economy game. And hopefully you can see how they are similar and how they differ. Without further ado, this is Spacedx. Spacedx is a high risk token economic warfare game. It is built in solidity and utilize Matic for a fast paced gaming experience. Users must travel across the galaxy exploring star systems and earning rewards or receiving punishments.
02:19:34.726 - 02:20:13.986, Speaker A: Users will have to build a starfleet to protect themselves or to attack others. The game itself is currently comprised of three separate tokens solar and ERC 20 is the main currency of the galaxy. Solar is used not only to buy goods in the economy, but is used as fuel itself to travel throughout the galaxy. Solar is mined from the cores of planets, which leads us on to our next token planets. Planets are ERC 720 ones and represent the ownership of the planet. Each planet has randomly generated traits, the most important being its yield. The yield is essentially the interest that you'll be paid for staking solar against your planet.
02:20:13.986 - 02:21:04.390, Speaker A: Our last token is an ERC 1155 called Ships and Technology, or SATS for short. SATS essentially make up your space fleet, as space is a very dangerous place and you'll need to protect yourself and more importantly, protect your planets. Users who stake solar against planets should also deposit SATS to protect the planets from attackers, as the planets mine them profit as any other user can attack the planet. And if they are successful, they will have access to the planet's profits, taking your hard earned solar. And that is essentially how the game's economy works in its current state. The last thing I'd like to cover is exploration. Users can explore the galaxy to discover planets, SATS and whatever else they can find.
02:21:04.390 - 02:21:44.280, Speaker A: The user will have to spend solar to warp the new star location's burning supply. The galaxy is currently made up of 640,000 systems that can be explored with the hope in the future to make the expansion of the game decentralized and run by governance. When their user arrives at a star system location, they will trigger a random event which will be tokenized. The token is then burned by the user to receive the reward or punishment, and users will grow the cosmos as they explore it. That will take us onto the demo. So I'll just quickly show you. This is the front end and the current implementation that I've done so far.
02:21:44.280 - 02:22:22.330, Speaker A: This is the star map. You can choose your quadrant that you want to move to your sector district, and then you pick a star. So this is an undiscovered star location. So we will explore this together. Oh no user in the way. And as you can see, we're connected to the Matic Mumbai network here, so we'll just do this together. So this will move my address and all of my ships to the well, it sets my ships and my address to this star location and it'll set that there has been a new planet discovered at this star location.
02:22:22.330 - 02:23:04.222, Speaker A: So if we go over to our dashboard here, we'll go down and see our new planet and we'll have to deploy this planet. So we will do that together. So each planet has its own contract that can have solar and SATS or ships and technology deposited to it. And the owner of the ERC 721 token can have access to withdraw the tokens themselves. Hopefully that goes through Ha. And here we have where you would deposit SATS. You can see that the planet's yield is 12%.
02:23:04.222 - 02:23:39.898, Speaker A: It has a minimum stake period of 14 days. We'll just quickly invest some solar here into the planet and I'll finish with that. Attacking is the last element of the game, which unfortunately has not been developed within this month. But I'll be working on the game in the future to incorporate a chess like strategy game with each sat having a unique ability on this kind of grid board. That's how I'm envisioning it right now and I think it is entirely possible using matic. And that has just went through. Yeah.
02:23:39.898 - 02:24:08.050, Speaker A: So thank you very much. Incredible. Thanks for that. Amazing demo, James. I'd like to kind of just ask all three projects to kind of turn their cameras on and we'll kind of do a short Q and A here. One thing that kind of amazed me was when yesterday I found out that this was James's first time just working in Web Three and not only did he make an amazing game, but he was able to sort of get all of us excited. So congrats.
02:24:08.050 - 02:24:39.500, Speaker A: Cheers. I'm just going to dive in because this is probably like selfishly the most relevant category to me. It's kind of amazing. I feel like I would just use all of these projects for myself and I would definitely push them into my broader category of social tokens or community tokens. I just have a couple of thoughts and maybe a couple of questions. Syndicate amazing. It's so easy.
02:24:39.500 - 02:25:32.718, Speaker A: Obviously I love Discord and Collab land and all of that, but it's still kind of a clunky experience. You have to go to this website and connect. The thing I love about Web Three is just connect wallet and you're good to go. But with that said, you're going up against a fairly large competitor that is pretty well developed and well funded and all that. I assume you have plans to add more rich media photos, et cetera. How do you plan to tackle that? Is it more kind of just the open source come and join me kind of approach or are you building a company around this? What's that like? Yeah, a very good question. Like you said, I think going adopting Web Three into communities currently there's kind of like the two approaches, which is one is you build your own platform.
02:25:32.718 - 02:27:01.526, Speaker A: One is you kind of use extensions onto existing platforms and I think they both have pros and cons. Obviously on top of existing platforms, you kind of leverage what they already have and then I kind of see the future for Web three adoption moving towards something, eventually having their own platforms. So to me this is more of like a longer term ambition and I think as the features kind of add on, it can hopefully kind of snowball into features that build on top of each other onto like it's an independent platform. But that's a really good point. I think the initial adoption will probably come from extensions onto existing platforms and then as people kind of certain things are just harder doing it through extensions. For example. I think Snapshot is one of the innovators in creating their own platform where the community actually lives on that instead of Web Two platforms, simply because something like that is really hard to build into as an extension.
02:27:01.526 - 02:27:56.490, Speaker A: And that could definitely be something I also incorporate into syndicate as kind of an early way to adopt users. But yeah, my ambition is definitely longer term thinking. Maybe build up a team of people who want to work on this together and just still very early on in my eyes, it's very cool. I just have another question for Unite specifically. It's funny because this has actually got somebody sent me this link yesterday and I've been looking at it because we've been looking at different ways to basically get more users. For my own token, I'm still unsure of the right model for it. Maybe Retweets isn't the right model for me, but it sounds like you're thinking of different ways to sort of reward people for social engagement.
02:27:56.490 - 02:28:56.782, Speaker A: I see four of those. But I'm kind of wondering, I don't know if you've had time to think about this a couple of years in advance, but what's sort of the craziest idea of how to reward users that you've had kind of just diving into this? Yeah, that's a great question. So right now we've been focused on Twitter and there's crypto, you know, that makes sense for now, but I think these sorts of tokens will go mainstream. And one crazy idea that plays into some of our longer term thinking is you could have a sports team issue a token and do something like when people go to a game, maybe the first game you go to, you get 100 tokens, the second you get 200 tokens. And then you build a streak. You lose that streak when you stop going to games or participating. You get tokens when you participate in their social media.
02:28:56.782 - 02:29:51.134, Speaker A: But you could do something like reward tokens for people who post selfies wearing the jersey, for example, where that would be difficult to verify using a bot like we are currently but you could potentially have a system where there are human validators who are validating these sorts of actions and it becomes tricky to validate subjective things. Like is a GitHub pull request good, but you can have consensus with humans. It's difficult for bots to do that. But yeah, I think there's some interesting far out campaigns where you couldn't do them with bots. But getting consensus among humans who are aligned economically, to be honest, is really interesting. I mean, for your particular use case, it could be yeah, people posting remixes of your songs that people are voting on and then get social tokens in exchange for them, or wearing your t shirt or post a selfie with a rack tape, that kind of thing. Yeah, absolutely.
02:29:51.134 - 02:30:23.158, Speaker A: And to your point, I totally see what you're saying about if we're only giving tokens away to the top ten or something like that, that's like pretty low lift for a human to tackle. It's not like some I mean, unless you get just like this crazy amount of engagement. Yeah, it seems a lot more manageable than try to automate every single aspect of it. That's very cool. I'll leave some space for other people to come. Thanks. I have a question for syndicate.
02:30:23.158 - 02:31:16.860, Speaker A: You mentioned plans to further decentralized metadata storage. Can you talk a little bit more about what you're thinking on that? Yeah, that's a good question as well. So Stanley actually got me thinking about this more. Initially I did build the metadata mainly on MongoDB, just because it was fast and easy for me. But moving forward, for example, metadata is around the servers and their requirements. I can see those things being lightweight enough to be stored on the blockchain and things that people who create servers can opt into whether they want to kind of have that information live somewhere decentralized. Perhaps layer one, layer two solutions there that I will still have to dig into more.
02:31:16.860 - 02:32:23.570, Speaker A: So I definitely think there's possibilities there, but I will have to kind of learn more and see what makes sense the most. Cool. And I had sorry, one more question, if I can just sneak in here with one more but how do you plan to manage identity across different servers? So currently your identity is your web3 wallet. Basically there's been a lot of good feedback and suggestion to incorporate like ENS. So that would be a very quick way to kind of assign people names and such. Right now you can add like profile images and names to your profile and that will carry over similar to Discord where it'll just carry over to different servers. But as the platform developed more, I can imagine servers having their own people having their own kind of profile per server.
02:32:23.570 - 02:32:52.826, Speaker A: And definitely there's just a lot of cool possibilities. Like for example, servers can distribute NFTs as membership badges or status for the community members. I think that already happens through extensions but definitely would be a lot easier. Natively on the native web3 platform. This app is awesome. I love it. I'm going to start using it.
02:32:52.826 - 02:33:25.880, Speaker A: I already signed up, so this is great. Really good work. Thank you. Yeah, I'm also super excited about these projects and potentially using them myself. So yeah, great job. First thing I'm wondering for both syndicate and Unite is how to bridge the Web Three user with the non Web Three user. So something like having your ETH address be your identity might feel pretty alienating for most people.
02:33:25.880 - 02:34:14.440, Speaker A: Same with people retweeting and wanting to get tokens, but not necessarily having a MetaMask wallet on Unite. So how do you make that connection? My view is that the Internet itself used to be really awkward. I remember using a dial up modem and needing a phone and number and listening to this weird song that came out of the phone and it was really awkward. And now my grandparents use the Internet, so I think people will get used to it. It seems awkward because it's not normal for us, but I think it'll be a gradual process. I don't have any great ideas on how to abstract away a MetaMask wallet. I mean, I know other teams are working on those projects and we just build on top of whatever they build.
02:34:14.440 - 02:35:11.590, Speaker A: But yeah, my view is that it'll grow from early adopters who are excited about having to use something new to it, becoming normal, that adoption cycle. And ultimately I think it'll be as normal as using two FA to log into your Gmail. And maybe not everyone does that, but I think enough people will do it to justify us spending a lot of time trying to turn this into a thing. Yeah, I think that's a really good point. I think as adoption grow, people will kind of get familiar with the toolings. But also I think there are several good on ramp tools. I think formatic is one thing that comes to mind where essentially you just put in your email and then it's kind of like semi custodial wallet that they generate for you, but for people who are just like onboarding this, not necessarily even for financial reasons, but for community reasons.
02:35:11.590 - 02:35:46.270, Speaker A: The initial on ramp, I think that's totally okay. Can I add one more thing quickly? So we almost got Biconomy working for frictionless withdrawals. So one of the problems is someone sees this tweet, they know nothing about crypto and they see, oh, I can earn free things, that's cool. But they don't have an ethereum wallet, so we can solve that problem. You're going to get free stuff. You'll go through a hoop to install a chrome extension and create a wallet, that's fine. But then to withdraw the tokens, you need ETH right to execute that transaction to get them out of our smart contract.
02:35:46.270 - 02:36:36.350, Speaker A: But we can use Biconomy, for example, or gas station network to subsidize those withdrawals. So then all you need to do is create an account and people create accounts all the time. That can look almost like creating a new Slack account or creating a Discord account. It's awkward the first time you do it but I think especially in our case the incentives are there to do it and we can remove the friction by subsidizing the withdrawals and that would just be like a customer acquisition cost that the issuer would bear to create their campaign. That's pretty cool. I need to ask one interesting thing because James about the Space DX what I've seen it's pretty extensive game. This is practically your first experience with webtree.
02:36:36.350 - 02:37:39.574, Speaker A: Yeah, just kind of teetering with little things. I was a software engineer before but I've just recently taken the transition into Solidity and stuff basically. How did you find was it difficult to get onboarded and understand everything? I mean with the couple of weeks? No. Well I've been tinkering with different projects I was tinkering with didex before this and different exchanges and stuff and I just wasn't really satisfying the kind of what I wanted to do, I don't know. So and then I just decided I wasn't really very interested in the games on Blockchain at the time I found them just wasn't very interesting. And then I just started messing with ERC seven hundred and twenty one s and then all of the Staking for NFTs came about and I got quite interested in that and then that kind of triggered this idea of that this economy based game. So it was just been tinkering with little things.
02:37:39.574 - 02:38:16.100, Speaker A: But this is like the first complete front end to smart contract kind of application that I've made. Awesome. So we are running out of time so I want to keep the show going. Maybe if there's any last questions I'll kind of open that up and we'll just make sure that the answers are hopefully short and quick. I had one I just wanted to ask everybody and first of all just thank you guys, all these have been fantastic but I just wanted to ask everybody kind of like what was your favorite thing about the hackathon? Sounds like some people made a lot of friends along the way. Maybe you learned something. Would just love to hear about what you guys liked about it.
02:38:16.100 - 02:39:13.986, Speaker A: Yeah, well I enjoyed having the kind of deadline and pushing myself to work and having people to talk to and who are in the same boat as me. I thought that was great and really motivated myself to really get something finished and out the door. Yeah. Also just having a schedule is super helpful. Especially it can be challenging if people are not in the street full time. Having some sort of accountability is great and also just bringing the community together I think it can be sometimes hard to everyone's kind of scattered everywhere and just like a great opportunity to kind of have everyone together. Yeah, I'd say we made a lot of friends, at least for myself, I made a lot of friends.
02:39:13.986 - 02:39:51.422, Speaker A: I didn't know these guys three and a half weeks ago and now they feel like real friends, even though we've never met in real life. And not just the guys on our team, but a whole lot of really interesting people who we met through the discord and through people reaching out. And it's been amazing. Amazing. That's a wonderful note to sort of end today's twelve demos. So I want to thank all three of you, all three projects for kind of showing us everything, especially live. The best thing about all twelve of these things is that they are almost ready and most of them already are available on main net.
02:39:51.422 - 02:40:43.962, Speaker A: So this kind of just brings it and makes it a lot easy for us to sort of see that the bridge from ideation to using in production is very small and it keeps on improving and getting shorter. So this is something that I personally get super excited about. So with that said, not just the team, I also want to thank our four judges and I want to be extremely respectful of their time and sort of all of their comments and feedback they've given. They've sort of made it a lot more possible for all of us to sort of enjoy and propagate this space to a lot more people outside of the developer ecosystem. And this is something that I want to make sure that I thank all of you here directly. So thank you so much to all twelve teams. Thank you so much to Ashley, Stannie, Camila, Andre, we really appreciate this.
02:40:43.962 - 02:41:16.902, Speaker A: And to all of the hackers, everybody who participated, congrats on demoing and submitting and showing what everybody else what you've done. So I do want to wrap this up. I need like two more minutes for all of this thing. And what I'll do is I'll kind of just run through everything I want to say. This was a massive event from our side. We had $125,000 in prizes just given up for the event and there were so many teams sort of eligible for these projects. So we kind of showed you about seven and eight videos earlier today from some of our sponsors.
02:41:16.902 - 02:41:46.638, Speaker A: But we have a lot more of the sponsors who are announcing their prizes for the first time. I will quickly just scroll through these slides. But what we will be doing is we'll be tweeting this out and connecting you with all the companies directly and all the team members. You'll find out what prizes you've won. So with that, here are the Zero, X and audience winners. We have Balancer and Bloom winners here, so you should be able to pause. I would help me move on super quickly here.
02:41:46.638 - 02:42:25.962, Speaker A: Ceramic and Chainlink winners are the teams here and Compound and ENS winners are listed here. Then we have Gnosis and keep then Matic and Marlin then Mstable and near opengsn and open pocket network and pull together winners there's a lot of projects on this category. Then we have Portis and Raiden API winners. We have reach and teller winners. Textile and the Graph. Uma and urine finance. And that's all of our sponsors.
02:42:25.962 - 02:43:17.970, Speaker A: So before we kind of wrap this up and sort of go jump into our Impact Summit, I want to just take a few minutes and just really thank everybody who made this possible. This has been a massive production, and it's not just the 700 hackers or the 2600 attendees that have watched the Summits, but it's also the judges, the speakers, all the sponsors, the mentors, and the volunteers that have made this possible. And there's way too many people to thank here. So I just want to show that these are all the people that were behind the scenes, helped out in making this event an amazing success. So, first of all, our judges. And then we had all these speakers who contributed to a lot of the talks over the past five summits. And I want to just recognize all of them for giving us their time and being available to not just talk with anybody who had questions for them, but also really help make this easy for others to sort of feel comfortable and get into this ecosystem.
02:43:17.970 - 02:44:12.750, Speaker A: Then I want to thank all of our sponsors who not only just helped make this event success from being there as an API provider, but also for lending out their teams to help all of our attendees and developers really sort of get unblocked in any problems that they may have had. And lastly, some of our mentors who are officially there to help address technical issues, run some workshops, and make everybody to understand what they can do and cannot do and give ideas to projects. So I thank all of them. And then lastly, a handful of our volunteers that helped us out with our judging process, and we're super thankful for their support because we did paralyze a lot of things and we did a lot of things that we hadn't done before as a team. And this is kind of how all of that was pulled down. And last but not least, I want to thank the ETH Global team. There's eight of us that make the ETH Global team that kind of help with all these events.
02:44:12.750 - 02:45:05.874, Speaker A: So I want to, first of all, thank Trent for owning all of our marketing and social media and sort of being the face on, being the first point of contact and really kind of making sure that everything we want to do at Eight Global reaches the audience we care about. The next up is Emily. She has been, I'm sure, in touch with all of you as hackers and participants. She manages all of the attendee and hacker experience for our. Online events and she's been extremely crucial to our team's success. And I want to give a big round of applause to Emily and Trent there. Andrew, everything you've seen on the Zoom and the productions that we've pulled off in our speakers and our workshops, andrew has been behind all of that and we would not get the quality that we have at these events and the production value that we would without Andrew's help and support.
02:45:05.874 - 02:46:21.958, Speaker A: Next up, a lot of you already know Jacob from being the liaison for all of our partnerships and our companies, and Jacob's really kind of the one ensuring that every hacker has a great experience and every sponsor and every mentor is plugged into all of our attendees and want to thank Jacob for all of that. Next up, we have Josh. Josh really kind of keeps all of us in check and I want to really kind of give him a special shout out for really making sure that all these events down to planning on all the summits, he was a big key player in getting all of that figured out for us and executing with that plan. And Josh, we thank you for everything you've done there. Next up, we have Liam, who has kind of helped ensure that all of our systems are up and running down to everything you've done on the judging pages, to how we did applications, how we manage all of our communications. Liam's support in kind of making all of this work super smoothly and helping out with automations and just really high level planning on what we need to do as a team has just been a big piece in getting all of this together, put together. And lastly, Heather, who sort of is in charge of all of the experience for our attendees and events.
02:46:21.958 - 02:47:38.146, Speaker A: Everything you've kind of seen anywhere from the little touches to how we can keep everybody in check and the constant messages I get to make sure everything happens on time, kind of the work and the effort and the attention to detail that goes into all of this thing is all thanks to Heather. So I want to thank Heather and everybody else on our team for making all of that possible for you to experience a really smooth online experience and hopefully offline very soon. So we had twelve teams present to all of us and we kind of call them finalists. But if you've been to any global event before, one thing that we kind of like to highlight is that these events are not structured as competitions. We really want them to be a place for everybody to experiment and sort of not be in a competitive environment, to be able to game things or not try out what they wanted to do and really focus on learning. So when we kind of call somebody a finalist, that actually is our way of saying that everybody is in that capacity a winner that is equivalent to the first place for us. And what we're doing, other than any teams that are eligible for any sponsor prizes, is that everybody who presented today will be receiving one ETH per team member and that is the reward for all of our finalists.
02:47:38.146 - 02:48:32.130, Speaker A: So this is a few thousand dollars for every team. And this is kind of our way of helping you just sort of recognize all the work that you've put in. And we really hope that you kind of continue building what you are starting and what you were able to accomplish in three weeks and just extending that a lot more. So all that said, I do want to wrap up and thank everybody for being here. We are going to start rolling into our Impact Summit, which I'll go over in a quick minute, but this would not be any global events if we kind of don't tell you about what's next. So a lot of things are still being worked out and we do have 2021 plans and a lot of them are in. Works for us to kind of publicly announce them, but we do feel comfortable really hinting that we are ready to kind of aim for ETH bogota, which will be our in person event for next year, scheduled for August 6 to Eigth.
02:48:32.130 - 02:49:23.670, Speaker A: And we're super excited to do this thing in tandem with Ethereum's Defcon in Bogota. So hopefully we'll see all of you in person in Colombia in about ten months and keep an eye out on a lot of the other online events we're going to do in the next few months. So thank you all of you for being with us, giving us your time and being up at odd times throughout the world to watch this. And with that, I am ready to sort of kick off with our Impact Summit. So we are already kind of in this whole show here. So what we're doing is we're going to talk about a lot of things that have helped make Ethereum span and propagate to other industries in this ecosystem. So we have a lot of amazing talks prepared for today.
02:49:23.670 - 02:50:23.462, Speaker A: We have a capstone panel on the impact on the enterprise for Ethereum and then we have a talk on Radical, which is helping make code collaboration easier. We're going to talk about how we actually have been able to contribute to identity and decentralized fashion. And then we're going to move into a talk by Ronell on how crypto and blockchain are merging into the music industry and then give a really big overview of what's now actually possible with Web Three for developers. And lastly, and then we're going to bring on the UNICEF team and they're going to talk about how they're reimagining systems at a global scale with the UNICEF Impact Fund. And we're going to end today with our last talk, which is going to be a fireside chat between Vitalik Buterin and tyler Cowan and they're going to be talking about all things Ethereum, crypto and economics. So, without further ado, we are ready to kick off our very first talk. And it's going to be a capstone Ethereum panel.
02:50:23.462 - 02:50:34.440, Speaker A: And we have Dan Shaw, Paul Brody, Karen Scarborough and Jim McCann, who are going to be talking about the industry impact in the enterprise world. So they're all here. And with that, I'd like to welcome all of you to.
