00:00:10.560 - 00:00:42.365, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Alan. I'm the founder and CEO of Fuse. We have a big energy problem. Approximately 80% of our energy, our carbon emissions, comes from energy use and production. Now if the solution was simply to build more renewables, that would be easy. But the problem is with accelerated electrification, electricity demand is higher than ever and the grid is extremely constrained. For example, if you want to build a large project that consumes or produces a lot of power, it takes years to connect.
00:00:42.365 - 00:01:14.915, Speaker A: Think data centers, think warehouses, and even renewable projects. This is not just an energy or climate problem, it's also an economic growth problem. We need to make energy clean, affordable and abundant. And we need to do it now. Introducing Project Zero. It's a decentralized energy network that does not depend on the grid, where you can do simple actions to help decarbonize the grid and help unblock the grid as well. So let me give you some examples of ways you can earn and contribute to the network.
00:01:14.915 - 00:01:51.835, Speaker A: First, let me. Let's start. It all starts with the Fuse Energy app. It's a licensed retail energy supplier, already powering tens of thousands of homes today, where you can see real time energy usage and in the future, your token earnings too. One of the first use cases is you can earn when you help the grid. For example, when the sun is not shining, wind is not blowing, you can help but the grid and earn simply by reducing your energy usage. Also, with public EV charging, you can earn when you drive an EV and access tens of thousands of charge points with our partners.
00:01:51.835 - 00:02:47.801, Speaker A: And thirdly, you can earn when you electrify your home. We're building a fuse installer marketplace where you can simply with one click, get solar batteries and EV chargers. Think Amazon for installations. Now let's talk about how you can spend and burn the token. So when you burn the token, you can get access to incredibly cheap renewable energy, as well as discounted solar battery, even ev, as well as energy efficiency upgrades. So we designed the whole system so that even if you earn and burn the token, every single action you take contributes to the renewable transition. So let's talk a little bit more about how we expect the network to grow as we incentivize more decentralized renewable generation, we expect a higher price spread between renewables and coal and gas prices.
00:02:47.801 - 00:03:31.537, Speaker A: So let me explain how that works. Once you set up renewables, the marginal cost of production of renewables is basically near zero. For example, you get basically, once you set it up, you basically get free solar and free wind energy with very little maintenance costs. The same cannot be said with coal and gas with obviously high fuel costs as well as high maintenance costs. So the way the energy markets work is it prioritizes lower cost energy technologies over higher cost energy technologies. So what that means is as we see more and more renewables coming online, renewables will be prioritized and coal and gas will turn on less often. But running a coal and gas plant has high fixed costs.
00:03:31.537 - 00:04:27.585, Speaker A: And what that means is when the sun is not shining, wind is not blowing. When it turns on, it has to bid at a higher price in order to recover fixed costs such as labor and cost of capital. Also, a downstream impact of more renewables coming online means increasing the percentage of your electricity consumption during renewable hours and as a network contributor more it gives more opportunity for tokens being burned and to access cheaper renewable hours, which can lead to higher token demand and higher demand shifting returns. We're backed by great investors. Last week we announced Multicoin with total raise of $90 million. We also have a team with very good track record. For example, I myself was employee number three and chief revenue officer at Revolut, now the most valuable company in Europe.
00:04:27.585 - 00:05:08.465, Speaker A: Plus we assembled top engineering team from Jump, Citadel and Tesla. We also seeded by as the first contributor to Product Zero Fuse, a fully integrated energy company. Think renewable version of standard oil from constructing and building utility scale solar, wind and hydrogen. We already have 18 megawatts operational today, plus 300 megawatts along the way as well as being a licensed utility. It's a big project, but many hands make like work. Scan to join Project Zero and we'll be announcing a points program as well as a roadmap in next couple of months. Thank you.
