00:00:00.160 - 00:00:55.016, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano, and today's the 18 August 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So an interesting kind of tweet here from Brian Armstrong today got to do with, I guess, like the censorship stuff that we've been talking about lately and the OFAC stuff. So basically, on August 15, which was three days ago, lefteris here asked question to Lido, Coinbase, Kraken stake two s and bitcoin suicide. If regulators ask you to censor at the Ethereum protocol level with your validators, will you, a, compliance censor at the protocol level or b, shut down the staking service and preserve network integrity? Now, Brian Armstrong, obviously the CEO of Coinbase here, replied earlier today, or I guess like my today. So I think this is about 15 hours ago now, and said, it's a hypothetical we hopefully won't actually face, but if we did, we'd go with option b, I think.
00:00:55.016 - 00:01:32.162, Speaker A: Got to focus on the bigger picture. There may be some better option C or a legal challenge as well that could help reach a better outcome. Now, this is a very, very strong signal. As I've been talking about lately, Coinbase really was between a rock and a hard place. It had the choice to either, you know, censor and kind of risk the very real kind of fact that they'll get socially slashed, as I've been talking about lately, or they can voluntarily exit their validators, which is basically what Brian Armstrong is saying here that they would do. Now, there is kind of like nuance here. They can voluntarily exit their validators without suffering an inactivity penalty.
00:01:32.162 - 00:02:21.162, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that there is a queue. So the way you exit your validator is that you basically, you know, issue kind of like the exit command, so to speak, and then your validator goes into an exit queue, but your validator has to stay online until it is processed through the exit queue and you have exited the, I guess, like validator set, the active validator set. If you are in the queue and you go offline, you will, you will suffer from an inactivity penalty. Now, the queue is limited each day. There's only a certain number of ETH that can enter and exit staking each day, or I guess like a certain number of validators that can enter and exit the chain, eat the beacon chain each day, which means that Coinbase would not be able to exit all at once. They would be waiting probably a month to exit all of their stake. And that's assuming that there's no other exits happening from other places, right? This is just assuming, you know, Coinbase is stake.
00:02:21.162 - 00:03:03.244, Speaker A: So that is a nuance there. But I would say that I don't think Coinbase would have to shut down their validators in that case. If they were being forced to censor the protocol level, they could probably just fight that even if they knew they were going to lose. They could just kind of like, fight that and keep it tied up a bit so that they can just keep their validators online long enough for users or for kind of like their stake to. To exit from the active validator set without suffering those inactivity penalties, which would obviously be quite high for Coinbase, considering the amount of ETH they have at stake in the beacon chain. So I'm really happy that Brian kind of, like, put this tweet out and signaled that they would rather go with option b, which is shutting down the staking service to preserve network integrity. But at the same time, I don't really think he or Coinbase has a choice.
00:03:03.244 - 00:03:44.708, Speaker A: I think it was someone who replied, souza, ha. And basically said that said, you know, I appreciate this, but it's not like you have a choice. You will either be an activity leaked or the community will slash you and all your customers if you try anything other than b. So, yeah, I mean, it's kind of like, correct, right? Like, you can't censor. Like, I mean, you can. Like, obviously, technically you can, but the point is, and the point of this kind of like, social signaling around social slashing is the fact that you don't really give them a choice. It's a kind of like, as I wrote about in the newsletter yesterday, mutually assured destruction, where it's like the Ethereum community is prepared to use the nuclear option of socially slashing even a large entity like Coinbase if they decide to start censoring on the network.
00:03:44.708 - 00:04:02.300, Speaker A: And I've been through all the reasons of that over the last few days, so I'm not going to kind of repeat myself here, but, yeah, great to see this from Brian, obviously. Like, you know, it's just words at this point. Like, Brian, word. I don't know, like, how much you could. You would trust it. Like, you don't have to trust it at all. It just depends on what they would actually do under that scenario.
00:04:02.300 - 00:04:46.810, Speaker A: But for sure, this is something that they're talking about internally. Their lawyers are all over over this, and the better outcome would really just be to ensure that the, you know, the US government creates regulations where it enshrines in law. Or I guess like there's a precedent set in the courts that there is no kind of like obligation on validators or on minors to censor transactions even if they've been sanctioned. So for example, there'd be no legal obligation for any validator to censor transactions that go to the tornado cash sanction addresses, for example. Right. That would be the better outcome because then we don't have to worry about this sort of stuff. And honestly like the US is obviously the most powerful entity within crypto, for better or worse, across a number of different verticals.
00:04:46.810 - 00:05:26.034, Speaker A: But as I said, like that would be the best outcome in order to kind of like getting something enshrined in law so that we don't have to, we still have obviously the social slashing option, but, but, so we don't have to enact that. And there is no kind of like looming threat of that over these kind of platforms. So I think that is the better outcome there. But great to see this from Brian and I appreciate him for signaling this, but again, words of words we'll have to see when push comes to shove what they decide to do. And I think I mentioned yesterday or the day before, I really hope that beacon chain withdrawals come sooner rather than later because I've been talking about this great reshuffling for a few months now. Actually, I think I've been talking about it for probably at least six months. I think I started talking about it with regards to client diversity.
00:05:26.034 - 00:06:09.768, Speaker A: I really do think we're going to see a reshuffling of stake here, especially based on the events of the last couple of weeks. Because if you're staking with a centralized exchange and you're seeing all these people say, in the Ethereum community say, well if the centralized exchange starts censoring transactions, we're going to socially slash you. Those people are going to next suddenly realize how risky it is to be staking with a centralized exchange entity, especially one based in the US, and may decide to go stake with another entity. Obviously the rocket pool ecosystem as the premier decentralized staking pool has gotten a lot better in, you know, in the last, especially in the last six months. And that will keep, excuse me. And that will keep improving over time, you know, and by the time withdrawals are enabled it'll probably be much better than it is today. So.
00:06:09.768 - 00:06:53.444, Speaker A: And there's more options, right? There's more options. You know, if you staked a year ago in a centralized exchange. Well, in the last year there's been more options that have come to market for you with centralized and decentralized, in a year's time there'll be even more options. So that's why I think there's going to be that great reshuffling because more options for users and kind of like these, I guess, like realizations that staking with these entities are super risky is going to force people to want to stake with other entities. And maybe someone kind of like put their ETH into a centralized exchange staking and then they managed to stack 32 ETH during the bear market and now they want to, well, 32 weeks with the ether they have in say, Coinbase staking and now they want to solo stake. There's definitely people that fall into that bucket as well. So we're going to see that great reshuffling of stake once withdrawals are enabled.
00:06:53.444 - 00:07:35.604, Speaker A: But until then, we're just going to have to keep, I guess, like the pressure on, I think, and just generally signal to everyone that the Ethereum community is willing to use the social slashing nuclear option if we have to, if we are forced to. And, you know, that way we can like force these replies or force these kind of like stances from people like Brian Armstrong, which I think is very, very positive. So, and speaking of, I guess all of that, I put out this tweet today where I just want to be very clear on what the two properties of Ethereum that should be maintained at all costs are. There's only two. Like, these are the two things that go hand in hand. Without these, ethereum ceases to become a useful network. And these two things are credible neutrality and censorship resistance.
00:07:35.604 - 00:08:29.226, Speaker A: And as I said, they go hand in hand because to be a credibly neutral network, you, you need to process and execute every single transaction, no matter the origin, no matter, kind of like the person receiving the funds. If it's a funds transfer, it needs to remain open to all to basically maintain that credible neutrality. If we lose censorship resistance, we lose credible neutrality. As I said in the tweet, this is the most bearish thing that could happen to Ethereum and we, ethereum ceases to be a useful network. There's been a bit of discussion lately as well about the fact that we have these centralized, stable coins in Ethereum, like USDC, USDT and others. And people say, well, you know, if we socially slash, slash Coinbase, wouldn't they just make the coinbase kind of like chain with, you know, the censoring transactions and they'd only honor USDC redemptions on that chain. I mean, of course that's always a risk, but I don't think it would make much sense for them to do that.
00:08:29.226 - 00:09:07.542, Speaker A: And I think that them doing that is actually less bearish than maintaining Ethereum's credible neutrality and censorship resistance, even though that would be obviously disastrous. It's still less bearish to me. And I've used a recent example in the Discord channel today of the terra ecosystem. If you want to use a stable coin example, UST was pretty deeply integrated with a lot of the ecosystem, and it only came out after the fact how deeply integrated it was. And not just that, there were a lot of big players leveled up on the Luna token. There was a lot of integrations across kind of like chain, and a lot of integrations within terror itself that blew up, that went to zero. The entire ecosystem basically was wiped off the face of the earth within three days.
00:09:07.542 - 00:10:01.956, Speaker A: Right? Did crypto die? No. Did like, all the people lvm chains that were connected to terror die? No, what died was terror the entire ecosystem, because they relied on UST alone. Right? So if you're looking at the worst case scenario of something failing, I think the permanent example of that is terror. And the reason why Terra has not been able to, I guess, like, come back, is because their entire ecosystem was centered around the UST stable coin. So that's the worst case scenario in terms of a blockchain failing for reasons other than credible neutrality and censorship resistance reasons. Now, within a theory, yes, stable coins like USDC and USDT, and that are pretty widely intertwined with all the DeFi applications. But I don't think that if, for example, USDC or circle decided not to honor redemptions on the Ethereum canonical chain, and decided to honor them on like, the Coinbase chain, for example, I don't think that would kill a theory.
00:10:01.956 - 00:10:42.156, Speaker A: I'm a theorem is much more than the stable coins. I do think it would be very messy. I do think that it would result in lawsuits for circle, to be honest, and all of that put together. If you really think about the game theory here, it makes sense for them to push back on, I guess, like any form of censorship as much as possible, you know, at the base layer, not, I mean, not at the smart contract layer, because they already do that with, with kind of like blacklisting addresses. But it's, it's in their interests, especially in kind of Coinbase interests, to push back against this in order not to suffer any of that fallout. So I think they understand this. I think they understand the game theory behind this, because when you really map it out and when you really think it out, you only have to take like ten minutes to think about all the implications here.
00:10:42.156 - 00:11:30.596, Speaker A: You can very quickly come to the conclusion of, hey, we better not screw with the community here. We better not screw with, you know, risking socially slashing our validators. And we better not kind of signal to anyone that we're not going to honor redemptions because it's going to open us up to a lot of legal liability. It's going to open us being Coinbase, it's going to open them up to a lot of, I guess, a customer complaints and their business is going to suffer because of that. Now, obviously, you know, nation states forcing Coinbase to censor at the protocol level with their validators is, I guess, like outside of the incentives that they have as a business. But as I said, and as Brian signaled, they'd rather shut their validators down than do that because I do think that it would harm their business materially if they did that, because they'd lose not only their staking business if that happened, they'd lose a lot of customers. Their reputation would get hit very, very hard.
00:11:30.596 - 00:12:11.200, Speaker A: So the better option for them is to shut down their staking business rather than get all their customers slashed in a social slashing event and then have to try and communicate that to their customers saying, hey, you know, the US government forced us to censor. This is why all your ETH is gone. Like, that's just not going to happen. Right? Would, that would quite possibly destroy Coinbase's entire business, which obviously is kind of like the worst case scenario for them. So shutting down the 8th staking portion of their business would obviously hurt their bottom line, but it wouldn't destroy them, whereas the other kind of conclusion would. So that's why I think that, you know, the game theory checks out there. And that's why I kind of put out this tweet where I said these two properties are all that matter to Ethereum.
00:12:11.200 - 00:12:39.164, Speaker A: And that's why it doesn't matter how many other bearish scenarios you come up with. My opinion, the most bearish thing is Ethereum losing these two properties. If we lose those, as I said the other day, I would leave a theory. I'm no more daily guys, right? And I'm talking about like permanent censorship, resistance censorship here on the base layer. And obviously that would definitely get rid of Ethereum's credible neutrality. And as I said the other day, it would make Ethereum a way less interesting network. So just wanted to kind of highlight that for you guys.
00:12:39.164 - 00:13:04.736, Speaker A: I think I've got another tweet here if my mouse wants to work. There we go. Yes. Okay, some positive news out of flashbots. So flashbots has now open sourced their flashbots relay. This was actually meant to come as part of their roadmap later on, but they sped up the development of this, or at least the open sourcing of this, because of the recent OFAC actions, and I quote, tweeted this, and I said, thanks, ofak, because this is actually a net positive now. Right.
00:13:04.736 - 00:13:46.208, Speaker A: They've actually forced the ecosystem not only to talk about the censorship risks and kind of like, bring them to the forefront of what we're talking about, even though we have talked about them in the past. It's kind of like, obviously more top of mind now. But it is also for flashbots, which is at the protocol layer to open source their relay. Now, what does this mean? It basically means that other kind of players in the ecosystem can run flashbots relayers, and they don't have to sensor. Flashbots has already signaled that they're going to be kind of like censoring with their relay, the sanctioned addresses. But I believe there's blocks route, which is not, I don't believe he's going to be censoring, but he's going to give the option. So there's going to be like a flag in there for people to use or something like that, and manifold as well, which is, I don't think, going to censor at all.
00:13:46.208 - 00:14:22.686, Speaker A: And those are only three. There can be other relayers out there that kind of like, exist, and you can choose which one that you want to be part of. Now, this is a stopgap solution until we get things like PBS, where it basically makes it very, very hard, if not impossible, for any censorship to occur, even at the kind of relay level. But this is really, really awesome to see. I'm very happy that flashbots is doing this. Yes, I'm not happy that they're kind of like going to be censoring those sanctioned addresses, but I'm very happy that they open source this, because it means that other people can now build and kind of like, operate their own relayers, rather than relying on, on flashbots here. So very awesome to see that.
00:14:22.686 - 00:15:04.514, Speaker A: And another bit of good news is something here from David Mihal, who it, where he shared a way to block the quote, unquote knockware on Uniswap Aave and balancer Ui, so you can add the following URL's to your filters in brave or to adblock. And it'll basically a block kind of like that, I guess, like TRM lab software and any of the other screeners that are on there, which are the censorship checks, I guess, so to speak. They'll basically block them on your end, which is very, very cool to see. I don't know how long this would last for. You know, all it would take would be the URL to be changed and you'd have to keep updating it and things like that. And it could even be done at kind of like a different level, not even just like the URL level. So it might, you know, it might not work forever, but it could work right now for you if you'd like to do this.
00:15:04.514 - 00:15:36.490, Speaker A: But I don't think any of these finance right now are censoring anything but the sanctioned addresses, I believe. I don't think they're censoring people like me who got kind of like sent tornado cash ETH from tornado cash after the sanctions. So. Yeah, but still, even if they do decide to do this, you can, you can use this. And I do want to make another note here. I think I've mentioned this on the last couple of refills, but I really want to make this clear to everyone. You shouldn't ever expect decentralization or censorship resistance from a centralized front end.
00:15:36.490 - 00:16:14.808, Speaker A: Your expectation should be that the centralized front end is going to censor you at some point. It's going to censor you in some way at some point. And in order to protect yourself against that, you should look for alternatives and make sure that you know what alternatives exist and are available to you to get around that. Because, like, I'm sorry. Yes, it sucks that they're doing this, guys, but like it's, it's, it's this kind of like thing of expecting the expected. Like it shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone that centralized front ends are doing centralized front end things. And at the end of the day, the front end is like the least of my worries in terms of censorship because we can work around that very, very easily.
00:16:14.808 - 00:16:43.330, Speaker A: Like it's super easy for anyone to spin up a front end. Like a basic web developer can, can do this and even a basic kind of like user that's following just like a simple guide can do this as well. It's, it's not a difficult thing to do. So I just wanted to be clear there that I don't think it makes sense to equate front end level censorship with base layer censorship or smart contracts or any of the other layers that I've talked about in the past. It's definitely very different and definitely the least of my worries at least as well. So. Yeah.
00:16:43.330 - 00:17:17.342, Speaker A: But I think that's going to be the last bit on the censorship side of things. Moving on to some merge updates. So the merge mainnet readiness checklist is now all checked out. I haven't checked in on this for a little while, but I remember kind of like highlighting this on the refuel when basically no items were checked out quite a while ago. And now you can see every single item on this checklist is checked. Oh, well, I guess, like there's a few items left here, which is the R and D items, which I guess like is not going to do with the, the main items. The main kind of like items getting it ready for production here, which is awesome because I mean, the merge is still less than a month away.
00:17:17.342 - 00:17:50.048, Speaker A: It's coming on the main net. This recent, I guess, censorship stuff hasn't delayed the merge or anything like that. Even though a lot of people are calling for a delay in the merge, which is just hilarious to me, it hasn't stopped it there. So just a great feeling, a historic day as I replied to Tim's tweet by saying, you know, this is a historic day that we're basically almost there. We're just kind of like counting down the days now. And there is an all core dev call happening this week where the, I guess like formalities will be remade. We'll, you know, the merge TTD has already been kind of like merged into, into the code.
00:17:50.048 - 00:18:21.614, Speaker A: So it's all basically official. But on the all core devs call on Friday, it'll be kind of like that rubber stamp of approval to basically say, you know, that we're, you know, we're merging. We're merging, right. Which I guess is a huge kind of like weight off the shoulders of all the core devs and researchers and all the years worth of work that have gone into that. They deserve a break. Like, I know we want things like beacon chain withdrawals and proto dank sharding and stuff like that, but if anyone deserves a break for a little bit, it's the core devs and researchers. And it's really cool that Devcon is happening after the merge, I think about a month after the merge.
00:18:21.614 - 00:18:53.456, Speaker A: So hopefully they'll be able to kind of like go to that, relax for a bit, you know, enjoy, enjoy their time there. But other than that, but even still, like, they should they deserve time off to spend with their families and things like that as well because of all the hard work that they've done to get us to this point. And I'm sure the long hours that they've put into this. So kudos to all of them for the work here. Really great to see that this readiness checklist is all checked off. All right, so speaking of the merge, Mario Havel here shared that the updated merge ready docs are ethereum.org about Ethereum nodes are finally published.
00:18:53.456 - 00:19:20.586, Speaker A: You can check it out at this ethereum.org link, which I will link in the YouTube description below. So this is the nodes and clients page on ethereum.org which has all the up to date information and everything that you need to know in terms of running an execution layer node and a consensus layer node to get your kind of like, I guess like fully self sovereign, self ready for the merge. So you can definitely check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I just wanted to highlight it for you guys there.
00:19:20.586 - 00:19:49.208, Speaker A: And last up on the core dev side of things, there is a go ethereum or geth ama happening right now in on Reddit. There's a lot of great questions and answers there. I would definitely recommend going and checking it out and giving it all a read. I've yet to read it, but because it's still, it was still ongoing. I want to wait till it's finished, but I've already kind of like skimmed through it and seen a lot of great questions and answers here. So if you're interested in anything Ethereum, I mean, I don't think it's just kind of like got to do with get. I think it's got to do with everything Ethereum, or at least most things Ethereum.
00:19:49.208 - 00:20:15.666, Speaker A: You should definitely check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Alright, so Hal Press is out with his new, I guess is the emerge pro, is the emerge priced in article in bankless. Now this is the, I guess, article or report that he's been working on for quite a while. I believe it is 25 pages. So it is very, very long. It basically pulls together all of his thinking around the merge and why he's so bullish on the merge trademark.
00:20:15.666 - 00:21:03.896, Speaker A: And obviously him and Ryan Berkman's did a live stream with bankless recently, which you can check out here as well. And Hal has, I think Hal did another podcast recently with the, with the person squish chaos who did the triple harvening, and one other person I can't remember his name. I think he publishes the ETH, ethereum, revenue reports. His name escapes me right now. But yeah, Hal has been very, very busy lately, which is cool to see you guys know his, you know, overall thesis. But I think that this kind of like, process brings it all together. And reading it was kind of hilarious because I was like reading through it and I mean, I kind of like found myself just skipping over the parts that I already knew, of course, because I'm so kind of like clued into this stuff already, but still reading all of it and reading Hal's view of things, I was like, wow, I'm getting, getting bullish again.
00:21:03.896 - 00:21:22.938, Speaker A: Like, Hal has that, that effect on me. He just makes me more bullish than, than I usually am. And I'm here to listen to this podcast, actually, I've been meaning to listen to it here. I'm hoping that's just as bullish as the, as the blog post, but I just wanted to put it on your radar, everyone. You can go check it out and give it a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But the merge is less than a month away now.
00:21:22.938 - 00:22:13.566, Speaker A: I don't know what the price action is going to look like, honestly. It's kind of funny because people are saying that we pumped up because of the merge narrative, right? We came off the lows and we came up to whatever price right now, 1800 or whatever, because of the merge narrative. But then other people are saying, well, no, it was just the, the market kind of like bouncing off that irrational low and crypto following us, the stock market, which is also bounced. But then you can kind of point to the ETH bitcoin ratio and how much out performance has happened there, which is not usual for bear markets. Usually in bear markets, ETH bleeds against bitcoin. So I actually do think there's an alum, there's like an element of both of those things where it's just a general market rally both in the stock market and in crypto, but also got to do with the merge hype with Ethereum specifically, where Ethereum is re rating itself against other assets like bitcoin and kind of like marching upwards. And you know, the ratio is at 0.08.
00:22:13.566 - 00:22:44.250, Speaker A: Again, double from here is a flippening, right. So, I mean, not to like, I do believe in the flipping, obviously, but like, I don't know when it's going to happen, right. If any. If it's going to happen, it's going to happen post merge, probably because of those structural flows kind of collapsing there. I mean, I don't think people realize that for six to twelve months after the merge, issuance is effectively zero, because no, there's no issuance coming to market. Obviously, issuance is not zero, um, on the beacon chain, it's still being issued, but no new ETH can come to market for that period. So that might be a narrative in of itself that causes the price to go up.
00:22:44.250 - 00:23:33.042, Speaker A: I don't know. Like, I honestly have no idea. I obviously am bullish on ETH long term, but the amount of kind of like narrative trades that people try to do, the amount of hedging that's going on as well, like that popular trade right now is basically, uh, to buy spot ETH. So just buy ETH on a normal open market and then short future futures ETH, so that you're delta neutral, so that, you know, no matter which way the price goes, you're not taking on any kind of like risk, you're not taking on any losses, but you're also not taking on any gains. And the reason you would do this is because you want to capture any of the forked assets that happen post merge, which there probably will be at least one proof of work chain that has some economical value. So it would make sense to do that. But then on the other side of things is like, when those shorts close, like it could lead to another kind of like reflexive, I guess, event in the market that pushes ETH even higher.
00:23:33.042 - 00:24:15.754, Speaker A: And Arthur Hayes wrote about this in his recent blog post, I know how press has spoken about it before, and a few other people as well. So it's kind of hard to know what, what's going to happen. And this is why I'm a long term investor, because you can look at all the short to medium term things, you can formulate a thesis, you can kind of think really hard about it, but at the end of the day, like, you can think as hard as you want about it, but like, it's just extremely hard to take advantage of it. It's extremely hard to take advantage of it in the short term because, you know, human emotions get in the way, things change overnight. You know, maybe you sold all of your ETH because of all the, the tornado cash, censorship and all that sort of stuff, and that wasn't a profitable trade from what I can see. I think we went up to two k, but we really only went down to 1800. So you would have had to like get, you know, get the exact top and exact local bottom there.
00:24:15.754 - 00:24:52.468, Speaker A: It's just, it's very hard trading is not an easy thing to do. The best traders are there because of like many, many years worth of experience and many, many years worth of taking on losses as well. And, you know, I guess like if everyone was a good trade off, everyone could trade, then no one would be because there'd be no alpha to be had, right? So. Yeah, but I'm gonna, I'm gonna kind of like leave it at that there. I'll link this in the YouTube description, this post, and you can go check it out from Hal here. Alright, so speaking of Coinbase, just before Coinbase wallet and users can now bridge assets between Ethereum and Polygon directly in the browser extension. So this is, I guess, Coinbase's browser extension, which is an alternative to metamask here.
00:24:52.468 - 00:25:29.418, Speaker A: And you can see that you can essentially bridge directly between Ethereum and the polygon pos chain, which is obviously a very welcome for polygon users and for Ethereum users, which I'm sure the Venn diagram of polygon and Ethereum users is pretty much a circle at this point. And there's kind of like no coinbase fee either on this for a limited time. Network fees obviously still apply. So you can see the nice interface here of the bridge. You can kind of go and use it if you're using Coinbase wallet. I believe it's live in the, the extension today. All right, so last up here, I'm going to do a little bit of rant over something that's come out of Canada with new regulatory changes here.
00:25:29.418 - 00:25:56.854, Speaker A: So apparently on Canadian centralized exchanges, you are now allowed to buy as much BTC, ETH, LTC and BCH as you want. But any other crypto has a limit of 30k net by. Per year. But this is dependent on your net worth. So I think the 30k buy limit is depending on a net worth of $400,000. And then you, you have like a higher limit, the higher your net worth is. And I don't know the exact kind of figures for the other, other ones, but it's not 30k for anyone.
00:25:56.854 - 00:26:41.148, Speaker A: But this is stupid for a number of reasons, right? One, it's basically bringing the accredited investor like laws to buying crypto. It's basically the government telling you that you can only buy this amount of crypto on a centralized exchange per year, right? Which is. Which is kind of like insane and I guess like in the name of protecting investors. Three, the government is sanctioning, literally sanctioning, or I get not sanctioning in the, in the, in the kind of like sense with regards to OFAC, but like, sanctioning, as in, like, giving their blessing to BTC, ETH, LTC and BCH as the only assets that are considered the gold standard. Okay, BTC and ETH, fair enough. But litecoin and bitcoin cash, what the f. What the hell? Like, seriously, that doesn't make any sense.
00:26:41.148 - 00:27:12.066, Speaker A: Both of those assets have severely underperformed the market for a long time now. They're completely irrelevant. So why, like, where did this list come from? I don't know, but I find that to be incredibly stupid. And I also just find the limits to be incredibly stupid as well. But if I was to still man the argument here, I would say that, okay, most people, most market participants don't know what they're doing, right? They really don't. I mean, I've said it before, and I'll say it again, if you need. If you want to learn how to properly invest in crypto markets, you have to survive a few cycles to get there.
00:27:12.066 - 00:27:45.510, Speaker A: It's not going to happen your first cycle. So it's really the government kind of like trying to protect people from themselves, which, as I said, if I'm still manning it, I can understand, but it's taking freedom away from people. Like, I'm afraid I don't know if I classify myself as a freedom maximalist. It sounds kind of weird when I say that, but I'm all about giving people as much freedom as possible. But this just goes against that in saying that it's not like you can't withdraw your crypto to, you know, I guess like DeFi or something like that, or to another exchange and, and just buy with, with kind of that. Right. This is just for canadian based exchanges, I believe.
00:27:45.510 - 00:28:19.924, Speaker A: But still, it just seems very, I don't know, it seems very authoritarian to me. Like, I know that's a big word to use, but it's literally kind of like pushing, putting these really hard limits on the, you know, canadian citizens of what they can buy and basically saying to them, hey, like, we don't, you know, we don't think you should be able to buy more than this amount because essentially we don't think you're smart enough with your money. And the net worth requirements are insane, too. Like up to, I mean, up to 400,000. Net worth is only 30k. So, like, I mean, after that, it gets bigger and bigger. But, like, most people don't have a net worth of $400,000, right.
00:28:19.924 - 00:28:32.760, Speaker A: Or over, so they're going to be limited to $30,000. A year, guys. Like, this is annual. This is not something that is kind of like monthly or daily or weekly. It's yearly. Yearly. That's crazy.
00:28:32.760 - 00:29:03.512, Speaker A: I mean, like, what? Who cares? Like, okay, I'm getting a bit ranty here. I'm trying to stay on topic, but, like, just as an example. So why is there a buy limit on this, but there isn't a buy limit on other things? You can go gamble away all your money, right? You can go put as much money as you want into gambling. No one's going to stop you from doing that. You can go buy anything you want with any amount of money. There's no limits on most, if not all other things, as far as I know, in Canada that you can kind of like, buy here. So why, like, why are they doing this just with crypto? I mean, as I said, I know why.
00:29:03.512 - 00:29:27.960, Speaker A: Because they're trying to, I guess, like, quote unquote protect investors. But it still, to me just seems very weird, and especially weird that they would kind of like select LTC and BCh if they're trying to protect investors, because that's definitely not protecting anyone. And they're picking favorites here. So it's not. I'm just, I'm not just trying to pick on those two assets, but they're really picking favorites here, which I don't think is something that a regulator should be doing either. But. But anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that.
00:29:27.960 - 00:29:48.552, Speaker A: I just wanted to highlight, highlight it because I thought it was insane. I hope that doesn't come to Australia. I really hope it doesn't, because, like, then it's kind of like, okay, well, I can only buy x and x amount of crypto. How am I going to buy those big ETH dips, guys? Anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. Thank you, everyone, for watching and listening. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give that video a thumbs up if you haven't.
00:29:48.552 - 00:29:55.024, Speaker A: Oh, Jesus. I'm jumbling up the ending here. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
