00:00:00.200 - 00:00:26.438, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Anthony Sosano, and today's the 30 August 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just a heads up that there will be no refuel tomorrow. Tomorrow being Wednesday and Friday. It is my fiance's 30th birthday on Thursday, so we're going to be doing some stuff to celebrate. So I unfortunately won't have the time to do the refuel on Wednesday or Friday.
00:00:26.438 - 00:00:58.694, Speaker A: So I will do a refuel on Thursday. But then Monday's refuel will cover a Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Well, technically it'll cover like Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. So yeah, look forward to a possibly or probably extended refuel on Monday. But yeah, just keep in mind there won't be one on Wednesday or Friday, but there will be on Thursday. Anyway, we have the official announcement from I guess like the Ethereum Foundation Twitter account about the mainnet merge. Now obviously this came out about a week ago, but this was shared by the Ethereum Foundation Twitter account just today.
00:00:58.694 - 00:01:33.288, Speaker A: And it's got a few things in here that I think I have, I haven't covered yet, so I think I've covered it. But just worth kind of like reminding people the Bellatrix upgrade, which is for the beacon chain for the consensus layer, is scheduled for September 6. Now this is not the merge. I've seen some people get confused about this and think that this Bellatrix upgrade is the merge. It's a separate upgrade or separate hard fork for the beacon chain in order to get it ready for the merge, which is obviously happening around September 15. The second thing is timing. So I just said, you know, the merge is happening around September 15.
00:01:33.288 - 00:02:04.912, Speaker A: That is the time that's been thrown around, but there is a kind of like wide range that can happen between. You can see here the official post gives the range between the 10th and the 20 September. We don't actually know the exact date simply because of the fact that it's based on TTD and not block time. Two of the websites that you can use to track the merge, sorry, the merge timing is Bodell, WTF. Which you guys are probably familiar with. I've talked about it a bunch here. This is saying that the merge is scheduled to happen on September 15 at around 02:40 a.m.
00:02:04.912 - 00:02:31.380, Speaker A: UTC, and, sorry, between 02:40 a.m. UTC and 12:23 p.m.. UTC. There's this other website called 797 IO, the merge which is actually saying that it's going to occur on this September 14 at 01:43 p.m.. UTC. Now, why the discrepancy? Well, because of TTD, it's based on hash rate. And obviously estimating out are based on hashrate is, is not going to give us a precise answer.
00:02:31.380 - 00:03:03.948, Speaker A: And you can see here that actually the Ethereum hash rate went up over the last, I guess, couple of days. And this might account for that, I guess, like acceleration towards that TTD and it happening on September 14, or at least kind of like estimated to happen on September 14 instead of 15th. And I mean, this is kind of like a really noisy chart, but the hash rate did, did go up, right. And I mean, this is not this, I don't suspect that this is new miners coming online or anything like that. It's probably miners switching off other networks, coming back to Ethereum. I saw that the etc. Ethereum classic, classic hash rate actually doubled.
00:03:03.948 - 00:03:39.104, Speaker A: And I guess that's just miners trying to kind of go to that network because the price went up a little bit of etcetera and kind of get some profits there. But if the price goes down, then it becomes more profitable to mine Ethereum. Then they just go back to a theorem, right? So the profitability of mining is obviously, obviously varies from, from day to day, basically. And that's why you see this, this variation in hashrate. So I think this would explain the reason why it's sped up a bit here. And if more hashrate joins, it'll speed it up even more. And that's why it's very, very hard to estimate exactly when it's going to happen because hash rate can drop off as well, which would push it out.
00:03:39.104 - 00:04:08.940, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, we've got a TDD set. The hashrate shouldn't vary too much. It should happen around September 15, but don't be surprised if it happens, you know, a few days later or a few days earlier. It's just par for the course with this sort of stuff. I mean, I don't think we're going to get in a situation where it doesn't happen for a while because all these miners have dropped off and we've pushed out to October or something. I don't foresee that happening. But there definitely will be variation based on, on this kind of like hash rate kind of coming and leaving as it normally does, and just depending on kind of what's more profitable.
00:04:08.940 - 00:04:44.704, Speaker A: I mean, if, etc, for example, was to double in price in the next week, well, you'd expect a lot of hash rate to leave Ethereum and go to the Ethereum classic chain to level it out in terms of profitability. But if etc. Was tough fall by 50% over the next week or something, then you would expect hash rate to come to Ethereum. So as I said, it's hard to kind of gauge this because of the fact that hash rate is notoriously volatile. But that's why there is a discrepancy between Bordell and this other website. 797 just wanted to point that out there because I saw some people on Twitter confused about it today. So yeah, I mean, as we get closer to the merge it'll be easier to estimate this stuff.
00:04:44.704 - 00:05:35.038, Speaker A: Well, as we get closer to TTD, I should say. But yeah, I mean we're still a couple of weeks out here so it's difficult to get a very accurate reading, but it's still expected around September 15 there. Alright, so Prismatic Labs has published a blog post called everything node operators need to prepare for the Ethereum merge. So if you are a solo staker node operator, whatever you want to call yourselves, you should definitely give this a read just to make sure that you are ready for the merge. I've talked about the merger readiness readiness checklist before. I've talked about some of the things that you are required to do, such as making sure you're running a local execution layer client, making sure your JWT token is set, your fee recipient is set, and I guess like optionally making sure you have an mev boost sidecast running along your alongside your validators. Because if you want to capture mev, that's the way to do so.
00:05:35.038 - 00:06:23.362, Speaker A: But yeah, you can go check out this blog post from prismatic labs here, specifically for Prism, obviously, just to make sure that you haven't missed anything. And you can also check out the merge readiness checklist as I've talked about before. All right, so the EF ecosystem support program shared today about the merge data challenge, which I talked about, I believe a few days ago, which is offering up to $30,000 in prizes for data visualizations, analysis and new tools to, I guess like communicate the mountain of data the merge will produce. So you can get all the details from this blog post on the merge data challenge. And if you are a data wizard, maybe you have have been making doing analytics dashboards, or maybe you've been playing around with Nansen. You should definitely have a go at this. I mean, as I said, there are prizes up to us $30,000 USD here.
00:06:23.362 - 00:06:50.572, Speaker A: And you know, that's more money for ETH, right? So you should definitely have give it a go. If you are used to kind of making visualizations and working with Ethereum data, of course. And if you do, if you do make these things, feel free to share them in the daily great Discord channel. I always love checking out new dot and do analytics dashboards. Hill Dobby actually shares his from time to time, which I really appreciate. I've shouted him out on the refill a bunch of times because he makes great dashboards. But yeah, feel free to always jump in there and share them with me and with the community.
00:06:50.572 - 00:07:18.554, Speaker A: I always love seeing that sorts of stuff. I love checking out the data. I mean, I guess like long time deli Gwei watches will know that. I used to do a data series called the Deli Gwei data pump and I don't think I've done an episode of that for quite a while now. And also the AMA series. Man, I've been lazy there, but maybe I'll get back to that soon. But yeah, if you, if you do have any dashboards you want to share with us, definitely jump in the, into the discord and share it, but have a go at this data challenge because the prizes are very juicy.
00:07:18.554 - 00:07:54.090, Speaker A: All right, so there's been a lot of chatter recently, and I've talked about it a lot too, about how L2s, I guess, sapping activity away from layer one. Right? And that's what we want to see. We want to see users migrating from layer one to L2. Because at the end of the day, these low gas prices are not going to last forever. I fully expect layer one gas prices to probably not go back to up to like hundreds of way, but probably, you know, 40, 50 way. I fully expect those average gas prices to come back once the bull market comes back, you know, in earnest. And because of that you want to be on L2s before that happens.
00:07:54.090 - 00:08:38.084, Speaker A: So you don't have to pay the, I guess, extra fees to onboard into L2s. But I think more people are waking up to this now. You can see here in this tweet shed on of a picture of optimism and arbitrary and transactions over the last 30 days they've been averaging around 300,000 per day, which is 25% of the Ethereum main net, which is awesome to see. Now, there is a bit of nuance here that I want to talk about, the Ethereum main net and this kind of like pisses me off a lot when the alt l one people do this. The Ethereum mainnet can only process a certain number of transactions based on the gas limit. So as you guys know, like different types of transactions use different amounts of gas. And the Ethereum gas limit is, you know, the theorem has a certain gas limit that can go up and down.
00:08:38.084 - 00:09:06.090, Speaker A: And because of that, essentially there's only so many transactions we can fit into each block due to that gas limit. And then obviously each day, which is the accumulation of all those blocks. So essentially Ethereum is, is capped like it can't go any higher than that. And that's why fees go up, because we've reached the limit. And fees will go up to because people outbid each other to try, to try and get into a block. Now, if all the transactions were, I mean, I think the average transactions for Ethereum is like 1.21.3 million a day.
00:09:06.090 - 00:09:45.324, Speaker A: But that's all different types of transactions. That's, you know, amm swaps, that's money market stuff, that's nfts, that's simple ETH transfers. But if all the transactions were just simple ETH transfers which only cost 21,000 gas, it's actually the cheapest thing you can do on Ethereum, then we would have more than 1.3 million and we would have a lot more than that. But that's not the way the Ethereum network works. That's not the way any smart contract chain that has a fee market would logically work. So when comparing transactions per day from Ethereum mainnet to these L2s, you really do need to realize that these L2s are inherently going to be much more scalable than Ethereum layer one.
00:09:45.324 - 00:10:52.238, Speaker A: And these other l one s are inherently going to be able to process more transactions than Ethereum layer one because most of the time, or pretty much all the time, they trade off decentralization for more scalability, right? They, they up the version of their gas limit and they can process more transactions per day because of that. That's why I've always said that these kind of metrics are naive to take them on just face value. You need to take the metrics altogether. And I, fee revenue is obviously one of my favorite metrics, but I think that that's going to prove to be a weak metrics for L2s post proto dank sharding, because of the fact that it's going to be so, so cheap for L2s to put their call data on layer one, that their transactions are going to fall dramatically. And we're probably going to see an uptick in spam because of that, or an uptick in junk transactions, I guess you could call them, because of that. So you have to take it all as kind of like, as a collective and measure users and a number of users in different ways in saying that right now, while L2s are still relatively expensive, they're not the cheapest they can be, they're not the most expensive they can be, they're kind of like in the middle. I think the per day transaction counts is still very accurate.
00:10:52.238 - 00:11:22.268, Speaker A: So 300,000 per day, which is 25% of ethereum for optimism and arbitram, both the networks, is really, really cool. I love seeing that. Um, sorry, this is combined. Not, not, not, not each of these networks are doing this is combined. And obviously we have Arbitrum Odyssey going, sorry, arbitrary nitro going live tomorrow. As you can see, Stephen Goldfeder reminding us here, which is going to increase the capacity of arbitrum by about ten x, I believe. So they're going to restart Odyssey, and I expect arbitrary transactions just to shoot up again.
00:11:22.268 - 00:12:16.186, Speaker A: Optimism still has the optimism summer that they're running with all the token incentives. And, you know, both ecosystems are building out very nicely here. As I said, I think while transactions are still relatively expensive due to that relatively expensive call data, call data costs, it means that we can kind of look at this and have relative confidence that it's not junk or spam transactions, because it would cost too much to do that. So I'm looking forward to seeing this grow to millions of transactions per day on these, on these kind of like, L2 networks. It shows that there is still growth happening, that looking at layer one Ethereum is just really not the way to go anymore. And I, and speaking of data, as I was speaking out before, I think that a lot of the dashboards that I've seen for growth are focused on only Ethereum layer one, which just seems nonsensical to me. They should be focused on Ethereum layer one and the L2s, because at the end of the day, the, the L2s are an extension of Ethereum layer one.
00:12:16.186 - 00:13:04.594, Speaker A: They count towards Ethereum's activity. So we should be measuring them in aggregate in saying that we should also be more nuanced about it and look at what share of the layer one Ethereum network L2s are taking up, because as that continues to grow, we can see, like, the migration happen in real time as well. But all in all, the migration is not going to happen overnight. It's going to take, you know, a certain period of time. There are going to be, I guess, like non true L2s, such as Arbitrum Nova, for example, and immutable X, which, I mean, if you want to call it true L2, a roll up, immutable X and arbitram Nova are not roll ups. The polygon pos chain obviously is not a roll up. But those things kind of like work to scale Ethereum as well, and kind of like work to scale the user base because arbitram Nova is targeting more of those social gaming applications.
00:13:04.594 - 00:13:34.984, Speaker A: There is immutable X, obviously targeting NFT and gaming polygon Pos chain does a bit of everything. I think they've, they're very much focused on nfts and gaming, but they've also got a vibrant defi ecosystem. Uh, but as I said, they're not a roll up or a L2 or anything like that. Uh, but that can easily, you know, eventually be ported over to a ZkVM or something once the technology's there. So it's just a lot more nuanced than looking at Ethereum layer one these days. And I just really hate when people look at Ethereum layer one and be like, hey, you know, ethereum layer one transactions aren't growing. It's stagnant.
00:13:34.984 - 00:14:00.412, Speaker A: It's like, well, because it can't, like, unless we raise the gas limit there, there can't be an increase in transactions per day on Ethereum. That's why looking at fear revenue makes sense. For ethereum layer one makes the most sense. If fear revenue is up, it means there's more demand to use the network. If fear of a new is down, it means there's less demand to use the network. But at the end of the day, the ethereum network has been at capacity for years now. Even at the lowest gas prices, it's still at capacity.
00:14:00.412 - 00:14:29.258, Speaker A: That's because ethereum layer one is still a vibrant ecosystem. Lots of people still use it with whether the gas prices are low or high. And, but in saying that, people are using these L2s as well. So it's all just kind of like coming together as one big ecosystem. And we need to look at all the metrics across that to get a nice snapshot of what ethereum activity looks like going forward. But yeah, living at that for now. As I mentioned, arbitrum nitro goes live tomorrow, and Stephen Goldfetti here put out a tweet.
00:14:29.258 - 00:14:53.428, Speaker A: To use an airplane analogy. We've built a brand new engine to power l two. That's pretty cool, but only half the story. The Albatrum one airplane is already in flight. Tomorrow we're swapping the engine mid air. I mean, in terms of significance, I don't, okay. I don't think the Albatrum nitro is as significant as the Ethereum merge, obviously, but if you take it as like a vacuum, nitro is to Albatrum one what the merge is to Ethereum.
00:14:53.428 - 00:15:21.448, Speaker A: Like it's that big of an upgrade, I think. So I'm obviously very much looking forward to using Albatrum straight after Nitro is live on the network because I want to experience all the improvements that have come to the network. I mean, albatross already, great. Like I use, I use a bunch of the different L2s I use. I mean, I do use arbitrary and optimism a lot because they have the most bustling ecosystems, but I use all of them. I like to test them out, see what they got going for them, see what the UX is like. I mean, arbitram one's already great.
00:15:21.448 - 00:15:40.134, Speaker A: It's fast. Their transactions aren't, you know, aren't like layer one expensive. They're, I mean, it's relative between Albuquerque and optimism. But the costs are going to come down. The Excalibur is going to go up and I believe the security is going to go up as well, which is very, very cool. So looking forward to that happening tomorrow. As I said before, there's no refill tomorrow.
00:15:40.134 - 00:16:17.082, Speaker A: So I'll be reporting on this on, on Thursday. So we'll hopefully it is a successful migration there. Right. So speaking of Polygon, they, I think this was already announced that they were powering Facebook and Instagram's new NFT integration, but this is now live on, on Inst, on Facebook and Instagram. So you can connect your wallet to either app and start sharing your nfts today as meta, which is Facebook and Instagram's parent company, says here. Now I believe that the interface for this, I saw some screenshots of this. When you connect your wallet, it kind of like, just looks like a normal web3 app.
00:16:17.082 - 00:16:44.604, Speaker A: Where is it? No, there's not a screenshot. I saw a screenshot before of being able to select a bunch of different wallets. There was like wallet Connect in there, metamask. I can't remember what other wallets are in there, but that was really cool to see my halo from, from Polygon here, basically. You know, he said there's awesome to see Polygon powering this even more so because along the way we understood that Meta is now aligned with the core web3 values and we learned about their exciting plans for, for the future here. So if you want to read the full press release? You can. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:16:44.604 - 00:17:20.599, Speaker A: But I think this is a pretty big deal, guys. Like we always talk about adoption and getting these big existing web, two companies to integrate with the Ethereum, I guess, chain and with, not with the, well, we always with the ethereum chain but with crypto more generally. And we want them using things that are part of the Ethereum family. So I'm very glad that they went and chose the polygon pos chain as the first kind of like chain that they're using here because there's a vibrant user base on there and I think that it's, you know, obviously those low fees there as well make it work very well, the two. So great to see that. Oh, and here we go. There's actually a list here of the wallets that are supported.
00:17:20.599 - 00:17:47.210, Speaker A: So they're supporting rainbow metamask, trust wallet, coinbase wallet and, and dapper wallet, which, and ethereum polygon and flora, the supported blockchains, which is, which is cool to see. So I think, yeah, this announcement today is about them going live on, on Polygon. That's what Mahalo was, was highlighting here. But yeah, great to see that they're getting involved. I know people have different opinions of Facebook and Instagram. I mean, I'm not gonna make my opinion here. I haven't used Facebook and Instagram in such a long time.
00:17:47.210 - 00:18:10.004, Speaker A: I mean I have them, but like the only social media I really use is Twitter for obvious reasons. But I think like they're still have a lot of users. Right. Like, and in Instagram especially, definitely has a lot of people who would be interested in something like this. I don't know about Facebook. Like nfts on Facebook. Yeah, I mean, I think it's worth more on Instagram, obviously, because Instagram is much more catered towards the media side of things rather than Facebook, which is.
00:18:10.004 - 00:18:56.928, Speaker A: I don't know what Facebook is catered towards these days. As I said, I haven't been on in a while. Seems very disjointed, but still cool to, to see these go live on Polygon today. So speaking of L2s, Miria or Maria here, someone's going to make fun of me for my bad pronunciation again. Has partnered with Starkware to create a ZK starks based ethereum layer to scaling solution which powers their gaming platform, marketplace and wallet. So I think this is the first instance of another company using Starkware's technology to build a layer to scaling solution other than Dy, DX like obviously there is Dy DX, but they've, I don't know, they haven't abandoned Starkware, but they've obviously announced plans to do their up chain. But I think this is the, the first, first one outside of Dy DX.
00:18:56.928 - 00:19:26.602, Speaker A: Unless I'm misremembering, I don't believe anyone else is using Starkware's roll ups. I think this is a roll up, right. Because obviously there are other things using Starkware such as diversifying immutable X, but they are valid. I'm so, I believe this is a roll up. Let me have a look here. I actually only saw this just before. They're saying L2 protocol, but like people have been using L2 to refer to validiums and other kind of like such constructions instead of a roll up.
00:19:26.602 - 00:19:46.578, Speaker A: Actually, no, I think this is a validium. Or because they're saying up to 9000 transactions per second, which is what immutable X talks about as well. Yeah, no, I definitely don't think this is a kind of like a roll up here. If I, if I kind of like Google roll up. No, validium. No, I don't doubt they're going to talk about the technology. It's, it definitely seems to be a valid I'm.
00:19:46.578 - 00:20:13.378, Speaker A: But I'll kind of like dig deeper in that offline because I can't say anything that immediately jumps out here. But this is an NFT platform so I would expect it to probably have to go on a validium because ZK roll would be too expensive for an NFT platform. Regardless of all of that, still very cool to see another L2 or I guess like another. See, I struggle here because depending who you talk to, you'll get torched for calling. And a valid. I'm something that stores its data off chain. A L2.
00:20:13.378 - 00:20:51.366, Speaker A: But I feel like the L2 term, like I don't know, guys. I don't know if we're gonna win that battle. Like I want to be technically accurate when I describe things, but I'm seeing, you know, respected people and respected companies referring to like validiums as a L2. And I'm kind of like, okay, well, is the L2 term just referencing? It can reference something that stores its data on chain and off chain and then we just call the, something that kind of like stores both its data and its transaction proofs on chain a roll up. And like, do we differentiate like that? I don't know. Like, I don't know. But it's still very cool to see the, the more validiums launching.
00:20:51.366 - 00:21:26.566, Speaker A: Like, I think they're, they're fine products. But yeah, that, that terminology always gets me tripped up. I just don't, I try not to like, annoy anyone when I talk about these sorts of things because, as I said, depending who you talk to, you'll get torched for referring to things in the wrong way. But I think that the terminology wars are the hardest ones to win. It's just whatever people refer to it as. I mean, at the end of the day, we retired the ETH two terminology months ago, but everyone still uses it. Like, even some of the, a lot of the ETH core devs and researchers will still say ETH two because it's just that catch all term that has been around for a long time and fighting terminology is very, very hard.
00:21:26.566 - 00:22:03.404, Speaker A: I know from experience, it's very, very hard as an educator, as trying to be as technically accurate as possible doesn't matter. At the end of the day, what matters is what people refer to it as in saying that I don't think we should allow things that are like completely separate to Ethereum to call themselves L2. It's like we shouldn't call other layer ones, L2s to Ethereum because they don't. That really have nothing to do with Ethereum. Right. Whereas I can, I can accept bending the rules for a validium or like an arbitrary nova, for example, something that does not store its data on Ethereum, but I still think roll ups are going to be the long term winner anyway with things like dank sharding. So yeah.
00:22:03.404 - 00:22:48.052, Speaker A: Anyway, go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description if you want to read all about what Maria is here. All right, so vaults protocol has put fixed borrowing live today. So essentially the launch of fixed borrowing means traders can convert variable variable borrowing positions on AAVE and compound into fixed borrowing positions. So this can be done within a few clicks on the vaults UI here. So if you do have an AAVE or compound position and it's variable on a variable rate, you can change it to fixed rate with vaults protocol here. So the initial pools will cover AAVE, USDC AAVE compound USDT borrowing positions, providing opportunity to lock in fixed stable coin borrowing or fixed ETH borrowing costs in the build up to the merge.
00:22:48.052 - 00:23:35.588, Speaker A: So if you, as I said, if you have those positions open, you can definitely go check out this ability or this feature on vaults protocol. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so fee announced today that they are live on the Polygon Mumbai testnet so I want to disclose here that I am an angel investor in fee. I think I've talked about them once before on the refuel, but I wanted to highlight that they're live on testnet because they've been working hard for a few months now. So they describe themselves as the web3 world created directly from ENS domains and wallet activities, enabling the easy visualization of on chain identities. So the reason why I found this protocol like, very interesting is because I am really bullish on, on chain identity. I think that obviously there are things to be worked out such as privacy and usability.
00:23:35.588 - 00:24:17.016, Speaker A: But I think that in general you, your on chain identity, your on chain profile, you know, for example, mysasl ETH is me, is my reputation, is part of me and it's something that I'm going to use across all web3 stuff for the, you know, foreseeable future. So I want, I would love a way to visualize that. I would love a way to get more creative with it, to get more interactive with it. And that's what fee is doing here by allowing people to visualize their on chain identity and build potentially cities, web, three cities from your kind of wallet activities here. So as I said, they're launched on the Polygon Mumbai testnet today, which you can go check out. You can basically open the IPA. I don't know if it's going to work for me because I'd have to connect my wallet, which am I on my Cecil dot ETH wallet.
00:24:17.016 - 00:24:28.856, Speaker A: I'll probably do it live on air for you guys. I haven't done this yet. Let's connect my wallet here. Sassle to e. Let's see what it's going to tell me to change networks. Yeah. Switching network to the Mumbai testnet.
00:24:28.856 - 00:24:36.608, Speaker A: Okay. Now let's say ANf not found. Okay. Okay. It's probably because it's on. Yeah, on girly. Okay.
00:24:36.608 - 00:24:59.666, Speaker A: It's definitely not going to work, unfortunately, live on air here. But you can go test this out for yourself and port everything over. I'll definitely do this off air. But yeah, if you want to learn about what fee is, you can check out their website as well. It's got a bit more information here as well as links to joining the community and partnerships and reading their blog and everything like that. So definitely go check that out. If you haven't yet.
00:24:59.666 - 00:25:33.808, Speaker A: You can actually see the graphics here of what this could potentially look like based on your on chain activity. Right. You could have like a whale if you were. If you were a whale, right? Or you could have like a uniswap, um, a little uniswap signage there if you use uniswap. And I mean, you can think about like, these are just the very simplistic things, but you can think about how far you can take this and how you can have very unique things depending on what you've done. Like, for example, were you a genesis validator? Was your validator spun up at beacon chain Genesis? That could be really cool. Were you a genesis, were you a receiver of ETH at the Ethereum? Genesis.
00:25:33.808 - 00:25:54.134, Speaker A: Like, that would be very rare. Right. And then you can kind of like expand this. Yeah. And you could create like a whole metaverse here where you visit other people's cities, you do things in them, you, you can extend it out to building applications within it. Like it's all, this is really definitely part of the metaverse, but the possibilities can potentially be endless here. So that's why I kind of like, back them.
00:25:54.134 - 00:26:19.994, Speaker A: I'm excited about it. I don't back many of these sorts of things like NFT projects. I generally steer clear of them because a lot of them are definitely scams and a lot of them are definitely griffs and a lot of them just make no sense. But I do think fee makes sense and I do think it's something that people should be excited about. So definitely go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Last up here, I just wanted to give a shout out to this amazing podcast that Justin Drake has done with bankless.
00:26:19.994 - 00:26:47.704, Speaker A: All about ethereum, censorship, resistance and censorship in general. Honestly, like, I wish I was as smart as Justin. I wish I could distill these things down, these concepts down as well as Justin does. I highly, highly, highly recommend you go listen to this podcast. It's a couple of hours. It covers so many things that I've talked about on the refuel, but just in more depth and with more technical clarity than I can give, obviously, because Justin works full time as an ethereum researcher, but yeah, just 100%. Go listen to it.
00:26:47.704 - 00:27:17.702, Speaker A: Go do it. After you finish listening to this, I think this is the last thing I'm going to talk about, so go do it as soon as I finish to refuel here. And on top of that, you can actually look at his slides. I believe he, yeah, he's got a bunch of slides that he presented at Edcon about this as well, which you can find in the replies to, to this tweet here. And yeah, just definitely go kind of like check it out. Go give it a listen, highly recommend that I learned, you know, a fair bit myself. But it's not just about learning it, it's about reinforcing the concepts in my head as well.
00:27:17.702 - 00:27:55.666, Speaker A: Like the way I'm able to distill things down. Why I'm able to cover such a wide breadth of things on the refuel is because I'm exposed to it multiple times a day. Like all the merge related stuff that is in my head. I have literally been exposed to it every day for like years now. It's just years worth of built up knowledge that has worked for me. I don't know what kind of learner you are, but you know, even if you know something, even if you're aware of something, and if you've heard it, heard it a hundred times, I still think it's worth listening and hearing it again, potentially from different perspectives, potentially in different kind of technical clarity and different terms. And that's exactly what Justin Drake has done here about the censorship resistance and censorship in general on Ethereum.
00:27:55.666 - 00:28:21.926, Speaker A: And it honestly made me bullish on the future of Ethereum censorship resistance, because we have so many solutions coming to help and with kind of like obviously the OFAC staff and any other censorship potential that comes to the network, especially under proof of stake. So go give it a listen. I'll link it in YouTube description below, but I think that's gonna be it for today. Thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all on Thursday.
00:28:21.926 - 00:28:24.614, Speaker A: Yeah, not, not tomorrow, on Thursday. Thanks everyone.
