00:00:00.440 - 00:00:21.494, Speaker A: All right, everyone, let's get started. So thank you, everyone for joining the third Ama in Delhi Ama series here. Hope you've all been well over the past couple weeks since the last AMA. Hope the market hasn't been treating you too badly here. Just some quick ground rules. Please stay muted if you are not speaking so there's no background noise there. And also, this will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube tomorrow.
00:00:21.494 - 00:01:03.368, Speaker A: So if you have to drop off early or if you come in late, you'll be able to watch the whole thing recapped with time stamps as well. A community member has generously been timestamping the AMA series for me, which is really cool. So, yeah, without a further ado, I have a bunch of questions on my sheet here, which I'm going to read one from the sheet and then I'll take one from, from the audience. So I'll start with one from Ghostis Ave user in the discord who says a few days ago a guy named Sam found a bug on Geth. He's referencing Samsung, the famed security researcher here. And yeah, he said Sam found a bug on, on Geth that could potentially allow an attacker to cause all fast sync Geth nodes to fork off Mainnet. From my understanding, the attacker could have gained control of the network.
00:01:03.368 - 00:01:50.626, Speaker A: And I'll just quote Sam, and there's a, there's a big quote here. I won't read it, it's in the blog post. But basically the question is, well, Ghost is saying that this scared them a bit. And together with, with what's going on in Mev, they want to know in the event that something like this has happened, like a network attack or something, how can we save or restore the network? So this goes back to, I guess, what I've said a lot of times on some of the refill episodes that I've done where I said that the, the main kind of difference between a decentralized blockchain and like, a centralized one, I think, you know, there's lots of different, like, little differences, but I think the main difference is the social layer at the end of the day. So what. What do you have as your final recourse if there's an attack on the network? You have the social layer, you have the people, you have the community. And the more decentralized and diverse your community is, the better social layer you have.
00:01:50.626 - 00:02:37.130, Speaker A: So obviously, bitcoin and ethereum have the largest communities out there. They have strong social layers, um, that, that can kind of like kick in when things happen. You know, we saw this play out, uh, with the bitcoin kind of MP coin cash fork wars in 2017, where essentially the community was the one at the end of the day. And the community is like a kind of a bit of a loaded term, but it basically covers basically all the people in kind of like that community. So that can include not just people, sorry, entities as well. So that can include just community members, people working within kind of like the space, like core protocol devs, or just researchers and people building on top, in the case of ethereum, exchanges, node runners, of course, like everyone that's just like a part of the network and a part of the community. So those people came together and basically said, well, you know, we believe this is bitcoin.
00:02:37.130 - 00:03:04.928, Speaker A: And then a bunch of other people came and said, well, we believe this is bitcoin, which is called bitcoin cash now. And they kind of went their separate ways, and they forked off there. Now, that wasn't an attack, like a 51% attack or anything. It was just like a pretty, I guess, controversial fork at the time. But if we're talking about actual attacks and how to recover from them, it all goes back to the social layer. So if Ethereum was 51% attacked or something went. Went wrong, and we had to kind of like, I wouldn't say, like, roll back the chain or kind of like, there's multiple ways to do it.
00:03:04.928 - 00:03:45.264, Speaker A: You could roll back the chain. You can do what's called an irregular state change, which is what happened with the Dao hard fork in 2016, where basically the, the kind of the Ethereum nodes now have, like, a rule in there that basically says, you know, take the funds away from the Dao hacker and kind of like, reverse the dao and give, like, and make it so everyone can kind of claim their funds from the DAO, so that they basically reversed the hack, but they didn't roll back the chain. It was just what's called an irregular state change. Um, so. And that was put in force by people, because people, the ones running the nodes, uh, people are the ones kind of, um, mining the network. People are the ones running the economic kind of activity, like exchanges and things like that. So from that perspective, if an attack was to happen, we would simply just fork the, the attacker out.
00:03:45.264 - 00:04:40.264, Speaker A: Now, in saying that, I say simply, but there's a multiple ways you can attack the network. If, say, the attacker for some reason was able to gain 51% of all of the kind of hash power on the network, then we couldn't just fork them out. For example, to fork them out we would actually have to change the hashing algorithm under proof of work to get rid of that particular miner. But in doing so, you also kind of get rid of the good miners, right? Because at the end of the day, the good miners are using the same hardware that the bad miners are using and the same kind, and they're mining the same hashing algorithm. And Vitalik's actually written about this where he basically argues that proof of stake is better because you basically just, you know, if something like this happens and you have to basically go through the social recovery process, you essentially burn the ETH or slash or, you know, whatever, get rid of the attackers ETH and kick them out of the validator set, and then you just continue on, you know, as things were normal. So. But you can't do that with, with proof of work, and you can't do that with my, with mining.
00:04:40.264 - 00:05:23.572, Speaker A: Um, and on top of that, uh, by kind of like the strict definition of what constitutes the longest chain, the longest chain is, is just basically what has the most accumulated proof of work in kind of our proof of work systems. So it's actually a lot harder to recover from an attack in a proof of work system rather than in a proof of stake system if you're using the social layer as the way to kind of, you know, fend off this attack. Now, going back to, I guess, the, the bug that Samsung found, this bug can be patched by the core developers and has been patched, and it goes, it rolls out to full nodes and everything like that. And there's been multiple things like this before. I mean, recently we had the open Ethereum nodes have a consensus issue where they weren't able to sync with the network after Berlin. But Geth was running fine and Nevermind was running fine. It was just open Ethereum.
00:05:23.572 - 00:05:47.718, Speaker A: So from that, it's just the social recovery layer. Again, everyone agrees, okay, well, this is a bug. We need to fix it. The nodes get rolled out. People run the nodes, so to speak. If there was another bug that was exploited, say there was an inflation bug, for example, where the attacker could mint, you know, 10 million ETH to themselves, and they did it and we observed it on the network, well, then again, the social layer would kick in. There would be an irregular state change if, you know, the majority of the network agreed to it.
00:05:47.718 - 00:06:07.610, Speaker A: That said, well, this was a bug, this person shouldn't have this 10 million ETH that was created out of nowhere. Let's take that 10 million ETH and just destroy it because it shouldn't exist. And then the attacker basically gets nothing. And, you know, it all's well that ends well there. But in saying that, you know, it depends what type of inflation bug it is. It depends what the attack has done with the ETH. You know, it depends on a lot of various things.
00:06:07.610 - 00:06:32.614, Speaker A: And this is actually why exchanges require things like transaction confirmations, like more than one. When you, when you deposit into exchange. Right. They normally take, you know, sometimes it can take like ten minutes, 20 minutes. I don't know what it is on centralized exchanges these days because I haven't actually used one in a while, but it can take a little, you know, it's not instant you, so to speak. And this is, this is exactly why. Because not just for attacks, but also for possible reorg or reorgs of the blockchain.
00:06:32.614 - 00:07:12.994, Speaker A: So that's another reason why they do it. But, yeah, so I hope that kind of answers the question. It really just comes down to the social layer at the end of the day, and it comes down to how strong your social layer is and how, how easily you can kind of not, maybe not easily, but how kind of like how resilient your network is to these attacks. Because let's use, I guess, a different example here of, I guess, like a network that wouldn't have this social recovery, and it would just rely on kind of one entity, say, take binance smart chain, for example. If something happened there, then it would be up to binance to fix any of it, and no one would be able to kind of reject that either. And this, this is where the perils of centralization come in, where what Binance says goes for that chain. You can't come in and say, well, no, I disagree with you.
00:07:12.994 - 00:08:01.602, Speaker A: You know, I disagree with this change, and I don't think this is actually an attack. I think this is, this is fine, and things like that. So. And Vitalik's written about this as well, in one of his blog posts. I can't remember exactly what it was called. I think it was legitimacy, maybe called something like legitimacy, but essentially, yeah, he was saying that unless you have a strong social layer, that of people that are accustomed to running full nodes, being part of the community, being part of the network, then not only do you, can you find it extremely hard to recover from attacks, but also if you are attacked and you need to recover, it's a central party that's doing all the coordinating. And on top of that, if there's a change that's made to the network that the majority doesn't agree with, well, if the majority don't have any power over the network, then it really is up to the minority here, where all the users of binance smart chain don't have a say in what happens on binance smart chain, only binance does.
00:08:01.602 - 00:08:39.214, Speaker A: None of the users are running full nodes, or at least 99% of them aren't or anything like that, because they can't and they're not involved in the process of keeping the chain alive, keeping the ecosystem kind of going and things like that. So yeah, hopefully that kind of answers the question there. Ghostis Ave the user that asked that question. But yeah, if any, if anyone wanted to say anything on that, feel free to chime in. Otherwise I'll take a question from the audience now. All good. I can move on to the next one from the sheet if no one has one from the audience.
00:08:39.214 - 00:09:21.766, Speaker A: Cool, cool. All right, I'll move on to the one from the sheet here. So one from Whitwicky, who said, would you be comfy sharing a template of your Google sheets for cataloging our tax obligations? I would if it wasn't a mess. Like, I'll be honest, my sheet that I use to track all my tax obligations is an absolute disaster. It is very custom made for just like a lot of the things that, you know, obviously on a personal level, what I do, um, due to yield, farming and like all the other things I'm involved with, there's so many different income streams, so I have like different sheets for all of it. So there are templates out there that I've seen before that, um, definitely kind of generic and let you put stuff in. Um, and there's also, I mean, I spoke about this on the last AMA.
00:09:21.766 - 00:09:47.510, Speaker A: There are tax tools out there as well, automated software and things like that. I personally don't, don't really trust them too much. Um, so I don't use them. Uh, but also they don't really, uh, they aren't able to track like what I need them to track a lot of the time. You know, if you're, if you're a very heavy defi user, these tools will take a long time to catch up to things and, you know, it'll be very hard to kind of keep up with what you're doing and things like that. So that's another reason why as well. And they're not built for every jurisdiction.
00:09:47.510 - 00:10:13.062, Speaker A: I think there's one that works in Australia, I believe. But yeah, generally, depending on where you are, they could, it could just, you know, your jurisdiction, your country is not supported. So, yeah, unfortunately not. WhitWiki I can't share a share the spreadsheet because it is a mess. It is not made to be shared, that's for sure. But yeah, as I said, there's a bunch of tools out there if you, if you need that. And just a note, there's a bit of background noise from hands and latin girl, can you please put yourselves on mute when you're not talking? That'd be great.
00:10:13.062 - 00:10:52.414, Speaker A: And yeah, I'll take one from the audience now if anyone has one. Otherwise I can keep going down the sheet. I have a fair few in the sheet to get through anyway. Cool, cool. I'll move on to the next one from the sheet then. So this is a rather long one from below ten here where they said, I have noticed a concentrated recent amount of criticism from, about stablecoin, about the stable coin ecosystem. Got to do with maker and dai and USDT and things like that.
00:10:52.414 - 00:11:35.408, Speaker A: And he says here, more traditional finance type critiques, a criticism of the ponzi nature of high yields drawing in your investors. And actually, because this is so long, I'll actually break this down. So the first kind of thing that they want clarity on is, you know, how people are calling like these high yields that we see in, I guess, Defi or within stable coins, like a ponzi. Now, I think the way to answer this question is to kind of like figure out or like go over where these yields have been coming from traditionally, because the yields are actually quite low now. So this directly maps to how hot the market is. So stablecoin yields primarily come from two different things. One is that people want to borrow stable coins to leverage long during a bull market.
00:11:35.408 - 00:12:08.768, Speaker A: Simple as that. They bought, you know, you might borrow like 10,000 USDC, go and buy ETH with it, and then you, you're hoping that ETH is going to go up because you're feeling bullish. Now, obviously that's not going to happen when the market is doing what it's doing right now, where it's bearish slash sideways action that we're seeing play out. So because of that, there's less demand to borrow stable coins and the yields drop. Secondly, the other source of the, of the yield for stable coins comes from token incentives. Now, what happens to tokens during a down market? They dump. And of course, if the tokens go down in price, the yields go down because their tokens are worth less and all that sort of stuff.
00:12:08.768 - 00:12:51.032, Speaker A: So when you think about that, and when you think about like, you know, those two primary things, you can kind of see why the yields are, why the yields are lower and why the yields aren't necessarily Ponzi esque. I mean, you could argue that some of the tokens that are out there, or maybe a lot of them kind of are Ponzi's, like the tokens themselves and things like that. And you know, it might be fair to. Fair to say that and maybe, you know, as like a secondary kind of, or a second order effect that affects the yields. But generally the yields that you see, the high, I'm not talking about like the thousand apy kind of like d gen farms you go in. I'm talking about the yields that you might get from something like yearn or you know, directly depositing into like a curve or alchemyx or whatever. I'm talking about those sorts of yields there.
00:12:51.032 - 00:13:25.008, Speaker A: They're generally not boosted by some crazy farm that lasts like two days. And right now, last time I checked, I think the yield on stable coins is like 7% just on yearn, where it was like 2020, 5% a few weeks ago. So you can clearly see that the yields come down with the market action. Like if the market's hot yields are up and all that. And on top of that as well, you know, depending on which kind of stable coin farm you're in, you can get like swap fees. So if you're on like a curve farm, you'll basically get these swap fees that kind of add to the yield as well. But they're actually a very small part of the yield curve.
00:13:25.008 - 00:13:52.720, Speaker A: In particular, for example, will pay out like crv tokens for yield and things like that as well. And there's a bunch of other things that do this. But now that the CRV token, you know, I mean, the CRv tokens price like has to go out for the yields to go up. And if it, and the volume on the exchange needs to go out for the yields to go up, if both of those things aren't going up and going down well, the yields are going to follow with that as well. And you know, this is good. And during a kind of like down market, there's also less trading volumes, so there's less fees being generated and all that sort of stuff. So.
00:13:52.720 - 00:14:25.580, Speaker A: Sorry, my dog's barking there. So, you know, from that perspective, you can kind of see how the, how a lot of the time the yields aren't Ponzi esque. They're actually accounted for and you can see where they are, but they are definitely heavily affected by, by market movements here. So the second thing they bring up here, is that a FuD around? I guess, like the reserves of USDC. So the actual dollars in the bank account backing USDC. And there's been different reports. You may, some of you may have seen this on Twitter where there was a report from, I think, February that showed the exact amount that was backing the USDC.
00:14:25.580 - 00:15:02.380, Speaker A: And then in March, that was kind of changed. And now, of course, like all the, I guess, like, you know, people who love to fight crypto and love to be bearish on it, we know, point to this and be like, well, this is a change. Like, why did this change? Are they not fully backed by dollars in a bank account? Blah, blah, blah. I think that this is just a bit weird because I get it for USDT, like tether, because tether has traditionally been very shady. You know, they haven't had transparency reports. They're offshore. But for something like USDC that is domiciled in the US, you know, you have much stronger guarantees that this thing is regulated and kind of like, and these checks are done properly and things like that.
00:15:02.380 - 00:15:25.356, Speaker A: Just because they have omitted it from their report, I don't think it necessarily means anything. There's a number of reasons why it can be omitted. Maybe they want to preserve their privacy some more. Maybe they aren't legally obligated to kind of state this. Maybe their lawyer said to them, well, you're giving away too much information. You don't actually need to state this. And, you know, as long as I guess, like the regulators and the people doing these audits are comfortable with it, then they'll attach their name to it.
00:15:25.356 - 00:15:56.236, Speaker A: Now, of course, you know, some of you might be thinking, well, you know, we had 2008 where there are a bunch of auditors who kind of audited these triple a home loans, and they turned out they were junk, this can happen for sure. But I guess my main point is that, you know, USDC and USDT are like, you know, worlds apart, very, very different. So in, like, and I've said before, the only centralized, stable coin that I would use is USDC. I never touch tether or anything like that. I don't touch the other ones because they're smaller. I don't really know much about them. But if I have to use a centralized, stable coin, it'd definitely be USDC.
00:15:56.236 - 00:16:45.326, Speaker A: Obviously, I prefer to use Dai. And, you know, that brings to the next question here that, where below ten also points out that a lot of dai is actually now backed by USDC. I think there's maybe 40% right now backed by USDC and kind of like wanted to. My opinion on that, wanted me to go over that. So I think I've mentioned this maybe on a refill before where I basically said that generally I don't think that it's kind of like a death knell or bearish that Dais backed by USDC in terms of like centralization vectors. I think that the, the problem is actually in a different area where the reason why there's so much USDC is because DAi has trouble maintaining its peg. And the only way it's been able to maintain its peg for long periods of time is when USDC is, is, is part of the collateral because they have this thing called a God.
00:16:45.326 - 00:17:04.894, Speaker A: Can't remember the exact name of it. It's like a stability module or something, where people can kind of swap Dai and USDC within the maker system to keep Dai stable. And that's the main reason why USDC is kept there. It's not kept there to let people kind of borrow, die against it or whatever. Like, that's one function. But the main function is that for that peg stability module, that's what it's called. PSM peg stability module.
00:17:04.894 - 00:17:34.622, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think that is the deeper issue with, with Dai is that if it needs centralized or, okay, not, not centralized, but if it needs another stable coin to remain stable itself, then there's a, there's a problem with Dai. There not so to say that's a problem that's going to be around forever. You know, the maker team, maker team maker ecosystem, make a community are very smart. They're working on these problems, trying to solve them. And, you know, I don't spend too much time like in the weeds of that. So I'm not sure kind of what they have coming here. But I think that that is the deeper issue.
00:17:34.622 - 00:18:21.124, Speaker A: Not, not so much the issue that it's backed by centralized collateral. Now, you know, that, that brings me to another thing that I think I've spoken about before, where I basically said that I don't think it matters if something's backed by centralized collateral, but only if it's like a small amount of it. Like obviously 40% isn't ideal, because it means that if for some reason, circle and Coinbase wanted to freeze this USDC in maker, they could freeze 40% of the collateral backing dai, which would immediately make dai logically fall off peg. Right. And fall very, very badly off peg to the downside, which would be very bad for a lot of different things out there. For example, a curve pool containing dai would essentially get drained of all the good assets of all the stable coins that are a dollar, and Dai would fill it up and then the curve LP's would actually get kind of hit here. In a mass depeating event like that.
00:18:21.124 - 00:19:21.820, Speaker A: We actually saw something similar play out with USDC recently, the terra stablecoin, where it kind of like de pegged pretty badly and it ended up messing with a few of the kind of defra integrations it had. So you can see, you know, keeping the peg is obviously more, probably more important than kind of what's backing the system. But in saying that like if what's backing the system can be frozen by a central party and causing it to lose its peg, well, then you have like double the risk there. So I think that in the, you know, as we keep rolling out kind of more collateral or, sorry, as maker keeps adding more collateral types to the system, there will be a more diverse kind of set of things backing up Dai and we'll get over this kind of like issue of, oh, well, you know, a DAi is backed by 40% USDC. It's like totally centralized because if it was backed by 510 percent of USDC, I don't actually think that's that bad. Like at worst it could, you know, 10% of the USDC would be frozen here and then you would have basically a DAi that would need to be reclateralized some somehow else. You know, normally that's done by printing MKR tokens, which is not good for the MKR prize, but it would still work.
00:19:21.820 - 00:19:41.656, Speaker A: We've seen this work in March of 2020. So yeah, that, I hope that kind of addresses that issue around USDC there. And I think the last thing they said, I think that. I don't think that was it. There was just a bit more kind of stuff here. So yeah, hopefully that clears up a lot of the stuff that you've been hearing below ten. I think that it's a complex issue.
00:19:41.656 - 00:20:23.324, Speaker A: It's definitely something that people love to hop on about because, you know, there's been fight around USDT like tether for ages where people are saying, you know, tether is just the only thing propping up the market. Once tether goes to zero, the market's going to go to zero. Like, look, to be honest, if tether kind of like went to zero and just disappeared, yes, the market would probably take a hit. But I don't think that tether is the only thing holding the market up, especially these days. I think the market's a lot more mature now, maybe it was truer back in the day that this would happen, but these days the market definitely has matured to the point where I don't think tether is a central point of failure. And it's actually nice to see the other stable coins gain on tether in terms of market cap too. But anyway, on that one, I'll open it up to the audience, but a few more people join, so feel free to ask a question if you have one.
00:20:24.984 - 00:21:04.184, Speaker B: I have a question regarding the. Actually it's a question regarding elemental finance, because just like say that when you think the market now is going down or it's just crabbing along, you can safely assume that the yields will also go down, the stable yields, as you can see right now, in urine and in alk, etcetera. That's not me, by the way. But do you think that you can hedge these farms by going short on your yields with elemental finance? Because with elemental finance you could sell the yield portion of your stable farm, and if you think that yield is going down, you could maybe hedge it by buying, put options on them or something. Do you think that's a use case for elemental finance?
00:21:04.724 - 00:21:50.960, Speaker A: I do think so, actually, and that's very interesting that you've brought that up. For those who don't know elemental or element finance, I can't remember exactly what it's called, is a project that's allowing you to split tokens into the yield portion and the principal portion. So as Olunara said, you could essentially sell the yield portion. If you think yields are going to go down, lock in that yield and essentially protect yourself against a dropping kind of like yield percentage there. So yes, I definitely think these could be used, but I think the issue is that a lot of, I struggle to call them retail investors. I think that's a loaded term, but a lot of like non sophisticated investors, or maybe you could say, aren't used to using these products, don't know how to use these products, and aren't even aware that these products exist. So I think from that perspective, these are good for bigger players, and bigger players already do this.
00:21:50.960 - 00:22:18.536, Speaker A: They already hedge like everywhere. I mean, you know, if we take like one of the biggest players in the kind of like crypto ecosystem, three arrows capital, you know, the way they would trade is, is very, very different to how, you know, an individual would trade. They hedge everything that they do because they want to reduce their risk while preserving their upside. Whereas a typical, you know, retail investor, I guess you could call them, or a non sophisticated investor and I put this. Put myself into that bucket. I don't do any of these complex, fancy stuff. You know, I'll just do simple strategies.
00:22:18.536 - 00:22:38.660, Speaker A: But I do think that with. With element finance, it actually lowers the barriers here and kind of puts this in front of people that may not have had access to it before. So you can definitely protect yourself from. From dropping yields. But you're making a bet, too, like, because if the yields go up, that means you sold kind of like the yields at a lower rate. And, you know, you might kick yourself. But I think sometimes it's rather obvious because, you know, you know, when.
00:22:38.660 - 00:22:53.644, Speaker A: When the yields for stable coins are at 25%, you might be thinking to yourself, wow, this is. This is crazy. And you'll notice the rest of the market is really hot, and you'll be like, okay, well, the yields can't last like this forever. I'm going to lock this in now so that I can basically protect myself. So. Yeah, definitely. I think so.
00:22:54.064 - 00:23:18.304, Speaker B: Well, it may be a little bit complex, but if you combine elemental finance with maybe open, where you can buy or sell options, you can maybe just buy, put options on your yield bearing part of your stable farm. So if it goes down, you make a profit, and if it goes up, your yields, you only lose a tiny little bit. So it might be a little bit too complex for retail, but I think that's a safe way to add your yields in the future.
00:23:18.764 - 00:23:38.676, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah, I think so. And I'm sure a lot of the more sophisticated players have been doing this, and I hope to see, you know, more of these tools come out that allow the retail investors to do it, because that's what DeFi is all about. Right? I mean, letting the, you know, everyone basically access these. These complex tools that have traditionally been reserved for the bigger players. So, yeah, definitely. I think that's a very interesting thing.
00:23:38.676 - 00:24:03.100, Speaker A: I'm glad you brought it up. All right, on that note, I'll move on to the next question from the sheet. There's actually two questions here from vogs, who. The first question is, is there any way to bridge assets from polygon to arbitram once poly, once. Sorry, arbitrary to the general public? I think there will be. From memory, I think connect and hot protocol are both working on that. I think I've seen them kind of say something about that.
00:24:03.100 - 00:24:37.894, Speaker A: But there definitely will be bridges between these two kind of chains here, because the way to think about, like, L2s is they're just, like, essentially a separate chain, right? A separate blockchain and a L2 will inherit its security from Ethereum. So essentially you can have bridges between, you know, different L2s. You can have L2 to sidechain, L2 to, you know, other blockchains. You can have L2 to ethereum, obviously, and you can have, like, you can basically have like, bridges that go all the way around. So, yes, there will be bridges. I just don't know if it'll be available, like on day one when arbitrarym goes public to everyone. But there will be bridges there because there'll be demand for those sorts of things.
00:24:37.894 - 00:25:25.398, Speaker A: And the bridges will come in different flavors. There'll be bridges to kind of like, get assets across. There'll be bridges to kind of like, you know, maybe do a swap. So you end up with a different asset on a, on a different chain rather than the same asset. So, yeah, Connexton hot protocol would be the two, and seller network as well, I believe, would be the, actually the three that I would keep an eye on there. And the second question from Vogue says that won't arbitrum versus polygon be the ultimate test to see if the majority prioritizes security or low fees? I think this is a question that's been posed a lot. It's like, it really goes back to the core question of, like, do people really care about decentralization? And I think the answer that I've kind of come to after, you know, many months of thinking about this and I guess, like, kind of going through the motions, talking to a lot of different people, I think decentralization is user experience.
00:25:25.398 - 00:26:22.796, Speaker A: So I think users are going to go, sorry, it's built into the user experience. So I think users are going to go wherever the user experience is best. So if we can give them a better user experience with decentralization than they would get on with high security, I should say as well, then they would get on something that's lower security, that isn't as decentralized, then I do believe that the user would go there, and I've said this before, where I think that developers have a lot of power in this ecosystem, and the Ethereum developers in particular, care deeply about decentralization and high security. The end goal, really, is to kind of have everything as decentralized as possible. So I think the developers, you know, then users follow the developers because the developers are the one deploying the code. So I think that from that perspective, it doesn't matter if users care or not. I think there's going to be more and more users that care over time as they get, like, rugged one too many times as kind of like the pitfalls of centralization rear their ugly head as they kind of clue into who's behind these sorts of things.
00:26:22.796 - 00:26:59.422, Speaker A: Like, people remember what CZ was doing, you know, the tactics he was using to pump BSc up back in, you know, a couple of months ago and things like that. So I think people see that and they clue into that because everything's so radically transparent in crypto that I do think that eventually we're going to get to a point where all those things come together and people prioritize the highest security and things like that. But in saying that, you know, obviously polygon is, is, uh, has been very popular lately. Gotten a lot of usage there. I should disclaim here that I'm an advisor to Polygon, just, just, just to throw that out there. Um, but it's great to see, like, on their pos chain, they've gotten a lot of activity. But people rightly call out that it is not maybe a true L2 as people want to define it.
00:26:59.422 - 00:27:28.114, Speaker A: It doesn't inherit its security directly from Ethereum, which means it's less secure and it's less decentralized because it has its own validator set. And that's true, I'll give them that. But at the same time, these L2s are not like a silver bullet either. Maybe people don't know this, but arbitrum, when they launch to the public, is going to be completely centralized. Arbitrum is going to retain admin keys. There's not going to be a bunch of different staking nodes spread out around the world and everything like that. And the arbitrum team can do whatever they want on it.
00:27:28.114 - 00:28:21.346, Speaker A: That's the kind of trade off you make when it's early on in these systems. But essentially pretty much like most of the L2s that I know of, if not all of them right now, have these kind of training wheels on, and that's going to be like that for quite a while. You know, Mihailo, one of the co founders of Polygon, rightly points out that, and he points this out a lot on Twitter, that L2s, I mean, I know I hype L2s up a lot, but at this stage in their life cycle, I think people are getting ahead of where kind of like L2s are going to kind of be in terms of decentralization and security. They're going to give us that scalability from the get go. They're going to give us that very nice Ethereum like experience that we all know and love, but in terms of getting them to their end state of being super decentralized, and from that, get the security that we all know and love of Ethereum, it's going to take a while. And by a while, I mean anywhere from a few months to maybe a year or so or something like that before we even kind of see that play out. And I think that's done for good reasons, because this is brand new technology.
00:28:21.346 - 00:28:55.372, Speaker A: Roll ups are untested in the wild at scale. You know, pun not intended there, but essentially the only roll ups we have right now are in limited kind of quantities. We have, like, loop ring, for example. It's been running for quite a while, but it doesn't have, like hundreds of thousands, millions of users. Diversify, starkware, they're all coming online. But we're going to need to give these times, these things time to bake. So I think when you think about, like, the decentralization versus security versus kind of like, you know, training wheels and all these, and when you take it in aggregate, you can kind of get to a point where you realize that it's a marathon, not a sprint.
00:28:55.372 - 00:29:22.878, Speaker A: And I've said this plenty of times, where scaling Ethereum is going to take to the point where we want it to be is going to take longer than most people will want in terms of forgetting to that decentralization and goal there. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. Vogs. I'll take one from the audience if anyone has one, or us. I'll keep going down the sheet here. Sure, go for it. Oh, I think talking on the phone.
00:29:22.878 - 00:29:26.874, Speaker A: There we go. Yeah. If anyone has a question. If not, I'll go with, with the sheet.
00:29:28.294 - 00:29:29.182, Speaker B: Hi there.
00:29:29.318 - 00:29:29.662, Speaker A: Hey.
00:29:29.718 - 00:30:05.370, Speaker B: I have a question about ETH two staking. So for people exploring the idea of becoming an ETH two validator, what decision do you think they should? I mean, what sort of thinking should they have going into this before making a decision? And then on top of that, I would like to ask, what are your thoughts on doing it yourself versus doing it through a third party or something in the middle, like running a rocket pool node with the min 16 ETH? Yeah, thanks.
00:30:05.522 - 00:30:36.842, Speaker A: Mm hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Good question. So I think there's a few things that you would want to kind of take into account, and the number one thing is really deciding what you mentioned there. Do you want to be a solo staker, or do you want to stake with one of these kind of pools, or do you want to stake with, with an exchange? So there's obviously, like, a lot a lot of different kind of staking service providers out there which will offer you, you know, various kind of, I guess, yields with various fees kind of attached to them. I think Coinbase has one of the highest of like 25%, but they make it like, super easy to stake.
00:30:36.842 - 00:31:02.638, Speaker A: And, you know, there's a whole spectrum of these things. And on top of that, they let you stake without the 32 ETH minimum. So immediately, if you don't have that 32 ETH minimum, you can't stake on your own. Right now, you can do, as you mentioned, the rocker pool thing where you essentially put the 16 ETH in and kind of run one of their nodes there. I haven't looked too deeply into rocket pool. I'm not an expert on it or anything like that. But you still have to take into account that it's a new system.
00:31:02.638 - 00:31:43.942, Speaker A: It is definitely untested at scale, I believe. So from that point of view, you definitely want to think about that before doing something. And I'm not sure how simple it is for the end user as well. Done it myself yet. So those are the main considerations. And then once you decide, okay, well, if you want to be a solo staker, well, you need to basically be comfortable with the fact that, you know, your computer needs to be on twenty four seven, the software needs to be running 24/7 you need to secure your own keys and make sure that you don't do things like double signing, which means running the validate, the same validator in two places at once. So some people will get fancy with their setups and do like, redundant setup, redundancy setups, where they essentially have like a backup validator running.
00:31:43.942 - 00:32:04.382, Speaker A: And sometimes that backup validator will come online when it's not supposed do, and the validators will sign the same message and you'll get slashed because of that. So. And you get slashed big because of that, and you get ejected from staking. So it's, it's. That's a pitfall that I see a lot of people fall into. Um, which is unfortunate, but that is definitely something you have to kind of take into account as well. Whereas, uh.
00:32:04.382 - 00:32:37.786, Speaker A: But, but kind of like running it on your own means that there's no fees or anything, right. You don't have to pay a fee to a staking service provider. You have complete control over your entire setup. Full, full. Kind of like, um, uh, self custody there. And you kind of have peace of mind knowing that your kind of validator isn't going to be used in some kind of attack or anything, unless your pc is kind of like hacked or something, but the chances of that happening are very, very low because you're just kind of like a single person. If anyone was going to go after stakers, it would be like an exchange or a staking service provider or something like that.
00:32:37.786 - 00:33:23.928, Speaker A: And then, yeah, if you decide to go with a service provider or an exchange, well, then, yeah, you kind of weigh up the differences between them, like the reputations of them. You know, how reputable they, they are on top of the fees that you're paying them as well, which is a big thing because some, as I said, some of them charge hefty fees. Do you want, you know, instant liquidity? So do you want to do something like Lido staking where they give you Steth, which is a staked ETH token, which represents your ETH in lido, and you can use that Ste to do a bunch of different things. I think you can use it as collateral on some money markets. You can put it into a curve pool and earn some yield there. But you do have extra risk because lido is a distributed system where it just sends your ETH to a staking provider. So it's essentially just like this kind of like proxy where it gives you, it issues you this kind of like staked ETH token.
00:33:23.928 - 00:33:54.052, Speaker A: And then from there you can kind of like, you use that for whatever you want, but you are dependent on a third party here, so it's not self custody or anything like that. So those are the main considerations that I would kind of take into account. There's a bunch of guides out there. Actually, bankless has two guides on this, like how to be your own staker. You know, even if you, you know, you've been putting it off because you think you're not kind of like technical enough or not sophisticated enough, it's not that hard to set up. I really. The main requirement is can your pc be on 24/7 essentially.
00:33:54.052 - 00:34:26.488, Speaker A: You know, some of us more hardcore people have built our own staking boxes. Like, that's my staking box here up behind me, and that just stays on. Twenty four seven. And I do all my staking on my own. But, you know, and that 32 ETH minimum requirement, especially for newer people, is very big because I think 32 ETH right now is worth, what, over 70 grand? That is not a small investment for newer people, for sure. So I think, you know, until we have like these more mature, decentralized staking services coming out, like. Like rocket pool and things like that, then the only choice those people have is to stake with a service provider or an exchange.
00:34:26.488 - 00:34:58.804, Speaker A: And in that kind of respect, I would suggest, from what I've seen and who I've talked to, Lidar is probably the best bet for them there in terms of, like, what you get out of it, because you get a tokenized representation of your staking position, and you can go use that within defi and generate even more yield on it. Yes, there's a bit more risk, but you can still get the same experience with kind of like the lower, lower kind of fees here and that staked representation. And you're not, you know, doing it with an exchange, doing it with one of the independent staking providers. So it's a bit better, I would say. But, yeah, hopefully that kind of answers your question.
00:35:00.784 - 00:35:02.464, Speaker B: Yes, it did. Thank you very much.
00:35:02.624 - 00:35:31.564, Speaker A: Awesome. Sorry, guys, give me 1 second. I need to handle my dog. I think you need to go outside. Just one sec. Sorry about that, guys. All right, so I'll read one off from the, from the sheet now.
00:35:31.564 - 00:36:13.084, Speaker A: So doctorbiscuits asked two questions here. The first one is, as a relative newbie, I'd love to hear your take on history, differences, et cetera, between a few of the major stable coins available. So I guess, like the first stable coin, actually, the very first stable coin was called bitshares, and this was created by Dan Larimer of EOS steemit fame. I think he's got another project out there that he's working on right now. But, yeah, that was the first stable coin that was created. It obviously didn't succeed and didn't really go anywhere, but it came out before even, I think tether, I believe, or maybe it was like around the same time. But essentially tether is the oldest kind of stable coin that is still around today, and it still kind of like, dominates.
00:36:13.084 - 00:36:49.656, Speaker A: That is obviously centralized. It is not, and it's very shady, as I was mentioning before. I mean, recently it's become less shady, but still, it's not something that a lot of people like to trust and people think it's a systemic issue, but whatever. That was kind of like the earliest centralized stable coin that took off, really. And then from there, we had Dai launch in late 2017, December 2017, Dai launched. Then after that came a slew of stable coins. Actually, I think stable coins really started taking off in like 2019, I believe, because DeFi started growing a little bit during that time with like, uniswap being live and things like that.
00:36:49.656 - 00:37:27.968, Speaker A: You can actually do things on Ethereum with Defi. So you had like, USDC going live, you had, you know, and in kind of, I think USDC was one of the earlier ones, and then you had a bunch of others like it, pretty much like, you know, binance is stable coin. You have, I think hobby has one, or there's a bunch of different ones out there. Like pretty much like there's so many stable coins now that I've lost track of them. And then came the algorithmic stable coins, which prove, has proven at this point not to be very stable. So all those kind of like, I guess, ample faults and ESD and DSD and the latest one, molt protocol or something. So there was that kind of thing.
00:37:27.968 - 00:37:56.210, Speaker A: And they started coming out over the last year or so. I think Aberforth was the first one there. Faye protocol as well has kind of like had a bit of drama around the two. So. And I think that this is just going to keep happening where we keep getting these kind of, I guess, cycles of different stable coin designs. Everyone wants to create like this, I guess, holy grail of stable coins. And I've written about this in the newsletter before where I said that the holy grail is really decentralized, scalable and stable, stable coin.
00:37:56.210 - 00:38:23.202, Speaker A: If you can hit all of those three, then you are basically golden. You will have like a huge market share from people who want to use decentralized, stable coins. And you know, from that perspective you can see something like, like Dai used to have the first two. It used to have decentralized and stable to an extent. It was actually quite stable for a while until it got bigger. Now it doesn't have decentralized or stable. Uh, I mean it has a little, it has more decentralization than the centralized ones.
00:38:23.202 - 00:39:08.466, Speaker A: But I just discussed how it's basically um, you know, backed by like 40% USDC right now. Um, and it kind of like has its stability because of that, but it gave up, um, more, its decentralization there and then the scalability has always been an issue because if you think about it, the maker as a system to generate Dai is actually just a cheap debt system. So people generate Dai not to use the stable coin as a stable coin necessarily, but to actually do something with it. So not to use it as like a, I guess like a currency, so to speak. They use it to yield farm, they use it to go leverage long on crypto assets such as ETH. So from that point of view, it's very hard to scale this up, because if your only source of, I guess like, demand for Dai is the cheap debt demand that maker gives you sorry. The cheap debt kind of feature that maker gives you.
00:39:08.466 - 00:39:33.216, Speaker A: Well then yeah, it becomes hard to scale that up there. So that's just a brief history, I guess, of stable coins. Um, there's a lot of kind of like stuff that's got, that's kind of worked and a lot that hasn't. I think centralized, stable coins are very, um, I guess, attractive to people because of the fact that they're very easy to keep stable because of the fact that you can just back it up with dollars in a bank account. But the flip side is that they're 100% centralized. There's like no ambiguity there. They don't try to hide it or anything like that.
00:39:33.216 - 00:40:21.130, Speaker A: Um, and they're, and they're also scalable because of the fact that they're only limited by how many dollars or, you know, the, the issuer has in the bank accounts, essentially. So yeah, hopefully that kind of like answers that question. And the second one here, when you encounter someone outside of the crypto world that thinks it's a scam, what do you say to them? And they're looking for an ETH elevator pitch. So I actually encounter this quite, quite often, actually. And I think I spoke about this on the refill the other day that I encountered someone a few months ago that basically kind of said to me, it's like, what's going on? Like, what's going on with this crypto stuff? It all seems like a scam. Like, all I hear about is like this stupid stuff like dogecoin, and you know, honestly, if all you're hearing about is dogecoin and all this other stuff going on, then of course you're gonna think it's a scam. The way I kind of give my elevator pitch is that I try to relate it back to other technologies that people are familiar with.
00:40:21.130 - 00:40:49.170, Speaker A: And the most obvious one is the Internet. So I basically say to people, I say, well, look, look at the Internet. How many scams are on the Internet? They run rampant. Like how much spam mail do you get? Because obviously everyone has email. I just said to them, how many, how many kind of like spam emails you get? Like when you go to your spam folder, you can go through it and see all of the scams that are there now. That's what. And then I explained to them, this is what happens when a system is open and permissionless and like anyone can, can do whatever they want on it and they kind of, they get that once I relate it back to the Internet.
00:40:49.170 - 00:41:23.754, Speaker A: So then I start explaining to them I say to them, well, Ethereum, I try to explain Ethereum to them. I kind of gloss over bitcoin. They do ask about bitcoin, but I just, I kind of like, say, well, you know, bitcoin's like this, this money that no one controls. But then if I say that, they go into like, oh, how's it a money? And all this, and I have to go through like the whole motions with them. So I skip straight to Ethereum and just explain what Ethereum enables because that's obviously what I'm most interested in. And I say that Ethereum is basically like the Internet, but for money, for finance. And I tell them basically that, you know, you can build any financial application that you want and you don't need a bank to do it.
00:41:23.754 - 00:42:15.420, Speaker A: And that's when they really piques their interest, when they hear that you don't need a bank or anything like that, just because that hasn't been a concept that they've been familiar with before, because they think, because everyone's programmed, you know, throughout their whole lives to think, okay, well, you know, the money that we have, the government issues, and we put it in a bank, like that's what you're programmed and kind of like conditioned into your entire life. And then when you tell people that you can do all of this kind of like finance and money stuff outside of the government, they wanted to learn more about it. So that's how I kind of start off. And then I just dive deeper into the different apps that you can use, into the different things that can be built, why it's decentralized. And I simply explain to people that there is no central owner because people are running the code on their computers. And actually, the way I explain that is I explained torrents. And I say to them, well, you know, pretty much everyone has pirated something at some point in their lives.
00:42:15.420 - 00:42:58.080, Speaker A: So I say to them, I'm like, okay, well, do you download, you know, pirated movies? And, you know, they sheepishly say, yes, some of them. And I say, okay, well, when you do that, you're actually downloading that from a distributed set of people around the world. So people are seeding that file to you. And these people could be anywhere in the world. And I typically say to them, if, you know, if they remember, they can go check in their torrent client, they can see the peers and they can see where they are and where they're coming from, and some of them may have already familiar with peers. And then I say to them, well, this is kind of like a similar thing to Ethereum, where pretty much like there's this thing called full nodes, they hold the copy of the network and they basically keep up with the network and validate it and all that sort of stuff. And that's how we remain, it remains decentralized.
00:42:58.080 - 00:43:43.716, Speaker A: And then they might ask a question like, sorry. Then I might go into examples with torrenting as well, where I say to them, how many times have you seen? Because they'll inevitably ask, can't the government shut this down? And I say to them, well, the government has tried, many governments around the world have tried to shut pirating down and torrenting, but it always exists and always persists. And I say to them, that's simply because of the peer to peer nature of it. Unless you shut down the Internet, you can't shut down piracy, you can't shut down file sharing, and the same with Ethereum. Unless you shut down the Internet, you can't shut down Ethereum. You know, and then from there you I go, I do the motions and I go deeper if they want to go deeper. So I guess like the main overarching kind of through line there is that I always relate it back to something that everyone's familiar with, and that is most obviously the Internet.
00:43:43.716 - 00:44:15.358, Speaker A: And depending on the person, they'll want to dive deeper. Some of them, you know, not everyone wants to dive deeper. Some of them scoff at it, some of them say, oh, wow, it doesn't sound very interesting. I try to make it sound interesting, but, you know, there's always inevitably people who don't really care about that sort of stuff, and that's fine. But I've never encountered someone in real life that basically, after I've talked to them about it, still thinks it's a scam. Because I just explained to them that what you hear on mainstream media is not representative of the industry at large and it is not representative of the things that I'm working in and what I focus on. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question.
00:44:15.358 - 00:44:39.874, Speaker A: Doctor biscuits there. I'm kind of like, my elevator pitch is, I think, and generally I think that's how, you know, people. Maybe, maybe some of you, you struggle with, like how to explain this to people outside the ecosystem. Just always relate it back to something familiar, because it's very easy for people to anchor themselves to something that's familiar and then relate it back to a new concept. That is how I learn a lot of the time. I always look for ways to anchor something new to something that I already know. And if there's not a way.
00:44:39.874 - 00:44:48.374, Speaker A: It becomes a lot harder for me to learn something. So, yeah, just a little bit of advice there. But anyway, I'll take another question from the audience, if anyone has, has one, or else I'll go down the sheet.
00:44:54.694 - 00:45:38.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I have a question. It might be on the sheet. So, like, you know, with the big news that been coming out from El Salvador and how other governments are trying to see bitcoin as little tender or as reserve, how do you think, like, ethereum can play a part on the government side? Or do you think it's gonna play a part on the government side? Like, for me, it makes way more sense to use like a L2 solution with a stable coin to do transfers. But how does, let's say, defi or like ethereum, especially theorem, do with rollovers, roll ups can like, you know, be part, like, let's say, oh, this nation is going to document. How would you see that scenario happening?
00:45:38.914 - 00:46:11.826, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think that. So going, I guess going back to the El Salvador news, and I did talk a little bit about this on one of the refill videos, but I think that just because it's legal tender doesn't mean anyone's going to use it. And I agree with you that it's better. Like stable coins are better for this. But I guess with El Salvador, they want to get off us dollars or they want to try and wean themselves off of it because they're very dependent on them. So I get that. But relating it back to kind of Ethereum and Defi and seeing governments kind of accept it or like build or kind of like, you know, make ETH legal tender or something like that, I actually don't think we need that.
00:46:11.826 - 00:46:41.362, Speaker A: I think the fact that DeFi is already so much better than traditional finance, the fact that we all know that DeFi is going to traditional finance, it's already won. Like, it's just a matter of getting that adoption. I don't think we need governments to kind of like, I guess, like, you know, integrated directly with that, with themselves, with their system to give it their blessing. I think the only thing governments need to do is not regulate DeFi too hard because they're going to regulate it. They just need not to choke it. You can kind of put some handcuffs on, on things. You can kind of like do something with like the fiat on ramps.
00:46:41.362 - 00:47:30.286, Speaker A: I mean, they already regulate the fiat on ramps, so I don't know what else they're going to do there, but I'm sure they're going to come up with some, some archaic stuff, some governments around the world. But in general, I think that because businesses are going to want to build on Ethereum, on DeFi with roll ups and things like that, that adoption will come naturally from the fact that DeFi is better than the existing system, not from some government forcing you to use it or forcing you to accept it or basically making or enshrining it into law. And you know, maybe this is a bit of an unpopular opinion here, but I actually think the fact that bitcoin is a celebrating El Salvador, essentially decreeing that bitcoin is now legal, legal tender. And, you know, you have to accept bitcoin if you're a business or whatever. I actually think that goes against the principles of what we're building. I don't give a shit if governments basically say, oh, well, ethereum can be used in our country. No, I mean, that's not negotiable.
00:47:30.286 - 00:48:05.490, Speaker A: At the end of the day, the reason why we're building decentralized tech is to get around all of this is to get to a point where this can't be shut down or regulated in any way. And you know, you can regulate the parts that you can, like the fiat on ramps and things like that, but a truly decentralized system like uniswap, well, you can't regulate that. You can't stop that. The only way you do that is by essentially, you know, taking over the Ethereum network. And good luck doing that, especially under proof of stake. So, yeah, I guess, like, to answer, to answer your core question, there is basically, I just don't believe we need the blessing here from them. And I do think they're just going to adopt it because it's so much better than the existing systems.
00:48:05.490 - 00:48:35.012, Speaker A: And if they don't, they're going to lose a ton of economic activity to other countries. So we might see the smaller countries start integrating defi into their financial system a lot faster than the bigger ones. But at the same time, I just don't think it needs governments to kind of come in there and usher it along. I think all it needs is businesses to basically see the value in it, see that it's scalable, that it's private. Privacy is a very big kind of thing for businesses. They need privacy before they can do anything. And we're seeing that already play out.
00:48:35.012 - 00:48:50.564, Speaker A: We're seeing them do explorations of it. We're seeing banks publish research posts on defi. They know that it's a tech to pay attention to. I think they just need to see it play out in the wild more. They just need to see it scale and then once that happens, we'll have this adoption naturally. So hopefully that answers your question there.
00:48:51.584 - 00:49:14.714, Speaker B: Yeah, I just want to piggyback on that. That I think, I guess Ethereum two needs to be battle tested and you know, especially with roll up solutions. And maybe as I see it, like I can see countries adding instead of like just issuing bonds, they will issue like smart bonds on Ethereum network where, you know, they can definitely make better deals or returns that the current systems they have right now.
00:49:15.134 - 00:49:44.774, Speaker A: Yeah, I believe so. And yeah, I guess that's exactly what I said about like these systems just being better than the existing ones. And that's why governments, businesses, you know, whoever it is in the world, individuals are going to use it. And that's, that's really the bull case, is that it's just so much better than the existing system. And on your note about like the battle testing and things like that, I guess like it depends which area you kind of like talk about because ETH two is, is obviously like a big effort. There's multiple parts to it. Right now, the proof of stake system is being battle tested on its own under the beacon chain.
00:49:44.774 - 00:50:30.090, Speaker A: Once we merge ETH one into it, essentially what the merge is, is just basically merging the existing ETH two and ETH one networks into one where the, I guess, ETH two network, the proof of stake validates the ETH one network. So there's not much changing there. But then when charting comes in and roll ups and things like that, we obviously have a lot of battle testing to do there as well. So yes, that's another consideration. I think that these businesses and kind of like governments are kind of paying attention to and will kind of like that'll be something that kind of makes it so they can't deploy just yet. They need to see that these things are secure, they work as advertised, but that, yeah, obviously comes with time. So again, going back to what I was saying earlier about all this stuff being a marathon and not a sprint, it's for, for this reason as well, where you need people to feel confident using this sort of stuff.
00:50:30.090 - 00:50:56.676, Speaker A: And we do it as well as individuals. You know, in DeFi there are only select few protocols that I use and there's, there's kind of like over 100 DeFi protocols on DeFi polls, for example. And I don't use many of them like because I don't trust many of them. So I think that's the same thing for, for governments and probably more true for governance, governments and businesses, because they are handling things that aren't their own. Like businesses are handling money that isn't their own. So they're going to be more conservative there. At least the good ones are.
00:50:56.676 - 00:51:21.678, Speaker A: I know there's some dodgy ones out there, but yeah. So hopefully that kind of like answers your question there as well. Awesome. Cool. All right, onto the next one from the sheet here. So Patrick asks, what are your favorite crypto podcast YouTube channels that you consume on a regular basis? So I'm going to be a bit vanilla here and just say like, bankless is obviously one of the top ones that I kind of consume. They do kind of.
00:51:21.678 - 00:51:43.874, Speaker A: I guess I don't listen to everything from bankless because they do definitely overlap with a lot of the stuff that I talk about. But the guests that they have on, I love the way they interview guests. David and Ryan are awesome at it. They really come into their own during the guest episode. So I really love listening to those. The defiance, really great as a kind of a newsletter. I don't listen to the podcast normally too much because there's so many things to listen to.
00:51:43.874 - 00:52:18.340, Speaker A: So I do read the newsletters though, and things like that. The blocks kind of like coverage of this space in general is the only media site that I kind of go to. I don't really go to coindesk unless there's some kind of article that's on coindesk that I want to read. But generally, yeah, the block for kind of news out there in terms of other YouTube channels, find Matics is great for breaking down complex topics into really easily digestible video. So video, sorry. So if you want to learn more about like just basic stuff and dive deeper into it, they make it really, really simple. So I really love that channel.
00:52:18.340 - 00:52:35.770, Speaker A: There's another channel called into the cryptoverse by Benjamin, Benjamin Cohen. That's a trading channel. It is the only trading channel that I watch. It's not necessarily drawing technical analysis or anything. He does a lot of analysis on longer term trends, like macro trends, looking at kind of charts. He does a lot of videos. Actually, I don't watch them all.
00:52:35.770 - 00:52:52.576, Speaker A: I just really watch the ETH ones. He does videos for, you know, BTC does them on Ada and I think he did some on Avalanche and things like that. But generally I watch the ETH videos. But lately he's been doing fundamental videos as well, which I've really enjoyed. He really knows his fundamentals. Biology is trading. That's a big channel right now.
00:52:52.576 - 00:53:36.428, Speaker A: I think almost half a million subscribers and maybe I should mention like the ones that I avoid and ones that I would advise people to avoid are the really big one. Like this might be obvious and maybe you guys don't watch these at all, but basically the one that the big ones like bit boy, for example, that just like shill everything, right? And they just have these ridiculous thumbnails where their mouth is gaping open and they got like hundred x coins soon and like they got, you know, XRP logos flow flying everywhere. I avoid those like the plague. There is nothing you're going to get out of those at all. Like, I might be biased, but you're going to get like infinitely more value out of my refill videos than you're going to get out of that. So I avoid those like the plague. And I avoid basically a lot of the trader channels too.
00:53:36.428 - 00:54:18.398, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, the way I view technical analysis is that if you draw enough lines on a chart, some of them are going to be right eventually. And some of it's a self fulfilling prophecy as well, or at least most of it is. And a lot of traders just don't know what they're doing at the end of the day. So I generally just don't follow many of those as well. But yeah, hopefully that kind of like gives you a glimpse into stuff that I kind of, I guess, listen to and watch. But the way I get most of my knowledge actually, and pretty much everything that gets covered in the refuel and that I write about really is Twitter. There's a lot of things in, on Twitter, if you're following the right people and you jump into the right Twitter threads, there's a lot of knowledge on there that you might miss because it's maybe not like from the most popular accounts, some of the smallest accounts are the most knowledgeable.
00:54:18.398 - 00:54:42.978, Speaker A: They're just not trying to growth hack or anything or trying to become an influencer. They, they definitely just want to kind of provide knowledge out there. And that's how I learn a lot as well. And Discord channels, I spent time lurking a lot of Discord channels. There's a lot of good conversations that go on the daily way. Discord, for example, I love, I love kind of reading through those and participating in those and also research posts in general. Like there's a, I mean, there's so much kind of things to read out there.
00:54:42.978 - 00:54:59.374, Speaker A: Like paradigm puts out an amazing amount of research bankless. I mean, David Hoffman's writing I love, he puts out a lot of great pieces. You know, there's so many more out there that I'm kind of forgetting right now. I mean, just looking at my tabs. I'm just looking at my tabs right now. There's so many. And a lot of the funds actually put out some great pieces, too.
00:54:59.374 - 00:55:42.800, Speaker A: Sometimes they'll be shilling their bags, but, you know, that's to be expected. And then, you know, there's rarely a point where I'll actually read white papers. I think a lot of white papers are just very fluffy and don't really give you much info outside of, like, I guess, the person who wrote the white paper trying to just flex their skills. I mean, we recently saw that with curve v two, where Michael, the founder of Curve, just basically flexed his math skills on everyone was like, you know, this is so complex, and I don't even know. No one can understand it except me. And I'm just like, well, what's the value of this to me? Like, I can't read any of this. So, not to say that it's not like it doesn't have its place, but, yeah, so hopefully that gives an overview, Patrick, of kind of like the stuff that I pay attention to and how to avoid some of the stuff that is just going to be poisonous, I reckon, for your mind and all that sort of stuff.
00:55:42.800 - 00:56:30.164, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but, yeah, I'll take one from the audience now, or maybe anyone else has kind of something that you listen to or you suggest that people should be listening to or watching to get more knowledge of the crypto space in general. If not, moving on to the next one from the sheet here. So had one from knowledge fight, who says, what are some defi apps? Say the top five that you highly recommend newcomers to defi check out. So I always recommend maybe the safest apps and the ones that have been around for a while and the ones that actually give value to people. That is immediately apparent. So these would be something like Uniswap, right? Everyone, pretty much like everyone who gets into crypto's first, I guess exposure to it is a centralized exchange.
00:56:30.164 - 00:57:13.050, Speaker A: And what do you do on a centralized exchange? You swap things around, you swap cash, you know, for. For a token, you swap a token for another token, blah, blah, blah. So showing them uniswap and basically saying to them, well, you can do all of the swapping that you do on a centralized exchange, but on this thing called uniswap, which is fully decentralized, you retain custody of your assets. You can do it from, like this, this wallet, like metamask or ledger or whatever you want to whatever you want to do it out of that immediately clicks with them because they've already got something to anchor it to. As I was mentioning before, it's very easy to explain stuff to people when you anchor it to something they're already familiar with. Second would be a money market. So whether that be aave or compound and make it isn't technically a money market, but, you know, it's the same kind of concept where you put collateral in, you get kind of, you can borrow things from it.
00:57:13.050 - 00:58:12.764, Speaker A: So I show them those next, and I say, okay, well, I explained, you know, this is how you get a loan in, in Defi right now. But it's not, I mean, lawyers are going to yell at me if they heard me saying it's a loan because it's not technically a loan. But this is essentially how you kind of like can borrow against your, against your collateral. And I explained to them, this is what you could do at a bank, right? You can go to a bank and borrow money. And then I say to them, instead of the bank taking your reputation as collateral, these protocols take your ETH or bitcoin or some other tokens as collateral to issue you or to allow you to borrow these other things here. And then I explain, and then they ask me, okay, why would I want to borrow some stable coins on my, if I had to put up like 150% worth of collateral? And I say, well, most people do it to essentially do what's called leverage long on a token, which means basically borrowing against their existing kind of crypto holdings to buy more crypto. And then I explain kind of like how that's risky because you can get liquidated and things like that.
00:58:12.764 - 00:58:40.692, Speaker A: So those are like the top two things. And then you can move down the list here. I mean, there's times when I've talked about alchemics and how with alchemy, it's a self paying loan. So once you have like the, the money market kind of, I guess, concept down in their head, then you can explain Alchemyx and how that kind of works. I might show them curve and say, hey, there's all these different stable coins within, within defi. Here's how you swap between them. And then maybe I'll show them like a Dex aggregator and say, you know how I showed you that uniswap thing earlier? Well, there's not just uniswap.
00:58:40.692 - 00:59:23.070, Speaker A: There's all these other ones and something like one inch or matcha or slingshot, they're going to give you kind of like the best price on the network. So those are really the kind of things that I stick to. I try to, I try to stick to the simplest and most battle tested protocols on Ethereum simply because I don't want to be ushering noobs into like the super risky stuff. And I always kind of like, disclaim it with saying, you know, these things are risky regardless of how long they've been around. There's always smart contract risk and things like that. And, you know, don't put too much of your money into things, don't borrow too much, don't essentially get yourself liquidated or wrecked or anything like that. So yeah, those are basically the top five that I would recommend to brand newcomers to Defi, and then they can naturally dive deeper.
00:59:23.070 - 00:59:52.424, Speaker A: But generally, my general advice is to them is always, whatever money you want to play with, whatever you're doing, just make sure you're okay with losing it all for whatever reason and, you know, start small and then scale it up over time, spread money out across things. If you have a yield farm, don't just put it all into one yield farm and just yolo it or whatever, because I explained to them how there's been like massive hacks in the past and how things can kind of go wrong there. So hopefully that answers your question. Knowledge fight, and I'll take one from the audience. If not, I'll keep going down the list here.
00:59:55.684 - 01:00:20.074, Speaker B: I have a question. So I was reading through the general channel earlier, and I saw Javalez and Justin from Gripus having a conversation about hardware wallet security and best practices. So I just wanted to ask you personally, do you have a checklist or precautions you take before transacting anywhere on Ethereum?
01:00:20.574 - 01:01:03.614, Speaker A: Yeah, so I pretty much always go through a hardware wallet. I, for most things, like, I shouldn't say always like, there are some instances where I have naked funds on my metamask where it doesn't go through my hardware wallet, but they are very little funds. It's not much at all. It's just for little things. But generally for any, especially for any high value transaction, I will always go through a hardware wallet. Because if you don't, and if you just keep funds in your metamask, it's much easier to kind of like, I guess, exploit that and to hack you. I mean, some of you might have seen some, I guess, like famous artist, I think his name is fuckarenda or something like that, got, got hacked recently or because he opened a file that he shouldn't have and they basically cleared his metamask.
01:01:03.614 - 01:01:40.254, Speaker A: Out. And I'm not sure exactly what the technical details are there, but the metamask wallet essentially is much easier to empty than a hardware wallet. I mean, it's essentially impossible for someone to steal funds if your hardware wallet without them having physical access to it. Because for those who don't know, the way a hardware wallet works is your private key lives on a separate chip on the wallet on. On the device. So when you actually click confirm transaction, what you're doing is you're signing the transaction with your private key that lives only on the device. So if you don't sign something, that is, you know, if someone tries to steal your funds, they can't, because even if they issue a transaction, you have to sign it.
01:01:40.254 - 01:02:43.704, Speaker A: And, you know, if you don't sign it, nothing kind of goes through here. So that, that's why hardware wallets are recommended to be used, because unless someone has access to it, they can't kind of like steal your funds. But I should disclaim this by saying that what they can do is if you have your hardware wallet connected to metamask, or if you have, if you're on a website that is not the real kind of like Uniswap, for example, they can actually inject a transaction into your flow where they basically trick you into signing something that you didn't mean to sign. And this, this is what happened to the Nexus mutual founder, Hugh Carp, where he basically was like a man in the middle attack, where they replaced the transaction data, or I guess, like the transaction that he was doing with. With a different one that went to a different address, and he signed that with his hardware wallet. So it's not like 100% foolproof. So the best, I guess, like the best line of defense there is maybe something like, I mean, you were discussing how they were talking about the lattice one, the hardware wallet there, where it gives you the full information on the screen of exactly what you're signing.
01:02:43.704 - 01:03:06.524, Speaker A: That that would be like a way to defend yourself against those sorts of attacks. But also you can do something called offline signing, where you can actually have a completely separate pc that has your. Has your private key on it. You can kind of grab the transaction. Sorry, do the transaction manually from that, that kind of, I guess, like pc that's offline. So there can't be any man in the middle attack on there. And then bring.
01:03:06.524 - 01:03:42.010, Speaker A: And then kind of like sign it, and then bring that signature back and post it to the Ethereum main chain using one of the tools out there, like my ether wallet or my crypto lets you do this and things like that. So there are multiple ways to do it. And there's different complexity, of course, but for most users, they're not going to be targeted by these man in the middle attacks with their kind of ledger wallet or with their lattice. But generally to be the most secure, you would essentially check what you're signing every time. And some hardware wallets, I don't think Ledger will tell you this. It won't actually tell you the full details of what you saw you're signing. It will just give you some contract data or whatever, which is not going to help most people.
01:03:42.010 - 01:04:12.834, Speaker A: I think the lattice right now or soon in the future will basically show you exactly what's happening. It will say you are basically, say you're sending, sorry, say you're doing a swap on like uniswap. It will say, well, you're swapping this token for this token. It will give you the contract address. So if you're really paranoid, you can check the contract address against Etherscan and see that it's the real one and see that what you're actually doing is what you intended to do instead of essentially being man in the middle attack there. So hopefully that that answers your question. There's a bunch of guides around this actually out there.
01:04:12.834 - 01:04:31.748, Speaker A: There's one from my crypto, a very comprehensive guide on their blog on medium. Haven't got the link handy, but if you google it, I'm sure you can find it. But yeah, those are like the main ways that I can think of right now, that you would protect yourself and the main ways you can interact with the Ethereum network. Okay, great.
01:04:31.796 - 01:04:32.700, Speaker B: Thanks sir.
01:04:32.892 - 01:04:50.004, Speaker A: Awesome. All good. I'm getting tagged in something on the general chat. Let me have a look here. Someone said scoop, you could use a retweet on the all f launch here. There's some other questions here, just looking through. Anyway, I'll continue from the, from the sheet here, actually.
01:04:50.004 - 01:05:29.024, Speaker A: So what, Marco, 47, has asked the question here and he says, thoughts on this article? So I'm just going to bring up this article. And the article is tied. It titled nothing is worse than proof of stake, published July 2020 by someone called Fact Checker 9000. Now if this is the same person as a guy called fact check my post on Twitter, this is not going to be a very great article. It's eleven minute read, but there's a TLdr at the top. So probably I'll address some of these points. So the first point they bring up is proof of stake is permissioned by internally held tokens owned by a central party that can deny entry to independent external parties.
01:05:29.024 - 01:06:05.336, Speaker A: I'm not exactly sure what they're saying here. I think maybe what they're saying is that because the tokens are inside the system internal, where the ETH, to acquire the ETH, you have to acquire it from the network. You can't do something like with mining, you actually acquire the hardware from outside of the network. It is permissioned in some way because of that, because a central party can deny entry to, to independent external parties. I don't know how that can happen. No central party can deny entry to you if you are staking on your own. The only way that you can be denied entry is if you're using a centralized provider, which is to be expected.
01:06:05.336 - 01:06:31.440, Speaker A: And it's got nothing to do with the Ethereum protocol or proof of stakeholder itself. It's got to do with the private that you're using. So I think that's a bit of a weird point there that maybe I'm not totally understanding it, but definitely very weird. So, and the second point here, there is no mechanism in proof of stake that forces anyone to ever give up control. Give up control they already have, ever. Now I see this, I don't even know why I'm addressing these points. These are just silly.
01:06:31.440 - 01:06:58.322, Speaker A: But anyway, I'll address this. The mechanism, uh, in proof of stake that to force someone to give up their control. I mean, what mechanism exists in proof of work to force someone to give up their control? There really isn't one that's inbuilt into proof of work. I mean, if your hardware is outdated, you are forced to buy new hardware, sure, but you factor that into your costs. When you set up a mining farm, you factor in deprecation, cost of your hardware. Every large scale mining farm does this. Even the smaller miners will do this.
01:06:58.322 - 01:07:40.124, Speaker A: So from that point of view, um, you know, yes, okay, they're forced to kind of like change their hobby, but they're not forced to give up control. But what control do they already have? The network is decentralized in both bitcoin and ethereum, and the proof of work, and under proof of stake, ethereum is decentralized as well. So I think what they're saying here is that because essentially, like once you stake, you never have to actually exit and, you know, you can just stake forever. That's kind of like a kind of detriment. And the thing is, though, not everyone's going to stay in staking forever. Like, why would they just like not everyone's going to mine forever. I mean, at a certain point people want to, you know, shut down their mining business because it either becomes unprofitable or they just don't want to do it anymore.
01:07:40.124 - 01:08:01.312, Speaker A: Same with proof of stake. Maybe ETH goes to ten k and someone's like, well, I don't want to keep this 32 ethnic staking anymore, earning like 7% or whatever it is. I want to cash out $320,000. I mean that's, that's how people would exit staking is because they want to cash out. Like I just don't get this argument that there is no mechanism that forces people to exit staking. There is. It's called the price of ETH going up and they want to cash out.
01:08:01.312 - 01:08:17.920, Speaker A: Or maybe they don't want to stake anymore. For whatever reason they need the money. Or maybe they, they essentially just want to cut down on their validators though. They want to have like ten validators or something. If they, if they have that, they want to have like one or two, for example. So there are mechanisms that exist. They're just different mechanisms to proof of work here.
01:08:17.920 - 01:08:53.311, Speaker A: The third point, so there's only four points. So the third point is that proof of stake gives the internal central parties and mechanisms staking to guarantee perpetual growth in fraction of control that they have. Now this I think is talking about the fact that because the stakers are the ones being paid the coins, they essentially grow the fraction of the supply that they own. This is the same for miners. Like what? I don't understand the argument here. The people mining the, you know, bitcoin or ethereum blockchains, they're the ones getting the tokens, the newly issued tokens. And they're the ones kind of like getting.
01:08:53.311 - 01:09:27.084, Speaker A: So anyone else is getting diluted because of that. So I don't get this argument either. And I think this goes back to, I guess maybe the rich get richer argument to it where people kind of normally say, well, you know, in proof of stake there's no running costs or whatever. So people can just perpetually stake and keep restaking and things like that. But there are running costs, for example, the running costs, I mean, so the running costs are a bit more nuanced. The normal running cost is you still have to pay for electricity, you obviously have to pay for a lot less, but you still have to pay for electricity and the maintenance and equipment costs and a lot lower. You still have to pay for Internet, obviously, and things like that.
01:09:27.084 - 01:09:52.958, Speaker A: And you still have to pay for, like if you want to be a truly decentralized staker and run your own nodes, you still have to pay for like storage to store the blockchain and things like that as well. That's part of the, I guess, like the running costs, sorry, the maintenance costs, if you have to upgrade hardware and things like that. And on top of that, the cost really is opportunity cost. If your ETH is in staking, then your ETH isn't somewhere else. So your ETH isn't being kind of like traded. You're not using as collateral somewhere. Yes, there's going to be staking derivatives, but that's different.
01:09:52.958 - 01:10:17.046, Speaker A: That's not like the actual ETH. And, you know, that's going to come with different sets of trade offs and risks there as well. So it's the rich get richer argument, I think is a poor one. I think that the fact that they're saying, you know, you give up. Sorry, you, you basically, the rest of the ETH holders get kind of diluted by this. This is the kind of same thing that happens in proof of work. The rest of the, the holders get diluted because the coins are going to the miners.
01:10:17.046 - 01:11:10.882, Speaker A: Now, the beautiful thing with Ethereum, though, under, after 15 gets implemented and after staking is implemented, what ends up happening is that the stakers get the ETH. That's true, the newly issued ETH. But because the stakers are only getting a portion of the fees and most of the fees are being burned, the fee burn actually affects every ETH holder. Every ETH holder is benefiting from that deflationary pressure on ETH. So I would actually argue that proof of stake is better for creating equality in terms of like the ownership of the network because you don't have to be staking to benefit from the deflationary properties from 1559. And I would also argue that stakers are much more long term aligned than miners are because they are, they normally kind of have much more kind of overlap in terms of using the network and doing things on the network rather than just mining it. And I think improve of work systems.
01:11:10.882 - 01:11:47.116, Speaker A: A lot of people don't even use the network, you know, I know, I know there's a lot of miners out there that haven't used ethereum. They just view mining as like a business then the day. And they say, okay, well, we'll mine this chain because it's the most profitable. But if there was another chain that they could mine, they would go do that. Whereas, you know, with within e staking, there are probably plenty of other chains out there right now that may pay more than ETH does in terms of like a yield. Like 7% on staking is rather low because there are other chains out there that will just inflate their token supply and give you a higher yield, but you pay for that because you get diluted heavily, so your tokens actually end up being worth less. And obviously it's not ETH.
01:11:47.116 - 01:12:16.920, Speaker A: So it's a whole different ballgame there. So I think hopefully that addresses the third point and the fourth point is that proof of stake slashing variants are self damaging and incentivize attacks. I'd have to read more his detailed kind of like point on this to get what he's, what exactly he is saying here. But maybe I can just address that, that the slashing is self damaging. I don't understand how it's self damaging. Slashing, when done correctly, is punishing bad actors. And it is provable by the network that this actor was bad.
01:12:16.920 - 01:12:44.264, Speaker A: They had a double signed, or they tried to do something on the network that they shouldn't be able to do under the rules of the network. So that is working there. But maybe they're also referring to what happens when a validator goes offline and they lose ETH because of that. That's not called slashing. That is called the inactivity penalty. So if you're inactive, you slowly lose ETH over time. And if you go offline and a bunch of other people go offline, you lose more ETH because that could be considered an attack.
01:12:44.264 - 01:13:29.352, Speaker A: So I don't understand how this is self damaging where you're only punished when you do something wrong. If you're not online validating, well, then you shouldn't be getting paid and you should actually be losing money because that would incentivize you to get your validator back online and being slashed for doing something malicious. Well, I mean, you're just getting punished for doing something wrong. Whereas in proof of work, you don't actually get punished for doing something wrong. If you are doing, if you, if you have, I guess like majority of the, of the mining power, you don't get punished for it. The only punishment you get is the opportunity cost. Like if you, not even if you have the majority hash, hash power, if you're a miner and you mine on a stale chain and you try to fork the bitcoin blockchain and you don't have the majority of the power there, then all you're doing is actually you are self damaging because you're, you're hurting yourself.
01:13:29.352 - 01:14:07.314, Speaker A: Because essentially you could be mining the correct chain, but for some reason, you're mining a different chain and you're getting nothing out of it, and you're losing the opportunity cost of mining the actual chain to get the actual tokens there. And also there's no slashing for that kind of behavior as well. So if you do attack the network, then you're not punished for it. Your asics aren't burned down, your ASIC miners, your gpu's aren't burned down. You essentially get to do the attack as much as you want. And Vitalik causes a spawn camp attack where you can't be essentially removed from the network, which is a death knell for a lot of projects. I mean, there's a lot of proof of work chains out there that right now could be spawned, spawn, attacked into perpetuity.
01:14:07.314 - 01:14:42.398, Speaker A: There just isn't the incentive to do so. Whereas with something like bitcoin, I think one day the incentive will be in Ethereum on proof of work. I mean, Ethereum won't be on proof of work by the time these attacks come in, but I believe that eventually there'll be an incentive for a nation state to attack bitcoin or try to attack bitcoin, and there's no way to fork them out. As I mentioned earlier, you would have to change the hashing algorithm, which basically hurts even the good miners. So you would essentially have to bootstrap bitcoin from the start again from like, I guess like from, from, from the beginning. And that would, I mean, I would actually say that would potentially kill bitcoin. So, yeah, that's something to consider as well.
01:14:42.398 - 01:15:02.844, Speaker A: But I guess, like, you can go Google this post if you guys want. It's called nothing is worse than proof of stake by fact checker on medium. I haven't read the whole post, I just read the TRDR there. But this fact checker person, is he. Yeah, they are. Fact check my post on Twitter. I got this account banned because this account threatened to murder me, I think, on Twitter.
01:15:02.844 - 01:15:27.122, Speaker A: And I reported them for that. And this account is very well known within the ethereum community, at least by some of us. Some of the people I talk to as someone who has been kind of like attacking and fighting ETH for a very long time and doing so in a very aggressive way. So, yeah, I don't think I would be reading this blog post. I think the points that they brought up are a bit silly and hopefully I've debunked them there for you. Marco. 47 there.
01:15:27.122 - 01:16:04.222, Speaker A: But anyway, moving on from that. I'll take another question from the audience. Otherwise, I have a few more to get through here, actually, and we're at an hour 15 already, so yeah, if anyone has one from the audience. If not, I'll move down the list. Yeah, I'm curious, what's your take on MeV under the proof of stake? Yes. So I guess maybe my take isn't the best here. I think the best take on this was on the Bankless podcast with Charlie Noyes, Phil, Diane and Georgios Constantinopoulos, I think is his surname.
01:16:04.222 - 01:16:39.308, Speaker A: I think those three talked a lot about ETH two and Mev, or just Mev generally on that podcast. So I would highly recommend going listening to that. But I think in ETH two, I think I covered a thread that someone wrote about this. It's only early days for MEV and ETH two and staking in particular. So we don't know exactly how it's going to play out. The positive is that the MEV will be going to stakers now, and that means that staking revenues. Sorry, staking APR will go up, which should incentivize more, I guess, like ETH to be staked, which means that security of the network goes up.
01:16:39.308 - 01:17:17.776, Speaker A: But on the flip side, MEV is a very dangerous thing if it becomes like too top heavy, where most of the network kind of like, or at least most of the rewards going to validators are coming from mev, and it becomes in their interest to do things like reorg blocks or kind of like do some stuff on the network that doesn't get them slashed, but essentially is not healthy for the network. So yeah, it's still very early days, but I do recommend going and listening to that podcast on banklist to get a full answer there. All right, moving on to the next one from the sheet. So, from Brian. Brian, peace. He's had two questions here. One of them was about wallet security, which I think I answered when I was answering the question before.
01:17:17.776 - 01:18:06.098, Speaker A: So, Brian, just go reference that answer that I gave to McOz here. And the second question was, what is an Ethereum client? Why does Ethereum have multiple clients? And what factors would affect someone's choice to use a specific client? What is an Ethereum client? Well, I mean, it's what you run to run like a full node on Ethereum. So there's a bunch out there. There's geth or go Ethereum, there's open ethereum, which is actually now being, I guess, like sunset or deprecated in favor of Aragon, which used to be known as Turbo Geth. There is anothermind, there is Besu, and there's a bunch of other clients out there, like, I think, Ethereum J and there's a few other minority ones out there. So why does Ethereum have multiple clients? Well, Ethereum has multiple clients because we want to have resiliency on the network. So if one client, you know, falls out of sync or goes down, the network can keep running.
01:18:06.098 - 01:18:38.080, Speaker A: This has happened multiple times in Ethereum's life, where at the end of 2016, something called the Shanghai dos attacks happened, where the go Ethereum client was attacked by denial of service attacks, which basically took these nodes offline. And the only way the Ethereum network was able to exist and to keep going was because there was two major clients. There was the parity client, which, which kept going. Now parity turned into open Ethereum, which obviously has been deprecated now. And parity as a company now works on Polkadot, so they're not maintaining that client anymore. But back then, they were pivotal ago. Ethereum and parity were critical.
01:18:38.080 - 01:18:58.088, Speaker A: And these are 8th one clients that I'm talking about. I'll talk about the ETH two one s in a sec. And what factors would affect someone's choice to use a specific client? Well, at the end of the day, there's a bunch of different factors. Some of them will take up less disk space than others. For example, Aragon will take up less disk space than a vanilla geth. Vanilla geth client here. Some of them will just be overall more efficient.
01:18:58.088 - 01:19:32.298, Speaker A: Aragon is going for efficiency. Some of them will be better at running an archive node. Some of them will give you more features. A lot of these stuff is definitely targeted towards developers and more technically minded people. And another major factor is that by running a minority client, so at the moment, go ethereum dominates the network, but by running a minority client, you improve the decentralization of the network and you improve the resiliency of the network. So that's why you would want to run a different client rather than the dominant one. Now, going into ETH two, I'll answer the same questions for kind of like ETH two.
01:19:32.298 - 01:19:53.030, Speaker A: So. Well, except what is an ethereum client like? I'll just go, I'll run through the ETH two client so that there's four dominant ETH two clients. There is Prism Lighthouse. Damn, the names are escaping me right now. This prism lighthouse lodestar. And what's the fourth one here? Uh, take taku. Taku.
01:19:53.030 - 01:20:15.262, Speaker A: Yes. So there's four. There's four kind of main ones there. And why, again this the, the answer to why it is to have multiple clients is the same as 8th one. And what factors should affect your choice? With an ETH two client there is a bit different to an ETH one client. So one big factor that would affect your choice is profitability. So some clients are more profitable than others because they're more efficient.
01:20:15.262 - 01:20:54.826, Speaker A: They, they kind of like handle the operations on, with staking better than other clients. Um, but they're not too far apart. I mean it's, I would say it's not that noticeable of a difference to, to kind of, I guess like um, uh, to, to kind of run a different one, a different client based on that. But again same answer about client diversity and resiliency. You definitely don't want one client dominating the network. Uh, different clients will give you different features, take up different amounts of storage space, get towards different users. I know Tecu is geared towards like enterprise clients and people who need a more enterprise ready solution, whereas lighthouse and Prism are more kind of like hobbyists and things like that.
01:20:54.826 - 01:21:25.652, Speaker A: I think some of them prioritize running, being able to run on the most bare bones hardware possible. So something like raspberry PI as well. So I think that's what Lodestar is focused on. Actually, no, Lodestar is, I think a fifth client, this nimbus is the major client here from status. So yeah, so many, they actually used to be nine and I think it got cut down to four or five over time. But yeah, those are all the reasons of like why you would run different ones in ETH two and things like that. So I personally run prism.
01:21:25.652 - 01:21:56.444, Speaker A: I'd be meaning to change over to lighthouse actually because Prism is so dominant on the network. So. But, but yeah, generally. And also the different ETH two clients and if one clients run on different environments, so some of them will run on windows, some of them won't run on windows, but they'll all run on Linux and like Mac OS and things like that. Some of them will run in like better in different kind of like operating systems. So that's another thing to consider as well here. So hopefully that answers your question, Brian, I'll take one from the audience, otherwise I'll move on to the next ones in the sheet.
01:21:56.444 - 01:22:07.912, Speaker A: Hello. Hey. Hey mate. Yeah, you know I just, last couple of weeks I guess I've been, you.
01:22:07.928 - 01:22:09.888, Speaker B: Know, reading a lot of threads in.
01:22:09.936 - 01:22:17.120, Speaker A: Twitter around the, I guess the lack of decentralized stable coins and taking some.
01:22:17.152 - 01:22:20.352, Speaker B: Shots to die, let alone USDC and.
01:22:20.368 - 01:22:40.046, Speaker A: USDt and the other day I was watching the panel with bankless, the DeFi guys, Santiago, Spencer and Vance, I think, and they also mentioned that the hope of decentralized stablecoin wasn't dead at all, and there might be some projects working on something.
01:22:40.240 - 01:22:40.914, Speaker B: So yeah.
01:22:40.954 - 01:23:34.334, Speaker A: What's your take on the decentralized stable coins? Or let's say, purely decentralized stable coins need? Yeah, so I think I spoke a little bit about this before when I was discussing, I guess, some of the stuff that I've seen on Twitter as well. But for a stable coin to be truly, truly decentralized, it needs to, like, if it's a collateral based stable coin, it needs to only be backed by decentralized collateral. So for example, ETH is the only decentralized collateral, I would argue, on Ethereum. Now, some people will argue. There's others out there, there's other tokens out there that are decentralized because they have no admin keys or backdoors and they're sufficiently distributed and they have good liquidity and all this sort of stuff. And there might be some tokens like that. But I would say for the purest form of a decentralized stable coin that could not be shut down under any scenario would be one that's backed by east.
01:23:34.334 - 01:24:41.116, Speaker A: But in saying that, even in like, I guess, the maker system, for example, even if we were still under single collateral die, where ETH was the only thing backing up Dai, the system is still at the mercy of the MKR token holders, because the maker system is governance heavy, whereas there's been other examples like liquidy is another protocol out there that's aiming to be governance light, where it's only backed by ETH. Right now, I'm sure they're going to add other protocols in there, but there's no, the token doesn't really give any governance rights or anything like that. And the mechanisms are all kind of like self, I guess, like, sorry, self self sustaining. But liquidity, I think, suffers from the problem where it will always be off peg between a dollar and a dollar ten, for various reasons. So again, that's not like a truly stable coin, right? And this goes back to what I was saying before about how there's, you know, three factors to the holy grail of stable coin, like decentralized, stable and scalable. And you have, you know, it's like Vitalik's, I guess, like scalability trilemma, where you could, you, at best, you can only get two of three, and if you were able to get three out of three, provably, then you would have hit the holy grail of scalability. Or stable coins.
01:24:41.116 - 01:25:22.954, Speaker A: There's also stuff like the algorithmic stable coins. You know, I mentioned Faye protocol before that also has governance in it. And you know, it had a rocky launch too, but they're trying to do something that's just backed by decentralized collateral. But again, the reason why Maker didn't just stay with single collateral Dai is because they felt that they couldn't scale Dai up enough with just using ETH, because they figured that ETH has a limited, sorry, has a, has a market cap that limits I guess like its potential as a single kind of collateral. And also people have other assets that they want to use to generate Dai with. As we've seen play out already, there's plenty of DAi being generated from other assets than ETH right now. So in that way Dai has been able to scale further because of that.
01:25:22.954 - 01:25:55.916, Speaker A: So those are kind of like the main things. And I think that, I don't know if we're ever going to get a truly decentralized stablecoin that is both scalable and stable. I think it is an extremely hard problem. I think that there's many things that need to go right. I think that if anything, the, the closest I've seen for something that I would say would be, you know, something that I could see playing out over the long term would be something like rye. But Rai is not technically a stable coin. It is pegged to itself, it is stable to itself and it uses complex and new mechanisms to achieve this.
01:25:55.916 - 01:26:28.870, Speaker A: But it is fully backed only by ETH right now. And I think they intend to keep it back to only by ETH and they intend to keep it governance light. So I think that there's enough experiments out there that we're going to get close enough to what we, what we want. Something like that's ideal, but I don't think it's like a binary thing where you can say, oh, well, this is like 100% decentralized, or this is like 0% decentralized. I mean, some things you can say is 0%, you know, something like a centralized stable coin is definitely 0% decentralized. But I don't think we're going to get to a point where you can say, you know, this is 100% decentralized. Literally no one could shut this down.
01:26:28.870 - 01:26:56.478, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day there are always points of attack, there are always ways to kind of, I guess, kind of exert centralized control. And if you, if and with stable coins is particularly hard because you're trying to achieve scalability and stability as well as decentralization. So I'm. I'm, like, excited to see how it plays out, but I think it's going to be a while before we actually get there. Awesome. Sweet. I'll move on to the next ones from the sheet here.
01:26:56.478 - 01:27:37.752, Speaker A: So Baze asks two questions. So the first one is, will sharding and rollouts be able to efficiently resolve Ethereum's current issues while maintaining decentralization? Short answer, yes, because the reason why we're, I guess, like, going, sorry. Scaling via sharding and roll ups is to preserve decentralization. That's the whole reason. And the way that that happens is that with sharding, we scale by essentially splitting the blockchain up into different shards. 64 initially, maybe more later. And then with rollups, we can use these shards as what's called data availability layers, where the roll ups can post more data to these shards instead of just one, you know, ETH one chain, for example, and get more scalability out of that.
01:27:37.752 - 01:28:14.266, Speaker A: So I definitely think that the, the future is roll up centric, where essentially roll up, sit on top of Ethereum, post their data to, you know, ethan ETH one over the short term and then over the longer term shards and things like that, and we get to maintain the decentralization that way. The second question here is, thoughts on ETH killers, and if there's ever a chance that something better than ETH could come along, I. This is a long one. I'll try to be short here because we're coming up on time. I don't want to get to the rest of the questions. Most ETH killers are total bullshit. They're either scams or very ill thought out projects, or opportunistic money grabs or very.
01:28:14.266 - 01:28:41.540, Speaker A: Just bad ideas. I'll just put that out there. The ones that are interesting, I've. There's like, God, there's not many of them because the ones that aren't scammed. So. Okay, there's three categories, actually. The ones that aren't scams, the ones that aren't like, you know, necessarily really bad projects, the ones that aren't, you know, money grabs, I would argue, aren't actually an ETH killer, because what they're doing is pretty much all of them are basically marketing themselves as a more scalable ethereum.
01:28:41.540 - 01:29:36.322, Speaker A: But the way they're achieving this scale is by giving up decentralization and in turn giving up security, because they'll go the route of something like delegated proof of stake where they have a bunch of super nodes that run the chain. And then if push came to shove, the supernodes could be shut down, which would basically stop the chain or whatever could happen there. And it goes back to what I was saying at the beginning of the AMA where I was talking about how the social layer needs to be very strong. You need, and to have a strong social layer to recover from attacks, you need to be able to run a full node, and you can't run a full node on these super node chains because it is not built that way because the scalability comes with the trade off of people not being able run a full node on their retail hardware, on their home PCs. So from that perspective, I would say that pretty much every single ETH killer is trash and doesn't actually kill ETH. It doesn't even compete with ETH. I would say that the closest competitor that Ethereum has, if I had to pick one, is actually bitcoin.
01:29:36.322 - 01:30:38.904, Speaker A: Because I think that bitcoin has a better chance, and I actually think there's a near 0% chance that bitcoin does this. But I still think bitcoin has a better chance of implementing smart contracts and being able to take Ethereum's market share than an ETH killer coming along and being able to take Ethereum's market share over the long term. Now, in saying that there are going to be, there's going to be a power law distribution where there will be other networks that exist that basically fill niches and fill different things for whatever reason, I think a lot of them don't have any reason to exist because you can just get away with using a database, but because there's money to be made, because that monetary incentive always exists. There's always going to be these chains every single cycle, every single kind of like year, decades, they're going to exist, but eventually the market wisens up, people wisen up. And you keep getting that kind of like this gap between them. If you look at the gap between Ethereum in terms of market cap and its closest competitor, I'm just going to look at coingecko right now. If we skip Cardano, because Cardano is a, is, I'm not going to call it a scam, but he's definitely not something that I would look at for quality.
01:30:38.904 - 01:31:02.052, Speaker A: They don't even have smart contracts. So if we look at Ethereum's legit competitor, its next closest one is Polkadot. It has a 20 billion market cap. Ethereum has a $280 billion market cap, which is much, much greater than Polkadot. And I would even argue that Polkadot right now isn't even really doing anything because Polkadot doesn't have smart contracts, as far as I know. They just started doing their parachain auctions and things like that. So they're still very far behind.
01:31:02.052 - 01:31:33.808, Speaker A: If we're talking about another network that has, I guess, like, activity that isn't totally 100% centralized, because you'll notice I'm skipping over BSc as well here, because I don't consider BSc to be something that is going to be around, like, long term either. And I don't consider that to be in the same arena here. Number 13, Solana. $10 billion cap. Yeah, that's 28 times to get to Ethereum's market cap. So you can see the market is already kind of saying that it values kind of like Ethereum. It values ETH, it values it a lot higher than its competitors.
01:31:33.808 - 01:32:05.322, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think that there's basically a near 0% chance that anything ever kills Ethereum. I believe there's a near 0% chance that any project actually gains, like, anywhere near the amount of activity that that Ethereum gains. And, you know, if you kind of look at, I mean, some people will bring up, oh, well, Polygon's a separate blockchain because it has its own validator set. It's not like a true L2. It's not a roll up or whatever. But in saying that Polygon is not, maybe it might not be technically aligned with ethereum, but he's socially aligned with Ethereum. There's a reason why Polygon has so much activity on it.
01:32:05.322 - 01:32:38.212, Speaker A: You'll notice that there's a lot of projects that never went to BSc, but went to Polygon and deployed to there because of the social aspect of it. And again, this goes back to what I was saying about you have to have a strong social layer because that is what matters at the end of the day. So the proof is in the pudding, the proof is in the activity in the market caps. So at the end of the day, long story short, I don't think that anything that I seeing right now has a chance at killing Ethereum, overtaking Ethereum, becoming bigger than Ethereum. So hopefully that answers that. I don't care if people think I'm a theory or maximalist for saying that. You just need to look at the activity.
01:32:38.212 - 01:33:03.518, Speaker A: I mean, I do videos on this, and they get daily grade data pump, for example, like of the value being settled, for example, ethereum settles more value than any other blockchain, even bitcoin. It does more fees than any other blockchain, even bitcoin. And it does just so many other things. Like it's got more users, got just like, you know, it's got some millions of holders and things like that. There's so much that goes into it. I know I'm on a little bit of a rant there, but hopefully that kind of answers your question. Baze.
01:33:03.518 - 01:33:46.308, Speaker A: I have a few more on the sheet to get through, but I'll take on from the audience first. If not, I'll keep continuing down the sheet here. Cool, cool. All right, I'll move on to one from Lefi, who said, could you give us your best explanation of what Ethereum is at a high level aimed at the new crypto crowd? Okay, I think I answered this earlier when I was answering a question from someone else about my elevator pitch from doctor biscuits. So, Levi, if you want to see my longer form answer, definitely go back and watch and listen to doctor biscuits. If you haven't yet, it'll be timestamped. But essentially, I guess, like the highest level thing that I could say in the shortest amount of words that I could say it was.
01:33:46.308 - 01:34:18.618, Speaker A: I tell people that Ethereum is a new network to build stuff on, like the Internet. And I say to them, instead of building websites, you build financial applications as just a very simple kind of like, high level explanation. Obviously you can build other things on Ethereum, but I start with the financial use cases because of the fact that those are obviously the most used and the most relatable for people. So that's basically my highest level pitch, is that it's just a new network that you can build things on. Instead of websites, it's financial apps. So hopefully that kind of gives you a super high level thing there. Take one from the audience.
01:34:18.618 - 01:34:44.614, Speaker A: If not, I'll keep moving down. Awesome. Next one from digital, Henry here, who says any good framework resource to assess protocol protocol project risk for investing? I. He actually linked a post where from? From bankless, but it was. He said that it was, it was pretty bare bones. There wasn't enough here. This would borderline on me giving investing advice.
01:34:44.614 - 01:35:47.326, Speaker A: So I'll try and keep this kind of like high level here. Essentially, the way I assess a protocol or a project is a few different ways. And I might have written about this in the newsletter before, but feel the high level ways. Look at the, the team behind it, right? Is it, are the team reputable? Do they have a good track record? Is this kind of like their first startup, or is this like their 10th? Do they have successful exits from other startups? Have they sold, you know, startups before? They, have they worked in businesses before? Are they first time founders? Is the project idea good? Is it bad? Those kind of things? What is their project actually solving a fundamental problem? Do they have competitors? I mean, really evaluating, I guess like a project on Ethereum is the same as, as you would evaluate a business in general. You just simply do like a checklist essentially of what, what a project is. And that's not to say that if a project checks all the boxes, it's going to succeed, because there's a million reasons why projects fail. And really the only way you can tell is by monitoring and sticking and kind of like being part of the project for a longer period of time.
01:35:47.326 - 01:36:40.004, Speaker A: So for example, there's a lot of popular Defi projects that have been around for a while, but like over the long term, some of these will fail. Like even the most popular ones will fail over the longer term for one reason or another. And I think that people get the false sense of security during a bull market where they see that a project has like all this TVL and they're like, oh my God, like there's so much TVL in it. I mean, I wrote about this yesterday in the newsletter where I said that TVL is a really bad metric for measuring projects in terms of wanting to invest in it or in terms of seeing traction, because TVL is very easily inflated. One of the best ways, I guess you could say that projects, I guess like inflate, and I wouldn't say best, it would be like the most aggressive ways that they inflate their TVL numbers is by using token incentives like liquidity mining to do so. And obviously during bull markets, liquidity mining is very profitable and very lucrative. So the TVL can go into a project as fast as it can exit it.
01:36:40.004 - 01:37:23.638, Speaker A: Some of you might remember a project that launched a few months ago, something called BDP, or big data protocol. It had billions of dollars of TVL in it within 24 hours, and then a week or two later it was gone. Like people just withdrew because the farm was dead. So there's this kind of like locust farming going on that can trick you into thinking a project actually has a future, when in reality it doesn't. And in reality it's going to die, like very quickly, especially with liquidity mining incentives, especially if it's aggressive. And you know, there's plenty of examples of this littered around right now. And on top of that TVL on its own doesn't paint the whole story, because if you look at something like uniswap V three, it can have less TVL, but actually more fees going to the protocol because of its capital efficiency.
01:37:23.638 - 01:38:11.130, Speaker A: So, you know, just because something has a lot of TVL doesn't mean that it's generating more fees and doesn't mean that it's going to have a good price to sales or price to earnings ratio compared to another project, for example. So there's, there's, there's so many different things to consider there. And this is why investing in anything outside of like BTC and ETH is really, really hard, because BTC and ETH in my mind, are pretty much going to be around forever. Like, I don't have a doubt in my mind about that. But even though I don't hold any bitcoin, I still think bitcoin is gonna be around in some form forever. But pretty much all the other Defi projects, the risk, the newer they are, the riskier they are because of the fact that, and not just defy, but like, you know, any project out there, because there's a million reasons why it can fail. There's a million reasons why, you know, their metrics they have today could be gone in a month.
01:38:11.130 - 01:38:38.530, Speaker A: There are so many things to consider and there, and you know, teams can even run out of money, for example. Like that's another thing. So from that point of view. And that's why you see actually these things trade as if they have a lot of risk, risk attached to them. Yes, they'll give you a higher returns in a bull market, but you will get slaughtered in a, in a down market or a bear market. Even the best protocols out there, like I think Aave is down 60% from its top. Like Aave is one of the best protocols in Ethereum in terms of like Defi as well.
01:38:38.530 - 01:39:27.532, Speaker A: And there's numerous examples of this. But on top of that, you also, if you're investing in a token, you need to know what you're getting into with regards to what the token supply looks like at the time of investment. If you put money into a protocol that only has like 5% of its tokens circulating, that other 95% is coming to market eventually. And if the fully diluted market cap is much larger than the circulating one, well, those two things have to kind of like, you know, come together at some point. And as more tokens unlock over time, whether that be through liquidity mining programs or whether that be via team or investor tokens unlocking or whatever other way that those tokens are never inevitably going to find their way to the market, which adds sell pressure, which means that you could buy at like, say you buy a token at a dollar and then it ends up at $0.10. But the market cap still the same because the market caps just have to match. Right.
01:39:27.532 - 01:40:05.400, Speaker A: The fully diluted and circulating just had to match. But the thing is, is that you bought at a much higher kind of like price because of the disparity there. So, yeah, not investment advice, as I said, but hopefully that gives, like, a bit of an overview of what I look at when I'm looking at projects. And maybe it explains why I hold majority ETH a lot of the time because there's really not many projects out there that I would actually want to hold long term because they have so much risk attached to them. And if I'm not, and my benchmark is ETH, it's not USD. So if I'm not outperforming ETH, then why am I holding this thing, essentially? So. And also, there's other personal things to consider, like for investment, like tax as well.
01:40:05.400 - 01:40:39.748, Speaker A: Like, are you in a tax friendly jurisdiction where you're not taxed on capital gains? I'm not. Like, my tax is ridiculous. So I don't really, you know, flip flop out of investments. I take a longer term view on things. But, you know, I know that people in, in certain parts of Asia, like Singapore and stuff like that, they have more of a quicker kind of like, trading attitude where they'll get in and out of positions much faster because they don't pay capital gains tax. So that, that is like, another consideration that I think a lot of people miss is that, you know, tax plays a huge part in a lot of people's investing decisions. And as Degen Spartan says, it's like a debuff if anyone's played, um, you know, some, some.
01:40:39.748 - 01:41:00.384, Speaker A: Some world of Warcraft before. A debuff is something that kind of, like, lowers your stats or lowers your ability to do something or prevent you from doing something better than someone else. And living in a. In a tax free jurisdiction is like a buff where or a capital gains tax free jurisdiction where you have an advantage over those that don't live there. So I don't live in that kind of jurisdiction. So hopefully that answers your question. Digital Henry.
01:41:00.384 - 01:41:43.376, Speaker A: I have. How many more do I have? I have four more on my sheet here otherwise, but I'll take one from the audience first. If not, I'll just move through this. All right, moving on through the list. So, knowledge fight asks, any regrets in crypto since becoming an influencer of sorts on crypto, Twitter and the space in general, when I read this, I was like, oh, this is an interesting question, and I thought about it for a little bit earlier. I have zero regrets about becoming an influencer or becoming a large part of this ecosystem because it was my goal from the very beginning. I had a plan that I set out for myself maybe three or four years ago now where I basically said, I want to become one of the top people in the ecosystem.
01:41:43.376 - 01:42:04.690, Speaker A: I want to become one of the most well known people, and I want to do it through education. And that's what I did, and I achieved my. My goal, and I feel like I achieved a pretty big goal in my life, so definitely don't regret it at all. Uh, and it's not just, like, personal satisfaction. It's also obviously on. On the kind of, like, the monetary side as well. The money that I've made has enabled me to essentially do what I do without a boss.
01:42:04.690 - 01:42:23.186, Speaker A: You know, I can be my own boss. And that, in general, is just incredibly freeing. And there's. There's a few people that I know within the ecosystem that are in the same position as I am. It's just the amount of freedom you get from that and what you're able to kind of do once you have that freedom is amazing. I mean, for me, I get to give back with things like this. I get to do like these ama's.
01:42:23.186 - 01:42:37.866, Speaker A: I get to do my refuels. I get to do the newsletter. I get to do all the stuff with Ethub. I get to advise whatever projects I want. I get to work with whatever projects I want, you know, and I get to give back to a community that gave me so much. So, yeah, I have zero regrets about becoming an influencer. I think it's the best thing that ever happened.
01:42:37.866 - 01:42:48.434, Speaker A: It honestly changed my life, so. But it's not for everyone. I would say that it's. I'm painting, like, a pretty rosy picture right now. You have to have a thick skin. I get shit on all the time. I get made into a meme all the time.
01:42:48.434 - 01:42:57.666, Speaker A: I get abusive DM's all the time. I get called a maximalist all the time. But I have a very thick skin. I'm australian. We don't hurt very easily. I can take it. But there's a lot of people out there who don't have that.
01:42:57.666 - 01:43:27.560, Speaker A: And if you don't have a thick skin and you can't handle. Like, if you're, especially if you're someone who's a private person, then getting all that attention might be daunting to you because you do get a lot of attention. I get DM's all the time and I answer as much of them as I can, but it can be stressful for people who get DM's. And they might be like, oh my God, I have so much things to talk to. I'm going to feel bad if I don't reply to this person, all this sort of stuff. And then you also have a lot of people wanting stuff from you. You have a lot of people messaging, being like, hey, bro, can you tell me what tokens you're holding? Tell me what to buy.
01:43:27.560 - 01:44:23.324, Speaker A: Hey, can you advise our project? It's just some scam or whatever. And some of you might remember there was an instance, I guess, like a few months ago, where I got myself tangled up in some things around a few token called few, which was people. It was, it wasn't a scam or anything like that, but it was a pretty, I mean, I'm not gonna go through the whole story, but it was a pretty shitty time for me because I essentially got canceled or attempted to get cancelled. Like, I had all these people on Twitter piling on and kind of insulting me and, and telling me I was a scammer. And that really, really hurt because I had tried my very, very hardest through the years of becoming an influencer to make sure that I did nothing or that could be considered even close to something that scam me or dodgy or whatever. And some of you might have seen in the general channel of the Discord the other day where I was saying, I want to sell some GTC because I need to take some risk off the table here and some of its life changing money for me. But I feel bad because I don't want to be seen as like dumping on the community.
01:44:23.324 - 01:45:04.500, Speaker A: I don't want people to see that I'm, and think that I'm bearish on like git coin or whatever because I got a pretty sizable airdrop. But I'm not at all. I was just taking some money, taking some profits because there's nothing wrong with that. But those are the things that you have to deal with when you become like a very public person. But I think for me, the, the good things outweigh the bad very much so, you know, things like being able to go to a conference and, and everyone recognizes me at an Ethereum conference, pretty much like everyone that I talk to knows who I am. That's not to brag or anything, but that's to paint the picture of. It's very easy to strike up a conversation with anyone because they come up to me and they say, hey, man, like, I know you from Twitter, and, like, you know, etharb, deadly Gwei or whatever, you know, thanks for doing all you do.
01:45:04.500 - 01:45:18.234, Speaker A: And it's just, like, really heartwarming and it's really easy to talk to people. But as I said, like, there's good and bad sides to it, but I wouldn't change it for the world. I don't regret it at all. So hopefully that answers your question. Knowledge fight. It's. Yeah, it changed my life, and it's the best thing it ever happened to me.
01:45:18.234 - 01:45:53.068, Speaker A: But I'll take another question from the audience. If not, I'll keep moving through the list here. All right, onto a question from Monkey King, who said, if I deposit ETH into the ETH yearn vault, what is going on behind the scenes with my ETH? And by depositing into this vault, am I passively earning? Ethan? So I think yearn currently has a few different ETH vaults out there right now. So they have three. I think they have, like, the normal ETH vault where you can deposit ETH. I don't know if this is active right now. They had this at some point, but I don't know if it's active currently.
01:45:53.068 - 01:46:14.008, Speaker A: But I had a vault where they will take your ETH. They would deposit it into maker. They would draw die against that maker. Sorry, that ETH, and then put that die into curve, and then farm on curve, like. Like the CRV tokens, and automatically stack it for you and then buy ETH with it. I don't know if that's currently active, but that was a very popular one back in the day. So that was the first vault.
01:46:14.008 - 01:46:50.212, Speaker A: The second one that they have is the Steth vault, or the Steth vault, which essentially takes your ETH, or Steve kind of like, and put. And puts them into, like, curve. I think it takes your LP tokens, actually. But essentially what it's doing is it's farming, or automatically farming the Steve pool on curve, which currently has CRV and LDO token rewards on it. And then there's the se vault, which essentially uses synthetic ETH or synthetix ETH and does the same thing on curve, I'm pretty sure. And farms like CRV tokens and some SNX tokens as well. So those are the three different vaults.
01:46:50.212 - 01:47:10.764, Speaker A: There might be more out there. More there. I haven't checked lately, but that's essentially what's happening. It's either ETH denominated or I think most of the time it's ETH denominated. But even when it was like state farming, stable coins, it was still buying ether. Because at the end of the day, if you're in a, I guess like an 8th yield farm, you want to be returning back ETH. And that's like how you would do it there.
01:47:10.764 - 01:47:21.432, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that question there. Monkey king. I'll take one from the audience. If not, I'll move through. Actually, there's more than. Okay, there's another four questions. I forgot to scroll down a little bit here.
01:47:21.432 - 01:47:35.654, Speaker A: Maybe I'll. If someone wants to ask a question, just shout out, because I just want to get through the ones on the sheet here. We're coming up on 2 hours, so I've got to end this soon. But yeah, if you want to ask a question, just shout out. But if not, I'll keep running through the list here. Um, so one from. Roger that.
01:47:35.654 - 01:48:12.584, Speaker A: Double oh two here. Who said a friend has bought a few dozen ETH via Coinbase since I introduced her, but she's financially very conservative. What is the. What is the lowest risk strategy to earn passive income on this ETH with minimal risk compared to her current approach? What would you. What would you show her? So the lowest risk yield that you can get on your ETH right now would be staking. I would say staking on your own would be the lowest risk, like absolute lowest risk. Second would be staking in an exchange, like, even though it's totally centralized, staking with an exchange like Coinbase.
01:48:12.584 - 01:48:57.302, Speaker A: I'm not talking about Binance's of the world, I'm talking about Coinbase. If she's already got ETH on Coinbase, then staking with Coinbase would be relatively low risk. Not as low risk as taking on your own, of course, but still relatively low. And then from there, you start getting into like a whole spectrum of different risk profiles where you can stake with something like lido, which again, is a centralized staking service, or a distributed one, which will just put your ETH into, I guess, like one of these staking service providers. But you get Steth in return, which allows you to do stuff in defi with. Then you have things like you can liquidity provide in uniswap, but you expose yourself to impermanent loss risk. You can put this into one of the yearn vaults, but the year end vaults are kind of like, I guess like right now the 8th year involves.
01:48:57.302 - 01:49:27.530, Speaker A: I don't think you're returning too much. You get smart contract risk from that. Of course, soon you'll be able to do like an alchemic kind of farm with, with Al ETH that's going to expose you to smart contract risk as well, of course. So, you know, I guess like the lowest risk thing is just staking. Like if and depends on how much east she has, if she has 32 ETH, or if she has more than 32 ETH and she's comfortable locking it up, I guess for a year. Not for a year, sorry, for, for a few months until the merge goes through. Because obviously it's a one way bridge to e two.
01:49:27.530 - 01:50:02.292, Speaker A: Right now we staking. Then I would recommend that she, she does that if not, if she's got less than 32 or not comfortable with that just stake with, with Coinbase. And those are the lowest risk, minimum risk things you could do with your ETH right now. So on to earn to the next question here from log mag, who says, I think all the ETH killers can be run as roll ups on ETH, such as Solana, Cardano, Polkadot, whatever. For instance, one could fork Solana so that all the validators will be on a roll up. Where use we're using fancy hardware. They can provide high proof of history transactions, ordering and speed with ETH security.
01:50:02.292 - 01:50:57.078, Speaker A: What's your opinion? Yes, I totally agree. Like, that's the beauty of L2 systems, is that they can actually be programmed to do whatever you want them to do. Essentially what's happening is that you can do whatever you want with your L2. You can design it however you want. The only thing that you don't have control over is it's kind of like security, where you basically outsource that security to Ethereum because you want a theorem to secure your system. So technically you could build these as roll ups, but you probably wouldn't get the same scalability because roll up scalability is still limited by Ethereum's layer one. And there was a stat that Arbitrum gave on the bankless podcast the other day that said if there was a bunch of roll ups out there, I don't know how many there are, but if there's a bunch of them out there all doing like, you know, thousands of thousands of transactions per second, all this sort of stuff, the most you could get across all of them averaged out with the layer one, I guess, capacity that's available today on Ethereum is 4500.
01:50:57.078 - 01:51:40.560, Speaker A: Transactions per second. Now, I know Solana advertises like 50,000. That's because Solana is incredibly, in my mind, it's not decentralized, it's very centralizing because of its supernode system. So you would still be limited by Ethereum's layer one. But in saying that you could run these systems as a roll up, of course, but that's the trade offs that you would take there. So hopefully that answers your question. There two more here, one from Aegon, Targaryen or Targ, who says if L2 has become a huge hit and start capturing huge chunk of the transaction volume, which in turn reduces base layer on chain activity, does that essentially reverse the expected deflationary ultrasound effects of ERP 1559? Put another way, if transactions move to L2, does that mean that less fees get paid on layer one? Um, I don't think so.
01:51:40.560 - 01:52:21.736, Speaker A: So I, I mean, I don't think so. I'm talking over the longer term. Um, short term, there's a bunch of different factors that go into gas fees, but like longer term, let's just, let's just kind of like paint the longer term picture here. The way something like the Ethereum layer one works is that it will always optimize for the highest value transactions. So you've seen a lot of things get priced out. Lower value transactions that literally can't afford and aren't profitable to do on layer one, such as swapping around nfts like trading cards that are worth like a dollar, obviously isn't worth it to do it because the transaction fees would, would eclipse the, the value of the NFT that's not happening. All the web3 stuff isn't happening at layer one, but arbitrage opportunities that are worth more than the fees that are being paid.
01:52:21.736 - 01:52:56.474, Speaker A: The profit is more than the fees that's going to be done at layer one. People doing yield farming where their yields are better than the fees that they're paying that's going to be done at layer one. Liquidating someone because the liquidation is worth more than the fees that's going to be done. All those sorts of things. Anything that's worth more than the fees is going to be done. And then over time you'll see a kind of increase that, that eventually the fees will get like to a point where it's really high and it'll price out everything except those high value use cases. Now, what is the highest value use case that's going to exist on ethereum? It's going to be roll up proofs because roll up proofs are going to contain thousands and thousands of transactions in them, whether they be low or high value.
01:52:56.474 - 01:53:46.580, Speaker A: And in aggregate, that's going to be a very, very high value transaction. So a L2 roll up provider is going to want, it needs to post that transaction to Ethereum to inherit its security. So they're happy to pay these very expensive fees. So I think the long term future will be a layer one that's dominated by whales and the L2 roll up proofs. But that's okay because the end users will be sitting at L2, get the experience of Ethereum that we all know and love today without the high fees. So, and these, and obviously the ETH being burnt with 1559 is burnt on layer one, so that we will still get the deflationary and ultrasound properties of Ethereum because we're getting that security, security payment from these L2s from the whales as well, that exist on there and from the bridges too, like the hot protocol and Connext and things like that. That bridge will be doing layer one stuff as well.
01:53:46.580 - 01:54:18.736, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers your question around that. I think I'm going to do a dedicated video on that eventually. I really want people to understand that layer one blockchains like bitcoin and Ethereum optimize for the highest value transactions by design. And that's the way it's always going to be because there is limited space there. And as I said, L2 roll up proofs are the highest value transactions that can exist. So, and I guess like Mev stuff is highest as well. But now with like flashbots and things like that, and Mev is a whole nother topic, you know, it kind of like diverges a little bit.
01:54:18.736 - 01:54:52.662, Speaker A: But with 1559, even if miners don't go through the direct public mem pool and go through what's called a dark pool or flashbots, they still have to pay east to, to the, to the base chain to layer one. And that ETH is still going to get burnt as what's called the base fee. So hopefully that answers your question there. I'm going to answer this last one here and then if anyone else has got some from the audience, I'll take those. If not, we can wrap it up. So this one comes from Anoni meth, who said client diversity is an issue. I've heard people discussing, including you, staking services, whether through Coinbase and Kraken should be using multiple clients, but not sure if they are.
01:54:52.662 - 01:55:44.546, Speaker A: I can't find any info on which client they are using or if they are using multiple clients, for the less tech oriented who are staking on their own with Avado, they have to use prism. Integrating other clients with Avado, if possible, would also help with client diversity. Is there any coordination efforts to have this done to your knowledge? So I will say that I think a lot of staking service providers are actually using Prism because it's the easiest for them to use. But in terms of like coordinated efforts around getting them to adopt more, to adopt other clients rather than prism and to, to kind of improve client diversity, there is, and I'm pretty sure there's an initiative at the Ethereum foundation for this right now. I think that there are a few small working groups out there contacting these providers and telling them being like, hey, you know, or getting feedback from like, hey, why are you using this client? You know, have you considered using this one? You should for client diversity and you know, doing more education around this. So there is efforts, I just, I don't really have anything handy right now. I have heard of efforts going on.
01:55:44.546 - 01:56:13.524, Speaker A: I think that we could be doing more on this front. I think that if you're a customer of one of these staking service providers, you should ask them and be like, hey, what are you using? Okay, well if you're using prism, maybe you should change to lighthouse or change something else because we need to improve network health and kind of like network resiliency here. So hopefully that answers your question there. Anonymous I'll take any last questions from the audience. If not, I will end it here. But yeah, feel free anyone to ask anything you want. Hey Anthony, how's it going? Hey mate, how you going? I'm good.
01:56:13.524 - 01:56:47.134, Speaker A: Good. This question might be irrelevant to you with your home search, but I was wondering if you might have any idea what it would look like to bring real world assets onto blockchain with mortgages as an example. Yes. So actually that's already been done with maker. So they have real world assets integrated through, I think, one of the providers. I can't remember exactly the name right now, but I'm pretty sure the real world asset that they onboarded was a mortgage or kind of a basket of them. So that has already been done.
01:56:47.134 - 01:57:21.446, Speaker A: But in terms of like what that looks like, essentially what it looks like is just an iOu, right? Because the actual kind of property rights for that mortgage or for, you know, an asset that exists outside of Ethereum is the existing legal system. So the government is basically enforcing those property rights. And that differs from something like ETH because the property rights of ETH are enforced by the Ethereum network, because ETH is not issued by. It is, sorry, it is issued by the Ethereum network. It is digitally native. So that's what kind of like the off chain assets look like. And there's going to be plenty of these providers out there.
01:57:21.446 - 01:57:56.122, Speaker A: Some of them are going to be shit, some of them are going to be good, but it's going to take a while to get there as well, because there's a lot of trust involved too. Because at the end of the day, the representation on chain is just, is just an iOu. It is not what you have claim to. If you, if you kind of like accidentally send that to someone else or if you get hacked, someone steals that asset from you, that asset is not theirs, the asset is still yours because your ownership of it exists in the real world, in meat space. It does not exist at that token. So that tokens value is essentially nullified. And you would just get reissued a new IOU token, essentially.
01:57:56.122 - 01:58:19.574, Speaker A: Not sure exactly what that looks like when you start doing, you know, things like money markets and stuff like that. But that's what makes them more risky, I guess. And also the value of that token can be nullified by the, I guess, real world instantiation of it, where someone could say, well, this isn't, this thing that you have. This real world asset isn't worth anything anymore, and the token is not worth anything anymore. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there.
01:58:21.154 - 01:58:21.730, Speaker B: Yeah, it does.
01:58:21.762 - 01:58:25.382, Speaker A: It sounds like it's a pretty complicated.
01:58:25.538 - 01:58:27.830, Speaker B: Thing when you're trying to translate the.
01:58:27.862 - 01:58:53.212, Speaker A: Real world to, to the blockchain in that way. Yeah, there's, there's a lot of risks that you basically introduce and there's a lot of centralized points that you introduce. It's not a clear cut thing. Um, uh, but, but it's going to happen. And I think that it's fine that's going to happen. I think that it's fine that it's centralized. There's no other way to do it because you can't issue physical ownership rights over something on Ethereum because Ethereum security doesn't secure like your mortgage or it doesn't secure your right to your house.
01:58:53.212 - 01:59:25.364, Speaker A: Right. Your deed to your house is secured by the government enforcing property rights through various different means, normally through having like an, like, through force. Basically, if someone comes to take it, you know, someone comes to your house and says, I own this house, and they squat there while you call the police and the police come and take that crazy person away. Whereas on Ethereum what's enforcing the property rights over your ETH is. Is the Ethereum network itself is the miners, essentially, and the stake is in the future. So, yeah, it does look a bit. It is much more complicated to bring the real world assets onto Ethereum.
01:59:26.544 - 01:59:26.904, Speaker B: Great.
01:59:26.944 - 01:59:49.112, Speaker A: Thank you. All good. Any last questions before I wrap it up for today? Cool, cool. I guess I'll wrap it up there, then. Well, thank you, everyone, for listening again here. There'll be another AMA in two weeks, of course, and this has been recorded, so I will be uploading this to YouTube shortly with timestamps. A very generous community member has.
01:59:49.112 - 02:00:00.664, Speaker A: Has been doing them lately, which is really cool to see, but, yeah. So until next time, definitely stay safe. Hopefully the market's treating you well, and I'll catch you all in a couple of weeks. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
