00:00:00.480 - 00:00:41.864, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 16 April 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. And actually, before we do so, I did want to give a quick shout out here to a stealth project that I am an early investor in alongside some great people here. Kane, Robert Leshner, Hasoo and Ido co lab Ventures, and, and Calvin from, from Compound here. If you are a technical person or someone who is interested in becoming a technical co founder of this project, feel free to reach out to James Simpson here. James is also the co founder of M Stable, another project I'm involved in.
00:00:41.864 - 00:01:15.310, Speaker A: I can't tell you exactly what the project is yet, but I can say that it is, it's awesome. It's a really great project. I mean, I wouldn't be involved if it wasn't awesome. So definitely reach out to James if you are someone who's looking to, to be a technical co founder, looking to be part of a great new project within the space. So as I discussed on yesterday's refuel, the open Ethereum, kind of client for, for Ethereum, was having issues syncing after the Berlin upgrade. Now that's been resolved. I mean, I think I got resolved like half an hour after I kind of put the refuel out, or maybe even half an hour after I finished recording it.
00:01:15.310 - 00:01:53.662, Speaker A: I was pretty quick. The fix was, was found by core developers Martin and way here, I, and you can see the kind of thread here where they're discussing the fix and what was changed and everything and kind of what went wrong. So, yeah, it's a bit technical, so I'm not going to go into it, but great to see this was resolved in a speedy manner. And, you know, and as I discussed yesterday, because a theorem has this culture of, you know, you know, we, like, if something goes wrong, we're just going to fix it, like immediately. We're not just going to be like, oh, no, okay, let's just, let's forget about it. Right? Or, and, and like, everyone just turns toxic and saying, you know, how dare you kind of like, mess up the network or whatever. There's none of that in Ethereum.
00:01:53.662 - 00:02:25.050, Speaker A: There is, you know, let's just get it done. And we, and we do. We did, which is really, really great to see. So, yeah, if you're running open Ethereum, you know, I'm sure you've already upgraded by now, but if you haven't, be sure to do so, or else you won't be in sync with the network if you're still on the old kind of client here. So this, I think, was the biggest piece of news from the last 24 hours. It was CNBC having an entire kind of, I guess, like, I guess, speech, how you could call it, or, like, segment. You could call it on DeFi here from, from a reporter, Kate Rooney.
00:02:25.050 - 00:02:45.190, Speaker A: Yeah, so what she kind of went through in the video is exactly what DeFi is. You know, she explained how it's decentralized finance. She even said that most of it is built on Ethereum, which is really, really cool. She actually said Ethereum. You know, how many times have we seen the mainstream media just completely ignore Ethereum and just talk about bitcoin? So really great to see her bringing that up. And she gave me. Sorry.
00:02:45.190 - 00:03:17.558, Speaker A: She, um, she did a very, very good job of explaining Defi, I thought, for, for like, a mainstream audience. Yes, there was a lot of buzzwords involved. You know, she said things like Dexs and, you know, decentralized exchanges. And those are just kind of like, new words that need to enter people's, like, I guess, like, everyday vocabulary. Because if you think about it, the Internet itself has a lot of words that are needed to kind of enter into the, into people's vocabulary. That was just essentially a jargon that, you know, early kind of, um, computer and Internet pioneers were using. You know, think of, like, website or, like, domain name, right? Like things like that.
00:03:17.558 - 00:03:57.940, Speaker A: Just even simple things like email, like, just think about all the new kind of, like, terms and words that needed to enter the english lexicon, um, for people to kind of, like, I guess, understand, you know, how it all worked at the end of the day, like the word the Internet, right? You know, Internet, intranet, all that kind of, all that kind of stuff. And not, not just the Internet, but, like, computers in general, you know, just people coming to terms with that and learning all about it. That takes time, you know, but it gets faster. It works on an exponential scale, I think, where. Yes, it takes time, but, like, it gets exponentially quicker the longer, you know, we're out there. And obviously, it relies on a lot of people doing education. It's one of the main reasons I do what I do.
00:03:57.940 - 00:04:23.242, Speaker A: A lot of other kind of people out there doing it, like the bankless guys, Kamala Russo from the defiant Defi dad, things like that. But, you know, where I think us being, like, a theory and based media, we're not gonna reach the mainstream crowd. I think the daily way specifically is more like for people that are in the ecosystem already. Like, I haven't done any like beginner guides or anything like that. Maybe I will in the future. Bankless has some beginner guides. The defiant does as well.
00:04:23.242 - 00:04:48.212, Speaker A: Defy that, definitely. But again, those are for people who going out and searching for it, right? Like if you, if you're like googling what is a theory and you might come across one of these things. But where mainstream media comes into it, like what, where CNBC sits is that they have a totally different user. Sorry, a viewer base. Then, then, you know, all the Ethereum media has. No one's kind of like going and looking for it when they see it on CNBC. It's just a segment.
00:04:48.212 - 00:05:25.704, Speaker A: And like, people are watching this and they're like, okay, wow, okay, I didn't know about this. Like, what's Defi? Then they go google it, right? And then their journey starts from there, sort of thing. So I think that that is the number one thing that gets me the most excited whenever mainstream media actually covers this in a proper way is that it's just going to bring in new people and, you know, even other things outside of this. Like, I, I know dogecoin right now is going nuts, right? It's, it's just absolutely going nuts in price. And people are saying, you know, this is crazy. And like, it's worth, its market cap is worth more than every defi token right now. And yes, it is crazy, but it's, it's definitely being driven by like just pure retail mania through, through Robin Hood.
00:05:25.704 - 00:05:43.432, Speaker A: I think mostly because the Robin Hood app has dogecoin on it. And obviously Elon Musk has been meming about it for a while. But in general, what this does is it just brings more people into the crypto ecosystem. Right. I think on net net, it's a positive thing. Yes. People are going to like, you know, lose money because eventually DOJ is going to stop going up.
00:05:43.432 - 00:06:04.282, Speaker A: It's going to crash and people was going to panic, sell or hold down to the bottom or whatever. Right. You know, nothing ever goes up forever. Like, that's what a lot of people kind of fall for in this ecosystem is that they think something will go up forever and not stop, especially the newer people. So there will be people who get burned. But at the same time, it's now exposed them to crypto. Just like this segment on CNBC exposed a lot of new people to defy.
00:06:04.282 - 00:06:35.342, Speaker A: So, yeah, that, that's where I see the kind of positivity coming from. And, you know, I said here that this video gave me really strong early Internet coverage vibes. You know what? You go back and watch these videos from, like, the late nineties, early two thousands where a lot of people were still doubting this. And like, I don't get it. Like, why would I do this? I've just got my bank. There was, there's this famous video where someone I think was interviewing. I can't remember which talk show host it was, but he was interviewing Bill Gates, and he's asking Bill Gates, like, why would I use the Internet? And Bill's like, well, I mean, you could listen to your favorite, like, sports, you know, commentators on there.
00:06:35.342 - 00:07:18.738, Speaker A: It's like, well, have you ever heard of radio? I just, I remember it pretty perfectly in my head. And then just, you know, when you look at that, you could see that the same reactions coming from people when you say to them, well, you know, you, you can on defi, you can take your own kind of loan, right? You can basically take a loan and self custody it, or you could do, like, trading on there. And then that would say to you, well, have you ever heard of a bank, right? Have you ever heard of a stock exchange? And it's like, well, I mean, you know, there are all these benefits, and then you list off the benefits, and it probably doesn't click the first few times, but over time, you know, they come to terms with it and they probably learn more about it. So I think that that's, you know, where this kind of, like, all fits into it. So, yeah, as, as, I mean, everyone likes to say. And it's kind of a meme that we're, like, still very early, but it's very true. I mean, yeah, the markets are hot.
00:07:18.738 - 00:07:49.494, Speaker A: Like, it's, what, 2,000,000,000,002.2 trillion total market cap right now, most of that being like, you know, the top five, essentially, which, you know, it might seem hot, but at the same time, when you kind of, like, look at, I guess, the total kind of market caps are the biggest companies in the world. Like the entire world, right? Cause this is a global thing. This isn't just a us based thing. Excuse me, sorry. You can kind of see like, that we've still got a long way to grow. Like, I think the total crypto market cap will be 100 trillion plus in, like, you know, less than ten years, sort of thing.
00:07:49.494 - 00:08:21.750, Speaker A: And, you know, when you kind of think about that, you're like, wow, okay, that's like 50 x from here. It's like, well, I mean, yeah, but, like, think about how many people have yet to come into the ecosystem. Think how many people have yet to buy into crypto. Think about how global it is. Think about all the money printing that's going on, which devalues the currency at the end of the day. Right? So, you know, using, I guess USD is the denominator here, and kind of be misleading because the USD has inflated a lot over the last few years, particularly in the last year. Like, you know, the government will say, oh, you know, it's not that bad.
00:08:21.750 - 00:08:46.413, Speaker A: The inflation's fine, but then you go and look at everything and it's like, okay, well, everything's getting more expensive, right? So either for some reason, everything's getting more expensive because it's just become more expensive to manufacture it, or. Or the. The denominator, USD, is losing its value. So it's definitely USD losing its value. A lot of it, right? But at the same time, a lot of crypto is going up based on merit. Like, ETH is definitely still undervalued. Like, I just, I just look at it, I'm like, this is just stupid.
00:08:46.413 - 00:09:25.294, Speaker A: Like, Ethereum is going to change the world and it's still trading at, like, this market cap sort of thing. Not investment advice, of course, but, you know, I mean, it's pretty obvious, but, you know, and then you just look at everything else, like Defi, you're like, if this stuff is truly going to replace traditional finance and the apps that win this, they're going to be worth hundreds of billions of dollars, just like the, the tradfi or fintech apps are worth that. So, yeah, just something to think about. I'm probably rambling a little bit there, so I'll leave it at that. But I think this was just, like, really bullish to see some proper coverage of defi in the mainstream media. And she also mentioned Ethereum, which I really appreciated. So, Kate, you're probably not watching this, but thank you for doing this segment.
00:09:25.294 - 00:09:50.588, Speaker A: I really enjoyed it. So documenting. Ethereum put out a tweet today saying that the Rothschild Investment Corporation has bought 265,000 shares of the Grayscale Ethereum Trust, which means it now holds $4.75 million worth of the ETH trust. And they also have a BTC trust holdings of $1.92 million. Now, for those who don't know, the Rothschilds are one of, if not the most powerful families in the world.
00:09:50.588 - 00:10:10.498, Speaker A: It comes from very old money. I'm not sure how far back it goes. There's like, conspiracy theories that, that kind of, like, follow this as well. But I think a lot of it was, uh, was oil money. Uh, I'm not totally sure. I think they played a big part in the industrial revolution. Um, uh, but, yeah, it's just like another kind of like, I guess, institution putting ETH on their balance sheet.
00:10:10.498 - 00:10:30.050, Speaker A: Like, I mean, you know, as I said, we were going to start slowly. We started with, like, my two. And then there's a, there's a publicly traded fund, um, you know, ether capital, that also has ETH on its balance sheet. Now, Rothschild Investments Corporation has it. It's just going to keep growing from here. It's not going to slow down. And, you know, it's just great to see more and more, I guess, of this money coming into Ethan.
00:10:30.050 - 00:11:02.518, Speaker A: I guess, regardless of what your opinions are of the Rothschild family or whatever, you know, I don't think it really, really plays into this. I think what plays into it is just like the narrative that more institutions are getting on board with holding ETH on their balance sheet. So, yeah, I mean, this isn't obviously direct, kind of like spot ethics, like a trust through. Through gayscale, but this is because I think that they want tax advantage exposure. So if there's an ETF for ether comes out, I'm sure they would have bought that. And Grayscale have said that they're going to roll these things into ETF's once they. Once they get approval to do so.
00:11:02.518 - 00:11:28.194, Speaker A: So, yeah, we'll. We'll see how this goes here. So, for those who know Arthur Hayes and his history with aetherium and Ethan, you know that just how wild it is that he is now bullish on Ethereum. And Ethan, and I said here, sooner or later, they all come around. And for those who don't know, I'll give a bit of color here. So, Arthur Hayes is the former CEO of Bitmex. He is now under.
00:11:28.194 - 00:11:47.852, Speaker A: I mean, I'm pretty sure he's not in prison, but he's on bail in the US. He's been charged with a bunch of crimes and things like that. But, like, I think was like some wash trading or something on Bitmex or something. I can't remember the exact charges. But anyway, he's a colorful character, let's put it that way. So he's been around for a long time. He's been a mega bitcoin bull for a long time.
00:11:47.852 - 00:12:19.700, Speaker A: And during the bear market, he was very, I guess, like, critical of ETH. He trashed it. He basically published an article that said ETH, the double digit shitcoin, like word for word, that's what it was called. And sure enough, ETH went to like $80. And, you know, for those who know Arthur Hayes and know BitMex, you know, BitMex does play a big role during, during bear markets, or at least it did in, in things going much lower than they then need to go, and especially during crashes because of the fact that you can just like short and go long. I mean, you can go either way. But a lot of people like to short on there.
00:12:19.700 - 00:12:59.358, Speaker A: You know, there was always kind of like, I guess, things about bitmex maybe trading against their customers and stuff like that. So there's all these kind of things going on. So for him to post an article today, which I didn't link here, but it was basically an article that he wrote, you can go to his Twitter, I'm pretty sure you can find it there. But he basically described how he's really bullish on Defi and defies on Ethereum. So what happens when ETH is capturing all that value through fee revenue? And then he had like this table, it was, this table is insane. It was like, I looked at it and it's like a table of like what eats market cap could be depending on how much revenue it kind of like captures. And he had like the, the most bullish case being a $4 million ETH.
00:12:59.358 - 00:13:43.354, Speaker A: I was like, okay, wow, so this guy's gone from like the biggest Ethereum and ETH bear or hater ever, right? Or like one of the biggest to like being an ETH, like omega Bull, $4 million ETH. Now, I think that's, that's, that's quite, quite a joke. I mean, I'm obviously like an extreme ETH bull, but $4 million ETH, I mean, that would probably mean that the US dollar is basically hyperinflated and it's not worth anything anymore. Because, you know, if, for those of you at home, probably trying to do the math in your head, I mean, if I can try to do it in my head, I, a $4 million ETH would be, I don't probably be like quadrillion dollars a market cap if I, if I am doing my math in my head correctly. So, yeah, I don't think we're going to see that. But it was just funny to see that table. And maybe someone linked the article in the reply.
00:13:43.354 - 00:14:05.446, Speaker A: I actually do want to, when I kind of find the table here. I don't have it here, but you can go find it. It'll be, if it'll be on Arthur Hayes's profile. But yeah, I just thought it was, was funny to see like the change of tune here, I think. And as I said, sooner or later they all come around. I think it's just too hard to deny Ethereum at this stage. It's too hard to deny the network's growth defies growth, nfts, everything happening around that.
00:14:05.446 - 00:14:30.918, Speaker A: And it's too hard to deny that Ethereum is now scaling too, which I'm going to talk about in a little bit and how, like, you know, when you think about it, the only reason why anyone is using other networks is because the fees are lower. That's it. There's no, there's nothing else about those networks that people want to use. They don't care about anything else. So if your only value prop is lower fees, then you mean you're just going to lose to Ethereum over the long term. So, yeah, I mean, I won't go into that. I'll talk about that when I talk about the L2 stuff.
00:14:30.918 - 00:14:59.398, Speaker A: But yeah, I just thought it was funny that Arthur Hayes came around here. So a really great thread from swag to miss prime here talking about the implications of EIP 1559. And he compares it to like the BNB burns that binance does. And he basically gives some estimates about how much ETH will be burned per day. I think his estimates might be a little high here. I don't think ETH is doing 28 million to $36 million of fee revenue per day right now. I think it's more like around 2025.
00:14:59.398 - 00:15:33.886, Speaker A: But still, I mean, these are just estimates. At the end of the day, we won't actually know until it's live. But, you know, if we are doing say, $30 million per day, it'll be around a billion dollars per month of ETH burned. Now that is a crazy amount of ETH burned, right? And as he says here, that's about 12,000 to 15,000 ETH per day at current prices. And then he's saying, you know, this is at current prices, right, of $2,400. What about, you know, when we go higher and higher here, when you think about that? And then when you go to, when we, when we do the merge and we shut off proof of work and we go to proof of stake and we cut issuance by like 95%. I mean, and then we're just burning more, Ethan.
00:15:33.886 - 00:15:51.762, Speaker A: We're issuing and it becomes deflationary. I know. You know, I sound like a broken record when I talk about this, and I'm sure you hear this all the time on bankless. If, you know, I know a lot of you watch and listen to bankless, and you. And you hear it all the time on Twitter. But I just really don't think people understand the implications of this narrative. Right.
00:15:51.762 - 00:16:14.016, Speaker A: If you think that the bitcoin narrative of having a supply cap is very powerful, which I believe it is, like, from a narrative point of view, don't worry about anything else. Just think about the narrative. You know, you can say to someone, well, you know, there's never going to be more than 21 million of them. All of these are lost, right? And this is like the free flow of the supply. And, you know, every year it halves, sort of thing. People buy into that. People love that.
00:16:14.016 - 00:16:46.314, Speaker A: Now, imagine telling them that ETH is deflationary, right, and deflationary, like, all the time. Like. Like every day, right? Because there might be some days we pay less fees than others, but if the fees are consistently high, which I believe they will be on layer one for the foreseeable future, if not forever, then we're going to be burning more ether than we're issuing. So, I mean, and you see the meme of ultrasound money. People like to make fun of it, but, like, you can make fun of it all you want. At the end of the day, there is to no stopping ETH from going deflationary. And that, to me, is the most powerful narrative ever.
00:16:46.314 - 00:17:11.520, Speaker A: You can imagine everyone outside of the Ethereum ecosystem talking about this. I actually. I've actually seen so many people that used to be bearish on ETH come around purely because of 1559. They see that and they're like, okay, they do the math, right? You don't even have to have faith here. You literally just need to do the math. You say, okay, what's the percentage of pos issuance once the merge goes through? Currently, it's, like, less than 0.5%. That's basically nothing.
00:17:11.520 - 00:17:34.776, Speaker A: That's gonna be less than bitcoin. Bitcoin won't get up to that for, I think, another two harbingers. Or get down to that. Sorry, I should say. Right, okay, how many. How much fee revenue is being generated by the Ethereum network? And what's, like, the moving average of this fee revenue? So how long has it been doing this for as well? It's been doing it for almost a year now of, like, pretty large fee revenue. Okay, so, like, how much of that is gonna be burned in 1559? Let's do some, like, estimates.
00:17:34.776 - 00:17:51.884, Speaker A: Here, make some, some kind of, like, I guess, guesses here sort of thing or some I also word I'm looking for, basically. Yeah, guesses. I mean, you have to make some assumptions. That's the word I'm looking for. You have to make some assumptions here. But anyway, let's do that. Okay, well, that means this much ETH is being burned each day from fees.
00:17:51.884 - 00:18:21.480, Speaker A: This much ETH is being issued each day, and if there's more burn than issuance, it goes negative. And then they realize, holy shit, this is massive. It is massive. It is absolutely massive. And if bitcoin was more open to changing itself. Right, and to actually adding things to it, I guarantee you bitcoin would have a fee burn implemented because it is so bullish for the asset. Like, I just, I mean, you know, I used to think in 2019 when, when I was talking about this, because ERP 15 nine has been around for a long time, you know, 2019 and 2020, you know, early 2020.
00:18:21.480 - 00:19:06.540, Speaker A: I was talking to a lot of my Ethereum friends about this and we're like, we were like, how is this not going to lead to, like, a substantial value accrual to ETH? Like, just doing the math. And even back then when the fees were low, we, we kind of said to ourselves, we're like, okay, well, if d five takes off, then the fees are going to get higher because we can see the scalability challenges. And, you know, we were just doing the math back then. We, and we were kind of like doubting ourselves, too. We're like, are we crazy for thinking this? But, you know, we're not. And now so many people are seeing this, and this is, this is a major reason why I, a lot of the people I know and myself are buying ETH in the bear market, especially during 2019 and 2020. We just saw this and we were like, you know, we know it's going to take a while to play out, but once it does, this is going to be absolutely, you know, game changing.
00:19:06.540 - 00:19:52.302, Speaker A: It is going to change, and this is what's going to lead to the flippening. I truly believe that Ethereum will flip bitcoin in value because of these two things. The merger dropping issuance down to 0.5% or less under proof of stake and 1559 burning ETH as fees. So, yeah, I mean, I know I'm being, like, really bullish right now, but I mean, every time I go through this in my head and do all the maths, like, I just, I can't help but be bullish right at the end of the day. So, anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that because I don't want to ramble too much on about that, because you guys have heard this a million times. But I just, I think that when you're selling ethereum as a platform and ETH as an asset to people, not as investment advice, but just telling them why it's valuable, just point to this, right? Just say the actual utility of the network drives.
00:19:52.302 - 00:20:25.134, Speaker A: I mean, will drive, once 1559 is implemented, will drive direct value to the token burning, you know, a majority of it out of supply, forever, mind you, leading to deflationary pressure on ETH. And then a lot of people that I've spoken to about this take a little bit. I mean, it depends how new they are. They take a little bit of time to get it, but they get it and they're like, holy crap. Like, why is Ethereum still number two to bitcoin? Right? So anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. Go read this thread if you want to kind of, like, read the full thread from, from swaggy Miss prime here. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:20:25.134 - 00:20:44.562, Speaker A: So Stani from Abe put out an interesting tweet here where he basically said, recipe for protocol builders. And he put, he lays out four steps here. You can either solve it mathematically. If you can't do that, you solve it optimistically. If you can't do that, you solve it by governance. If you can't do that, don't solve it. Just let it be.
00:20:44.562 - 00:21:30.564, Speaker A: So when you look at different protocols within the ethereum ecosystem, and you look at the different problems that they have, right, right. You kind of think to yourself, well, okay, like, how do we solve this? If you can't solve it with pure math or cryptography, then you need to solve it some other way. So then you go, okay, how do we solve it? Optimistically. Now, what, what optimistically means is like, okay, how do we solve it? Using maths and cryptography, but by. By solving it optimistically, we assume rational actors. So I would put proof of work and proof of stake into this, where we assume that proof of work minors and proof of stake stakers are rational enough not to get themselves kind of, like, slashed in proof of stake and not to lose money or opportunity cost improve of work by kind of attacking the network. Right? Because we can't solve it with pure cryptography, we have to add crypto economics into it.
00:21:30.564 - 00:22:32.076, Speaker A: And for those of you who listen to Justin Drake's podcast on bankless, you'll know exactly what I'm talking about. If you haven't, I suggest going and listening to that. Okay? And then next, if you can't solve it purely with cryptography or maths or purely with cryptography maps, and optimistically, then you can solve it with human governance, right? So governance being like, you know, token holder voting, where we've seen a lot of Defi protocols, you know, off chain kind of like signaling things like that. And then if you can't solve it with that, just let it be because you can't solve it at the end of the day. So I think maybe the order of operations maybe is a bit, I wouldn't say out of whack here, but I would say that there's maybe a step zero here where you, like, I've explained this before, how I think, like, the layer zero of these systems are people. So at the end of the day, you know, even if you're solving it with pure cryptography and math, the people can still change the system. Because if enough people agree to change their node software, right, or change their mining software, then the network will change to that state.
00:22:32.076 - 00:22:47.504, Speaker A: We just saw this play out with Berlin. Enough of the community agreed. Right. The majority pretty much agreed. Okay, we're gonna fork to Berlin and we're gonna upgrade the network, and that's. That's gonna be the new rules of the protocol. So there are certain upgrades that never go through, right, or AIP's never go through.
00:22:47.504 - 00:23:26.308, Speaker A: Remember progpower, for example? The only reason prog pal didn't go through is because of the human social layout. Humans blocked it because ethereum does not have on chain governance. So for ethereum, I mean, the other systems do have on chain governance. So I guess maybe this makes sense for them. But for ethereum, definitely step zero here, or at least number zero, is the fact that we have this extremely strong social governance layer that is like, I guess, like the key to it all. At the end of the day, I mean, I truly believe that having a strong social layer is the key to these systems. And if you don't have that, then you are not going to be anywhere near as decentralized or as strong as a kind of ecosystem as you want to be.
00:23:26.308 - 00:24:01.334, Speaker A: So, yeah, interesting tweet from Stani, but I'll leave it at that for now. So onto L2 stuff. Dy DX is absolutely exploding in growth here. It's only been ten days since their public release, and they're already doing over $27 million of 24 hours trading volume, with only five assets available to trade so far. I mean, they're gonna, as I've said before, they've announced they're gonna be adding two assets per week here. So I expect this trading volume to grow pretty quickly. I mean, I've talked about this plenty of times, so I won't dawdle on this too much, but I wouldn't be surprised to see this at 100 million plus within the next couple of weeks, depending on what assets they add as well.
00:24:01.334 - 00:24:26.478, Speaker A: As I said, I think they're going to add all the Coinbase assets first because it's a regulatory shield there. But yeah, great to see Ethereum scaling here on DYDX. Next up, we have immutable, who tweeted out today that $1.3 million in gas fees has already been saved by users of the immutable X platform. This is just absolutely awesome, right? I mean, gas fees are still like. Gas fees went down for a bit because of flashbots. They're actually up again.
00:24:26.478 - 00:24:37.684, Speaker A: I can see here like, they're almost at 300. I do wonder why. I mean, maybe. Is the ETH price crashing right now? I don't know. Maybe if I check up here. No, the 8th price doesn't seem to be crashing. There's not much volatility in the markets.
00:24:37.684 - 00:24:51.948, Speaker A: You know, I wonder why that is. Maybe there's some new, like, thing for people to ape into. Whatever. Regardless of that, the fact that immutable X has been live for a week now, maybe. Yeah. The last seven days, they've saved people a $1.3 million worth of gas fees already.
00:24:51.948 - 00:25:08.244, Speaker A: This is the power of L2. This is the power of Ethereum scaling. And this is what people are going to see. And users are going to see users. Users ideally, are never going to have to see gas fees like end users. They're never going to be on layer one, which is what we need to get to. So, I mean, just, just more Ethereum scaling here.
00:25:08.244 - 00:25:31.292, Speaker A: And on that note, bankless put out an awesome newsletter today called seven things you can do on Ethereum L2. You can go check this out. It'll link to the YouTube description. Basically. Basically, they list, you know, seven things you can do here. You can borrow a lend on Aave, which is on polygon, trade perps on Dy DX, which is obviously what I just talked about. They're on L2 using starkware, stake SNX on synthetix, which is on optimism.
00:25:31.292 - 00:25:54.612, Speaker A: Guild farm on loop ring, which have their own kind of technology. And I've spoken about loop ring, you know, many times trade on diversify which is built on star Quest technology, donate on git coin using Zksync, or stream money on superfluid. Now, I actually don't know which L2 superfluid is built on here. I'm trying to think right now. I actually want to know. Like, I'm curious. I'm just gonna go.
00:25:54.612 - 00:26:13.180, Speaker A: I'm just gonna scroll through this newsletter here. This is packed, by the way. This is, this is awesome to see, but I'm curious of what suit. Okay, yeah, I suspected as much. They're using x die and polygon here, so, yeah, that's, that's, that's, that's cool to see there as well. So, yeah, this is all the things you can do right now using the different Ethereum scaling solution. So definitely go check out the newsletter as I just showed.
00:26:13.180 - 00:26:39.024, Speaker A: It's, it's packed. You need to go check it out and need to go do all this, because the only real way to understand the power of L2, I believe, is to actually use it. And I would say there's something here for everyone, right? If you have SNX, you can go stake it, which I'm sure a lot of you have probably done already. If you borrow and lend, you can go and do it on Aave trade, you know, on loop ring diversify or dy DX here. And I'm sure a lot of you have used Zksync on Gitcoin to donate. So. Yeah, go check this out, if you haven't already.
00:26:39.024 - 00:27:25.306, Speaker A: So the Chainlink 2.0 whitepaper has been released here, and it is a big one. I am not going to read through the white paper or even go over the majority of what's happening here, because it is 136 pages along, as Chainlink God says here. He basically points out the key areas of focus, including hybrid smart contracts, abstracting way complexity, scaling, confidentiality, order fairness for transactions, trust minimization, incentive based crypto economic security. And then he links a bunch of different images here. Now, because this is a white paper, it is extremely technical. I highly suggest going and following chain link God because he has promised that he's going to do a thread here in due time, which I'm sure he's will, because he is a, you know, he is to chain link what I am to ethereum.
00:27:25.306 - 00:27:54.010, Speaker A: I would say so. Definitely my favorite follow in the, in the chain link community here. But yeah, this looks to be huge. I mean, I know Chainlink gets a lot of kind of like, flak because of, I guess, like their community being the, quote, unquote, green frogs. And I think that's misguided. Honestly, I've actually disagreed with other ethereums about this for a long time now. I don't think that the green frog community, you know, just because they really bullish on it and they're like, a lot of them are anon, I don't think that makes project a bad thing.
00:27:54.010 - 00:28:26.092, Speaker A: Yes, I know the token, you know, has gone up a lot in value in the past, and right now there's not much use of the token, right. Because you can't stake with it and things like that. But I don't think that's an issue. Right. I think, you know, why does, why does chain link get such a, such a hard time for this when there's so many defi tokens within crypto that do nothing? Uni does nothing right now. Like, it's a governance token, right? At the end of the day, it doesn't capture fee revenue or anything like, yes, you can vote in governance and things like that, but I mean, at the end of the day, like, how important is that to people? Is it actually worth as much as it is? No. People are bidding up uni.
00:28:26.092 - 00:28:49.454, Speaker A: I mean, one reason people are beating it up is because of the fear of when you're being, I guess, turned on in the future. So why is that any different to people buying link? Because they believe that staking will be implemented in the future, there'll be a more value accrual going to link in the future. So, yeah, I just, I never really got that then. I don't even hold any link tokens. I'm not just trying to pump my bags here. I just, I like to call out things as I see them. And, yeah, I just didn't think it was fair.
00:28:49.454 - 00:29:19.244, Speaker A: And, you know, chain link God is, as I said, he's one of my favorite follows. I mean, he is my favorite follower in the chain link community. He always puts out, like, really great information. He's always objective about it. He's not, you know, putting out misinformation or fake stuff as far as I can see. So I really, I just don't get the flack here. Like, I mean, I wish we had someone as dedicated as chainling God to a theory on besides, you know, you know, I mean, I would actually say, like, he's even more dedicated to chain link than, than I am to Ethereum and to some of the other people that are to Ethereum.
00:29:19.244 - 00:29:57.464, Speaker A: He's just an absolute machine with the threads that he does. The information that he puts out on, especially on Twitter to, to correct a lot of misinformation as well. But anyway, I'm not, I'm not going to shield chainlinkard too hard here. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of clear that up there. If you're someone who loves reading technical papers, definitely go check out this 136 page white paper here. If not, you can wait for chain link gods thread which I will be sure to retweet at the time and I'll be sure to cover on the refuel as well. So Santiago put out a great tweet today where he basically says, every interview they ask me why crypto is reaching all time highs, which is underwhelming.
00:29:57.464 - 00:30:43.654, Speaker A: Instead of price talk, let's discuss how Ethereum, a six year old network, has grown into the largest open source developer community, which makes it all time high human capital. There is 2325 active devs, which is a figure which has grown 215% in the last three years. Now I think when he says the largest open source development community, he may have meant within crypto because I think it's not within the world. Like the largest open source developer community is definitely the Linux community. But other than that, I think he's right in that you bet on the builders at the end of the day, like that's what I bet on. You bet on the talent and the mind share. And not just the developers, the technical developers, but also the builders in different areas like marketing and growth and business development and design, all that sort of good stuff there.
00:30:43.654 - 00:31:27.174, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean when you look at that there is like, I think there's a chart that shows where the other networks are and they're like in a distant kind of like 2nd, 3rd, 4th. They're not even close to Ethereum and a lot of them are actually going to be building using Ethereum's kind of tooling and smart contracts at languages like solidity because they want to be EVM compatible, because they can't get traction without being EVM compatible, which has a little bit of a hilarious irony to it, I think. But yeah, great tweet from santiago here. I won't spend too much on this because I know I'm running out of time here and there's one more thing I want to talk about. But basically, yeah, this is, I mean this is my, one of my main investment thesis for ETH and the Ethereum ecosystem in general. So yeah, great, great tweet here. All right, lastly, we have the index co op has a new vote.
00:31:27.174 - 00:31:56.698, Speaker A: Live to vote on a BTC two X fly. So for those of you who have the ETH fly, I guess like index that you, that you can buy from token sets, you'll know that that gives you, it gives you basically leveraged exposure to ETH or automated leverage exposure. Now there's going to be a bitcoin one that's being put through the governance process. So if you hold index tokens, you can go vote on that right now. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, of course, for you to go do. So this is cool. I think, you know, after BTC, I would hope to see like maybe a DPI leveraged index as well.
00:31:56.698 - 00:32:20.104, Speaker A: That would be pretty, pretty dope. And then after that, like a bunch of other ones for different tokens. I think these automated leverage kind of index tokens are going to be very, very popular. I mean, the fly is already out. The ETH fly is already at $30 million or something like that of TVL. So yeah, I hope to see more of these kind of coming to market. But yeah, if you have, if you have index tokens, definitely go vote on this here.
00:32:20.104 - 00:32:32.134, Speaker A: All right, that was a long one today. Thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
