00:00:00.160 - 00:00:45.354, Speaker A: This is one thing that's quite interesting to actually conceptualize Athena maybe differently from the way that we positioned it as a synthetic dollar, which is you can actually just think about it as almost like an interest rate arbitrage vehicle between DeFi, CFI and tradfi, where you've got disparate interest rates which often are quite out of line by up to 1000 basis points at times. And it doesn't make a lot of sense where there are periods in the last few weeks that you could put down collateral on maker, borrow at 6%, and then put it into Athena at 60. That type of discrepancy makes like zero sense. And so really you can think of actually Athena as just being a vehicle which forces these interest rates to converge. And the supply of USD is just the bouncing item that makes it all sort of come together.
00:00:48.134 - 00:01:33.038, Speaker B: Welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm Defi dad here with nomadic from four rc. Today's show spotlights a recap of Athena's launch since early February, which has led to this Defi giant commanding 1.4 billion in total value. Locked in this episode, we speak with Athena founder Guy Young about what's made Athena so successful right out of the gate, the impact of the Athena effect on Defi, and what to know about their recent token launch. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible. Introducing flat money, the first decentralized delta neutral flatcoin built on base with sustainable yield that's completely untethered from legacy finance.
00:01:33.038 - 00:02:08.978, Speaker B: Because Defi needs an uncensorable based unit of currency, you can mint unit with Reth, which is held in the protocol's shared liquidity pool, where it's borrowed by leveraged traders. As a leveraged trader, you can deposit your margin collateral and go long on re. If you're trading in the perpetual futures market, you'll pay unit holders to open leverage positions. If you're holding unit, you'll earn yield from liquidations, borrow rate and trading fees, preserve your purchasing power, and offset your exposure to crypto market volatility. Learn more at flat money restaking summer.
00:02:09.026 - 00:02:53.694, Speaker C: Is dawning and swell is expanding. Harnessing the power of r suite, swell is building the L2 for liquid restaking. That means native restaking yield on a chain built with polygons, Zkevm technology in collaboration with Alt layer Chainlink and Eigen Da. Look out for swells. Layer two in Swell city. Introducing the mantle liquid staking protocol. Mantle LSP, a permissionless, non custodial ETH liquid staking protocol deployed on ethereum l one and governed by mantle.
00:02:53.694 - 00:03:17.466, Speaker C: With mantle LSP, users can stake ETH to instantly receive me, earn, yield, and accumulate rewards. The longer you stake meth is the value accumulating receipt token that will give you access to expanded yield opportunities. Stake and watch your yield grow with mantle Lsp introducing kelp Dao, the first.
00:03:17.530 - 00:03:51.184, Speaker B: Liquid restaking platform for lsts. With kelp, anyone can deposit steth by lido, ethex by stator or sf, rx ETH by Frax, and mint, a liquid restaking token called rseth. With rseth, you can participate in your favorite DeFi platforms and get 100% of all Eigen lair points plus kelp miles. A fresh wave of restaking is here. Restaking that's liquid, rewarding, and convenient. Learn more today at Kelpdao XYZ Restake.
00:03:52.614 - 00:04:33.934, Speaker D: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blockers standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multi chain UX, redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas. One gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC. And native access to instadapp's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:04:34.754 - 00:04:40.434, Speaker B: All right, let's introduce Guy Young, the founder of Athena. Guy, welcome back to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:04:40.554 - 00:04:42.034, Speaker A: Good, man. Thanks for having me on.
00:04:42.154 - 00:05:26.164, Speaker B: Part of the reason we're here today is we really just want to have a catch up with you about what some are calling the Athena effect on Defi. Would love to just kind of reflect on, like, probably the most epic launch we've seen in Defi in a few years. And I know that we're also just looking to just better understand the mechanics of the protocol and kind of address some frequently asked questions that we're hearing from listeners and users. So on that note, guy, maybe we should kick off then, with just reflecting on the launch itself. Any thoughts you have on how it went, maybe what made you so successful and how that's propelled you to where you are now?
00:05:26.284 - 00:06:22.450, Speaker A: Yeah, I think from our perspective, we thought it went okay. There were a lot of bits that we could have definitely done better. So I think myself especially, and the rest of the team was getting used to actually being publicly facing with the protocol. So it's very different when you're interfacing with 100,000 people rather than 100, which is where we were when we last spoke, and a lot of the communication that we put out, I think in the first couple of weeks, we could have definitely improved on in terms of how we're thinking about the insurance fund or the yield payments, that kind of stuff. Otherwise, yeah, I think we also just need to recognize that the market conditions around our launch were just incredibly favorable. So there was a huge piece of luck that came into that as well, where I think when we had our first chat, funding was somewhere between 15% to 20%, and it obviously blew out to 40 to 60 in the weeks just immediately following the launch. So, yeah, I think we recognize that.
00:06:22.450 - 00:06:30.306, Speaker A: Obviously market conditions were very much in our favor for the launch itself, but, yeah, reasonably happy with how it's gone over the last few weeks.
00:06:30.370 - 00:07:01.318, Speaker B: Maybe we can also recap just some of the milestones. So I'm just reading off of the Athena Phi website, but there's 1.4 billion I mentioned, which refers to the market cap here of S U S d e. Whoa. Can't spell today. And then the yield based on the last seven day average is 30.2%. It's been as high as 60 or 70% at times, which I definitely would give credit to.
00:07:01.318 - 00:07:22.766, Speaker B: Like, that's been a driving force in terms of drawing more attention to Athena and incentivizing folks to want to participate early. And then it looks like there's about 96,000 users. I'm guessing that's unique wallets that have interacted with Athena. So I guess. What are your thoughts on that? Are you satisfied with this? Did this exceed your expectations?
00:07:22.950 - 00:08:28.060, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I think we're obviously happy with the outcome. I think there was a little bit of caution on our side, because I think a lot of what we're doing was net new. That is, we hadn't really actually seen a product like this scale and actually try and connect pieces of Defi and CPI in the same way that we had before. And so we just wanted to try and be a little bit cautious around it when we actually did the rollout of the product, because there's not only first order implications of our effect on funding rates on CeFi, but actually ripple effects that start to occur through the rest of DeFi. And so we just tried to do things in a controlled and slow way when we came out, but I've been happy that we sort of executed on that without too many issues falling out. So, yeah, I think, from our perspective, very happy with how it went. I think the one piece that was actually quite surprising to me was actually, the willingness and openness of other DeFi applications which have been around for years and are projects and teams that we at Athena look up to and have an enormous amount of respect for immediately being interested in what we're doing, and I think recognizing the opportunity that was there for them.
00:08:28.060 - 00:09:24.962, Speaker A: So even just as one example, to see Makerdao come out, which has been traditionally a project that hasn't done that too much, that's on the cutting edge and new, traditionally, being pretty conservative in the way that they approach things, to see people like Roon come out and actually recognize the value that something like USD could actually bring to maker was pretty, I think, mind boggling for us as a team to see that so early. And I think we've seen that across most of Defi, whether it's Prax putting Athena on its roadmap as well curve, and a lot of the lending infrastructure that sits around Aubai and some of the other money markets, immediately engaging with SVSD, and then even some of the perp dexs who are now looking to use it as collateral to margin perps on their platforms, I think we've been just blown away by the openness of DeFi to basically engage with the asset. And obviously that makes us pretty happy that there's other people who find the product as interesting as we do.
00:09:25.018 - 00:09:38.098, Speaker B: Do you think you can explain the significance of Makerdao raising the die savings rate? I guess, why is that? And I guess, how does that roll up into this thing I referred to as the Athena effect?
00:09:38.226 - 00:10:43.348, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I think also, maybe I'll just point out that I think Athena might have had some impact on the margin on some of these pieces. But I think Athena's not like the only reason that we saw some of those changes. I think that they were going to happen with or without Athena actually being there. So I think the backstory on maker in particular was that they'd held the DSR, which you can think of that as just basically the borrow rate on DAI within maker at 5%, when really rates within DeFi, across Harbey or other lending platforms had pushed beyond ten to 15% or even above 20 for a few weeks. So really maker was trading behind them quite a bit for a few weeks. And then I think once you start to see actually perp funding rates move to the numbers that you were mentioning at the beginning of the chat, when its in the sort of 40% to 60% range, theres obviously a connection that actually occurs between DeFi and CeFi, where this is like, even aside from Athena, you have some of the largest trading firms in the space just putting down collateral onto Aave, borrowing dollars, and then going and doing the cash and carry themselves. And so I think that change was going to occur regardless of whether Athena was there or not.
00:10:43.348 - 00:11:34.728, Speaker A: I think its just that people made that connection a little bit easier between c five rates and DeFi. And I think actually, this is one thing thats quite interesting to actually conceptualize Athena maybe differently from the way that we positioned it as a synthetic dollar, which is you can actually just think about it as almost like an interest rate arbitrage vehicle between DeFi, CFI and tradfi, where youve got disparate interest rates, which often are quite out of line by up to 1000 basis points at times. And it doesnt make a lot of sense where there are periods in the last few weeks you could put down collateral on maker, borrow at 6%, and then put it into Athena at 60. That type of discrepancy makes $0.00. And so really you can think of actually Athena as just being a vehicle which forces these interest rates to converge. And the supply of USD is just the bouncing item that makes it all sort of come together.
00:11:34.856 - 00:12:21.488, Speaker B: I think the market has firmly established that we're in a bull trend. What comes with that, of course, is funding rates that tend to pay out to shorts, and those have continued to grow. And that, of course, has been great for this tokenized basis trade that we can access through Athena, I guess. What do you think in terms of, will these funding rates persist? I know that there's been a lot of modeling that was done before the protocol went live about what happens when those rates go down. So, yeah, what are your thoughts there in terms of where we are? And eventually, when rates do come down, how will that affect Athena?
00:12:21.656 - 00:13:35.346, Speaker A: Yeah, I think maybe I could just speak at a high level in terms of structurally, what might look different this cycle versus last cycle, because it's impossible for us to say these interest rates are going to be here for x period of time. I think my general perspective on things is that there are very good reasons for why funding within the market is actually elevated and structurally higher than youve seen in the past. One example I can just give you here is actually, if you think of all the CFI entities that used to exist last cycle that blew up. So Celsius, Blockfi, and then some of the lending that you saw from Genesis, really like the flow of funds that was occurring there, was, they were taking in dollars from retail, paying out an interest rate to retail to provide dollars and then actually lending that capital to hedge funds who are putting on the same sort of transaction that youre seeing with Athena right now. Equally, you saw borrowed lend platforms taking worse forms of collateral that isnt really accepted within the market now. So one example could be the GBtc type of cash and carries that you were seeing last cycle, where again, youre just missing a huge piece of the balance sheet of the crypto capital markets now, where all of those entities have disappeared and there isnt a supply of dollars that can actually come in to provide that short side liquidity. Theres really a huge piece of the market now thats actually missing to sit on the other side of that trade.
00:13:35.346 - 00:14:36.796, Speaker A: And so when you see the bullishness return to the market, as we have seen with the ETF's, there really isnt actually a dollar supply shortage within the market to actually address that. So thats a big piece thats structurally different from last cycle, which is important to remember. I think the other piece to just think about is when BTC and ETH get larger through every cycle, they struggle to put on multiples in the same way that they did before. So as assets get bigger in the market caps, the realized volatility tends to fall. And so people within crypto, if you feel like you still need the same amount of outright return that you saw as holding spot last cycle, you actually need to apply a little bit of leverage to the cycle to get the same outcome on a post leverage beta. And so I think ive even seen that anecdotally myself, the way that im managing my own funds or even friends, is that ETH doesnt move as much as it did last cycle. And you feel like you need to own it on a little bit of leverage with perhaps which just has this natural flow of increasing rates in the system as well.
00:14:36.796 - 00:15:29.554, Speaker A: So as a broad bucket, I think that theres a couple of good reasons for why youve actually seen funding elevated. And actually its quite, just taking one step back. Its actually quite rational to see funding rates of these levels if you actually believe that the underlying asset is going to move as much as it has moved with ETF news at the moment. So people were paying 50, 60, 70% funding on BTC in Q four of last year, but bitcoin doubled going into the ETF. And so that was actually a rational trade to make because you had such a strong view on how the underlying was going to move. And so we just have such strong bullish news that's coming around ETF's that actually, high interest rates can actually be rationalized if you have that sort of directional view to get along. So I think maybe just ciphering back to the original question, which is how do we actually respond when that does subside? Because obviously it's not going to continue forever.
00:15:29.554 - 00:16:17.238, Speaker A: I think structurally there tends to be a spread of perp funding versus borrow rates and the rest of DeFi. And so historically, even through the bear markets, you are still earning more in c five than you are in DeFi when things do collapse. And so theres always this natural spread where even if we do go down, the competition and the hurdle rates of returns tend to track down at the same rate. The other thing to just remember is that actually, as I was alluding to earlier, the supply of USD is really just responding to market forces. If interest rates go down and people dont want to hold the product at a lower interest rate, thats fine. Theyre going to sell out of the product and go into something else, which has that natural effect of lifting short interest and allowing the funding to rebut. Our philosophical view on these things is that the market forces are the market forces.
00:16:17.238 - 00:16:29.560, Speaker A: You never one step in front of them. All we have to do is put the infrastructure in place so that we can respond to those interest rates. And if there's a lower demand, then USD will fall and there's nothing that we can sort of do to stand abundant.
00:16:29.592 - 00:16:56.868, Speaker B: That before we talk about the shard campaign pendle and the future token, there's a few concerns or frequently asked questions that we identified from users that I'd love to have you just quickly address. So these are kind of like rapid fire responses. One of those was, I can do the trade myself, I guess. How do you respond to folks who say, I can do this delta neutral trade myself?
00:16:56.996 - 00:17:45.942, Speaker A: Yeah, the answer is you can do it yourself, and there's nothing stopping you from actually doing it. I think what people forget is that actually doing it yourself or the trade is not actually what's interesting about Athena at all. Anyone can do it. What is actually interesting is that when you tokenize that into an instrument that can actually then compose with the rest of defi, thats when you start to unlock all the magical things that you cant do if youre just doing it on your side. So some of the largest holders who are sitting in USD now are some of the most professional trading funds in the space, who are actually probably doing the cash and carry even better than Athena is doing. But the magic really starts to happen when you can take that asset with SEO Ste, you can put it onto Aave, then you can borrow dollars against it, you can lever it up, you can put it into an amm, you can pair it with SDK. All of these different things that are not possible when youre just doing this on your own accounts in one S x.
00:17:45.942 - 00:18:48.136, Speaker A: And then I think a huge unlock as well, which is going to be a pretty big piece for us going forward, is actually just thinking about SDSD as margin collateral on centralized exchanges and indexes as well, where theres around $20 billion of tethered demand, where the only demand is actually just a marginal linear perpetual. And so for us, at least for trading firms who are actually focused on capital efficiency, granting them an ability to actually extract 10%, 20% north of that percent yield on the collateral that theyre actually using to trade is a really big deal actually for them in terms of lost income that they would have otherwise. So we see that as a huge growth area where again, they could be doing this trade themselves. But its actually more interesting than when you build liquidity around a single token. I think the good example here to actually point towards is thinking about Lido, where I could ask the same question and say, you can stake yourself, can't you? And the answer is yes, you can go and sell this stake. But guess what? Everyone's decided to put it into Lido because you can do all these interesting things with it afterwards. So I think that's like a reasonable analogy to draw.
00:18:48.200 - 00:19:40.328, Speaker B: Well said. Yeah, that's what drew me in originally. It's the composability and whether or not you could do that trade yourself, I wouldn't count myself in that group. Being able to use that and all the different DeFi opportunities is where the real value's out there. Another concern that came up is I recall as we were talking in the last podcast and as you were launching, there was more of a framing of USD as a synthetic dollar, I guess. How do you think about that since launch? I feel like the language that we saw was more around a tokenized basis trade. So what are your thoughts on that? Is uste still capable of becoming a synthetic stablecoin, or should we refer to it as this tokenized basis trade?
00:19:40.416 - 00:20:45.386, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the honest answer is people can call whatever they want. I think the onus is on us, though, to make sure that we're being clear that it is basically not the same as a fiat stablecoin, which is, that's really what I'm focused on, which is making sure that people understand that the risks are very different. It's not to say something's better or worse, it's just that actually it's different. I think we were quite surprised, I think, on the pushback around that piece in particular because we'd actually been pretty explicit around that, both in the documentation and the way that we were actually speaking on Twitter, where even on the fundraising announcement we said it super clear and actually pointed towards the documentation to outline that even further. I think from my perspective it's quite difficult because actually there's a pretty large design space within stablecoins or dollar denominated assets broadly, where actually you got CDP's that look very different to delta neutral designs that look very different to fiastable coins and all the flavors of different things that we've seen in the past. And we haven't actually really come together as an industry to say this is how we should define them and how we should actually put some parameters around it. So I have pretty clear views on my side around what a stable coin should look like, and it's pretty boring.
00:20:45.386 - 00:21:25.606, Speaker A: It basically looks like PayPal's Pyusd and everything else is a bit mackier beyond that. Yeah, I think from our perspective, we were just quite surprised because you'd seen projects in the past who are doing the exact same thing as Athena on chain, like UXD and Lemma. They called themselves stablecoins. Their investors were writing long shitting pieces talking about them as stable coins, and no one said a word back then. And it seemed to really trigger people when we came out, which I think was slightly surprising from our perspective. I think we've done what we need to announce that to try and make it clear to users that the risks are very different. And if people want to call it a cash and carry or synthetic dollar, whatever they want to call it, we can't really control that.
00:21:25.606 - 00:21:27.926, Speaker A: I think we just need to make the risk there on our side.
00:21:27.990 - 00:22:39.110, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's some PTSD from Terra and Ust. And so when folks first see that 20% to 30% yield, and really it's been much higher than that for most of the time you've been launched since early February, you start to wonder, where does that yield come from? If so, I almost feel like it's a sign of our markets. Despite the stupidity that goes on in a bull run, it seems like folks have gotten a bit smarter in terms of continually questioning, okay, like, how does this thing work? And then you discover, like, wow, the yield is real here. And like, has this always existed? There's so many folks who just didn't realize the opportunity was there. And now, of course, with the timing, I think everything you mentioned with the market structure and some of the things that are a bit different, with lots of perps available on chain now, lots more folks, I think, participating in perps trading and that having effect on driving rates up. It's all been like the perfect storm for really an exciting time. One last concern or question that's come up is there is an insurance fund.
00:22:39.110 - 00:23:04.886, Speaker B: How does it work? Do you think it's sufficient for now also too, maybe you could clarify. My understanding has been that all of the yield hasn't always been paid out since launch. Some of that has been trimmed to build up this insurance fund. That's exciting, if I'm correct about that. It's exciting to know that you've been able to trim some of that and build up the insurance fund.
00:23:04.990 - 00:24:02.868, Speaker A: Yeah, I think at a very basic level, what we're trying to do there is basically just have a pool of capital that sits there to potentially pay for periods of negative funding. So the very basic way to think about this is in the good times, things are so excessive that that yield looks crazy and people don't even need to get paid 60% to sit in something. It's like 20 is pretty good actually return on dollars. And you get these large periods where the return is so excessive that doesnt make sense to basically just trim bit off during the times that are so good and leave something there for like a rainy day when things are not as great. I think one thing to point out around the product is that there is frictional costs for people coming in and out the whole time. So theres obviously transaction costs that occur to execute the hedges and sort of unwind positions as well. And so you want the supply to actually adjust to interest rates, but you dont want it to be going like absolutely crazy because thats also just not like a great user experience, which is like youre coming in one day, its at like 40, and then its like minus ten another day, and you just dont feel comfortable sort of sitting there.
00:24:02.868 - 00:24:32.028, Speaker A: And so all were trying to do is really just take a bit off during the good times and leave some there, the bad times. It doesnt mean that were trying to fix to like an artificial interest rate that were like just plowing leasing money into like you saw with anchor. Its just really there for the moments where things are like low. Youve got a bit of a pot of money there to sort of give users a bit of peace of mind. We feel pretty comfortable with the size of where its at now. It's been accumulating pretty quickly. So you might have seen some of the data and graphs that were coming out from token terminal.
00:24:32.028 - 00:25:09.494, Speaker A: But within even three weeks of our launch, Athena was the highest fee generating app in the whole of crypto. Obviously, when the rates are that crazy, that's going to be a natural outcome of that. And we can't expect that that continues always. But in the period like this, even at small supplies of a billion, it's still producing that much cash that you can capture to that insurance one. And so, yeah, I think from our perspective, we feel pretty comfortable about where it's sitting at the moment. And I think going forward there's a few different levers when we do sort of decentralize with the token to actually think about how we might sort of further capitalize that going down the road.
00:25:09.574 - 00:25:29.948, Speaker B: So part of the launch has been this shard campaign, and I would just replace shard with maybe points, if folks aren't familiar with that. Can you summarize just like how the Shard campaign was designed, how it's gone? And then I'd love to, of course, talk about the impact of Pendle on the Shard campaign.
00:25:30.076 - 00:26:52.636, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the basic design here was that actually what I was getting to earlier about the composability of USD being like what we actually find interesting about this, we just wanted to try and use an incentive to actually get people to take the asset, rather than just buy a dollar and sit there and do absolutely nothing with it, actually take it and start to plug it into different applications. It's also quite useful from a bd perspective, which is if users are excited about our airdrop and the shards and all that stuff, it pushes other applications in DeFi which haven't got the incentive card to play at the moment, to actually be engaging with us and actually listing the asset and doing new and interesting things. We just found it was a really good mechanism to a not only get users using the asset and actually being productive with it in Defi and actually taking it to new applications, but actually quite helpful for us to bridge relationships to new protocols and say we can bring you some TVL with users and excitement and all that kind of stuff, how can we find a way to work together? And so it's pretty incredible, I think, just in terms of the doors that are open to actually do new and interesting things with, whether it's like l two, so looking at native yield within their bridges, all of the money markets and then obviously the dexs as well. So that was really the core intention, which is you get users who are like early believes in the product to use it and actually not just hold it and do nothing with it, but then also start to bridge relationships to other projects where we wanted to build longer term relationships with.
00:26:52.780 - 00:27:44.234, Speaker B: What are your thoughts on the Pendle integration? So if folks are unfamiliar, Pendle has been this hub of speculation around future token launches. It has allowed us to buy these yield tokens, which in the case of Athena, you have a claim on all of the shards that are accrued. So essentially, if I were to buy, let's say, ten yt tokens, I'm speculating on a much larger value than if I were to put my own money to work in there. If I were to put, let's say, 100 USD into Athena or Mint. 100 USD. Actually, it's not that I want to clarify, we're not minting them, we're swapping and buying those. So let's pretend I'm holding 100 USD.
00:27:44.234 - 00:28:23.940, Speaker B: I actually could go and buy these YT tokens and I'm farming with much larger amounts. This has been replicated by lots of other LRT protocols. I think it was actually started with ether Phi. It looks like it's just had an enormous impact like that. That shard campaign, that pool of Pendle users looks like it's always at the limit, whatever the cap is on that, I guess. What are your thoughts on this? Can this opportunity persist after the shard campaign completes? After the token generation event, maybe? What can we look forward to there in the coming months?
00:28:24.052 - 00:29:30.712, Speaker A: Yeah, I think probably just want to open up by saying we as a team and me individually, I have an enormous amount of respect for Pendle as just a project. I think they're probably the best example during this last bear cycle of something that was basically forgotten and left to the wayside and they just continued building through the bear and you've obviously seen their chart looks like this ridiculous sort of pocket stick that came back. So I think they're actually a really good example to everyone, which is continue pushing until you find product market fit and then that's sort of the rule that you find on the other side. Yeah, I think the project is super interesting at a very basic level. All youre doing is exchanging someone who wants to speculate on what that airdrop would be for another user who wants to just lock in a fixed return. The slightly crazy thing about this is that its probably the most degenerate thing you can be doing in the market outside of Solana shitters at $1 million marker gap, because its a multivariate equation which you have no information on, you don't know what the FTV of the project is going to be, you don't know what the supply is going to be, and you don't know how long the campaign is going to run. So there's three important variables which you don't have any information around.
00:29:30.712 - 00:30:46.514, Speaker A: You can only try and benchmark around it. But then it also means that when you have so much uncertainty and unknown items, it also means that people can misprice it pretty dramatically. So you did actually see that a little bit with the Athena pools, where when we came out, we accounted for north of 80% of all trading volume on Pendle, and it was the largest trading day theyd ever had when USD came out and people were looking at it, because the yield got up to almost 200% on USD fixed for a month out, which is slightly insane that you get a guaranteed 10% return in a months time. The interesting bit though, is that because thats optically so high, people are looking at and going, surely I have to be taking this. But then I think when you run the maths of like, because the duration was so short, it could have still made sense for YT buyers on the other side. So it's just like this really interesting game of people speculating. And I think the unspoken thing is that actually YT buyers, in a way, are sort of getting early access to the token before it's actually live and we can have a longer conversation around, potentially, like some unhealthy dynamics that you're seeing in the market with every token just coming out at like 15, $20 million straight out the gate, and no one really having access to see the upside in that.
00:30:46.514 - 00:32:00.146, Speaker A: And there was this interesting way that I think people are trying to get quasi exposure to the token as well. I think beyond the token incentives, actually, the Athena and Pendle matchup is probably one of the most interesting products you're going to see in the next year. So put aside all the points, farming all of the shards and all that stuff, and just assume it's a temporary thing. The idea of basically taking staked ETH and the basis into S USD and then actually selling the yield forward at different maturities, what that is actually doing is creating the first scalable crypto native yield curve in crypto, because you can now actually hedge out forward in time your staked ETH returns, and then also the funding going forward. So you might actually be like a trading fund, whos long a ton of perps, and you actually want to hedge out that risk and actually lock in your perp funding by sort of selling that to someone on the other side within pendle. And this starts to create really interesting interest rate markets that we havent actually seen at any material scale within DeFi before. Part of the issue, why you didnt see that before, was that the markets were too small youd build interest rate swaps and stuff around a small little RB market or a strange Uniswap B three position, and none of these were single scalable instruments that you could actually build infrastructure around.
00:32:00.146 - 00:32:33.438, Speaker A: And if you believe that SUSD can get multiple billions and theres real amounts of yield that you can actually be trading around, that this becomes really the first time that you can start to build all those interesting interest rate swap type products. Aside from the shard type stuff, thats probably one of the more interesting pieces to me about pendulum. I think often its portrayed as this points casino on the outside. But I think if you dig one layer deeper, theres actually something a lot more interesting going on beneath therd, which is unlocking speculation on rates and yields, which is like a huge market in the real world.
00:32:33.526 - 00:33:46.810, Speaker B: It is a great example of bringing together two very different players in the market and having that work in a very symbiotic way. I want to point out, the YT holders that you mentioned, those folks are clearly the more degenerate speculators, and that includes myself and folks that are, whether it was Athena or a lot of the LRT protocols. What was really unique too, with Athena is the fact that we had seen the opportunity play out with lrts. And so you had folks that were buying the PT token, the principal token, which is essentially a discounted version of an LRT, like ETH or puff ETH or whatever, and then that matures to full value. And then, of course, you've earned this pretty substantial yield. I think they've on average been like 20% to 50% APY. And so with Athena, it was exciting to see this work with stablecoins, knowing that, hey, I can get into this without having to lock in a fixed rate with something that's more volatile, like Ian.
00:33:46.810 - 00:34:08.122, Speaker B: So I would imagine this is one of the many, this is one of the first examples, but there will be many after this. Any final thoughts on the Shard campaign in terms of, are there plans to continue the shard campaign after the TGE? Anything you can share in advance?
00:34:08.258 - 00:34:39.213, Speaker A: Yeah, I think when listeners are listening to this. When it drops, the information will be out in the public. But yeah, the idea is actually post TG, we're going to be running a second campaign that looks pretty similar. Were going to be introducing. Its going to be really focused on the new product launches that were coming out with. Bitcoin has actually just been added to Athena as a collateral asset, which is a pretty huge piece for us to actually scale this to beyond $10 billion in size. And thats an exciting piece that were really glad that we can bring to market straight away.
00:34:39.213 - 00:35:12.890, Speaker A: Then there were just a few pieces with how quickly the first campaign went. There are a bunch of different things that we wanted to do and didnt get time to do because it ended so quickly by us getting to a billion in just over a month. So thats integrations with different pep dexes to actually get SUSD as collateral there. Theres different l two s who are focused on yield, where were going to be doing some large campaigns, and then all of the stuff that youve seen around maker and fax. We really want to put a focus into making sure that that goes well because theres a huge opportunities that can sort of really move the needle at size for us.
00:35:13.002 - 00:35:18.370, Speaker B: You're confirming then that Athena will run this basis trade for bitcoin as well?
00:35:18.562 - 00:35:21.746, Speaker A: Yes. It's live as of yesterday. Yeah.
00:35:21.850 - 00:35:23.106, Speaker B: Wow. That's exciting.
00:35:23.210 - 00:35:23.610, Speaker A: Cool.
00:35:23.682 - 00:35:54.146, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we'll have this out in the next few days. So it could be announced by then. But yeah, just learning that live here on the podcast had no idea that that was coming. Speculated that that was coming. Guy, do you think Athena will ever run the basis trade with one of the lrts? Obviously, this can be used with other assets and I absolutely understand why you would prioritize bitcoin next. It is the most liquid crypto asset and it has the largest market.
00:35:54.250 - 00:37:07.054, Speaker A: Yeah, I think its obviously an area that we need to put some thought into because its obviously going to be a big and important piece of the market going forward. The problem here is just one around liquidity and actually getting that down as collateral. It was actually quite a big effort to actually even get exchanges to think about staked ETH, and that was a multi year process with them building hundreds of millions of dollars of liquidity on chain before that even became a real question. Part of the issue that I have, or concern at least, is that the LRT market, I think is going to be a lot more fragmented than you saw with lsts, where you really had lido as a dominant player there, where you could actually focus liquidity around. And as a result of that, the more and more llts that you see, the less and less likely it actually becomes that we can focus on one of them, build liquidity around, and then use it as collateral in new and interesting ways. Having said that, and then I would also just say philosophically, we want to keep USD pretty much as simple and safe as possible. Theres obviously a bunch of different financial risks around it and adding more risk to the randomities, the trade off, it starts to not make sense unless you think you can do it at 510 billion dollars its size just relative to where we are and the opportunity that sits there with just Ethan, BTC and potentially Solana as well.
00:37:07.054 - 00:37:52.086, Speaker A: I think our perspective is we're looking at doing things that might be separate side products that sit outside of USD itself. So you can actually try set up vaults essentially, where you can put in dollars, which we then in the backend convert into something like either fire's liquid resetting token and then use that in the background with some of the extra collateral that sits there to potentially put on a hedge which is locked for a period of time. This is just something that were ideating with at the moment. Were going to put it out for community feedback at some point in time. And we havent made any strong decisions around how we do that. But I think the teams perspective at least is that you want to keep the risk of LRT outside of the core product itself for the moment, because we just want to keep that as safe and secure as possible.
00:37:52.190 - 00:38:08.590, Speaker B: Hey, can you remind us which chains is Usde available on now? I know, ethanol, ETH, mainnet, any other l two s or l one s? And then can you share where Athena might prioritize launching USDe next?
00:38:08.702 - 00:38:48.200, Speaker A: Yeah. So on ether one we announced we're using layer Zero's of t to actually transport USD to different chains pretty seamlessly. And that's using Axelar as one of the dBNs as well. The idea there is we're going to be doing a pretty strong push into mantle. You've had on the show a couple of times and we've sort of discussed the partnerships that we have there. Theres Manta Czarket and a few of the newer chains who are coming out with a focus on yield and theyre going to be using USC within their infrastructure to try and support dollar denominated yield. And then I think when the time is right, theres obviously just a natural interest to be on some of the bigger L2s, like arbitrary and optimism.
00:38:48.200 - 00:39:03.810, Speaker A: And once we get around to the Solana collateral that actually sits within Athena. So I think after adding bitcoin collateral, Solana now is actually the size of where it makes sense for us to devote some resources to it. I think that we'd look to expand to Solana as well.
00:39:03.922 - 00:39:16.226, Speaker B: Guy, if anyone's been listening to the podcast up until now, they've got to be wondering about the future token. So what can you tell us about the Athena token and when will it be generated?
00:39:16.370 - 00:40:09.264, Speaker A: Yeah, I think by the time people are listening to the show, we'll have something out which just has a bit of the details around the government's token. So that's going to be launching on the 2 April. The idea here is that theres obviously quite a bit of decision making that actually youd want to decentralize within the system. So a lot of the commentary that youve seen on Twitter around the composition of the insurance fund, how much is actually going into the insurance fund, how we think about the collateral backing between different lsts, different products like lrts that youre describing composition with bitcoin versus ethereum, all these different things, these are actually things that we sort of want to leverage the communities input to actually help support manage as well. So yeah, the idea is that we'll come out with a token. We're going to be doing the second season of the incentives that I mentioned alongside that. And yeah, there's, I think, really interesting ways that the token can actually get involved with the governance decision making within it going forward.
00:40:09.264 - 00:41:02.884, Speaker A: And then, yeah, in terms of plans after that, I think we sort of touched on the main ones, but really from our perspective, it's like continuing doing more of the same to just grow the scale. So at the moment were around 14% of all ETH open interest globally within Athena. I think when you start to get to 30% to 40%, you start to push up to boundaries which have some constraints around the product itself. And so were just basically going to be opening up capacity with new collateral assets like bitcoin and then eventually Solana and then bringing USD to different chains and different applications where really in the first season of the incentives, it was the first step. So trying to get onto Aave, integrating with maker Morpho, all those different types of things, it was really a first step that was made. And now the second one is going to be really pushing the adoption and expansion of USD into these different applications.
00:41:03.184 - 00:41:26.428, Speaker B: This is a good place for us to wrap up. And wow, congrats on the upcoming token launch. I did not realize it was that soon. By the time folks listen to this, I would imagine the token will already be out. If they want to learn more about Athena, I would recommend going to Athena Phi. That's their website. Be careful because there's lots of phishing links on Twitter.
00:41:26.428 - 00:42:25.284, Speaker B: So type that in in bookmark it. Then be sure that you follow the Athena account at Athena Labs so you can find that on Twitter and in our show notes. And then Leptocurtic is Guy's personal Twitter account, which I would also recommend following. So guy, thanks so much for coming on on short notice to talk with us about just all the great updates here. And again, just congrats on all the success so far. I know we're not anywhere near the end game of Athena, but it's been an exciting launch the last month or so. That said, can you close us out with anything else around, like what's next for Athena? You alluded to season two coming, I guess like any recommendations for folks that want to get involved with Athena or participate in the season two of the Shards campaign?
00:42:25.584 - 00:43:11.488, Speaker A: Yeah, I think if you've been involved in the first season, there's going to be incentives for basically like loyalty and sticking around with the protocols. There's going to be added incentives and rewards for having just been part of it and sort of continuing. It's going to be much of the same with what we saw and just trying to drive adoption and integrations into different areas of DeFi and then actually eventually CFI as well. And so, yeah, and if you haven't actually engaged with the thing yet, which is ask that you sort of review the risk documentation. And we've outlined in pretty good detail, I think, like how this looks different to different stable bike products in the market. And so if you just review that and then you can engage with us on discord as well, and we'd obviously love to have you within the second season that we're running.
00:43:11.616 - 00:43:24.104, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at edge pod.
