00:00:05.610 - 00:00:18.560, Speaker A: So next up we have John and Winnie Supply talking about managing risk for compound. So I'd like to welcome them both on screen and let them get started. So welcome.
00:00:20.210 - 00:00:21.920, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having us.
00:00:22.450 - 00:00:30.630, Speaker C: Yeah. Thanks, John. So Monet, I think we start with quick intros. You want to go first? I can follow up there.
00:00:30.780 - 00:01:10.130, Speaker B: Yeah. I have been in the DeFi space for maybe about a year and a half. Previously I worked in consumer lending and ABS at kind of like a boring fintech company and then just fell in with MakerDAO and got really excited about that. I've been working kind of formally with the MakerDAO risk team for about a year and trying to be helpful when I can with compound and other lenders kind of playing, to my knowledge. Cool.
00:01:10.200 - 00:01:10.820, Speaker C: So.
00:01:12.550 - 00:01:13.250, Speaker B: I'm John.
00:01:13.320 - 00:02:10.758, Speaker C: I'm COO at Gauntlet. Gauntlet is a financial modeling platform that uses battle tested techniques from the algorithmic trading industry to perform on chain protocol management. What this looks like is really sort of two things. One, we manage risk parameters for protocols like Aave, compound and others, as well as we also manage incentives for protocols like Sushi and a few others as well. So yeah, we use off chain financial models to drive on chain capital efficiency and we've been working with compound since 2019. And Nick on the last call mentioned our risk assessment that we published. Yeah, and we actually just pushed a proposal through on compound to sort of cement our relationship with them and continue to manage risk for the protocol going forward.
00:02:10.758 - 00:03:44.850, Speaker C: We focus almost entirely on market risk, which is the risk posed to basically the use of volatile and occasionally illiquid assets as collateral on. You know, I think one thing we'll talk about today, both Monet and I, is sort of the different types of risks, looking forward to getting into that. So I think one thing that's probably top of mind for everyone who's been following compound over the past week and I think is the bug that we saw last week. So I think one thing we'll probably do is talk about that a little bit and then move on to some of the risks and other risks in the protocol. Because besides just smart contract issues, hacks, exploits, whatever you want to call them, you know, like lending and other protocols, like compound that use collateral do face other risks, and we can kind of get into that. So I'm going to assume that people are a little bit familiar with the bug on compound. But last week, for the people that weren't, change was pushed to update some logic in the comp token distribution logic.
00:03:44.850 - 00:04:53.782, Speaker C: And this actually created a miscalculation in how many comp rewards should be distributed to certain users, and in doing so, put close to $160,000,000 of comp at risk. Since then, I think Robert mentioned yesterday that about $60 million of comp has been unaccounted for, though much of the comp was actually returned to the protocol by awesome users and members of the greater compound community. One interesting thing that happened this week, it's probably a kind of interesting thing to start talking about, is there's actually been two proposals to fix the bug, one of which was actually canceled this morning and the other of which was going to be executed in two days, I think. Monet, I'd love to know sort of your thoughts about sort of some of the trade offs that we saw with proposal 63. And maybe we kind of start there and start talking about sort of the path forward to fixing this bug and the sort of tough decisions that protocol had to make with regards to trade offs on risk versus growth.
00:04:53.926 - 00:05:45.210, Speaker B: Yeah, it's all trade offs. So, yeah, Proposal 63 was pushed out really quickly. Like, props to the community members who got that out so quickly. There's like a standard seven days worth of delay periods and voting periods before any new changes can go through governance. So the sooner they got that out, the sooner we could kind of plug the hole, so to speak. But what it did is it basically just turned off the ability to claim comp just uniformly. So anyone who tried to claim comp, that transaction would fail, which would prevent any of the people who had too much rewards allocated to them from being able to drain anymore from compound.
00:05:45.210 - 00:07:03.646, Speaker B: So it kind of stems the bleeding. One issue with that, though, is that certain integrators, not all of them, but I think some they kind of like worked the comp claiming into their workflow, where if compound turned off the ability to claim comp, it would interfere with their ability to kind of have their protocols work or have their projects work properly. So compound faced a difficult kind of trade off between the risk of losing some more of those comp tokens that are still at risk in the comp troller, which, even as we speak, I think there's a few tens. Of millions that could be claimed versus kind of burning some of our key integrators who have taken upon themselves to build on top of compound. And that's something that the community obviously wants. That's a really important growth driver. So, yeah, Proposal 63 was meant to kind of like quickly stem the bleeding, but it was kind of like decided to cancel it to not impact those integrators.
00:07:03.646 - 00:08:26.910, Speaker B: And the hope is that either no more or not much more comp is going to be incorrectly claimed in the next day or two. And then proposal 64, which is passed and is going to be executed shortly in another day or two, that has like a more targeted fix where it just prevents claiming from just those users that would have potentially incorrect rewards issued to them and it wouldn't end up kind of stepping on toes of the integrators. It's kind of almost like a business risk? What could compound lose in the long run of being unreliable to build on top of? And is that worth more than maybe the comp tokens that we might lose right now if people incorrectly claim them? I personally was kind of surprised that the trade off kind of fell that way. I think it's easier to see a specific amount of money at risk and say, okay, we're going to go for that. But I could also see that it makes sense to be just relentlessly kind of user focused and be willing to take a little bit of an L to make sure that we're doing right by our users.
00:08:29.170 - 00:09:12.320, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it definitely is a tough decision for the protocol. I think from the three integrators I talked to which were urine, idle and OUSD, it seemed like actually only idle was going to be truly negatively impacted in a way where they couldn't actually push a fix that would actually mitigate any of the issues posed by proposal 63. I think it's a thing where I think in any normal organization you'd have someone who is managing these integrated relationships and helping set expectations, even maybe like doing technical reviews, being like, hey.
00:09:14.050 - 00:09:14.414, Speaker B: These.
00:09:14.452 - 00:10:14.974, Speaker C: Integrations are reliant on functionality, like claiming comp rewards. And that makes them very brittle to literally any functionality in the protocol changing or being deprecated. And so I think that that's actually an interesting thing to sort of think about is like it would be normally really weird for a company to continue to put $40 million at risk for an integration that has driven much, much less than that of value to the protocol. However, it's hard to manage these relationships when all you're doing is reaching out when something goes wrong. So I think it's an interesting thing to see how protocols in the future will kind of invest in managing relationships so that in the case there were some issue or they need to make changes, et cetera, they'd be in a position to work with integrators to sort of help figure that out. I think it's just incredibly unlikely that the impact on integrators from proposal 63 is anywhere near close to $40 million in value. Now.
00:10:14.974 - 00:11:04.674, Speaker C: It's also very unclear the chances of this comp being claimed, right? Anyone who could have claimed comp in the window between 63 and 64 could have also done so for whatever the past week. And so I think that there is some very tough calculus there. But I think that a lot of the integrators were understandably complaining about hey, well this is going to break us. And I think, hey, everyone empathizes. I know at Gauntlet we depend on so many different API, endpoints service providers, et cetera. We have to deal with this stuff all the time. But I do feel like there was times where I feel like people were maybe less than understanding know, this is a solemn event for the compound community and compound protocol and its users and it's the worst thing that's ever happened to compound unequivocally and after the worst week of your life.
00:11:04.674 - 00:11:33.900, Speaker C: I would kind of hope that Integrators and partners that are driving tons of value from your protocol might be a little more understanding about some of these issues. And I think a lot of people tried to be, but of course wanted to vocally speak out, trying to say like, hey, let's try to figure out a way that we can not break these integrations, et cetera. But yeah, I think it's a learning experience for the community and hopefully something that other DeFi protocols will be able to continue to learn from.
00:11:34.990 - 00:12:13.720, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you could kind of say that it's like a really unexplored area of risk is like kind of like the business development and sort of more of the integrations. And it's like a risk to your business, even though it's not strictly falling in risk management frameworks or something that gauntlet or maybe myself, we would have kind of the most focus on in a normal sense. So I think it's definitely been like a big eye opening experience.
00:12:17.530 - 00:12:58.006, Speaker C: Yeah, I noticed actually if anyone has read Rune from Maker's recent post, I think he mentioned actually some statistics around the amount of I think CDPs are not what they're called anymore, but the amount of collateral in Maker that actually comes from either kind of CFI on ramps or other large integrations. Right. I think it's actually maybe like half of the ETH uses collateral in MakerDAO all comes from a couple large positions. So Monet, do you have any more context on that? Maybe you could shed some light or color there?
00:12:58.188 - 00:14:00.220, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a few CFI protocols that bring really huge volume. I think Nexo is one of them that's kind of publicanly known and they bring well over half a billion of loan volume. There's some sort of like they might be CFI platforms or they might just be like mega DeFi wells. There's a set of a few large ETH CDPs that account for a lot of the expansion during when ETH price goes up and then they kind of unlever when it goes back down. So yeah, it's extremely concentrated and at Maker we're only just kind of beginning to sort of see if we can handle these relationships a little bit more hands on. I think there's people ideating of.
00:14:02.590 - 00:14:02.906, Speaker C: Can.
00:14:02.928 - 00:15:05.102, Speaker B: We see if we can reduce our risk and offer also kind of more attractive terms to certain sort of like institutional grade users if they can prove that their risk profile is lower than just know, Joe Schmo off the street. So I think we're mainly approaching it from the perspective of if we can kind of verify that they're DevOps and just their general risk posture is good enough that we can make a better offer. But I think there's another element where if we're not really meeting their needs or if we had a situation similar to this and our response was causing them a lot of problems. Yeah, that'd be a huge hit to die. A lot of our die from ETH is from a really small number of users. Yes.
00:15:05.156 - 00:16:20.230, Speaker C: I think given that, I guess market structure or paretoesque distribution of users, these sort of business development risks, I'm not sure how you put it. I think these things will be an interesting thing kind of going forward in a lot of DeFi protocols where trying to figure out how to be the best, for instance, compensated lending platform to integrate with and things like that. These are things that could really drive a ton of growth and I think that potential growth is what probably drove the compound community to really risk a lot to avoid breaking some of these integrations. And I think I don't envy everyone else here who has to whiten out the list and really just hope no more money is removed from the protocol next few days. But I think right now everyone's been scouring Etherscan addresses trying to figure out if people are going to claim, et cetera. And I'm really hoping got to replace a high confidence here that this is the right path forward and I think it shows how important these business relationships are. Maybe we can move on to other sorts of risks.
00:16:20.230 - 00:17:10.630, Speaker C: But I think one thing that any collateral based system has to reconcile is basically loan to values or in common's case they call them collateral factors. These are actually some of the parameters that Gauntlet sets for compound as well as Ave and a few others, I think. Monet, you've really thought about a lot of these risks coming from the MakerDAO. I'd love to kind of know a little bit like how does maybe maker set some of these parameters and what does that look like? And then maybe you can provide a perspective from how this works in Avant compound where Gauntlet manages these parameters.
00:17:11.610 - 00:18:57.080, Speaker B: Yeah, there's kind of a couple of key factors that we look at and primarily we're trying to suss out in a reasonably worst case scenario how much the value could go down for some of these loans and whether we can get them all liquidated without some of them going under collateralized and basically like bankrupt positions. It can be really tough to do that accurately because you're really trying to guesstimate how much something could drop without necessarily a lot of historical records to go by. So I think it's pretty typical. Like you'll look at the depth in order books and Liquidity pools to see. Okay, if we needed to Liquidate X value of position, how much slippage would it cost? And if it's causing, like, 50% slippage, then you'd probably need to set a very low collateral factor just to make sure that if you flip all that collateral and dump it on the market, you still wouldn't be bankrupt. You also look at volume, which is kind of indicative of people's willingness to buy a collateral asset. So that's another factor, volatility and then also kind of like historical max drawdowns, I think in a way the day to day volatility of if something's going up 5% or 10% a day and then down, those aren't the sort of situations that are going to cause real problems.
00:18:57.080 - 00:20:29.510, Speaker B: You really want to think of, okay, what are the real kind of market break situations where a collateral asset falls like 30% in a day or 50% or like 65% intraday like it did on March twelveTH last year. So yeah, basically taking a lot of different kind of data points into account. A lot of them are shifting pretty quickly, like volumes and liquidity depth can expand a lot and then kind of draw down a lot just depending on market sentiment. What I would say for Maker though is I think we have a bit simpler or maybe easier of a job of risk management versus somebody like Compound or Aave because everyone who's doing business with Maker, they're short USD, they're all borrowing or Minting in our case Dai, which is USD. So we only need to consider each asset's sort of like volatility with respect to that one other asset that they're shorting, somebody like a protocol like Compound. I would say most people are borrowing dollars, that's kind of the most popular trade. But you could go long ETH and short Bitcoin, or you could go long USD and then short any of the other collateral assets on Compound.
00:20:29.510 - 00:20:59.150, Speaker B: So it's pretty daunting to be honest. You have to kind of consider any of these individual positions that people either do have or could have and make sure that the sort of inter asset liquidity and volatility is not going to break you. So yeah, I think it kind of gets that like one layer deeper of complexity with the money market protocols.
00:21:01.250 - 00:22:19.370, Speaker C: Yeah, I think one thing though, maybe depending on what time point you look at, comparinabe have like maybe 60% to 85% of their borrow also in USD. So at this point, just because the borrow usage on the more volatile assets is just lower, some of the risks do look pretty similar from that perspective. But I can talk a little bit about how gauntlet models risk for protocols like Compound and Aave. I think one thing to shout out here is we have a risk dashboard for Aave that we launched a couple of weeks ago. We're launching one for Compound soon that just gives users, community members, token holders a way to kind of look into statistics like the current value at risk for the protocol, current parameter settings, et cetera. If you go to gov gauntlet network Ave, you can see the ave risk dashboard. But behind the scenes, behind all these numbers that we publish, we actually focus on stochastic simulations that help us predict protocol behavior in the case of these really large drawdowns.
00:22:19.370 - 00:23:55.414, Speaker C: So what we do, it's kind of a multistep process. The first step is we use historical market data to train correlated price trajectories so that we can simulate different outcomes. We actually try to tune our simulations to like the March twelveTH levels of volatility. And so we basically then from these price trajectories use agents that do things like open up positions on compound, takeout borrows as well as liquidators. And so as these simulations progress, we actually just spin up thousands and thousands of geth nodes and just run the compound contracts with agents like using Web Three APIs to call the compound contracts and simulate out these sort of doomsday scenarios. And we take consideration like the distribution of borrow, distribution of collateral, distribution of lend assets that currently exist on the protocol and basically configure a simulation that looks as much like the current state of compound as possible. And then by running thousands and thousands of these simulations, we sort of get estimates for basically hey, in the case of a March twelveTH type scenario, how many times out of 1000 does the protocol potentially suffer an insolvency event and things like that.
00:23:55.414 - 00:25:23.986, Speaker C: And so as I mentioned in the call, these agent based stochastic simulations, these are things that come directly from a lot of the people Goll's experience from high frequency trading where these agent based simulations are also used to back test HFT strategies. And so yeah, one thing I talked about VAR, and I think VAR is something that I actually worked at Goldman Sachs in 2008 and I didn't really have the highest opinion of VAR considering what I worked there. We got bailed out by the government and Warren Buffett because of basically VAR underestimating the actual value at risk in sort of the more general sense in the protocol or sorry, in the company. When you look at protocols like compound though, what we do is we explicitly model these liquidation spirals. As I mentioned, we have liquidators and when those liquidators sell collateral that has fallen under the liquidation threshold, we're actually simulating price impact off of slippage models that have been trained against real world order book data. And so this allows us to get some pretty interesting data around these sort of tail risk scenarios where we can kind of with a lot more confidence, understand sort of these runaway risks that exist in these protocols. And so I think we're always trying to improve our models and things like that as well.
00:25:23.986 - 00:25:30.870, Speaker C: We're always shipping new updates, but that's just kind of a little bit how we think about risk in these protocols.
00:25:32.730 - 00:26:35.290, Speaker B: Yeah, I would definitely recommend for everyone to check out the Gauntlets Ave risk dashboard. I'm pretty hyped on it. It's pretty awesome, I guess. Do you think of any like one thing that I've felt from time to time is that compound and ave as well, they kind of have sort of like limited tools at their disposal. I come from mainly working with MakerDAO and they have a couple features. Like most important is maybe debt ceilings where we can say a maximum amount that we're willing to lend against a particular collateral. So for something like wrap Bitcoin we might say, okay, we're only willing to lend 300 million or 400 million, which is like about 5% of our portfolio.
00:26:35.290 - 00:27:19.514, Speaker B: So then if BitCo gets hacked or some sort of out of scope tail risk event happens and it all goes to zero, we theoretically could still kind of dig ourselves out of it. And Compound and Ave as they're built right now, they don't have a direct correlation to that. So I think that's interesting. I think there's kind of like opportunity there for strengthening the protocol with adding a couple more levers for risk managers like gauntlet to be able to pull on to keep stuff in line.
00:27:19.712 - 00:28:22.894, Speaker C: Yeah, levers are an interesting thing to bring up. I think right now everything in Compound takes seven days. I think over the past seven days we've kind of realized that there are probably some things that we'd want to do quicker. And so I think over time it's going to be important for protocols to figure out how to delegate responsibility and power to people that can use that to help drive value to the protocol. I think one example is maybe last week having some way for people to roll back recent changes on a shorter time frame than seven days would have been something really valuable. I think another thing would be really valuable is giving someone control using off chain logic over things like the reserve factor. Because I actually think that if you're going to do something like set a limit to usage in a protocol like Compound or Aave, you end up making it really difficult to set an interest rate curve that guarantees kind of liquidity and also set rewards in comp in a way that's going to just kind of work over the long run.
00:28:22.894 - 00:29:25.780, Speaker C: I think one example of this is the comp market in compound right now it's completely maxed out and the comp rewards in that market are actually greater than the borrowing cost. So it creates all sorts of weird issues there. I think I would really like to do things like instead of actually just setting hard limits, I'd rather let market factors determine the actual amount. And so I think what this would look like is the protocol would vote on some amount of WBTC that they were comfortable having in the protocol. And basically as you approach this number, the reserve factor goes up and up and up and up and up so that you actually hit a market equal. You manage the market to an equilibrium based off fees that would allow the protocol to basically manage exposure without setting an artificial limit, which I think is probably the best way to actually capture value in these markets as opposed to your options to manage risk here where you're just setting a hard one. I don't know, Monet, you guys thought about that kind of stuff or anything like that before?
00:29:26.230 - 00:30:08.634, Speaker B: I think that's a really good point. And yeah, the market is your friend. Like you want to kind of let it set equilibriums as long as they're safe. I think limits can be useful because I think Rap bitcoin is a great example where there's always that, however small chance that it just pulls them out, gox or whatever and just completely rugs. And then that would be a huge problem. And you can't say exactly how quickly Oracles would be able to reflect the new value being lower. And you might have some value that ends up getting kind of like exfiltrated out of the protocol.
00:30:08.634 - 00:30:29.990, Speaker B: So I think there's some ways where some hard limits maybe kind of like higher than you're likely to hit would still be useful. But yeah, I think there's probably a lot more that can be done just to craft these market equilibriums into kind of safer zones.
00:30:33.370 - 00:31:31.906, Speaker C: Cool. I think we're just about a think, you know, some interesting points raised monet around different sort of risk protocols have to manage going forward. I think smart contract risk is always one that's been top of mind since the Dow hack. But yeah, I think this sort of business development risk and these other market risks that we talked about as well as the risk posed by centralized assets are all things that protocols like compound and others will have to manage going forward. I think it's actually always kind of funny that people, I remember people view the Dow as some terrible failure, but it's now crazy how many Dows there are in the space. It truly was a canary in the coal mine. But yeah, looking forward to see how these protocols continue to deal with these risks and balance the trade offs between risk and growth because I think any protocol that's too risk averse is going to completely limit their growth.
00:31:31.906 - 00:31:37.866, Speaker C: And so I think it's really interesting to see how protocols take different approaches here and what the market looks like going forward.
00:31:38.048 - 00:31:40.910, Speaker B: Yeah, the risk of becoming irrelevant.
00:31:44.770 - 00:32:02.370, Speaker A: John Monet, this was a great discussion, thanks for kind of facilitating this and talking about everything that's happening with risk. Obviously not a simple topic, but for those of who are interested, what's kind of the best way to get involved in this discussion for the compound ecosystem?
00:32:04.230 - 00:32:17.462, Speaker C: Comp XYZ, anyone can post in the forums and I think we're both pretty active there as well as lots of other people who've thought about this just as much as we have. So looking forward to talk to people there.
00:32:17.596 - 00:32:25.974, Speaker B: Yes. And the compound discord. If you have questions, I think that's a great place to get them answered as well.
00:32:26.172 - 00:32:28.280, Speaker A: Sounds perfect. Thank you so much.
