00:00:00.480 - 00:00:27.764, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 12 March 2021. Alright, everyone, considering it is the 12 march, you know what that means. It's the anniversary of Black Thursday. So this was one of the worst days in the crypto market's history, if not the worst day. Bitcoin fell I think, 45% in a day. I think ETH fell a bit more than that in a single day.
00:00:27.764 - 00:00:52.508, Speaker A: Now, you know, in crypto, we're used to these drawdowns of like, you know, 30, 40, 50%, but normally not that fast. Right? It usually takes a little bit. I mean, we just had a drawdown of like 37% for ETH from like, I think it was two k or like 1300, but that was over a week. Right. So you can imagine that happening kind of more than that. Like up to, like, I think it was like 47% for ETH in a day. That was scary.
00:00:52.508 - 00:01:29.394, Speaker A: Right? And I mean, you know, the fact that we've come so far since then as well, I mean, you can see here on the, on the chart, basically a year ago, you know, just above my head here, we, we basically fell in one day from $200 down to $100 in one day. So, yeah, basically, I guess, like a 50% dip there, which was just absolutely insane. And then obviously, since then, we've gone up to, you know, we went up to two k, which is a 20 x from there. Now we've settled it around 1775. So almost an 18 x now just in a year, which is absolutely crazy. But I. I mean, I did want to kind of, like, zoom in on the chart here to March 12 back then.
00:01:29.394 - 00:01:54.532, Speaker A: And, you know, it's funny because you can see here that, you know, we kind of, like, we're in 2019, we're still in that bear market, right? And then ETH kind of like double bottomed around kind of here in the, I guess, like the dollar 110 mark. And then it started moving right, right up again. Right. But then, you know, around February, I think of 2020, people started kind of taking COVID a lot more seriously. Right. It was becoming a thing. Like, okay, this thing's serious.
00:01:54.532 - 00:02:18.388, Speaker A: It's like everywhere. It's, it's, you know, people are. People are dying, right? And all this stuff was happening and then, you know, the markets kind of went sideways and they started going down, right. This was not just crypto. This was like the global markets, right, then sideways a little bit more. And then march, I think, is when it really kicked into high gear where everyone was like, you know, all the, you know, countries around the world were pressing their, oh, shit. Button, right? Like, close all the borders, you know, all this sort of stuff, which was.
00:02:18.388 - 00:02:35.652, Speaker A: Which was quite crazy. And then. Yeah, from, I guess, like, the. What was it? The. The kind of, like, 7 march here at $250 to the 13 march went down to, like, $90. So, you know, within six days here, we fell a lot. Right.
00:02:35.652 - 00:03:11.492, Speaker A: But you can see the structure is just, like, pretty. Pretty incredible, right? I mean, if it wasn't for COVID, we would have the bull market. I mean, obviously still continued, but we would have just, like, been able to delete this whole section here, you know, basically from. From about February 15 to, like, july kind of 25th, until, I guess, it got back over, you know, the previous high here. We could just delete all that and still be on the same kind of trajectory here because of the fact that we were still in a bull market, which is. Which is quite insane here. But, yeah, I mean, I just wanted to talk a little bit about how, like, I felt on.
00:03:11.492 - 00:03:41.858, Speaker A: On kind of, like, black Thursday back then and kind of, like, I'm sure you guys have your own memories of it, but for me, you know, I was kind of talking to a bunch of friends about it, and we're watching it go down, and, you know, we're watching the global markets as well, and we're like, you know, holy crap, like, what's going to happen, right? We didn't expect it to fall like this, but it did. And, you know, you guys know me. I'm like an ultra perma giga ETH bull or whatever, right? I'm always bullish on ETH. Always have been bullish on ETH. I mean, all during the bear market, I was still bullish on Ethan. You know, I didn't care that the price was. Was low.
00:03:41.858 - 00:03:54.450, Speaker A: I was like, you know, so bullish on ETH. I'm just gonna keep buying, and eventually it's gonna. It's gonna go. Go back up. And obviously, like, all the people that thought like that were right. But for the first time in my life, on. On March 12, like, I was.
00:03:54.450 - 00:04:38.546, Speaker A: I was bearish on ETH, right? I I actually thought it was going to zero. Like, because it was. It happened so fast, but you couldn't really have time to collect your thoughts. So as it was falling, I was like, you know, holy crap, like, this is actually going to zero. Like, you had that kind of thing for, like, you know, a few minutes, it wasn't. It wasn't something that persisted, but it was, like, until I collected my thoughts and was just like, okay, okay, what's happening, right? This is crazy, you know? And then I kind of, like, looked at this, and I'm like, this is, like, more than blood in the streets, right? This is just, like, absolutely slaughtered. Like, everyone's washed out, right? All the leverage positions are absolutely wrecked because one of the major reasons why it fell so fast, or at least the major reason why it fell so fast, was because of cascading liquidations, especially due to BitMex.
00:04:38.546 - 00:05:17.074, Speaker A: Kind of, like, they had an issue there where too many positions were being, like, liquidated at once, which obviously kept triggering more and more liquidations, and the price kept falling, and you just had that kind of snowball effect there. But once I collected my thoughts, I was like, it's back at, like, $100, right? It hadn't been back at $100 since, basically, I guess. What was it? Like, December 2019? You know, it was, like, four months prior, and then it didn't really last that long either. And, you know, I was buying here as well, but then I thought, like, you know, look. Look how far we went in February. Like, we went, like, a three x from here almost in February. And I'm like, I know the market's still bullish.
00:05:17.074 - 00:05:48.192, Speaker A: Like, even though, you know, there was so much uncertainty around COVID, I was like, the crypto market structure has changed. Like, this kind of price rise here is not something we saw during the bear market, besides, I guess, over here in mid 2019. And that was actually attributed to the plus token Ponzi pumping up a lot of this. And this was also a kind of, like, bull trap. Like a massive bull trap. But this was very different, and the market felt very different. So for me, I was like, okay, all the money that I had, like, available at the time, I didn't have much because I was still buying ETH, like, over here.
00:05:48.192 - 00:06:20.426, Speaker A: I didn't have much spare fiat. I just kind of bought ETH here. But that didn't mean I was just, like, hyper, hyper bullish on Ethan. Thought it was just going to go straight back up or whatever. But from a long term perspective, I was still like, you know, nothing's changed. Like, the fundamentals didn't change, you know? And then I kind of, over the next few days, kind of even thought about it more, and I was like, okay, well, if COVID's going to shut the world down, if everyone's going to be stuck at home and if everyone's going to be, you know, embracing a more digital life, then weren't crypto go up because of that? Like crypto is like totally digital, right. And I wasn't the only one thinking of this.
00:06:20.426 - 00:06:47.464, Speaker A: There was everyone talking about this at the time, like, you know, eventually throughout, throughout 2020. But yeah, that's, that's kind of like, I remember distinctly one of the earliest thoughts I had and why I doubled down specifically here. But even though I bought, like here, it didn't go back up to the prior high until July. Right. So that was still quite a, quite a weight there. And I mean, you can see here that most of the movements kind of happen. Like it's, it's funny because like ETH likes to go sideways for a while then move up.
00:06:47.464 - 00:07:41.054, Speaker A: I mean, you can see here, I guess if I, if I kind of like zoom in here, you know, eat went sideways from like April till July, you know, pumped up from like 235 up to like almost 500, came back down, went sideways to like November again. Right. And then kind of like went up, you know, not, not as it didn't explode up here, but it went up nicely. I think it kind of followed bitcoin up here, but basically, yeah, went to like 730 and then we exploded up again, you know, almost at all time high and then we kind of went up there and now we've kind of been like trending sideways. I mean, it's funny because like you have the kind of same patterns playing out all the time. I'm not going to spend too much time looking at the charts, but I think, you know, it's just, it's incredible how far we've kind of come from, from here and, you know, on the anniversary of that date, you know, people were saying, oh, we're going to crash because the anniversary and everything, blah, blah, blah. And I didn't, I never thought that was true.
00:07:41.054 - 00:08:02.314, Speaker A: Maybe we kind of dumped here because people were anticipating it. Right. Like dumped like the most recent dump that we had. I don't think that's true either. I think we were pretty overheated, especially bitcoin, you know, without a kind of a kind of major dump here, but, you know, bullish selling. Right, as they like to say. But anyway, I'm not going to do like a whole technical kind of analysis chart here.
00:08:02.314 - 00:08:36.496, Speaker A: But yeah, if you did get liquidated or anything during kind of black Thursday and, you know, kind of lost your, your money or lost it all sort of thing, I hope that you were able to rebuild your position. I hope that you know, you, you were able to kind of, like, get through that. I had a couple of friends who did that and, you know, that was a dark time for a lot of people. Right. I mean, I personally don't trade with much leverage, so I wasn't, I wasn't affected by that. But still, you know, even if you weren't on a leverage position, seeing your net worth kind of evaporate was, was crazy. I mean, I saw my net worth go from, from, you know, whatever it was at the time, which is a lot higher than, um, you know, that.
00:08:36.496 - 00:09:08.596, Speaker A: Than it was during 2019, to basically back to, you know, bottom of 2019 levels. And I was like, wow. Like, that was fast. That came out of nowhere. Um, but yeah, anyway, I'm not going to say happy anniversary here because it's not a happy anniversary, but I think it's always good to kind of look back at, you know, a year from, you know, a pretty major event in crypto and see how far we've come. The fundamentals are strong, stronger than ever for ETH, right? I mean, there's no doubt about that. Basically, you know, we have L2 scaling going live this month.
00:09:08.596 - 00:09:40.748, Speaker A: We know Defi exploded in growth since. Since March 2020, we had ETH to go live. I mean, so many things to be bullish on nfts. I mean, geez, I'm gonna talk about nfts in a sec, but, yeah, just so much, so much bullish stuff going on and, you know, I mean, it's, it's crazy. I don't know how anyone can be bearish at this stage, but, yeah, we'll see where the market takes us. So speaking of nfts, I'm sure you all saw this by now, but I did want to talk about it. So Beeple's everyday is the first 5000 days piece on Christie's, which is an auction site for art.
00:09:40.748 - 00:10:10.018, Speaker A: Kind of like different art pieces, sold for $69 million. It was actually $60 million when I first checked, but then got corrected to 69 million later. But I think 9 million of that is actually a fee for Christie's, which is, which is quite a, quite a nice fee. But, um, yeah, so anyway, it sold for $69 million, which is just absolutely insane. This makes people the third, I guess, like, um, the. Sorry. In terms of, like, living artists in, in terms of like, the, the value of their artwork.
00:10:10.018 - 00:10:44.526, Speaker A: People's like, third. So I think there's two other artists on there, but they're not digital artists that sold pieces for more than people did, but people who just becomes the third, and for those of you who don't know people, is a, I guess a 3d designer that has been doing these things called everydays for, for 13 years or over 13 years where he does a piece of digital art every day. He has a massive Instagram following, over a million followers on there. I mean, he, he's been posting stuff about Ethereum and NFTs for a while now. And it's just crazy to see that this sold for so much money. Right? I mean, people are always going on about, you know, nfts aren't valuable. It's a bubble.
00:10:44.526 - 00:11:09.176, Speaker A: And, you know, this and that, I mean, maybe it is a bubble. Maybe some of it's a bubble. I mean, I think there's a lot of things that are going to hold their value. I think people's are one of them because Beeple actually was one of the first kind of, I guess, non crypto people to start doing nfts. And he hasn't just come in like as an opportunist and just done things for, for the money. Even though he's made a lot of money, he's kind of put a lot of effort into it as well. And, you know, he's been doing this design stuff for, for a very long time.
00:11:09.176 - 00:11:36.620, Speaker A: So. Yeah, that's, I mean, though, like, I do get people's kind of hesitation here when they see, you know, $69 million for a piece of digital art. That's absolutely insane. And, you know, when you think about it, yes, that's a shit ton of money, right? That, that's for, especially for like, one person. But I think at the end of the day, nfts are valued on a variety of different factors. One of the biggest factors is kind of like the scarcity of the piece. There's literally only ever going to be one of these pieces.
00:11:36.620 - 00:12:01.216, Speaker A: I mean, I'm pretty sure people's not going to mint another one of these considering that he would just devalue the, the kind of, I guess, value of the rest of his work. So, but in, but in saying that if he did print another one, it still wouldn't be this one, right. It would be like another kind of one that everyone knew came after it. So this would still be the original. Right. And, you know, people, nfts aren't the only thing going up. Like, crypto punks are still going up.
00:12:01.216 - 00:12:16.076, Speaker A: For example, I mean, the alien punks that I spoke about sold another one today. Sold for $7.5 million, which is absolutely insane. Right. But crypto punks were the first nft on ethereum. So that's the, that's, that's huge in of itself, right. And, you know, they're very scarce.
00:12:16.076 - 00:12:48.374, Speaker A: There's only 10,000 of them, probably actually less now because some of them have been burned, some of them have been lost. So I don't think, like, I actually put out a tweet out before that. I think there's going to be trillions of nfts, right? Um, and I said there's only going to be 10,000 punks. But to extend on that, there's going to be trillions of nfts. Uh, and if we're just talking about, like, I guess, like, collectible nfts, like art and in game items, not other nfts, like insurance policies and stuff like that, most of them, pretty much almost all of them are going to be, you know, not going to hold their value. They're going to be worthless. Right.
00:12:48.374 - 00:13:09.094, Speaker A: People are going to mint them. People are going to buy it. Buy them. And they're not going to be long term valuable because they just don't have the, you know, culture behind them, the, the community behind them, the significance in terms of, like, in terms of, like, when it came into the space, scarcity, right. All these sorts of things. And maybe they're just not great nfts. Maybe they're just like crappy stick figures or something.
00:13:09.094 - 00:13:48.606, Speaker A: I don't know. But basically, if you are kind of like investing in the NFT space, and, I mean, this is an investment advice, but in general, I would just write off any money you put into it off, because, like, you're basically making a bet that you think this piece or this kind of art or this collectible is going to be worth more in the future, you know, and it's actually like, it's a much bigger bet than just betting on, like, a token or something. Right. Because of the fact that you're betting on, I guess, you know, a lot of times you're betting on the artists. You're betting the artist becomes big. And because you were, you know, you bought one of their first artworks there, it's going to be worth more in the future, right. You know, with people, that's the risk because people's already big, right.
00:13:48.606 - 00:14:27.464, Speaker A: And by buying it now, I mean, maybe you overpay for, I don't know, maybe, maybe this person overpaid by paying $69 million. I don't think so. But, you know, and then a lot of the other people NFTs that are out there actually started going up in price as well, because everyone's just like, well, if this piece is worth 69 million, then all these other things should be worth, you know, a lot more than what they are right now. And I'm sure he's going to release other things as well. But in general, yeah, if you're, if you're in the NFT space right now and you feel like you're missing out on fomoing and being like, wow, I should have bought crypto punks back in the day. I mean, there's a reason why you didn't buy crypto punks back in the day, right, is because they weren't worth much. So if you're only buying it now because it's worth a lot and you're getting fomo, I mean, maybe, maybe rethink that.
00:14:27.464 - 00:15:21.298, Speaker A: But in general, I do think crypto punks are going to hold their value long term for the reasons I kind of mentioned before. But I just, it's hard to invest, right. Because I do think a lot of, some of the values of these things are inflated up due to the wider crypto market being hot because a lot of people got like, you know, wealthy off of crypto recently and are kind of diversifying that or wanting to spend some of that on these art or like collectibles or stuff like that. But still, you know, it's hard to say, right? I'm not someone who's an expert on this or anything, but I have a lot of people asking me about it and I think the NFT space is going to get absolutely insane. I don't think there's, I mean, it's probably in a bubble, but who cares, right? I think there's just so much untapped potential here and so many things left to create. You know, we've spoken about kind of like the scaling coming to nfts as well. With immutable x launching soon, that's going to unlock even more kind of stuff you can do with nfts.
00:15:21.298 - 00:15:49.942, Speaker A: So, yeah, I, I would be cautious about, like, what you buy, what you invest in. I would basically only invest as much as you can afford to lose because it actually is a lot harder to sell nfts as well. Right. There's not like a uniswap pool that you can go to and just sell your NFT into. You know, you have to find a buyer for it. Like, I know there's index products where they kind of wrap a bunch of nfts into something and then you can kind of get liquidity that way. And that's a kind of good solution as like an index product.
00:15:49.942 - 00:16:24.966, Speaker A: But if you have, like, a one, you know, a one of one piece, like, like these people, for example, you can't sell this unless there's a buyer, right? There's no uniswap pool for it, there's no liquidity for it, there's no market makers, there's nothing. There's, hey, I want to sell this, and then people will come along and kind of bid on it if they want it, or maybe no one comes along and bids on it because it's just not worth anything to anyone. So that's where kind of, like, the danger comes into it, I think. But, yeah, I guess, like this, this beeple thing is just going to so many, so much headlines. I mean, there's already been articles written about it. It's going to bring in so many more people into this space. I actually can't believe, like, how much nfts have blown up.
00:16:24.966 - 00:17:16.146, Speaker A: And in hindsight, it's pretty obvious why they blew up as much as they did. But the fact that we have, like, an actual kind of mainstream vehicle now for people to come into crypto with is just absolutely amazing. And I'm really, really bullish on not just nfts, but, like, the people that nfts can bring into this space and, like, the capital and, you know, the talent is just going to be absolutely insane. And there hasn't been something this bullish in a long time, I think. So Ryan Watkins from Massari put out this really interesting tweet today where he said, the american dream may be dead in America, but it's alive and well on ethereum. There are a few places in the world with as even a playing field and as much opportunity to create generational wealth. And the best part is that Ethereum is accessible to everyone on earth now, I think over the last few refuels or on one of them, I spoke about kind of this concept of Ethereum's kind of openness and, like, extreme openness.
00:17:16.146 - 00:18:18.424, Speaker A: I think it was yesterday, actually, about the generations thing, where a lot of young people kind of, like, feel disenfranchised by the existing systems and, you know, the american dream for them is dead, right? Because the american dream was, was this concept of, you know, back when, I guess, like, America was like a younger country, you'd go to America and there'd be, like, all these wealth for you to be, for you to have, like, you'd be able to create a business and kind of like, you know, you know, build wealth for yourself and your family, buy a house. Like, buy a big, nice house, right? Be relatively safe compared to where you were coming from and all these sorts of things. That really isn't true these days, right? You know, a lot of the, pretty much all the major cities in America, or at least most of them, are extremely expensive to live in. Now, the boomers own most of the wealth, as I, as I explained yesterday, the institutions, the politics, they're all controlled by the same kind of players. It's all the. All the boomers, right? So young people just do not feel like they belong there. But in aetherium, Ethereum really doesn't give a shit about your age to start with, right? But if you're a young person, you're at a massive advantage because you are.
00:18:18.424 - 00:18:48.626, Speaker A: One, you grew up with technology, as I explained yesterday, and two, you are more inclined to accept new kind of technologies because you are, you're young and ambitious and you're more inclined to take more risk. So that dream is alive and well in Ethereum and not. And as Ryan notes here, the best part is that this is available to everyone on earth. So, and from, from. From where they are that people don't have to move, like, to experience the american dream. You actually have to move. You have to uproot your whole life from where you were to move to America to hopefully get a better life.
00:18:48.626 - 00:19:15.252, Speaker A: And this wasn't the only kind of. A, kind of, like, instance of this happening. I mean, Australia has, like, a ton of immigrants. We're a nation of immigrants. Like, a lot of them came from Europe. I mean, my family background is italian, so, you know, my grandparents came from Italy to Australia to seek a better life, but they had to leave behind all their kind of, like, siblings and their family and everything like that, you know, which was obviously really, really shitty. But with Ethereum, you can literally be anywhere in the world.
00:19:15.252 - 00:20:26.576, Speaker A: Stay with your family, stay where you want to stay, live where you want to live, right? And. And still get the benefits of being part of this kind of revolutionary new economic system, revolutionary new kind of, like, human coordination system and all that sort of stuff, and directly invest in it from wherever you are in the world, right? All you need is an Internet connection and a piece of hardware, whether that be a laptop or a mobile phone or anything, and you're good to go, right? Even if you haven't got fiat on ramps in your country to get crypto, I'm sure you could find someone that'll pay you in crypto, or you can go online and go to Gitcoin or something and complete some bounties and start earning crypto so that, you know, and then, you know, if you want to trade that crypto for stable kind of dollars, you can trade into stable coins and stuff like that. So, you know, all these sorts of opportunity available to you within Ethereum and the wider crypto space from anywhere in the world. I mean, that's just amazing to me. Like, for me, I love living where I live, and I've thought about moving before, you know, to other kind of, like, places around the world. And I kind of think to myself, why? Like, why would I do that? Why would I uproot my whole life? For what benefit? Everyone's online anyway? It's not like I have to go and live somewhere specific to be close to, like, where people are in crypto, you know? And. And whenever I want to go to conferences, I can just travel, right? Maybe not now with.
00:20:26.576 - 00:21:07.224, Speaker A: With COVID times, but in general, like, I can just travel to these conferences and then just travel home, you know, for anyone who's ever been to Melbourne or if you kind of live in Australia, you know, how amazing, you know, the. This country is. But I'm not gonna go on about that. But still, like, I'm sure a lot of you live, you know, in different countries around the world, whether that be like, the Europe or the US or in Asia or wherever, right? And you probably love where you live, right? If you don't, you can still move. But the thing is, aetherium doesn't move, right? Theorem is always there, no matter where you are in the world. So that, to me, is really, really special, I think. And actually, I kind of, like, after I saw this from Ryan, I put out this tweet here, basically, and I wrote about this in the Delaware newsletter today.
00:21:07.224 - 00:21:40.158, Speaker A: But basically, kind of like, going through how the ethereum is like a digital nation that maps. There's a lot of properties that map to kind of like, things that we experience in the real physical world. So, you know, the protocols on Ethereum can be considered cities, right? Like the city centers, where everyone goes to, like, uniswap compound, you know, their own cities, you know, aave all that. The suburbs are like L2, right, because the city's obviously expensive, but the suburbs are much cheaper, much more scalable. Most people live out in the suburbs, and that's what L2 is. You know, the citizens are Etherians. We're all Ethereans.
00:21:40.158 - 00:22:07.836, Speaker A: We're part of the Ethereum ecosystem. We're all part of the generation e that I spoke about I think was yesterday. Our currency, a native currency, is ETH, right? We use ETH to do everything. We use ETH to pay our taxes, aka gas fees, on the network, right? And the financial system of this network is defi. The culture is nfTs, of course. And our passport, which actually, I should have said bank account here, is our ethereum address. And this is all decentralized, all self.
00:22:07.836 - 00:22:46.952, Speaker A: Self sovereign, all self custodial, accessible anywhere in the world. I mean, honestly, like, how can you see this and think that Ethereum isn't just gonna take over the world, right? I don't get it. Like, it's just a thousand times better than what we have today. Like, just, just defy is like 10,000 times better than what we have today in the traditional system. And, you know, it's, it's, it's just when I do these analogies, when I think about them deeply, it just makes me even kind of more bullish on the ecosystem. And I know I say that a lot, but God, it's hard not to be bullish, right? I mean, I wouldn't be doing all this stuff on the Daily Gwei if I wasn't this bullish about Ethereum. But yeah, I mean, if you want to read more about that, you can go in the Daily Gwei newsletter.
00:22:46.952 - 00:23:20.138, Speaker A: It's in the, it's in the description below and kind of like, read today's piece to get a bit. Bit more of an overview there. So Philippi put out this tweet today where he says, ethereum miners, we will 51% attack Ethereum to protest ERP 1559. And then he's got Vitalik, and then he's got a picture of quick merge via fork choice change. Now, basically what he's saying here is that Vitalik posted a new post here, basically. What did he say? Basically going through how. How we could do a quick merge, like merging ETH one into ETH two.
00:23:20.138 - 00:23:55.786, Speaker A: And then kind of like, before this was posted, actually, there was a, there was a pr, a pull request opened on GitHub, on the Ethereum GitHub section for the ETH one to ETH two merge. And basically going through like the spec that they're basing this on, which is a spec called the executable Beacon chain, which has been around for a while now, you know, since November 2020. And this is basically the direction that they're going to take to do the merger. And then it's just got like the steps they're going to take here, which I thought was. Was really bullish right. And you know, I mean I've spoken about the miners before. I'm not going to go on about them today because I think they're the ones disliking my videos by the way.
00:23:55.786 - 00:24:42.494, Speaker A: But I don't know for sure. But every time I talk badly about miners I get dislikes on the video. So on that note, you should like the video, please. But anyway, yeah, so this kind of like quick merge I guess that the Vitalik wrote about is taking the concept of this but just doing it like in a faster way, right? Like if we kind of really wanted to, we could do the merge like much earlier than we then we, you know, we have planned for. But I would still err on the side of like let's just do it like in a, in not a proper way but in like the best way that we can and not, not I guess like rush it out there just for the sake of it. As I've said on the refill before, I think that we can get to the merge by the end of this year, if not early next year. And you know, once that's done, I mean that is, that is the vision.
00:24:42.494 - 00:25:29.112, Speaker A: Right. Because we'll have L2, you know, this month and by that point we'll have L2 like you know, basically be a bustling ecosystem and then we do the merger and we basically have like get rid of, sorry, get rid of proof of work and we have 1559 in because that's going in July. We have proof of stake just securing the network. We have very low issuance, which I mean it all just comes together, right. And I think sharding is also being worked on in parallel here. So then when we get sharding, we basically have massive scalability unlocked there for L2 because L2 can use the shards as what's called data availability layers which increases the scalability up to hundreds of thousands of transactions per second, potentially millions of transactions per second on L2. And that's like the full vision.
00:25:29.112 - 00:25:58.388, Speaker A: So we are realistically, we are maybe a year, maybe a year and a half. I wouldn't say that. Maybe, maybe 18 months, I guess like at most. But I would say we're realistically a year away from having the kind of like full vision of what we wanted with Ethereum, right? We had, we have AP 1559, we have the L2 ecosystem finally being built out. We have the merge done. So we get rid of proof of work. That to me just signals that like, I mean I was saying it before, ETH is so undervalued.
00:25:58.388 - 00:26:35.062, Speaker A: Right now. Like I say it a lot on Twitter, but it just, I mean, I said today I put out a tweet. It's like, it pains me how much, you know, how undervalued ETH is considering all the fundamentals that are going on right now and, you know, maybe the markets just being inefficient, I don't know. But yeah, I just think it's, it's worth paying attention to the merge because it might happen sooner than you think. But yeah, for now, I will leave it at that and I'll keep you guys updated on, on how it progresses there. So Austin Griffith, everyone's favorite Ethereum builder, put out a optimism DAP starter pack today. So it's basically at this blog post here, and this is for developers.
00:26:35.062 - 00:27:03.864, Speaker A: It's from Adam Fuller. Actually, I don't know if it's from. Maybe Austin kind of like helped, helped him with it here. But basically Adam has posted this, this on medium and basically it's for developers to get started building on optimism using this tool called Scaffold ETH. And it's basically a guide on how to do this. So if you're a developer and you want to check out how to play play with optimism, which is obviously the L2 scaling solution, then this is for you. So I'll link it in the YouTube description and you can go check it out.
00:27:03.864 - 00:27:54.964, Speaker A: So Danny Ryan posted his ETH two quick update today. This is the 23rd one, but he renamed it to finalize. So it's called finalize number 23. And the reason for the rebrand is that I guess they're trying, they're being, the researchers are trying to push this kind of like nomenclature, nomenclature around Ethereum's kind of consensus layer versus, versus its application layer. So what this means is that Ethereum's consensus layer is, I mean, TLDR is like, it's proof of stake consensus, right. So once the merge happens, the application layout, which is what we know as ETH one today, will basically be secured by Ethereum's consensus layout, what we know as ETH two today. But I think, I mean, I like this terminology for people in the ecosystem, but I think in general, it's just kind of like, doesn't mean anything to people outside of it.
00:27:54.964 - 00:28:42.844, Speaker A: I think using the terminology of ETH one and ETH two works for now, and I'm going to keep using that. But it's good to kind of like separate these kind of concerns out here for, for kind of like accuracy sake. But then I was asked as well today it's like, okay, well, what's people going to refer to it once the merge happens? And I'm like, well, just Ethereum, right? As soon as the merge happens, there's no more ETH one or ETH two. There's just a theory. I'm now and, you know, all the L2s building on top of just aetherium. But I think the reason why Danny, Danny Ryan wanted to split this out here is because Ethereum is also going to have like an application layer, you know, I guess like existing around it, where applications from, like, say, other chains or like centralized services are going to tap into Ethereum. But I wouldn't say they're part of Ethereum's application layer unless they're secured by Ethereum's consensus layer.
00:28:42.844 - 00:29:09.746, Speaker A: Right? So I wouldn't call that ethereum. So I think that's why Danny put this out there for accuracy. But yeah, I think, I think it makes sense. But I will keep referring to it as ETH one and ETH two, and then just like Ethereum, once the merge happens. So speaking of NFts and crypto punks before, Peruja here, who owns an alien crypto punk, actually put out this kind of lengthy thread so I won't read through it all. I'm kind of like how he stopped, how he. Sorry.
00:29:09.746 - 00:29:46.276, Speaker A: How he learned to stop worrying and love the punks. So basically, this is a nice thread going over why crypto punks are so valuable, why they're going to be more valuable in the future, why kind of like nfts are valuable in general while people are missing, right. All these sorts of stuff. And I mean, the TRDR is that he believes that we're just at the very, very, very, very, very start of the NFT, kind of like adoption phase, I guess you could call it. And to own a piece of the first ever nfts, putting a price on that is kind of like invaluable. It's kind of like it's priceless, right? I mean, you can't really value that. And I agree with him to an extent.
00:29:46.276 - 00:30:08.104, Speaker A: I mean, I only have one punk that I bought. I didn't actually even buy it. I claimed it from the contract back in 2017. And it's not rare. It's like the most common punk you can get, right? But even those are selling for like $40,000 today. But I deeply regret not buying some of the alien or ape or zombie punks or, you know, loading up back in the day. But as I said before, I mean, they were worth nothing.
00:30:08.104 - 00:30:46.840, Speaker A: And I wasn't like, I mean, this is just hindsight speaking right now, but those who did buy back then and saw the value of that going into the future have made, you know, a pretty penny. Some people have made life changing, life changing money from this. But yeah, definitely go recommend reading this thread. You know, my TL doctor doesn't do it justice. There's 25 tweets here, so definitely go check it out. So Arjun put out a blog post today detailing their plans for basically how they plan to adopt L2 and like how they plan to double down on layer one. I guess the TLDR here is that they're going to be supporting ZK roll ups first on kind of like L2.
00:30:46.840 - 00:31:18.666, Speaker A: And I think they're going to be working with ZK sync here. And what I really liked about this was that they're basically like, I guess they understand Ethereum and why we want to build L2. Like we want to retain the security and the centralization properties of Ethereum, but also scale. And that's kind of what they've, what they've kind of gone through here. And they've basically detailed what they're going to be doing through their argent wallet as well. So go read the full blog post if you want to get a better idea of everything. You know, I'm not going to, obviously, sorry, read through the whole thing here.
00:31:18.666 - 00:31:49.496, Speaker A: But yeah, it's good to kind of like if you're using argent, if you plan on using argent. Good to get a picture of where they're at here. Alright, last thing here. So Hermes network, I've spoken about them before and about how they had their L2 kind of solution on testnets recently. This is a plot post detailing their main net launch here. So basically I think, you know, the 7 March, they basically implemented an update into their system which was kind of last update that they did. They're talking about their trusted setup ceremony here, the public test net feedback.
00:31:49.496 - 00:32:13.092, Speaker A: So they're restarting the public testnet on Monday, the 15 march, which comes with a new version called poseidon. And then I think, I don't know. So they didn't give a main net date here. They just said as soon as possible. But yeah, they've teased that main it is coming soon. So this is just another layer to going live in March potentially, right? On main net. That's, I mean, how many of that? Like three or four.
00:32:13.092 - 00:32:42.300, Speaker A: Now that's just crazy, right? I mean, March, what is it, 12th? So 28 days left of March or something like that? Sorry, 18 days. Wow, that was. That was terrible math. We'll see how it goes. But, yeah, I mean, I also wanted to turn note on this as well. I was talking to someone before about this, but, you know, I'm hyping up L2 a lot, and a lot of people in the ecosystem are as well, but we're hyping it up as if it's like a few months down the line. Like, I'm not expecting L2s to go live this month and suddenly get as much activity as layer one.
00:32:42.300 - 00:33:09.778, Speaker A: That's just. I don't think that's feasible. I think you might be able to achieve that with liquidity mining programs. Like, for me, you know, the dream, and I haven't got any special information here, but I was speaking to another friend today, and I said the dream scenario is optimism launches with Uniswap V three deploying to layer one and L2. Right. And then Coinbase has a bridge into and out of optimism. That is like, the dream scenario.
00:33:09.778 - 00:33:43.638, Speaker A: And also Uniswap puts liquidity mining on their L2 kind of systems to get the liquidity there. If that happened, I could see L2 getting much more adoption, getting lots of adoption, much faster than I would anticipate, because I am definitely. This is like a, this is like a bet for the next few months that L2 is going to kind of get adopted. But I don't expect, like, these solutions to drop and then on day one, you know, a billion dollars moves into them. Unless there's, like, liquidity mining, maybe. But, yeah, just in general, I think it's good to temper expectations there. You know, if something goes live and then, you know, it kind of takes a little while to get adopted.
00:33:43.638 - 00:34:30.196, Speaker A: Don't kind of fret about that. I think that we all know that L2, you know, needs to happen. People want to use it. But at the end of the day, the whales are fine using layer one still. So to get the liquidity to L2, we either have to do a liquidity mining program, or you just have to wait till enough users migrate over there that the whales find it kind of, like, worth their time and worth their kind of, like, money to put their kind of capital in L2 to provide liquidity, to earn fees, to do whatever on there. And, you know, as well as, like, safety, you know, no one wants to kind of put a billion dollars into something new unless you're like, unless you're like SBF from Alameda who likes to put a billion dollars into new protocols, you know, not, not many people like to do that. So it's going to be a bit of a, I wouldn't say a grind, but it's going to be a kind of like, maybe, I wouldn't even say slow rollout, but like a tempered rollout.
00:34:30.196 - 00:34:44.150, Speaker A: It's not going to be like an overnight success sort of thing, but we're going to get there. I'm very confident about that. So. Yeah, always good to keep those things in mind. All right, everyone, that's it for today. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to that channel, give that video a thumbs up.
00:34:44.150 - 00:34:50.734, Speaker A: Subscribe to the Daily Gray newsletter below. Join the Discord Channel and I hope you all have a great weekend, and I'll catch you next week. Thanks, everyone.
