00:00:00.420 - 00:00:03.928, Speaker A: You. Hi everyone.
00:00:04.014 - 00:00:47.284, Speaker B: Thank you for being here. We're going to have an exciting topic which has become pretty much front of mine in the last 1218 months, which is the convergence of tradfi and DFI. We're lucky to be joined today by Kai. He is VPN head of crypto at Visa inside the fintech product organization. Kai is actually one of the most active proponent of the fact that the future of traditional finance services and workflows will be based on chain. So beyond his mineral at Visa, he's also part of the World Economic Forum Global Future Council on cryptocurrencies. He's also a member of the advisory group on the digital dollar project.
00:00:47.284 - 00:00:54.072, Speaker B: He comes from the startup world. He was at Trio Pay, which got acquired by Visa in 2015. So guy, thank you for joining us.
00:00:54.206 - 00:01:08.892, Speaker A: It's great to be here and in San Francisco. I had the pleasure of being in Tel Aviv for Starquare sessions back in February, and so love to have developer events here in SF in the Bay Area, and amazing to see the talent that came out.
00:01:08.946 - 00:02:02.750, Speaker B: Yeah, agreed. So one thing we wanted to contextualize is when you look at what happened in 2022, we saw tratfi becoming very vocal in not just their blockchain ambitions, but the work they were actually doing. And in some cases that they had been doing for many years, just not making noise about it. Right. And two examples in the case of Visa were notably work around the execution of card payment on stablecoin rails. Something absolutely key when you think about where the payment rail is doing. They've also been very vocal about account abstraction from a technical architecture standpoint, from how it fits in the context of a day to day life, accessing services that are technology efficient without realizing that you are using in the background, very complex technology.
00:02:02.750 - 00:02:19.356, Speaker B: So the way I wanted to open, could you walk us through, top down, the visa strategy when it comes to blockchain, and notably in light of all the noise that went out of the ecosystem last year, how has that strategy adapted, if there's been any adjustment?
00:02:19.468 - 00:02:59.036, Speaker A: So one of the benefits that we've had is we actually started working on crypto in public blockchains all the way back in 2018. And so 2018, 2019. And when you compare the bear market of the past year to back then, there was a real question, would anything exist beyond bitcoin? And so I became obsessed and went down the crypto rabbit hole. And what I found was that if you talk to people in the payments ecosystem and you ask them about crypto in 2018, 2019, all there was was bitcoin. And they're like, it's too slow. It doesn't scale five transactions a second. And it was very easy to dismiss it.
00:02:59.036 - 00:03:32.404, Speaker A: And then you'd go to a crypto meetup, and I started going to meetups in San Francisco and talking to developers, and you'd ask them about payments. And what I realized is very few people actually knew how Visa worked. They didn't actually know how payment ecosystems operated. And so it was easy for people in crypto to say, oh, all this is just going to be bitcoin. All this is just going to go on chain. And so it seemed very clear early on that the future is going to be some intersection of the two. And as the space started to grow, we really just started with fiat on ramps and off ramps.
00:03:32.404 - 00:04:08.416, Speaker A: It was a very basic kind of business as usual, that there were crypto companies who were merchants. They wanted to accept cards. You need a way to get fiat in. And then there were crypto companies that wanted to issue cards. And so we started leaning into the space, trying to create a path for this new set of fintechs to be able to interact with our existing products. And so that was a lot of what we did in 20 19, 20, 20, 20 21. And then over the past year, the bear market, I think, is a really good opportunity to zoom out and really focus on the technology and separate the signal from the noise.
00:04:08.416 - 00:05:01.652, Speaker A: And so we were really fortunate. We took a very long term view, and we said that there's an enormous amount of innovation happening, particularly around scalability, the emergence of L2s and the progress that has been made, as well as stablecoins. And so I think when you combine stablecoins with high throughput networks, you start to get a new form of payment infrastructure. And so we've spent the past year really going deep on what will it take for real payment flows to move over blockchain networks. And then the role that we see ourselves playing is, how do we help our clients? We have a network of 15,000 banks and 100 million merchants. And so what does it take to take these really exciting innovations and technologies that developers are tinkering around with and actually make them usable and commercially viable with a large network? And so that's what we've been focused on for the past year.
00:05:01.706 - 00:05:26.200, Speaker B: Yeah. So bouncing back up of that. Right. You say, okay, we started working on public chains back in 2018. Has there ever been a debate or a consideration internally of that public chain versus private chain approach? Or were you already convinced from the get go that public chain was the way to go, because the open source tech for sure would be higher quality due to network effect versus whatever private company could keep behind doors.
00:05:26.280 - 00:06:21.948, Speaker A: Yeah, I think this is one of the most interesting topics in tradfi and crypto and D five right now. And I think early on, all the way back even before I started at visa in 2015, 2016, I think there was this notion of blockchain, not bitcoin, and it was, you could have these private blockchains and a few banks would just run the nodes and that was it. You don't have to interact with these public networks. And I think what we've seen is people have been talking about that for a long time, and there are not a lot of real use cases and demonstrated value of purely permissioned blockchains to date, where we saw a lot of the innovation happen. If you look at where stablecoins have happened, where DeFi, where nfts, it's all happening on public chains. And so I don't think you can ignore the value that public chains offer and the permissionless nature of developers across the world. They're the ones coming up with the applications and the use cases.
00:06:21.948 - 00:07:01.448, Speaker A: It's very hard to do that on permission chains now. I think that the future is going to be some combination of the two. So I think permission chains will exist. I think one example of what we're seeing is with central banks. If you look in countries like Brazil, you have very sophisticated central banks that are actually rolling out wholesale cbdcs using Hyperledger Bezu and an EVM compatible permission blockchain. So I think that there will be some kind of purpose built permission chains. But I think if you only focus on permission chains, the challenge of standing them up, creating consortiums, figuring out the rules, getting everyone to operate them, is a pretty big barrier.
00:07:01.448 - 00:07:13.808, Speaker A: And I think a lot of the innovation is going to happen on public chains. And so how do you have a payments ecosystem where both of those can exist together? And that's something we think requires large global companies like visa to play a.
00:07:13.814 - 00:08:01.040, Speaker B: Role which is fair. The two tier system you described also actually fits very naturally in the fact that we already have a two tier money system. We have federal money, which only banks interface with, right? And then we have basically the private money in circulation, which is where most of the financial works was, are built. And that's maybe indeed a route. So bouncing off, I agree with you most actually, pretty much everything relevant in terms of technology innovation has come from the public chains. What today are you most excited with? In terms of either things that have matured enough to become relevant for productions, or things that basically did not exist. And now that we have them, this opens up either derisking of execution, or it makes certain use cases a lot more achievable within shorter timelines.
00:08:01.620 - 00:08:50.752, Speaker A: I think it's very clearly stablecoins. And when we look at where we are today, and it's like you have to have multiple pieces of the puzzle and fit them together to make this usable for payments. And so I think before stablecoins, blockchains were interesting technologies, but the only thing you could transfer over them were volatile assets. And I think what we've seen over many years of talking to consumers and merchants and many of our clients, there's not a lot of mainstream demand today for average people to spend bitcoin. It's not something that really, really scales. So I think that being able to represent fiat currencies like dollars, which in many ways dollars are, it's the killer financial product. People love dollars all over the world, people want to use dollars.
00:08:50.752 - 00:09:43.276, Speaker A: Being able to represent dollars over blockchains is a really big deal. But then I think two years ago, if you looked at, okay, we had stablecoins two years ago, but most of the blockchains that existed two years ago didn't really scale. And so you kind of have to have both. You have to have stablecoins that people can rely on, that they can trust with some regulatory clarity, that they know that they can redeem them, they know what the rights are, and then you have to have blockchains that they can run on that could be fast and cheap and have many different features. And I think that's what's been really exciting. And even looking at the approach that many stablecoins are taking to go multichain, it's this amazing competitive landscape where developers can now choose. They could say, what programming language do I want to use to build an application? What features do I want that application to have? And then now, how do I bring dollars into that application? And dollars can start to flow across many different blockchains.
00:09:43.276 - 00:09:59.430, Speaker A: And I think that that combination together is going to impact payments in a number of different ways. And so we are very much stablecoin maximalists. And we think that stablecoins running over many different blockchains are one of the most important, most interesting payment innovations that's happening today.
00:10:01.000 - 00:10:18.750, Speaker B: You've written a lot on account abstraction. Is your view for account abstraction that this is how you unramp your existing clients without them realizing that they are getting on ramp? Or are you seeing it more as at this point, exploratory of things that could be built?
00:10:19.520 - 00:10:50.836, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's absolutely exploratory. And one of the ways that we operate internally at visa is we think the best way to learn is to actually try and build. It's to get our hands dirty with the tech. And so when account abstraction started becoming this concept people were talking about, we're like, let's try and write some smart contracts. We had an engineer learn Cairo, and let's write a smart contract in Cairo and see what you can do with it. And so we've been very hands on in exploring and learning. And I think there are a number of different benefits that account abstraction has.
00:10:50.836 - 00:11:37.460, Speaker A: The first and biggest one is I think the idea of a consumer paying a gas fee in a native token is absurd for most mainstream consumers, it's just not a behavior that they're used to. You imagine going to a website or going to an application that you want to interact with, and as you interact with it, they start charging you their cloud hosting fees. And then the only way you could pay those cloud hosting fees are in a random currency like swiss francs. And now you have to go and buy a dollar worth of a foreign currency to then be able to go back and use an application. It doesn't make sense. And so we think that a lot of the mainstream applications that are going to scale, consumers aren't going to have to, they shouldn't have to go and buy a native currency. And it doesn't even matter what the fees are.
00:11:37.460 - 00:12:23.060, Speaker A: The fees could be on layer one with Ethereum and a few dollars. It could be on a L2 with a few cents. But the idea of taking that extra step, going to buy a native currency just to be able to use an application to mint and claim an NFT, we don't think is going to be the way that this technology scales. And so I think that's the biggest problem that count abstraction solves, is consumers should be able to interact with an application, and either the application can sponsor the gas fee for them, or they can have a stablecoin in the application and that automatically is used to fund the gas. And so that's one of the biggest benefits. We think there are other benefits around account recovery. We love what the team at Argent is doing and being able to have guardians and other models outside of seedwords, we think hardware signing is super interesting.
00:12:23.060 - 00:12:45.310, Speaker A: What Bravos and others are doing reoccurring payments. There are so many different things that when you move from eoas to smart accounts, it starts looking a lot more like modern next generation wallets, where eoas, we just think, are a very difficult model for a mainstream consumer to scale. When you're paying gas fees and you're writing seed words down and worrying about losing them.
00:12:47.040 - 00:13:05.616, Speaker B: How do you tackle the privacy of payment topic? Right, let's say that everything is basically on chain. I swipe my card. You can actually get a lot of metadata. When I swipe my card, that metadata would basically go on chain for everybody to see, which I don't necessarily want. My bank probably doesn't want. The merchant may not want either. Right.
00:13:05.616 - 00:13:23.850, Speaker B: So are you seeing those as, okay, we basically find a way to shield that. We prove the validity of certain aspects of the metadata using, for example, zero knowledge proofs. Or are you seeing a different approach that would be satisfactory enough for people actually using the card?
00:13:24.300 - 00:14:01.388, Speaker A: I think that is one of the biggest challenges for adoption in the space today. And I don't think there's a great solution that's commercializable at scale. And so I think that is a challenge for developers and it's awesome to see different approaches being taken. I think first, it's such a complex ecosystem to scale blockchains and make blockchains work in this kind of public, open source way. And so I look at like, scalability was the first challenge. If you could only do a few transactions per second and if fees are high, there's just not that much you can use it for. It seems very clear that scalability is being solved.
00:14:01.388 - 00:15:03.096, Speaker A: I think at this point, if anyone says, oh, blockchains aren't going to work because they're too slow and too expensive, that's a very clear sign. They've been asleep for the past two years. And so we don't know what exactly the best mechanism is going to be. We think there could be many different approaches, but scalability is happening now. I think the question is, do we see the adoption of these networks as they scale for real world use cases? And then as they get adopted, people start to realize, wait a minute, transactions are public, people can see what you're doing and then scalability comes later or privacy comes later, or are we going to see both scalability and privacy together? And I think it's too early to tell. And so there's not a great solution. I think for stablecoins to go from kind of early pilots and experiments and certain use cases, I think large value b two B is a little different to consumers buying their coffee with stablecoins it's very hard to imagine that you're going to buy your coffee with a stablecoin, and now that coffee merchant has your address, and now they know every transaction that you've ever made.
00:15:03.096 - 00:15:10.090, Speaker A: That's not a normal thing that exists in the payments ecosystem. And so I think those are major challenges that need to be solved before that happens.
00:15:11.660 - 00:15:57.800, Speaker B: So talking about use cases, you guys are excited about. So within card payment, right there is kind of like the natural one, which is I have my debit card, I'm swiping, and basically the transaction is settled by the end of the day. Cash is actually at balance netted out at the bank within 48 hours. Right now, for credit card payments, things get a little bit more complicated because you have both a payment product and a credit product. So I'd like to get your thoughts on between those two types of services. Are you for now, focusing on, I call it the simpler one, or where are you at in your thinking of basically moving credit cards and therefore moving credit risk on chain?
00:15:58.220 - 00:16:40.960, Speaker A: So I think first, it's really important to clarify that visa does not issue credit cards. We do not take credit risk. We do not underwrite consumers. Visa is a global network and we are the payment rails that banks use to issue credit cards on top of to be able to spend. And so I think a lot of the innovation there in underwriting and new credit models are going to happen with banks who are the ones that are taking the risk. Now, as I think about it, if you want to be able to offer a credit payment product as a bank, and credit cards are very powerful products today. They're very limited to places where there's mature credit scoring.
00:16:40.960 - 00:17:54.760, Speaker A: Because if you're doing unsecured lending, if you're giving someone the ability to have a revolving line, you're expecting if they're going to pay you later, you have to trust that you know who that person is and that person is going to pay you back. And there are many countries, many markets in the world, and many people who don't have credit scores, and then there are people who are younger who just haven't established credit yet. And so I think what's going to be really interesting to see over the next few years is they're going to be both different approaches of how do you underwrite consumers using different types of data and different types of reputation for unsecured credit? And maybe there are some types of on chain data that become used in that reputation. And I think there are going to be other types of collateralized credit products. And so I think we're seeing that today, and we're seeing interest from some of our clients to, say consumers all over the world, they could hold a little bit of bitcoin or a little bit of eth, and if they hold that, that becomes collateral that can be used to underwrite a loan. And we've seen many different products, whether it's DeFI or CFI and others that have done that, but combining that with the revolving nature of a card to be able to spend, and I think it's one thing to have just volatile assets that you could be able to use as collateral. It's another as real world assets become tokenized.
00:17:54.760 - 00:18:28.920, Speaker A: And so seeing the adoption of tokenized treasury bills, there's now something like $600 million of t bills that are issued on chain. And so if you have real world assets issued on chain, can those then be used as collateral to be able to issue revolving lines against? And so I think we're going to see a lot of different innovation around new credit models from our clients, and we work closely with them and help them. But ultimately, we're focused on where the payment rails that the value moves over, whether or not that value is effectively good funds and debit held an account, or whether it's credit and the bank is underwriting the consumer.
00:18:30.620 - 00:19:23.550, Speaker B: Another kind of both product and tech question is, when you look at stable coins, the biggest stable coins we have today are effectively collateralized by effectively buying treasury equivalents. One argument people were making, looking at those is, well, how would these actually scale to the volume we need them to scale because they're effectively taking liquidity away from the underlying treasury market. So we've seen explorations where we go into algorithmic stable coins, we've seen explorations where we're saying, well, we don't remove the liquidity, we basically create a liquid staking token equivalent of the underlying treasury. From your standpoint, are you kind of like agnostic, as per the technological design of stablecoin that eventually would be moving the money around? Or do you have strong preferences either based on where the tech is today or where the regulatory framework is today?
00:19:24.160 - 00:20:17.084, Speaker A: I think how stablecoins are backed and designed matters a lot, and we've seen that over time. I think algorithmic stablecoins, I'm still very skeptical that those are ever really going to work. And I think there have been experiments, but to my knowledge, they've not been successful over long term periods of time. I think fiat collateralized stablecoins today are a product that makes sense that are much easier for traditional institutions, for regulators, for governments to manage. I would not be surprised if there are other interesting experiments and types of stablecoin models. But I think we're much further away from a point where you could treat a stablecoin that's backed 100% by cash at a tier one bank and treasuries with a stablecoin that's backed by liquid staking derivatives. I think those are two very different products.
00:20:17.084 - 00:21:27.040, Speaker A: And so even if they both exist in the market, I think the types of institutions and companies and use cases and the demand from consumers for one will probably be very different from the other. I do think that one of the most interesting things that we're spending time on and many others are going forward is this question around how many stablecoins will exist. Is it going to be three? Is it going to be 30? Is it going to be 300? Is everyone going to try and create their own stablecoin? What will that look like? How much will stablecoin brands matter? Are people going to hold PayPal coins and USDC and all these other stablecoins in the wallet and have a preference for one or the other, or are they going to be abstracted away? Are they just going to be dollars sitting in a wallet? And then what are the regulatory requirements going to be to issue a stablecoin? Do you have to be a bank in some markets? Can you be a fintech? And so we think there's going to be a lot of activity in just the fiat collateralized stablecoin ecosystem over the next few years. There will be activity in the crypto, native, algorithmic and other types, but I think that is less likely to play a role in mainstream payments, at least until those are much more proven and understood.
00:21:28.920 - 00:22:14.880, Speaker B: You were mentioning it earlier and again just now, stablecoin today is really us dollar stablecoin. We've still seen a few attempts out of euro, out of singaporean dollar primarily. Do you think that there is a case where the notion of is it USD backed versus something else in a way becomes a separate problem, where people say, okay, this is based on stablecoin, this is essentially my main rail, and then I have a second rail, which is basically purely the FX component, where again, from the user standpoint, that becomes an irrelevant consideration. You pay in whatever is the most efficient way to pay without having to think about, okay, is it going to be in us dollar, in singaporean dollar, or in british pound?
00:22:15.300 - 00:22:48.312, Speaker A: It's a good question. I think on chain FX is super interesting. There's no question that today the demand for stablecoins is really the demand for dollars. And I think for the initial use cases in crypto capital markets, most people that are trading crypto, they prefer dollars. And that makes sense. I think it makes sense for most major fiat currencies to come on chain in some way. And I think that things that you can do from a payment perspective, if you have multiple fiat currencies that all exist, you can then have a multi currency wallet where they're all on chain.
00:22:48.312 - 00:23:27.530, Speaker A: You can then swap between different currencies more efficiently. And so we're excited to see that there's definitely more activity and more interest in non dollar stablecoins. And I think that there will be multi currency wallets that operate. They just haven't scaled to date. And I think it also just speaks to the power and demand for dollars and how much people want dollars, both consumers and businesses outside the United States. And so I think that you're going to have to see a lot more integration between traditional payment systems and blockchains to start to get stablecoins that represent other fiat currencies. And I think that's what will make it the most interesting and dynamic market.
00:23:29.740 - 00:23:33.708, Speaker B: Well, that's pretty much all my questions. You said you would have questions for me.
00:23:33.874 - 00:23:45.160, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess. Where do you see stablecoins going? And what are the biggest opportunities for builders and developers as an investor in this space of defi and trapflare?
00:23:45.240 - 00:25:29.776, Speaker B: Yeah, so we've been actually looking quite a bit at non us dollar stablecoins out of a reasoning that any major fiat currency should have an on chain equivalent, because the same efficiency arguments can be made. What we realize is the demand for dollar is so much stronger than the demand for other currencies, that at this point, those projects, from a tech standpoint, are well built, but there is no commercial traction of any substance. So we moved away from basically that layer of the stablecoin itself into one layer above, which is notably looking at payment. And within payment, we've been looking at both what I would qualify, the onchain native payment, people who don't want to leave the onchain world, and making that more seamless, whether that's from the standpoint of being a business who has to do payroll, who has to pay invoices in stable, but also, and actually that's to me, the more exciting case, everything which is peer to peer payment. When you look at, notably emerging markets, very shallow penetration of bank accounts, very shallow penetration of cards, but very high penetration of mobile phones, cards today they don't have to be physical. And so to think of a card basically being hosted on a mobile phone where you have secure enclave protecting your digital card information and then leveraging in the background a stablecoin rail to facilitate digital payment, notably in emerging markets, digital payment in cross border digital payment in very small amount where the existing stack has very significant operational overhead, which basically causes either charging fixed fees or basically people saying, hey, I don't want to support. Right.
00:25:29.776 - 00:26:03.928, Speaker B: So that's an area where we've been looking a lot. The challenge in terms of finding teams doing that is you need a team that's both very deep in fintech and a team that's very deep in blockchain. And up until pretty much a year ago, those two worlds, they don't really intersect at the startup level, they intersect at the partnership level. Right. And so that's, to us, the big question today, which is, okay, do you create those teams? Do you literally put them together? Or is it just a matter of people progressively realizing that this is the founding team setup it takes to build a massive, successful business?
00:26:04.014 - 00:26:18.384, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there's a ton of opportunity at that intersection, but you have to go deep enough to understand the existing payment stack and the blockchain stack. And I think there are a lot of builders who know blockchains haven't spent any time in payment it. And it's really hard to figure out what problems it really solves there.
00:26:18.422 - 00:26:19.104, Speaker B: Very hard.
00:26:19.222 - 00:26:22.096, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we're out of time, but thanks for having me.
00:26:22.118 - 00:26:23.390, Speaker B: Thank you, everyone. Thank you so much.
