00:00:08.440 - 00:00:39.274, Speaker A: Hello, GM. GM, everyone. Good merge. So today I'm here to share a little bit overview of the evolution of defi user base. The name is a little bit big, but really I want to share some observation of how the roles of user play in the defi space have been evolving. And the quantitative part will be mostly focusing on Dex because that's what I do. So before I start, introduce myself, my name is Danny Sui.
00:00:39.274 - 00:01:01.196, Speaker A: Not affiliated with the Sui blockchain. It's just my last name and it doesn't mean water. So I work as a data scientist at Zero X. Zero X is a Dex infra company. We have mainly two products. One is developer facing tool called Zero X API. Basically it's a Dex aggregator for anyone or any team.
00:01:01.196 - 00:01:30.830, Speaker A: They want to build a swap function, like a front end that allow people to come and trade. We will help them to provide the best price across different liquidity, across multiple chain. Not cross chain yet, but across multiple chain. Another product is matcha. It's a consumer product. So maybe most of you guys may feel more familiar with that. It's an easy front end where you go and click and trade.
00:01:30.830 - 00:02:08.070, Speaker A: Yeah. So today we want to see a review on defi user growth in a few aspects. First of all, we want to go through the diversity of how the application vertical have been evolving, have been growing and getting more sophisticated. And then we want to see like how the roles of the user are playing has been sophisticated in the space especially. There are two major roles coming in. The one is institutional money, like professional market makers. The other one is the bots or in the dark forest with all the mev topic.
00:02:08.070 - 00:02:48.702, Speaker A: Really glad actually, the previous talks kind of lay out some fundamental concepts and contexts for those topics. So the last one will be a scale comparison across different ecosystem and with some other alter. L1, l two, and also Solana. All right, so this is some diagram I made. So let's go through each of the vertical. So for really one big major vertical among DeFi is lending protocols. So like as a user, you want to participate into lending protocol, really, you need to deposit things first, right? So starting from the left top, you can be a lender.
00:02:48.702 - 00:03:58.138, Speaker A: Like you're going to deposit some collateral, and then on top of that, if you want to borrow out assets, you can borrow money. We go to the right side. We have borrowers who can be retail users. And then like when flashlom came out, there are like flashlong bots, just like I building up this defi Lego where basically they lend some money from lending protocol and they make some trades in Dex pool and then they go back and pay back the pool and also make some up trash from there. And then we also have liquidators, potentially mostly also mev bots that is checking which loan is like how to say, approaching the dangerous threshold that's being liquidated. And then they're going to just chime in right there and then. So we also have token holders on the left where they may not necessarily participate in a lending pool, but in a sense they're also playing with this defi widget where basically with the governance model, if you are voting actively, you can decide to adjust the lending interest rates or which liquidity pool to be more incentivized.
00:03:58.138 - 00:04:43.478, Speaker A: All these things. We have maybe individual people who are voting very passionate about the community. We also have venture capital investors who are taking really large shares, actually dominating their votes in the space. We also have derivative protocols, option traders like open ribbon finance, perpetual protocol, synthetix asset trader as well, pretty much similar to tradify. So and then there are some other tools that not necessarily deFi, but you can play with it in a defi way. So like NFC Marketplace has been pretty booming up the past two years. I want to say like the past two years mostly it's still like order book model.
00:04:43.478 - 00:05:28.246, Speaker A: So like peer to peer trade. So on the right side, if we model them as like makers and takers, mostly you can see like retail sellers, they're just listing their items on Opensea or any other platforms. But then the ticker side is getting interesting. So like you definitely have retail buyers just like browsing through the consumer platform. We also have like arbitrage bots as like the snipers. They're like sniping the lowest price on each like maybe popular or like blue chip collections even. I think there was a, a feature on the NFT marketplace, Quadik on optimism as like you can do a floor sweeper.
00:05:28.246 - 00:06:23.660, Speaker A: So it's pretty interesting. Yeah, and definitely there are like watch traders that we saw, as also Richard mentioned earlier, like when looksrare coming up and the platform incentivizes people to come in kind of like vampire attacking the, you know, the major first movers. So. Yeah. And then there is also interesting thing recently coming up with Sudoswap is they're trying to also make the AMM model to price the NFT, which actually putting them into a liquidity pool model, which is getting more interesting for an NFT space. And then we also have bridges and also ease two staking. They're mostly, I would say chime into DeFi because they also always have this incentivized, how to say, yields that you can come at stake and then earn rewards, and then it will derive a lot of interesting playing in the making.
00:06:23.660 - 00:07:33.524, Speaker A: So, yeah, I want to zoom in into the DEX trading part. So here's history overview of how the DEX trading space has been evolving over time. I want to say starting from 2016, 2017, when I ethereum just come up, the model was very simple, very vanilla style. It's like there's the order book Dex, there was Ether, Delta, IDEX, where basically there's two people, they want to trade a to b, the other one want to trade b to a, so they're a match. And then Xerox built on top of that was like the first order book model where there was also a whole ecosystem of the relayers applications where basically you can do the order broadcasting and the matching and potentially earn a fee in the model. When Uniswap came up in 2018, the AMM model is so innovative that it solved the issue of the liquidity because they pulled money into one pool. And so whoever wants to trade the asset, they can just come in with automatic curve to regulate the price.
00:07:33.524 - 00:08:23.312, Speaker A: And so I want to say around that time there were a bunch of AMM fork or potentially also, there are some also innovation with stable coins like curve. And then there's this also coming up with yarn that is more sophisticated, playing with Defi coming up and then coming forward. We see actually now institutional money is very interested into this Dex trading space because this is a super early market. So it's like the pricing is not efficient. It's only updated every block, which is 13 seconds. They can easily do arbitrage across platform between centralized exchange and DeX. So there are more and more RFQ liquidity coming in from the professional market maker and then the Dex provider.
00:08:23.312 - 00:09:31.330, Speaker A: We see this RFQ liquidity coming in and the model becomes more, how to say, comprehensive as well in our side, where basically we're not only just checking all the Amm liquidity, we're also checking, okay, what's the price for a market maker? I want to compare your price together fairly with the AMM price and potentially also some single individual limited order user who are listing their order into order book as that three parts in that chart. And then we compare what's the best price and then give back to words the requester or the taker. So yeah, we see this aggregator model becomes kind of like, how to say, consolidating. Nowadays, it's like one inch exchange, Xerox API and power swap being pretty much the three biggest players in the space. Yeah. And then the past year with the topic of MeV and people are seeing like wait, the bots are getting so smart that they are actually creating so much harm towards like innocent retail users. We should do something about it.
00:09:31.330 - 00:10:16.140, Speaker A: Like we should build product that is MeV aware and we should potentially help them to redistribute back the value towards user. Also another trend we see is also metamask. They enable the swap inside of the wallet and they're taking a fee. But as we are seeing, it's like they're having great volume and revenue. So it really says something about what that retail care cares and what they don't care. I think a common sense in our team is that like regardless they are aware of what they should care or not. The application team has a responsibility to potentially give education or even let them don't need to care but then still being protected.
00:10:16.140 - 00:11:52.290, Speaker A: So one thing we launched earlier this year through our slippage study across the Dex trading space is that we enable this slippage protection where, so go back to that chart where we see aggregators when we compare amliquidity and RFQ liquidity. We already know that RFQ liquidity is going to have zero slippage. But when you are accessing AMN liquidity, there will potentially, and pretty much very likely there will be a slippage. So we built this predictive model where we are learning from the past data per trading pair per trade size per liquidity pool and then determine okay for this coming trade, what will be the potential slippage that is happening for this user and then discount that back to penalize potentially the MN liquidity. And we're seeing pretty good interesting results right now that our users are definitely getting less slippage with this model. We just released a report yesterday, so suggest you check out on our twitter. Yes, and so with the aggregator vertical getting sophisticated, we're seeing this chart from Frederick that right now aggregator volume is taking around like 20%, 30% across all the DAX trading volume space, which doesn't make sense as also I think Richard mentioned this because aggregator is going to be always better pricing than, and also they have gas optimization.
00:11:52.290 - 00:12:54.910, Speaker A: It saves less gas directly accessing the pool rather than going through a router. But I guess this says something that the stickiness of UI UX as well as there is another chart that we're going to look at is that actually on DeX a lot of the volume are driven by just five traders. So there's a lot of how to say mev volume there going on as well. So yeah, this volume doesn't really say everything. But yeah, it's interesting to see another chart zooming into the aggregator part is that this chart from Gnostis where basically they extracted their volume out from all the aggregator, they are pinging on the top as a yellow at the cow swap volume. So how they work in a brief summary is that they are kind of like aggregator of aggregator. They are checking what's the best price from Xerox API, what's the best price from one inch and then power swap, and then they compare again and take the best price.
00:12:54.910 - 00:13:57.892, Speaker A: So yeah, so that's another layer of improvement and comparison. We also call them meta aggregator and we're seeing their volume getting pretty good there as 7%, 10%. So next one is another network view of what we just talked about, of this whole space of Dex trading. Let me explain what happening here on the nodes. Here is a wallet that is making a trade, that made a trade in this seven day data on those platforms that has the same color of the, you know, like the similar color map of the logo, for example, all that big pink cluster is from Uniswap. And another caveat is that if you see a colorful node, that means this wallet only traded on that wallet platform solely like exclusive user. And then we're seeing this yellow dots that is kind of like shared by a bunch of platforms.
00:13:57.892 - 00:14:37.744, Speaker A: That means these wallets are seen in both platforms. In those seven day activities. There is also some red nodes that is pretty much in the center connecting a bunch of different platforms. That means they are seen in three decks or even more per our check, pretty much those are either some very few gigantic degen traders or mev bots going on. Bots going on. So one interesting thing here we're seeing in the landscape is that Uniswap has the biggest Dex. They actually don't have the biggest TVL.
00:14:37.744 - 00:15:27.064, Speaker A: The biggest TVL actually happens on curb, which here we actually see pretty small there, but they are there in the center with the purple pink. So TVL doesn't mean everything, it's a bad metrics, doesn't mean how many users you are serving. Again, we're seeing Uniswap has a dominance on user side, and on the right side we see one inch the blue, and then also Xerox API in the bottom. Wearables, the Dex aggregator. That's why you see we share a pretty big chunk of users with metamask swap. To clarify, metamask swap is also kind of like a meta reader, so they will ping us and one inch again as well, just like Callswap. They're going to check and which one is better.
00:15:27.064 - 00:16:15.230, Speaker A: They're also ping Air swap which is another project from consensys. And then they're going to decide which platform they're going to direct their user to. So that's why you see this shared yellow cluster across one inch and Xerox API. I want to make a note here. It's like the question will be, so if they are doing the same thing as cowswap, but why call swap is not showing the same pattern of shared user? This is actually a, how to say, a data issue here. It's because everything in a different way using meta transaction where basically they are submitting a transaction for user. So the user wallet address is not surfaced in the transaction sender, neither surfaced in the aggregators taker or maker side.
00:16:15.230 - 00:17:18.848, Speaker A: We can definitely do some modification on top of that to show the same structure there. So yeah, so going further, I want to say if we try to profile the users on Dex trading space, there's definitely naive simple trader like me, I don't make trades only after a few other months with major thing happening. There's also definitely active median traders who probably are some individuals with some capital, we call them dolphin in Zeresk. There's also advanced whale traders, potentially our fund management and maybe some gigantic degen themselves, or also institutional professional traders like market makers like Wintermute or jump or CP. Yeah, the letter two can potentially also overlap with sophisticated MEV bots. They can potentially build strategy and they can do arbitrage across platform. So yeah, so go back to that diagram thing here.
00:17:18.848 - 00:18:25.970, Speaker A: For Dex part we see this Dex amm pool and Dex aggregator thing is kind of like connected all together in this big map. On the left side I try to put things are who are supplying the liquidity into the system. And on the right side it's like whoever is accessing the liquidity. So if we look at Dex amm pool, we have liquidity providers and then we see proactive liquidity provider tools also coming up like gelato and those applications where you can still be your dump money as a passive incomer on v two, but they got to manage your money to still make you how to say profitable on v three. They also have mev bots, which is what they just mentioned, which is a just in time liquidity kind of schema. And we also have yield farmers for sure is like providing some liquidity and potentially for some incentivize we also always have these token holders. That is related to the governance part that we mentioned earlier.
00:18:25.970 - 00:19:17.970, Speaker A: On the right side we also have traders, we have retail and we have arbitrage bots. And they're doing a lot of things like for example they're trying to sandwich you, trying to front run you, potentially back run you. But background is okay because my trade is already settled so nothing too bad happening to me. We also have like professional market maker there trying to arbitrage the dump liquidity providers. So like you know, like if you are not actively managing your position or how to say your ticker range on Uniswap v three, your price can be very off from the mid market price across different platforms and then this will be a very good price for them to eat you off. So that's what they're doing with the bots. There will be always like airdroppers, they're trying to make tiny trades across 2000 wallets.
00:19:17.970 - 00:19:57.448, Speaker A: There will be also yield farmers as well. And then there potentially can be some really big trades that's just doing some stable coin to stablecoin which is potentially rebalancing of institutions. There will be also wash traders pumping whatever or like potentially we saw before. There are people watch trading on one inch trying to get some gas token and potentially dump them. And there is this line connecting Dex Amm pool towards Dex aggregator because they are basically one of the makers to us. So coming to the Dex aggregator part model, we have dexame pool as the liquidity provider as well. We have limited order retail.
00:19:57.448 - 00:20:44.488, Speaker A: We have professional market makers going through RFQ. And on the right side we definitely also have taker who are retail. There's also like arbitrage bots, I believe some team call them like toxic flow. Basically they're also trying to basically do the same thing like asking if there is a good price that they can make up charge across different platform and then basically eating out the liquidity. In this case this is how to say a battle between arbitrage bots, the toxic flow with our market makers. So there can be something down to potentially protect our market maker as well to not getting eaten by the toxic flow. Yeah, and so yeah, this is a little bit out of the, you know, the layout.
00:20:44.488 - 00:21:33.280, Speaker A: But I want to say like pretty much if you don't know now, you know that you are basically playing with a bunch of very sophisticated like bots or professional market makers in the Dex space nowadays it's pretty dark for us already. So a few charts to also show these two very sophisticated roles playing. Is that for example here we're looking at Xerox API volume. This is their internal chart, but broken down by the vault liquidity type. The yellow one is the RFQ liquidity that was provided by market makers where basically that means their price was better than the AMM price. And they went over and then they took the, how to say, the request and then they filled in that liquidity. And we definitely see this trend is growing up.
00:21:33.280 - 00:22:03.490, Speaker A: We also see there are some other innovative, how to say, application coming out. Like for example hash flow. They are basically trying to combine the AMM liquidity model with the market makers quoting. So basically whoever as individual they can pull money in and then the market maker gonna help you to quote the price instead of like automatic curve. And they seem to be doing pretty good volume as well. A few million even. Just on ethereum I think there are cross chain as well.
00:22:03.490 - 00:22:38.700, Speaker A: There is also this bebop application that is basically built by wintermute. They basically going to fill in only wintermuke quotes. And then an interesting feature they have is that they support trade. That is one token to one token and also one token to many token or many token to one token. So interesting. And also seeing their volume coming up. Yeah, so this is another chart that is comparing an interesting pattern that is looking quite differently across Dex versus aggregator.
00:22:38.700 - 00:23:11.880, Speaker A: So we definitely see here on the left side the uniswap volume that is broken down by the trader. And the colorful ones are the top five traders. And we're seeing the top five traders on Uniswap. They're making 50% of the volume on Uniswap. Actually the right side is Xerox API. And the top five traders are colored and they are barely just taking maybe ten or at most 20%. Sometimes there are some spikes, but mostly it's around 15% ish.
00:23:11.880 - 00:23:55.870, Speaker A: I think this chart tells us that first of all there's definitely a lot of bots going on index. There is also this thing that's telling us that aggregator is definitely a better case for retail user. We're serving more retail users. That is a lot in this blue part of the 90% of aggregator. So this is just another chart to support that. This is a snapshot back in May where we were seeing that like 50% was consumed by a bunch of MEV bots that I categorized and labeled them into the same yellow one. But it doesn't tell this whole story.
00:23:55.870 - 00:24:39.328, Speaker A: Again, this volume is consumed half by the bots. But then really it's just like three or five addresses and they're still serving the biggest user audience. But again, I want to say mev bots are very dangerous. It's very bad for the retail, especially on v three. So I want to explain this meme here that I made is imagine the curve. On univ two, it's a continuous curve. So first of all, what is slippage? It means you saw a quoted price when you were submitting a trade, but then later on you actually got a worse price that is kind of worse, you know, in the curve.
00:24:39.328 - 00:25:27.810, Speaker A: And on v two, it's how to say, regulated by a continuous curve, so you won't be going too bad. But then on uni v three, potentially, maybe the next ticker is like empty, it's all concentrated liquidity and you may just like revert. So MeV on v three can potentially even giving user a lot more reverts and potentially larger slippage. And then this is a very fresh trade today. On our way here, our data researcher told us that after the merge, after Mev Boost just activated, this is the first trade coming in, which is another op trash pretty bad. And then. So, yeah, so last part I want to share is a scale comparison or just some numbers on other ecosystem other than Ethereum.
00:25:27.810 - 00:26:13.300, Speaker A: This one is a chart for Solana cumulative defi wallets that we are seeing that was pulled pretty much a month ago. They have 2.8 million wallets. That's playing around with all those Dex protocols, lending protocols. But I want to say a lot of people, they're like, Solana has so many users now because they have so many accounts. But Solana account is not a wallet, so don't compare with them with Ethereum ecosystem or EVM system. But yeah, we acknowledge that there's this challenge to compare data with the same concepts or methodology across sophisticated ecosystem nowadays.
00:26:13.300 - 00:27:01.478, Speaker A: The last chart here is, I pulled the data from Dex trades across different tables on Dune and compared them across the major EVM ecosystem. And Solana, how many users have been trading on Dex? I'm sorry for offend you guys with cumulative time series chart, but here we see that Ethereum has around 6 million wallets that's been trading and interacting with Dex applications. Coming next is actually polygon. They have around 5 million potentially much smaller trades. And then the next one is actually Solana, which is what we just saw. It's around like two point, I would say this one is like 2.6 or 2.5
00:27:01.478 - 00:27:32.870, Speaker A: ish when it comes to specifically Dex. And then next one would be BSc. And then optimism, definitely. This chart is not the, how to say, the most accurate choose. Because I know, like, a lot of Dex actually already died down before dune already even had the Dex trades table. So, like, for example, ether Delta, IDEX won't be here. So I'm sure like, ethereum actually has a slightly larger number than this, but pretty much that's it.
00:27:32.870 - 00:27:54.280, Speaker A: Thank you, guys. This is my overview questions. So we are very close to time. So we gonna take one, maybe two questions. Whoever wants to go, this is your chance.
00:27:58.940 - 00:28:01.732, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, sorry.
00:28:01.836 - 00:28:02.520, Speaker A: Gosh.
00:28:03.940 - 00:28:16.308, Speaker B: So one interesting chart I saw was the RFQ versus Dex chart. And I just want to ask what exactly is that percentage? Like, what's the numerator?
00:28:16.364 - 00:28:35.440, Speaker A: What's the. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I didn't look across the Dex aggregator space, but for Xerox, it's around like 30% ish. That is crossing. That is RFQ liquidity. You know, on our platform, I did look up the number as well. For one inch, it's around 7%.
00:28:36.080 - 00:28:46.080, Speaker B: I meant like the definition of what that number is is like the amount of volume filled or the amount of volume requested, or like.
00:28:46.160 - 00:28:57.040, Speaker A: Yeah, it's the amount of volume settled or filled. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah. And one inch had like 7%, like ten percentage. Yeah.
