00:00:13.290 - 00:00:48.086, Speaker A: My name is Gavin. I work with Ideo Colab Ventures. See a few people I recognize out here. Yeah, I want to talk to you guys a little bit about liquid staking or staking derivatives as they're kind of being talked about, because I call it the billion dollar tail wagon, the $20 billion dog, because as Ethereum starts to move towards more of a staking ecosystem, I want to talk to you guys a little bit about kind of the incentives here, because this is all about incentives and outcomes. So we'll start with a quote. Show me the incentives and I'll show you the outcomes. And this is by Charlie Munger.
00:00:48.086 - 00:01:17.858, Speaker A: If you guys know Charlie Munger, he's Warren Buffett's right hand man. And literally, I use a quote from a financial human on this because this is as much about financial engineering, what we're getting into, as it is about network engineering or systems engineering. And that's something that we sometimes forget. And so let's talk a little bit about the migration that's happening. That sets the stage for what we're going to talk about. There are multiple asset migrations taking place right now. So in the proof of work land, let's say it's on any given day, $240,000,000,000 market.
00:01:17.858 - 00:01:48.462, Speaker A: But what we're having right now is this migration into proof of stake. We're not going to talk about the attributes of these two mechanisms, but there's this kind of like movement over into this roughly now $24 billion market as new networks are launching. A lot of them are proof of stake. And so you see this kind of this movement taking place. But migrations happen for a reason. The reason they happen is because the first generation creators usually aren't able to, and it's not their job to consider the higher order effects, the things downstream. It's their job to get things working.
00:01:48.462 - 00:02:22.122, Speaker A: And then it's the people who kind of film later are the ones dealing with kind of the higher order effects. So let's keep that in mind. So Defi, it's a thing we're talking a lot about, right? Defi is a higher order effect. It's one of those things that a decade ago, we didn't have any idea of this, but it really took kind of a solidifying or at least getting comfortable with the base behaviors on that bottom layer to make Defi something that's kind of normalized. And we're talking a lot about it here. So DFI being a high order effect, kind of sets the stage. So let's talk about the other asset migration, that's kind of happening.
00:02:22.122 - 00:02:52.654, Speaker A: So there's that $20 billion or $25 billion market on proof of stake right now. And we've got roughly this kind of migration now happening into DFI. And it's happening because people are now with a couple of attributes. They're wanting to do more with their money and they're looking to get more yield out of things. And so they're saying, okay, I'm in proof of stake and now I want my assets to do a little bit more for me. And so this is the great defi migration. It has begun and it's going to stick around because decentralized finance.
00:02:52.654 - 00:03:13.210, Speaker A: Finance is a meme. It's something that people grok because money is like one of the oldest human made incentive mechanisms that we've had. And so it's a really simple thing. I think people have been talking about this all day. It's a simple thing to understand. So finance as a meme sticks. So it's no reason that people are starting to design around these attributes.
00:03:13.210 - 00:04:04.810, Speaker A: So something like this is going to stick around. So my question is, is it a little bit of the case of the tail wagging the dog? Because the surface area for Defi, it's something that people understand. And so we understand the incentive mechanisms. And financial markets have been around a long time, but they're starting to influence the design of the lower layer protocols and change the incentives. Because even with proof of stake having been around, we're still starting to understand how these security layers work and how the incentives work to align things so we don't collapse them. I mean, it's really new. My question is it a case of the tail wagon, the dog? So in order to understand some of the risks that are actually present, because when you start to look at staking derivatives, it makes sense on paper, but let's kind of like walk through a little bit of defi to understand the nuanced risks that are actually pretty massive.
00:04:04.810 - 00:04:35.254, Speaker A: So what is Defi about? It's about markets. Markets everywhere. So permissionless markets, we all know them, we know uniswap. It's about kind of being able to spin something up anywhere and you also get permissionless markets, but also leverage future swaps in the audience back here. Hey, you get this ability to have markets anywhere and leveraged positions anywhere, that's a thing that's just going to continue. So markets, it's also about composition things plugging into one another. We all know this.
00:04:35.254 - 00:05:07.786, Speaker A: It's like you have compound which works on top of maker, which works because of ethereum. So there's this composability aspect that is just kind of something that we're coming to demand from our assets. They need to work together. And Defi is really starting to push this forward even more. So. And then most of all, this is the phrase that everybody is talking all about. And second of all, just aside, anytime I hear the word derivative used all the time, it makes me a little bit skeptical.
00:05:07.786 - 00:05:51.658, Speaker A: And I've heard it more in the last common conversation in the last year than I have in a long time. So little flags are going up. Anyways, yield is the thing that everybody's talking about, too, because they want to make money on their money. So it's like, how can I get more yield? And so they're just trying to take whatever asset they have and extract every little ounce of yield from it. And this is where it starts to get interesting and starts to play with the incentives a little bit different than we've ever seen in the last decade of these networks kind of evolving. Okay? But at its core, Defi is about a new breed of financialization and financialization. This introduces a ton of asymmetries and risks that are new on the asymmetric side, it's all about asymmetric information.
00:05:51.658 - 00:06:37.814, Speaker A: And what we're doing is we're throwing application engineers into the deep end of the pool with seasoned financial engineers. And there's a really big difference here. Seasoned financial engine, there's a whole market, and there's decades of people locating things and tearing the earth apart to make light travel less of a distance in order to find some information asymmetry so you can extract it. And so from that perspective, in the DFI markets, going cross protocol, as we're already seeing some examples within the last 24 hours, you get to see that some of the holes that open up in this are the size of the state of California. I mean, it's huge. So those are just like, it's one set of asymmetries. On the other side, there's this new class of risks that on the surface, you don't really see them because things are technically interoperable.
00:06:37.814 - 00:07:02.942, Speaker A: Right. The attributes of Defi that we just talked about make everything look interoperable because it's what we've demanded in order to grab some yield. But it introduces a bunch of risks. Let's talk through some of those, because risks change the nature of the incentives and the outcome. But in order to describe what these risks are, this is where it gets kind of fun. We're going to talk about it in terms of delivery. So in finance there's this concept of delivery.
00:07:02.942 - 00:07:37.114, Speaker A: We'll describe what it is, but we're going to use this term because I think it's kind of appropriate, right? Because in finance, everything has multiple meanings and those slight tweaks meaningfully change the incentives. Anyways, all right, delivery. So we're going to talk about physical delivery first. So in physical delivery, if you and I are like trading corn, let's say that at the end of the day, I'm selling and you're buying. At the end of the day, the corn actually trades hands. There's physical delivery at the end of that. But what that does in terms of the incentive is it means that both you and I care immensely about the health of that corn.
00:07:37.114 - 00:08:14.394, Speaker A: We care about the health of the underlying asset. It's a thing we both care about, right? And so if my corn is full of maggots, or let's just say it was just a crap crop, right, then the entire market suffers. The entire market actually cares about the health of the corn. Then let's talk about paper delivery. Now, paper delivery is kind of the more financialized concept of delivery, where honestly, you and I are just kind of like, we trade positions on top of the corn now. And so agnostic of wherever the corn is. The corn could be in a dumpster on fire and you and I could be trading positions on top of it, and we could still make money in net profits at the end of the day.
00:08:14.394 - 00:09:32.420, Speaker A: But in the end, it's like, and if that market collapses, we can move on with a whole lot less friction for us if we're trading paper on top. But anyways, the difference between paper delivery and physical delivery is pretty large, especially when you consider the incentives to take care of the health of the underlying. So now, what the hell does delivery have to do with staking? This is what so vanilla staking as we have it today is pretty similar to in physical delivery in the assets, right? You have this base layer protocol, and then you have basically this staking mechanism over on here and so on the left. It's like you can imagine everything is kind of bundled together in this relatively naive world. You have the mechanisms of network adoption, network security, yield and speculation. All those things that people care about are actually bundled in that circle on the left in your layer one, and then over on the right in the staker, you have this mechanism that is meant to encourage network security as well as participation in various network activities, governance, voting, things like that, and then as an added bonus, as just kind of this secondary thing, you get some yield by way of staking. Maybe you don't get diluted out of your positions either way, it's kind of this minute thing.
00:09:32.420 - 00:10:21.090, Speaker A: And so yeah, you get this kind of like thing where it's all bundled together. And that's the state of the primary mechanisms. However, when you start to introduce staking derivatives, you introduce this next hop, you introduce this derivative layer which starts to create this next layer and incentives where in this case you don't necessarily, it's a little bit more like paper delivery derivatives. In this case they seek yield for yield's sake. So kind of as we were talking about, you and I could be trading these derivatives, these staking derivatives. And regardless of depending upon the liquidity and the availability of the market, we can make a lot of money agnostic of the health of the underlying network. So the corner of the network can be on fire, but there's plenty of money to be made to be in the near term when you're actually just trading in the derivative space.
00:10:21.090 - 00:10:57.886, Speaker A: So that's kind of the comparison. So in this world, the emerging world of like staking derivatives or liquid staking, you had adoption, security and yield on the left. But let's just assume a couple of trends continue in terms of there's a shitload of liquidity, sorry, there's a lot of liquidity. There's a lot of liquidity. There's the ability to open leveraged positions anywhere kind of permissionlessly. And some of these, let's just assume these all continue because I think they're going to. And so then you have, this market was kind of the underlying market for security and adoption, all these things on the left.
00:10:57.886 - 00:11:51.130, Speaker A: But now you have this market that is purely yield seeking on the right where you can actually just take positions on these derivatives. And anyways, when we're talking about information asymmetry and people who are really good at extracting that just to make one trade, all it takes is one trade in order to undermine a certain network. So these are windows and gaps that are going to be growing in terms of their availability to be used. So anyways, all of this at the core financialization pro tip in finance, there's this idea of the risk free rate, right? The risk free rate is like this base level of return that you can get on any asset that you hold for effectively no risk. That's bullshit in itself, but the risk free rate is just that concept. But anyways, if you just take, right, I see somebody laughing at that. But the idea is like, if you're seeking yield, literally you're seeking risk.
00:11:51.130 - 00:12:28.970, Speaker A: So yield seeking and risk seeking are literally the same thing. And when you're talking about securing the network and network security and seeking risk, those things are not necessarily diametrically opposed. But there is a very clear tension in those two concepts. Anyways, that's just the thing that if you're building a service or any of these things and you're considering trying to eke more yield out of a derivative or out of an asset, these are things to be considered because we're in the very early stages of this and most people are not talking about them. Vast majority of blog posts and things we read are just kind of missing that. Anyways, so what's going to happen to the underlying networks? I don't have a clue. I really don't know where this goes.
00:12:28.970 - 00:13:05.894, Speaker A: I know that kind of these trends are going to continue in this direction, but surely if we're actually taking on all this risk, we should be getting compensated for it. I mean, if you're going to seek yield, you're seeking it for a reason. So we're taking on risk in order to get some reward out the other side. But this is kind of the, like what, just because it looks good on paper, pun intended. Wow. What if the benefits that we're actually getting are kind of illusory? And I think they are at this point in the game, unless we start to change things. So in theory, we're doing these things to have assets work together so we can do things with them.
00:13:05.894 - 00:13:47.934, Speaker A: So in theory, all these staking derivatives are fungible, but in practice, right now they're not. And take this as a really naive example. So we have a simple case of like, which derivative is riskier? And this doesn't even involve malicious activity. Right? Let's say the circular derivative issuer, the staking service on the left. Let's say that previously there was some network issue, and they're just super redundant in their architecture, and there were some hiccups in the network, and so they spun up a secondary node and they double signed a transaction. They weren't even being bad actors, right? But anyways, they have some history of slashing. And so that's the game on the right hand side, another service has never been slashed.
00:13:47.934 - 00:14:16.430, Speaker A: Either way, they're both staking services and people are staking with them. So the derivatives being issued from both of those services should not be priced the same. The risk of both of those is different. Right across the entire landscape of staking services. You have these nuances in how they operate and so they're not all fungible. Basically you put fungible things in and then kind of counterintuitively you these non fungible things out, which again, we're doing this all to be able to pool liquidity in the first place. So it's just kind of a thing.
00:14:16.430 - 00:14:47.474, Speaker A: We're not able to price this effectively right now. Like entire companies and protocols are going to need to be built in order just to price this stuff effectively so we can use it how we want to. None of that really happens anyways. We'll keep going. So in theory, again, you get more liquidity, but in practice, right now you get these aggregation issues, you get siloed liquidity because of the nature of the derivatives that are being issued. Again, you don't really think about that, but that's how this happens. These things aren't necessarily one to one, apples to apples.
00:14:47.474 - 00:15:24.258, Speaker A: And so again you get more counterintuitive things and then markets as usual. Let's say that all that stuff pools together. Let's say that the pricing and the risk and stuff is all figured out. And then you have markets as usual. Well, again, this is kind of another bs thing. In practice you get these staking idiosyncrasies, right? Let's just say you have markets built on top of these derivatives, which you're going to have. And what happens to a massive position if suddenly the underlying staking or the validating service is slashed? What just happens to those positions that are.
00:15:24.258 - 00:16:29.926, Speaker A: So anyways, there's a slew of issues in terms of just open market positions and what happens with these derivatives in practice anyhow. And then as an added bonus, because I work at Ideo, we should talk about some of the Ux issues. You just get a boatload of weird usability things out the other side that nobody is talking about. I'm going to pick on compound, sorry, and not because of they do a great job, but I'm just going to pick on the design as a thing, right? So the notion of having C tokens and these things, this works in a single unified context, right? You just wrap it with a c and so you know what you've got. But suddenly we're going to step into this world with derivatives and all sorts of assets that are the asset, but they're just a derivative of the asset and they have different properties. So as you start to get these different protocols issuing these different things that are all very similar but very different, the wallets the interaction points all need to reflect the nature of the asset that people are holding. If we actually want to evolve the space to be known for something more than a piss poor user experience, which we kind of all know it is right now.
00:16:29.926 - 00:17:05.730, Speaker A: And so that's kind of one of the issues that we've got to figure out. We need, actually, this is kind of a call. We need a very simple, unified design language for how to represent these types of new assets, right? Because every wallet is doing it in their own idiosyncratic way and it's just not going to work. People are already confused enough about what they hold. And so as we get into more derivative territory, this is not going to clear itself up anyways. So these are all very real issues that just emerge from staking. So anyways, the big issue, we have a ton of hidden and unpriced risk that is going to emerge.
00:17:05.730 - 00:17:55.054, Speaker A: And it's going to emerge, and it's almost like it's going to have to emerge because just this pull of and the meme of decentralized finance is so sticky, so well understood and so simple that it's going to continue to pull people in because it just works. And so this is the big issue. But the bigger issue is that we're fooling ourselves into the fact that we're not going to repeat history just because transparency, we think that we're protected because of the very properties of these ecosystems that we all kind of tout and talk about. If you take the previous kind of, actually most financial issues, most people at the end of those crises, they kind of clamor for, wow, we just need more transparency. It was the fact that the data was opaque and we didn't know how those cdos were bundled. At least most people didn't. We didn't know how that shit was bundled.
00:17:55.054 - 00:18:37.874, Speaker A: So if we just knew what the composition of those things were, we would have known it was so risky and none of this would have happened anyways. What I'm saying is that literally we have all the information available, it's all transparent, and we're reconstructing the same paths to the same outcomes, potentially. So it's not the mere fact of the presence of these things that protects us, it's our ability to actually use them. But because humans like to repeat history and we love to do it for whatever reason, maybe our hindsight is just 2020, but our foresight and the ability to be present is just. That leads us to these things. So anyways, transparency, it's a thing, but it also doesn't protect us. So my point is, yeah, build the shit out of things.
00:18:37.874 - 00:19:29.690, Speaker A: I like work at the place of prototyping, where it's the thing people do to explore and uncover and understand. You got to get hands on with things and you've got to do it all. But my nudge is just that, learn from history, understand the nature of the risks that we're actually opening up. I mean, the last 24 hours have been really interesting if you've been checking some of the cross contract calls and asymmetries that were poked at. But my nudge is just don't create Ethereum's first big short moment in the process, because you could. Anyways, thanks. It's.
