00:00:00.160 - 00:00:27.590, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the delegate refuel where I recap the latest news theorem ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony's designer, and today's the 25 August 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode. I was at the meetup in Melbourne and I didn't have a chance to record the episode earlier before the meetup and then I got home at like midnight, so there was no chance that I was going to be able to record a kind of refuel there. I think I said I record a roll up before no refuel.
00:00:27.590 - 00:00:58.902, Speaker A: Not, not, not the bankless roll up, which I actually will be on again very soon, by the way. Just some alpha there. But yeah, the meetup last night was great. It was hosted by Upside down here in Melbourne in Cremorne, and Stables was the, was the co sponsor of the event there. And I've talked about stables before. I think I talked about them on the episode the other day, how they have this mobile wallet that you can use for stable coin payments and upside down is basically a kind of co working space for crypto people slash incubator sort of thing going on there. But yeah, it was a great event.
00:00:58.902 - 00:01:39.590, Speaker A: Met a lot of great people, had a lot of great conversations on. I even had a great conversation with someone from the Solana foundation. Funny enough, it was, it was actually a pretty healthy conversation. Even though my first introduction to him was when I was on stage on the panel, he asked me a pretty spicy question about Ethereum and Solana and I kind of just ran through my answer with it. I don't know if that was recorded, but I'm not going to, I'm not going to bore you with the details there because I know I'll rant for too long. But yeah, I'm really liking these local meetups and I encourage you guys to attend your own local meetups because they're just so much different to what we're exposed to online. I know the daily grade Discord channel is really friendly, really healthy, a really healthy place, and we have a lot of fun in there.
00:01:39.590 - 00:02:04.744, Speaker A: But nothing compares to real life conversations, guys. Like, it's just so much different. I know that should be obvious for anyone, right? Because we, we all have real life conversations. But I think what happens is that we can sometimes get stuck in the bubble of crypto Twitter of discords of just online. And of course, a lot of that is reflected, a lot of the sentiment is reflective of the price there. Whereas going to these meetups like no one really cares about the price price. Like, I don't really have price related discussions.
00:02:04.744 - 00:02:42.280, Speaker A: It's all about the tech, the community, the vibes. And there was actually a really great panel last night that was all about nfts and the metaverse and the metaverse. But talking about it in the context of, I guess, like brands outside of crypto, not just kind of like in crypto, NFT stuff and a metaverse stuff. And I know within crypto, if you go on crypto Twitter, everyone's just, you know, shitting on NFT, shitting on a meta and on the metaverse. And to be fair, a lot of it has earned that reputation, right? Like, it wasn't a pretty time for nfts over the last couple of years. But if you look outside of the bubble and look at the brands that are actually working with this sorts of stuff and working with these digital products and the actual metaverse, there's a lot going on, guys. Like, let me tell you that much.
00:02:42.280 - 00:03:09.792, Speaker A: There's a lot going on right now that actually made me really bullish on something that I traditionally have not been very bullish on, honestly. I mean, you guys know, I'm not really big into nfts, but I, I think that they're, you know, if you just pay attention to what's on crypto Twitter, you're missing the forest for the trees when it comes to nfts. And I didn't mean to rhyme that there. But yeah, anyway, enough rambling about that. As I said, encourage you guys to go to local meetups in your own area, even if they're small. Guaranteed to be a good time. You know, I'm going to another one next week.
00:03:09.792 - 00:03:39.280, Speaker A: Next week or the week, I know, the week after, I believe, and I expect it to be a lot smaller. Last night there was over 100 people there, and last week there was over 100 people as well. But I'm expecting the other one I'm going to in a couple of weeks time to be a lot smaller. But that's okay, I think, you know, small or large, as long as the right people are there, it's always a good time. Now, before I move on to the news that I've missed over the last 48 hours, just also wanted to mention that someone told me today that apparently there are ads running on my videos now on YouTube. Now, that's not me running the ads. That's obviously YouTube running the ads.
00:03:39.280 - 00:03:52.840, Speaker A: Cause they just run it on, I think, channels that reach a certain size. I guess my size is size now for that to be happening. But no, I'm not involved in the creator program or anything like that. So I don't make any money from. From the ads. And it's going to be like that forever. As you guys know, I want daily grade to be completely free.
00:03:52.840 - 00:04:13.606, Speaker A: It's a public good. So I just wanted to highlight that for you guys that may have seen ads popping up on YouTube. That wasn't me. That was. That was YouTube doing it themselves there. But anyway, moving on to the news. So, got to start off with the biggest, I think, news over the last 48 hours that maybe not enough people are talking about because, I mean, I saw it all over crypto Twitter for like a few hours and then it's kind of gone quiet.
00:04:13.606 - 00:04:56.754, Speaker A: But the news is, is that two, I believe two of their tornado cash devs have been arrested or going to be arrested. So one of them is roman storm and the other one is Semenov here. And you can see there's a block article all about this. Now, not only were they arrested for their involvement with tornado cash, but they have also been added to the list of us sanctioned companies and individuals. So, yeah, the US OFAC office is not playing any games here. They are definitely going after these guys for a number of different reasons. I mean, they do claim in their prosecution against them or the charges against them, that the Tornado cash team or the core team knowingly profited from money laundering activities in tornado cash.
00:04:56.754 - 00:05:28.318, Speaker A: But there's also a bunch of other nuance in that and a bunch of, obviously, questions around. First, the first amendment in the US and is, you know, code is speech. So is, is them writing the code protected under that? All these kind of things that are just going to have to be hashed out in court. But you can get full details on the actual news from the block. But then there's also a couple of tweets that I wanted to highlight here. Peter van Valkenberg from Queencenter published their thoughts on this. So you can say this is titled new Tornado cash indictments seem to run counter to FinCEN guidance.
00:05:28.318 - 00:06:13.440, Speaker A: And Niraj actually highlights what that FinCEN guidance is. And FinCEN had this guidance that they put out in 2019 that says FinCEN regulations exempt from the definition of money transmitter, those persons providing only the delivery, communication or network access services used by a money transmitter to support money transmission services. So according to this guideline guidance, Niraj says that it's crystal clear on exempting the providers of anonymizing software, in this case, Deltonado cache mixer. So, as I said, all of this is going to be hashed out in court. There are a number of different indictments and charges against the tornado cash, I guess, like core team here. I guess the biggest one is knowingly profiting from money laundering and allowing it to happen on their. On, I guess, like their platform.
00:06:13.440 - 00:06:36.208, Speaker A: And they're also arguing that tornado cash was their platform because they had control over the front end, or I think that's what I read about it. But. But the contracts, as you guys know, are immutable. They didn't have control over the contracts. They couldn't stop at the activity on the contracts even if they wanted to. And there obviously was a token involved as well. So they're saying that because there was a token involved that was knowingly profiting from money laundering.
00:06:36.208 - 00:07:22.980, Speaker A: So there's all these kind of things going on. There's actually a lot going on here, a lot to unpack, and I'm not an expert on the legal side of things, so that's why I'm just pointing you to the right information in order to digest it yourself. And there was also a tweet thread here from Seth for privacy that unpacks all of the stuff that happened over the last couple of days with regards to this. The TLDR that he came to was that this is very bad for non custodial privacy services, as custody used to be the lower bound of separating legal and illegal services of this type. Now, this goes back to what Niraj shared when it came to FinCEN and cointers general's response around this that Peter van Valkenberg shared here. But, yeah, essentially, it basically, from my reading states that even if you're a non custodial privacy service, you could still be held liable for basically whoever's using it. Right.
00:07:22.980 - 00:07:56.966, Speaker A: And if you're knowingly profiting from it, that's an even, I guess, like a different kind of thing altogether, but that. That plays into it as well. So this is going to take a while to play out, guys. I don't think this is going to. We're going to get a resolution of this for quite a while now, unfortunately, the courts and the justice system move slow, even though it could rule in the favor of tornado cash and the tornado cash devs, there's still going to be a long, drawn out process here. But thankfully, Rahman actually has one of the best criminal defense lawyers probably in the industry, if not like, uh, in the world. Um, and.
00:07:56.966 - 00:08:31.794, Speaker A: And that's not coming from me, that's coming from other people that I've seen. Give him praise here. Uh, so this, uh, this guy, Brian Klein, he's actually represented a bunch of different crypto, uh, individuals and companies. The highest profile was block one, the issuers of the eos token who did their EOS ICO, and they raised like $4 billion back in, I think, 2018 or something like that. Uh, and Brian was able to get them off with only having to pay a $24 million fine to the SEC for conducting an unregistered securities offering. And block one also did not have to admit guilt or admit anything. They just settled for $24 million.
00:08:31.794 - 00:09:12.222, Speaker A: And then he also represented Virgil Griffith. You guys will know who was charged with basically teaching North Koreans how to evade sanctions. And he basically got Virgil Griffith the minimum sentencing, the minimum sentence that he could have gotten with the charges that were laid against him, which is pretty impressive considering that obviously the US takes their sanctions very seriously and the charges they bring against people for violating those sanctions are very serious. So Brian is no stranger to defending these cases. And it's great to see that he's defending Rahman here. And he, you know, he says, yeah, he's, it's very. He's very disappointed that prosecutors charged Rahman because he helped develop software.
00:09:12.222 - 00:09:50.894, Speaker A: Their novel legal theory has dangerous implications for all software developers. It really feels like at this point in time, guys, that crypto is becoming the battleground not just for financial regulations, but privacy regulations as well. And all the precedent that has been set in the US legal system for quite a while now around this. And if you guys have read, there was a. I think, like there was a podcast and there was also a blog post called before bitcoin that goes over the cypherpunk kind of fight for privacy of the nineties and encryption in the nineties and how they won that fight. But this is a fight that's been going on for a very long time because encryption and privacy preserving tools is not something that governments tend to like. Right.
00:09:50.894 - 00:10:37.406, Speaker A: Because it means that criminals can use it just like everyday people can use it. And to the government, I mean, if you're a criminal or not, depends on a number of different factors. But yeah, generally they don't like software that allows people to hide their communications. Basically, they like to have visibility over things, and that's what governments do. Right. So that kind of feels like what we're going through right now, where we're going through a battleground of not just financial regulations and kind of legislation there with the SEC, and then everything's a security rhetoric, but also when it comes to the privacy stuff with tornado cash and just privacy generally on, on, on blockchains and more specifically Ethereum, I guess, because Tornado cash on Ethereum was the only privacy thing that's been sanctioned so far. I think there was some limited stuff in bitcoin land that happened.
00:10:37.406 - 00:11:06.472, Speaker A: Um, but yeah, it was sanctioned because, I mean, it can't be shut down. Right? Like, I, I think that if they were able to shut down Tornado cash, they would have just shut it down. Maybe they would have sanctioned it and shut it down, but they've only been able to sanction it. And as you guys know, it's still available to use on, on the network even though it has been kind of stifled because obviously everyone pulled out their liquidity and the usage has gone way down. And it is now illegal to use tornado cash and you face up to 30 years in prison or a crap ton of money and fines. So. So, yeah, I mean, that's, that's what we call the chilling effect.
00:11:06.472 - 00:11:29.304, Speaker A: Right. And that seems to have had an effect. Well, it has had a big effect, but at the same time, yeah, this is a battleground now. And, you know, I'm hoping that we win this. I mean, the twenties could be as important as the nineties were, the 2020s could be important as the, the 1990s were for, for privacy. So we're going to see how that shakes out. But I'll link all of the stuff that I just talked about in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:11:29.304 - 00:12:12.570, Speaker A: All right. Onto some Ethereum core related news. So asn here, who is, I believe, an Ethereum researcher, published a new research post called proof of validator, a simple anonymous credential scheme for Ethereum's DHT. So you can go give this a read. It is quite technical here, but I think it falls into what I was talking about before about privacy and anonymizing transactions and essentially being able to create privacy at every layer of the stack of Ethereum. I've talked about a bunch, a bunch of other kind of things in the works, like the shutterized beacon chain and a lot of the privacy protocols that are being built and, and, and things like potentially one day making layer one Ethereum default private. But that's an uphill battle.
00:12:12.570 - 00:12:45.138, Speaker A: But they're being L2s that are being built after to be encrypted, like the aztec L2. So there's a bunch of stuff going on right now, and this is another one of them, that this kind of like proof of validator thing, which is a anonymous credential scheme. Shame for Ethereum's DHT here, which has basically got to do with data availability and data availability, sampling and general like that. So it's, it's def, it's definitely a different type of privacy anonymization. It's more in the context of securing the network than it is in protecting people's individual privacy. But you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:12:45.138 - 00:13:12.096, Speaker A: But as I said, it is a bit technical. We just wanted to put it on your radar there. All right, so the KZG ceremony is now officially closed. It ended with 141,416 total contributions, by far the largest ceremony ever. 132,000 contribution contributors use sign in with Ethereum over 9000 contributors used GitHub and the shah. 256 hash of the transcript is now available here. This is incredible, guys.
00:13:12.096 - 00:13:50.676, Speaker A: I mean, I know the KZG ceremony went on for probably longer than it was originally intended to, but because of that, we ended up blowing past my most bullish kind of estimates of 100,000 total contributions. We, you know, we kind of like went 40% above that, which is just crazy to me. And I know that there are a variety, a variety of different reasons why this happened. Maybe a lot of the contributions were just one person spamming it. Maybe there was a lot of airdrop farming, even though there's no airdrop associated with this, because this is just something that was needed for, for the ethereum network itself. There's, yeah, there's no airdrop here, but I guess even if there is like a 0.001% chance that there'd be an airdrops, people would do it.
00:13:50.676 - 00:14:41.626, Speaker A: But then also at the same time, you contributing to the KZG ceremony could be used as a criteria for an airdrop of another project in the future. And it would actually work as a pretty decent criteria, I believe. So there's that to it as well. But it doesn't matter because this is a form of harnessing that kind of like degeneracy for a regenerative cause, which is basically getting the most robust KZG ceremony that we could, and it seems like we have. Right? And as I've said before, it only requires one honest participant out of the 141,416, or, well, one honest contribution out of all of those for it to work. And as I said before, if you contributed, and you know that you are honest in your contribution, then you can actually trust that the KZG ceremony, you know, is set up properly. And that's, that's amazing to me, and it's amazing, and it's enabled all by cryptography, which I don't even understand how it works.
00:14:41.626 - 00:14:57.312, Speaker A: But, but yeah, I mean that, I mean, I don't understand the technicals of how it works, but I understand the high level of how it works and. Yeah, just, just great to see that. But yeah, I guess, like it's over for now. Hopefully you guys got your contributions in. You definitely had plenty of time to do so. And I gave you plenty of heads up on the refuel. I'm sure a lot of you did.
00:14:57.312 - 00:15:41.404, Speaker A: But yeah, kudos to the team for doing all of that and managing all of that. It has been a great success. All right, so base published their kind of, I guess, manifesto around decentralizing their protocol today. And Jesse Polak, the leader baseball gave a TLDR on basis decentralization plans with optimism here. So there's three main points here. The first one is that base is making major technical contributions to the op stack across decentralization, security and scalability. Of course, we already knew that because if you're part of, if you're building on the op stack and you want to be a contributor to the, to the optimism ecosystem, well then you're going to be contributing to the op stack in these three verticals, decentralization, security and scalability.
00:15:41.404 - 00:16:18.016, Speaker A: And of course, base is the biggest op chain besides op mainnet right now. So. Yeah, and they may even end up flipping op Mainnet, which is funny. And they're also, they also want to be part of the super chain. So it's in their best interest to obviously help the op stack out. And the second point here is that base is committed to the law of chains neutrality framework and have set up the network to ensure there's no single party, the original base team included, that could violate the commitment. And the third point is that we're funding public goods with a direct contribution of sequencer revenue and will earn an op token allocation to participate in optimism governance.
00:16:18.016 - 00:17:45.250, Speaker A: So there was also another kind of point to this as well that I saw someone else talking about where essentially they said that base is being built, has been built from the ground up, specifically with the purpose of being spun out of Coinbase eventually, where essentially that the original base team, and this goes to the second point that was, that was stated here, but the original base team at Coinbase would just be one team of many that are building the base protocol. And this is kind of, I guess like what happened with Ethereum itself, right where Ethereum started off, it was basically just geth and parity and they were both pretty much part of the same, same team as the clients. And then over time we got more and more clients and now we're at a point where, and I actually put a tweet out about this, about all the independent teams that are building Ethereum clients. I'm actually going to bring this tweet up quickly for you here. Uh, it's this one here where I was going through the consensus layer client teams and, and naming them for, for this person here in reply to one of Superphys's tweets and about how they're basically all independent of each other and independently funded, even though they may have received grants in the past from the same entity such as the Ethereum foundation. And I think that's going to be the same kind of thing for base and other successful l two s out there where essentially there'll be no, at least two, at the very least two if not more teams contributing to that protocol in order to decentralize out the, the building of it. And also obviously they want to decentralize things like the sequencer so that everyone can have a chance to be the sequencer and make and sharing the revenue there.
00:17:45.250 - 00:18:31.098, Speaker A: And they also would like to decentralize out the whole stack obviously with fraud proofs and that when they get kind of enabled and validators and things like that as well. So yeah, I mean, as I've been saying since the day base was announced, I do truly believe that they are going to stick to their decentralization plans because Brian Armstrong is an ideologue. He has a strong ideology about crypto. If he didn't, he wouldn't be fighting the SEC in my mind. And I think Jesse Pollack also definitely falls into that and he obviously feeds up a lot of the information about base to Brian and, and talks to him about it. And I pretty much, I believe bases is built in Jesse's vision so far. But essentially that, I think the whole point is that it goes from Jesse's vision and then it kind of permeates out and the community makes base what they want it to be.
00:18:31.098 - 00:19:02.996, Speaker A: So yeah, you can read the base tweet itself for a full breakdown of this. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, moving on. So I'd mentioned the other day that USDC or Circle had announced that USDC was planning to launch on more blockchains here. Well, they announced the full list of blockchains that they're, that they're going to be launching on. So this, and this is launching on them natively. Obviously, you can already bridge USDC over to a lot of these changes chains, but this is native USDC issuance kind of what, like, exactly what, like, what is.
00:19:02.996 - 00:19:45.074, Speaker A: Like, what's happening on Arbitrum one, where you can natively issue USDC there. So the six new blockchains that they're going to be supporting are the polygon, pos, chain base, Polkadot, near optimism, and cosmos via the noble network. Now, of course, I look at this list and I'm just like, you could throw out Polkadot, Nia, and the noble network because they don't really have much usage. There's not much demand there for this stuff. And I kind of feel like that circle should have just prioritized the chains that are actually used. And Ethereum, Altoos, I mean, they should have prioritized things like TrON and BSc, considering that they're, you know, some of the most used chains as well as l two s. And I don't say this because I want to keep things in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:19:45.074 - 00:20:14.698, Speaker A: I'm saying this because, as I've highlighted before about USDC, it's lost a lot of market share. It is. It is, you know, a distant second now to tether, and they need to get that back, right? And they need to do things to get that back. And they need to do things, do these things, I believe, quickly, before the bull market comes back, so that they can capture all that mind share there. I've said in the past as well that I thought that USDC transfers on base should be free and will be free. I still think that's coming. To be honest.
00:20:14.698 - 00:20:46.494, Speaker A: I think that's a pretty good growth driver for. For Circle to do here and now that Coinbase is actually has an extra stake in circle as well and they're working more closely together. It just makes more sense for them to do that as well. But yeah, those are the chains that they're going to be natively supporting for native USDC issuance. Hopefully hoping to see more of the L2 supported in the future rather than these l ones that are pretty much dead. And there's not much activity going on there. Like, from a business perspective, it really doesn't make much sense to me that Circle would do this, but maybe this is an overhang of plans that they've had for a while.
00:20:46.494 - 00:21:36.660, Speaker A: All right, so chain Link has a great blog post out called the role of L2 roll ups and chain link in scaling the ethereum ecosystem. So if you wanted to. I guess I get the lowdown on how Chainlink plays into a multi roll up ethereum ecosystem and how Chainlink is going to be using their technology, such as their oracles, but also their new CCIP technology. This is the blog post to read, and obviously there are, there are links to, to all different kind of things to read in order to get more context about all of this stuff. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But I just thought it was a great read there because I think that honestly, the Ethereum community kind of has a blind spot for Chainlink at times. Chainlink is such an integral part of the Ethereum ecosystem, not just on the oracle side of things, but on the research side, especially with things like CCIP, which, which are pretty exciting if you dive into it.
00:21:36.660 - 00:22:20.826, Speaker A: It really does seem like a pretty nice natural kind of cross chain protocol that they've built that is very different to what we already that we are the existing solutions, right? And of course their oracles are the best in the game. There's not even a close second in my mind in terms of like Oracle software out there or oracle infrastructure, I should say out there. And I know that the chain link gets a kind of a bad rap in the Ethereum community because of the link marines and the Link army that we're all used to seeing and things like that. But I think at times you have to separate those kind of people from the actual technology, and that's what I'm, and especially technology that's actually used. I know that there are kind of armies of other protocols out there, but the difference is, is that those protocols aren't actually used. Right. The XRP army, for example, XRP and Ripple, they don't use for anything really.
00:22:20.826 - 00:23:06.102, Speaker A: So I understand why, you know, you can look at the army and say, okay, well that's a bit silly, you know, that doesn't reflect the actual usage of the tech, whereas in chain Link's case that's not true. The link marines are obviously very fervent and they're very passionate about Chainlink, but they definitely have a reason to be because the technology actually backs that up. And the second point, I think, is the token, right? I mean, link as a token hasn't performed very well, but at the same time you could say that about pretty much like a lot of tokens out there. And I don't think a token being down bad is a reason to hate on the technology or is a reason to ignore the technology. I mean, if it was, then Ethereum would have been ignored for a lot of its, a lot of the years of the last few years because obviously ETH went down 94% in the last bear market. Right. And it didn't perform too well in the last.
00:23:06.102 - 00:23:29.754, Speaker A: In the last bear market against USD and BTC. So if we're judging projects based on that, then, yeah, I don't think that's a great way to judge them. Always. I always try to judge the projects based on the technology that they have, but not just the tech itself, but also if it's actually being used. Right. And has a clear track record of being used and being used for things that are actually. That actually matter and actually add value to their respective ecosystems.
00:23:29.754 - 00:24:06.978, Speaker A: All right, so I came across this really great tweet thread from Peter Johnson talking about stable coins. Now, this is based on a paper, actually. So this tweet thread is just like the top ten takeaways of the. The analysis here that Peter's done called the relentless rise of stablecoins. Now you can go read the takeaways for yourself, but I wanted to highlight a few of them. So the first one, and the headline one to me was that in 2022, stablecoins settled over $11 trillion on chain, dwarfing the volumes, volumes processed by PayPal, which was 1.4 trillion and almost surpassing the payment volume of visa, which is 11.6
00:24:06.978 - 00:25:00.160, Speaker A: trillion and reaching 14% of the volume settled by ACH and over 1% of the volume settled by Fedwire. So obviously, not as big as the biggest payment processes out there, but bigger than some of the biggest companies. I mean, it's bigger than PayPal, right? In terms of, like, it's like ten times bigger than PayPal. It's almost bigger than visa, right? I've said it before, and I'll say it again, stable coins are the number one biggest use case that we have in crypto right now and will be for the foreseeable future. And the US should really be embracing stable coins because it's all in us dollars, right? Like, there is some euro stable coins here and there, and maybe some other currencies, but it's heavily, heavily us dollar dominated, right? And that basically increases USD dominance generally. And the US should be all about this. And I think they are making moves, you know, slowly but surely with the stable coin bill and stuff like that.
00:25:00.160 - 00:25:16.270, Speaker A: But they should really be all about this, considering that this is not something of a plaything. This is literally big. As big as. Almost as big as visa and bigger, and much bigger than PayPal, obviously. Still small fish compared to something like. Like fed wire here. But I mean, of course it is fed wire is huge, right? So.
00:25:16.270 - 00:25:47.204, Speaker A: So there's that. That was one of the main takeaways. And the other one I wanted to talk about was the difference between where the activity is actually happening. So Peter said here, most stable coin activity occurs on the TRON and BSc blockchains, as I've talked that before. Year to date, the TRON and BSc blockchains collectively account for 77% of weekly active addresses and 75% of transactions, but only 41% of volumes. So, essentially, TRON and BSc are being used for smaller payments. Obviously, that makes sense, because the fees are cheaper on those networks.
00:25:47.204 - 00:26:17.164, Speaker A: But then Peter continues and says that the Ethereum blockchain is used for higher value transactions. On average, despite accounting for just 6% of active wallets and 3% of transactions, the Ethereum blockchain is home to 55% of stablecoin supply and settles close to 50% of weekly stablecoin dollar volume. So that's a theorem as a settlement layer, guys. Ethereum layer one is the settlement layer for high value transactions. And that's exactly why you see this split here. You know, Tron and BSc could just as well be a layer, too. It's just that Tron and BSc have been around for a while.
00:26:17.164 - 00:26:37.868, Speaker A: They've managed to. To get a network effect, and people are using them in the various countries that I've kind of outlined before. And there's volume, there's liquidity there, right? And that's. That's something that they've got going for them. But as I've said, it's all the smaller use cases. It's just like everyday payments, because the fees are cheap. But when it comes to large kind of payments and large volumes, it's on Ethereum.
00:26:37.868 - 00:27:08.342, Speaker A: And that's the thesis right there. Ethereum is a settlement layer. The L2 settle down to it. I do hope that TRON and BSc can become L2s on Ethereum, because then it just gives their users more security, and it retains all their properties that they want to retain, and they. They get. They get cheaper cost to running the network as well, because running a L2 is much cheaper than running a layer one. So just taking all that into account, if that happens, if TRON and BSc become L2s on Ethereum, then Ethereum pretty much dominates all stable coin volumes, which, you know, is the vision, right? It's kind of the vision of a theorem.
00:27:08.342 - 00:27:37.758, Speaker A: Layer one as a settlement layer, and L2s as the settling down to a theorem there. But anyway, just wanted to highlight this thread because I thought it was great. You can go check out peters thread for yourself and the full report. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here, just an update on Gitcoin grants round 18, which is ongoing. I think it's got about three or four days left. And this is an update from Kevin Owocki on the amount of dollars contributed per I guess, I guess like by round here and also the round summary.
00:27:37.758 - 00:28:05.878, Speaker A: So the matching pool is $1.25 million. There's been $330,000 donated, 146,000 donations, 20. Almost 22,000 unique donors with eleven total rounds. You can see here that the web3 open source software round has dominated and there's a bunch of other rounds here as well. But yeah, great to see that the community coming out and donating here, that's, that's a large amount of money that's been donated and obviously the matching pool is going to, to match those donations. You have what, three, or as I said, three or four days left to donate here.
00:28:05.878 - 00:28:46.342, Speaker A: And donating is currently being done on the op mainnet and the public goods network. So the fees are really cheap. There's no need to spend a lot in fees to donate like you used to in, you know, back in the day, I remember on a theorem layer one in the in, I guess like maybe the third or fourth bitcoin grants around or something like that where fees started spiking because of Defi summer. What ended up happening was that you'd try and donate like $5 to like ten projects, but then at some periods of time the fees would be greater than the $50 that you were donating. Right. And it would just, it just made it completely uneconomical for gitcoin grants rounds to happen there. But now they have their own network, the public goods network, their own L2 and obviously op Mainnet as well there to donate on.
00:28:46.342 - 00:29:24.858, Speaker A: So you can go check all of that out. I'll link that in the YouTube description below and be sure to donate. As I said, you have three or four days left there. All right, I've got a few minutes left here to talk about the markets again. I know, I know I say that I don't want to talk about this too often, but I think that during the bear and crab periods it's probably, I feel like I get more demand to talk about this during the bear and the crab periods because people kind of want to know like when's the bull market going to come back? Look, guys, I mean, I've talked about this a lot, but I don't have an answer for you on that. I have a prediction, my own prediction based on a bunch of different factors, but I don't have a definitive answer for anyone. No one does.
00:29:24.858 - 00:29:54.126, Speaker A: Literally, no one will give you a definitive answer with 100% certainty if they are trying, if they are giving you that, they are lying. Right. And that's, that goes for calling bull markets and calling back and calling for bear markets. Because I've seen a lot of people give these predictions over the years and be completely wrong. And what the 1% that get it right, like, that's just survivorship bias. Right. But what I really wanted to talk about was the fact that it's funny kind of watching the different sentiment and how it changes over time.
00:29:54.126 - 00:30:20.256, Speaker A: Like I believe right now, as I've said, like maybe a couple of weeks ago, we're really at the tail end of the bear crab market where everyone is just so exhausted. Everything is so quiet on the market front. Liquidity has been completely drained. I know that, you know, the stock market is roaring and there are, there are stocks like Nvidia going nuts. You know, the Nvidia market cap is larger than the entire crypto market cap. Right. And that just shows how much more money is in tradfire than crypto.
00:30:20.256 - 00:30:57.426, Speaker A: By the way, I don't think you guys realize how much money is in tradfi compared to crypto. It literally dwarfs crypto. There is not even a comparison there. But that's actually bullish because it means that, and this is why people get bullish about the ETF's, right? Because they're like, well, that opens crypto up to more tradfi money. And it does. But, but in terms of, like, when I say we're at the tail end of the, or at least I feel like we're at the tail end of the bear and crab market is because there's only so much kind of, I guess, like down pressure or like bearish pressure the market can take until really the only way up is up, for lack of a better phrase there. And I've talked about this before, how I said that it's like holding a ball underwater.
00:30:57.426 - 00:31:22.702, Speaker A: Eventually your arms are going to get so tired that you just let go and the ball is not going to stay there because you're not holding it anymore. It just plops up. The same is true for markets. You know, eventually everyone just gets so exhausted of being bearish and crabbish. You know, even the traders who are trying to short everything, they just get so exhausted and it just doesn't become worth their, worth their time anymore to do it, because it's just not much alpha to be had there anymore. Not just not that much profits to be had there anymore. And eventually we see.
00:31:22.702 - 00:31:39.948, Speaker A: We see a pop, right, but it's not a violent pop up. Bull markets take time to form. It's a. It's. It has to climb what I call, well, I mean, what's known as. I don't. It's not my term, but what's known as the wall of worry, which is basically this climb back to all time high that has to convince everyone that a bull market is.
00:31:39.948 - 00:32:12.682, Speaker A: It has started again. Now, I've said before how I think that if we can climb above three k and stay there, bull market back on, 100% guaranteed in my mind. Right. I know I said before that anyone guaranteeing you something 100% shouldn't be believed, but like, I think me saying 100%, I mean, like 99.99%, right. For me, it's like, unless something catastrophic was to happen once ETH got above three k, I, based on, you know, previous cycles, not just in crypto, but in stocks, anytime it breaks, like a critical level, it's just going to continue. Right.
00:32:12.682 - 00:32:36.216, Speaker A: It's going to do that, that ball underwater thing, which just plops up from there. But to get there, to get to like three k potentially, and then to get to all time high, it's that wall of worry. It's that convincing the market, hey, it is actually a bull market now. You can go long, you know, you can, you can basically sell if you want to now and take profits, but just know that it's probably going to continue going up. Right. So there's that. And that takes time to go through.
00:32:36.216 - 00:33:05.478, Speaker A: It could take all of next year. You know, I know I've said before that I think that ETH could get back to all time high by the second half of next year. You know, the second half of next year includes December. So it could, it could not happen until December next year. But I think that what the market wants to see is sustained upward price movement. And it wants to feel like there's new money coming in. Because I've said this before as well, where the reason why we see these pumps and then they just get completely retraced, which is exactly what happened with the SEC ripple case.
00:33:05.478 - 00:33:26.306, Speaker A: Right. And we had a massive pump off of that, especially on coins other than Ethan BTC. And then those coins have sold down completely. Like they've erased their entire pump since then. And that's because that pump was literally just the existing money in the system. That was not new money at all. And the same is true for the bitcoin pump off the ETF news, right.
00:33:26.306 - 00:33:59.322, Speaker A: It was just the same money in the system. So what we need, as I've always said, is we need the new money, but the new money is not coming near crypto until things get exciting again, until there's something to get excited about. And what gets everyone excited, sustained upward price movement into prices that haven't been seen in a while. We haven't seen three k in a long time, guys. I mean, if I go to the chart here, just quickly on my screen, you can't see it on, on your screen. But I was looking at this, this today, actually, we have not seen three k ETH since. And this was on the downward trajectory.
00:33:59.322 - 00:34:12.694, Speaker A: Trajectory since April of 2022. Right. That was over a year ago now. So we haven't seen three k. I haven't even seen anything close to that. We haven't even seen 2500 since, I think, what, May 2022. Right.
00:34:12.694 - 00:34:33.536, Speaker A: The highest we've seen is 2100, I think. And we saw that back in April of 2023, of course. So in terms of breaking above these key levels, we definitely need to get above up to three k. And that's when people start getting, like, super excited. Even above 2500, people start getting excited. But, like, above three k, I believe everyone's going to get super excited. And that's what brings in the new money.
00:34:33.536 - 00:34:50.925, Speaker A: That's what gets the headlines going especially. Obviously, BTSC plays into this as well. But that's what brings it in, guys. And it's not just the retail investors. It's also the people who may be buying stocks and investing in Tradfi right now, because that's where the excitement is. Things are going up, right. There is money to be made there in crypto is boring right now.
00:34:50.925 - 00:35:18.200, Speaker A: So there's no money to be made in crypto. But for long term investors there is. Because if you buy now and you have a long term horizon, you know, you have a better chance of making money than someone just trying to scalp and trade and get chopped up in these markets right now. It just depends on the strategy that you want to use here. But, yeah, that's how I kind of, like, generally think about it. And as I said, I do feel like we're at the tail end, and that's just when it comes to price. But in terms of tech and innovation, my God, we're thriving.
00:35:18.200 - 00:35:47.884, Speaker A: The ethereum ecosystem is absolutely thriving when it comes to tech and innovation and getting more people using the chains. I mean, these meetups I've been to, guys, like the fact that there's over 100 people there and this is Melbourne. Like, Melbourne is not known for being like, super crypto kind of centric. I mean, Australia generally is not known for that. Sydney actually generally has a lot more crypto projects building there. You know, synthetix, immutable, sigma prime who built the lighthouse client. They're all there, right? And there's a bunch of others too, that I'm forgetting to name.
00:35:47.884 - 00:36:21.366, Speaker A: But in Melbourne, I mean, there's a few here and there, but not that many. But the fact that we had over 100 people, and I'm telling you guys, those people, most of them, I would guarantee, are not just pure speculators here for the money sort of thing. All the discussions that I had were about the tech, were about getting more adoption, about the tech. People were asking me questions about, like, wallet ux and how we're going to make it so simple for anyone to use crypto. Like what? And L2s and like, the fees on L2s and all this sorts of stuff. Like, it really does feel like a bull market when it comes to the tech and innovation stuff. And that's exactly the feeling that I got in 2019, to be honest.
00:36:21.366 - 00:36:56.768, Speaker A: And early 2020, I got that same feeling. Because in 2019, we had, like, a lot of defi stuff start coming online and start getting into the early stages of it. And obviously 2020, we had Defi summer, I'm hoping, and I think we can potentially get a layer to summer that mirrors that. Maybe next year, sometime when hopefully the market heats up again and new money is coming in, because you do need new money for that to happen, I think. But. But yeah, I mean, in my mind, there's really nothing to be bearish about right now when it comes to the tech and innovation and even the price. I really, I mean, even if it goes lower from here, as I've said before, ETH is between that one and two k range.
00:36:56.768 - 00:37:14.220, Speaker A: That could have moved up to like a 1502k range now. It just depends. I know that, you know, there are people calling for lower from here. I know that some chartists that I kind of follow are saying that, okay, well, you know, ETH could go back to like 1400 and then bounce off of that. And that's it. That's. That's the lowest it's going to go.
00:37:14.220 - 00:37:37.830, Speaker A: We need to test that area. I mean, I'm not a ta guy, right? I don't know that. And then there are some insane people out there calling for like a four to $600 ETH. You guys know who that those people are. That's like not happening. I mean, as I said before, don't, don't listen to people who speak in certainties, but to me, I mean, for east to go back down there would mean that a theorem as an ecosystem has completely failed as well as everything else in the world. Shit the bed.
00:37:37.830 - 00:37:52.342, Speaker A: Like the macro. Shit the bed. Everything's just going down on. We have another great depression or something, right? That. To get us back down there from here. I just don't think that's, that's going to happen. And ethereum obviously is the furthest thing from failing, right? It's thriving more than it ever has.
00:37:52.342 - 00:38:21.546, Speaker A: I mean, I would say that Ethereum is thriving more now than it did in the bull market because there are so many kind of like new apps coming online, new use cases coming online, so much innovation happening. The L2s are just killing the game, right? I don't know. I feel like this is all just setting up for another epic bull market that we're going to get, hopefully sooner rather than later. But on that note, I was going to end it on a bullish note for the weekend there. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:38:21.546 - 00:38:25.234, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
