00:00:02.970 - 00:00:54.990, Speaker A: Welcome to Bankless, where we explore the frontier of Internet money and Internet finance. And sometimes that frontier is at a conference like last weekend, where over a thousand developers, founders, builders, and investors attended the Starkware Sessions in Tel Aviv in order to participate in growing the StarkNet ecosystem. This is Bankless's Starkware Session series, which are nine bite sized episodes interviewing the founders, builders, and ecosystem developers of StarkNet. Every once in a while in the crypto world, a conference happens, but not everyone is available to attend. Don't worry, Bankless has your back because I go to basically every conference that's out on the frontier, and I bring an entire podcast studio in tow with me in order to make sure that the Bankless nation stays on the frontier of what's happening in crypto. In this interview we are talking to Cartridge. Cartridge is building out all of the Legos that is needed to produce on chain gaming in the StarkNet world.
00:00:54.990 - 00:01:21.458, Speaker A: We of course know what web Three gaming is. Web three gaming is like gaming with assets. You have games, but now you also have assets in your game. It's different in the world of StarkNet because we have the compression technologies of ZK roll ups of ZK Tech. We can do much, much more than just assets in our game. We can put much more of our game logic on chain. Perhaps smart contracts on Ethereum are put for putting business in finance logic.
00:01:21.458 - 00:02:00.046, Speaker A: Well, since we have so much more compression power on ZK Rollups, we can put more game logic on chain and have that actually be viable due to how much compression is in the world of ZK Rollups. And so Cartridge got started trying to build an on chain game and then they realized that first we need to build all this normal game infrastructure that other games are also going to have to do if they also build on StarkNet. So first we have to build the tools, the player databases, the player profiles, all this kind of stuff. And then it can incur a blossoming of more and more and more on chain games on StarkNet. So that's the pitch. We're going to go into more of these details and so much more. So let your imaginations run wild.
00:02:00.046 - 00:02:39.022, Speaker A: But first, a moment to talk to some of these fantastic sponsors that make this show possible. Kraken has been around for almost as long as crypto itself. As crazy as crypto is, kraken has remained a rock for its clients, building out a platform designed to stand the test of time. Kraken is all about proof, not promises. Which is why they've pioneered a proof of reserves, a system that lets Kraken's customers verify for themselves the solvency and responsibility of the Kraken exchange. And for this reason and many more, we've chosen Kraken as Bankless's strategic sponsor for 2023. And once you're done using Kraken to get your dirty fiat money into pristine crypto assets, perhaps you should check out Arbitrum, where so much of the frontier of crypto innovation is taking place.
00:02:39.022 - 00:03:20.634, Speaker A: Arbitrum just announced their Stylus initiative, which is their brand new programming environment that lets developers deploy apps using their favorite programming languages like Rust C C alongside regular old solidity EVM apps. Sets can use any coding language they like, and it simultaneously drops layer two fees by an order of magnitude. It's a big deal. So many of your favorite DFI apps have already deployed to Arbitrum, like Uniswap. But did you know that Uniswap isn't just for ERC 20 Tokens anymore? Uniswap is also an NFT aggregator too. To make sure that you are getting the best price on your NFT purchases, uniswap gives NFT collectors and traders powerful tools, all from the cozy comfy Uniswap interface, by the way. It's also got a native Fiat onramp it's also deployed on like, every layer two.
00:03:20.634 - 00:03:57.074, Speaker A: And it's got this nifty cool thing called a universal router that ensures that you always get the best price on your trades. Crypto protocols like Arbitrum and Uniswap are becoming super powerful, so make sure that you're also using a wallet that's equally as powerful, or else you'll be missing out. If you're looking to upgrade your wallet experience, check out Phantom, the number one wallet of Solana, which has recently come to both Ethereum and Polygon. Phantom has native NFT support, giving you your own NFT gallery from inside the wallet. Phantom is both a browser extension and a mobile wallet, and is also the only wallet to span both the Solana and Ethereum ecosystem. Check it out at Phantom app. And now let's get into the interview bankless nation.
00:03:57.122 - 00:04:10.378, Speaker B: We are back at the Starkware sessions in Tel Aviv, Israel, and I am here with Terrence, who's going to walk us through the world of Starkware gaming. StarkNet Gaming. Excuse me, Terrence. Tell us, how did you arrive on StarkNet? What brought you here?
00:04:10.464 - 00:04:49.638, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. Thank you for having me. So my journey on StarkNet started about, I would say, November 2021. We had recently launched the Dope Wars Project, which was based on Loot and was an onchain gaming ecosystem with a Dow associated with it. And as part of the secondary royalties, bootstrapped a Dao that was governed by the players that have minted like this free to mint NFT. And we started a grant fund where we would just grant people, like the Dao would choose to grant people building on interesting things contributing to the Dopores universe. And someone came to the dow with this idea to rebuild this game called Drug Wars, which is what Dopores was based on.
00:04:49.638 - 00:05:32.830, Speaker C: Fully on chain on top of StarkNet. This is very early on in the StarkNet kind of like iteration cycle. It was right before StarkNet even had a main net available. We built out a fully on chain game that was very early on and kind of opened my eyes to what was possible. This idea of putting everything on chain, not just the assets, but all of the rules and the properties and everything that governs the loop of this game. And so that's what really brought me to Sarknet and was the beginning of the journey that has brought me today to building cartridge and helping out the ecosystem of on chain gaming on evolve.
00:05:32.910 - 00:06:03.470, Speaker B: So I definitely want to really just dive headfirst into the world of onchain gaming and how that's different from what people might be used to when they hear, like, web3 gaming. But first, the fact that this got started off with the Loot project, I think is really interesting because this is actually the second gaming community that I've heard come out of Loot, the first one being magic. But the magic ecosystem came out of, again, like that whole Loot phenomenon, but that went to Arbitrum. Why did you and why did others come to like, what about StarkNet has really attracted.
00:06:05.570 - 00:07:10.038, Speaker C: Originally, a lot of the Dopo's ecosystem is actually on optimism. So we built out very early on in the optimism ecosystem. We built on fully on chain rendered NFTs to represent, like, in dopores you have a hustler, which is your item, and then all the items that you got on the original card were bridged to optimism as individual items. So you get like your gun or your Air Force ones or your gold chain and stuff like that, and you can assemble them onto your character, onto your hustler. And those are all stored and rendered on chain. So that was an early experiment of having a fully on chain NFTs that are interoperable and composable and people can kind of play this game of equipping the Dopest hustler. So we were kind of open to I mean, it was very apparent early on that you can't build, especially during the bull market of late 21 whatever, where ethereum gas prices were like north of 100 guai, you can't really build a game on chain and expect people to interact with it.
00:07:10.038 - 00:07:54.706, Speaker C: So we were very eager to explore different options. So we started with optimism and then started building out. And optimism was much more production ready at that moment in time and then started building out on StarkNet. I think with StarkNet, there's a set of constraints that it loosens versus EVM chains. One is around the complexity of the smart contracts that can get a little bit tricky to deal with when writing solidity. And the other is this idea of fractal scaling and exponential availability of compute that you can put on chain, which I think makes StarkNet particularly interesting for building games on as well as some other properties like account abstraction that obviously everyone is very excited about.
00:07:54.808 - 00:08:14.038, Speaker B: Yeah, there's so many different ways to start this conversation, account abstraction, definitely one of them for needing to have the necessary infrastructure to really onboard people into gaming. But I think that really that big unlock is the ZK element that allows you just to do more. Can you talk about the ZK roll up and what it's allowed you to do when building on Snarknet?
00:08:14.134 - 00:09:28.782, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. I think it really just allows you to have a lot more bandwidth for expressing computation on chain with the future potential avenues for exponentially increasing that through fractal scaling or client side proving. So you even have properties of private information that are easily incorporated into the sharknet like blockchain by producing a proof on your clients, allowing for hidden information and then putting that on chain as well as different data availability solutions that are starting to come to market. So when you think about a game, there's obviously like a spectrum of assets that require different properties, right? And so as you want to put more and more of those games on chain so that they inherit the properties of the blockchain like the hardness and the persistence and that they can be around forever, you don't want to necessarily want to pay the same amount per byte. For example, for a core item versus maybe some illustration of an item or like a 3d model of an item. So I think that's another very interesting avenue that ZK, Roll Ups and StarkNet have been innovating in that is going to be crucial to building fully on chain games.
00:09:28.846 - 00:09:39.126, Speaker B: Yeah. So fully on chain games, can you compare and contrast these what a fully on chain game is versus what perhaps what people might know as a Web Three game? How is this different?
00:09:39.228 - 00:10:48.698, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think baseline they have some similarities. Potentially the Web Three games generally I would say are characterized by assets living on chain and taking advantage of the capability of the blockchain for player ownership of assets and the ability for people to trade them in secondary markets. So opening up this idea that gamers should own their assets, they should be able to sell them, they should be able to accumulate them over time potentially by playing the game and potentially get paid for the game. Right? There's like people working on different dynamics and I would say to differing degrees of success, obviously what we've seen from play to earn and stuff like that. So I think that's like the first just scratching the surface of the properties that a blockchain brings to the table that make sense for games. On chain games you start to see a lot more of that logic start to live on chain. So with Web Three games you're still reliant on this promise that there's some off chain game that's going to implement these assets, it's going to make them useful and that your assets are going to derive value from.
00:10:48.698 - 00:11:13.838, Speaker C: Right? Whereas on chain game we start to put all that logic on chain like incrementally and eventually potentially everything, right? So the rules that the properties of those assets or those items, I don't even really like to call them assets because it's a very financialized term. When you think I start thinking about a whole gaming ecosystem being on chain. There's really a ton of different objects that exist in this universe.
00:11:14.014 - 00:11:15.934, Speaker B: Anything in your gaming inventory.
00:11:16.062 - 00:11:59.746, Speaker C: Yeah, and some of them might be tradable, some of them might not. Some of them might be issued by the ecosystem. So yeah, all of those things or even the properties of a boss, right? Like what is the class of the boss and stuff. Like all of these kind of things start to live on chain. They're legible by smart contracts and people can start to make assumptions about this foundation that it's not going to go away beneath them. Right. So in traditional gaming, even in web3 gaming, it's hard to build a game on top of another game, right? We've seen it many times over with franchises like Warcraft or GTA, where a developer builds an ecosystem alongside that, maybe takes advantage of some game and mods it in a certain sense.
00:11:59.746 - 00:13:11.218, Speaker C: But it's very hard for them to turn that into a sustainable business model because you're kind of always at the whims of the original IP owner. So if you become too popular, then probably lawyers get involved and maybe you'll figure out an exit strategy or some kind of acquisition. But it's very hard, for example, for an investor or even a person to invest a lot of time into building something that they think they can last on top of a fragile foundation. It's like a similar property that you get when you build on top of Twitter and then all of a sudden they close the APIs off. Right? And so with on chain games, you get to have a foundation that you can make assumptions about and you can start to build in that universe can compound. Right. So I think that's the big contrast of the properties that the blockchain gives to on chain games that I think are going to over time it's a very emergent very early on in the ecosystem, but over time because the efforts were compound, we're going to see incredibly vibrant, massive ecosystems of these parallel on chain universes that anyone can contribute to and monetize and be compensated for expanding.
00:13:11.394 - 00:14:04.950, Speaker B: And so just to reiterate what you said, we have web3 games, which is really just about the instantiation of in game assets as tokens. But the game itself is rendered and not really the game itself is just like a normal web two game. It's a trad game. And so what we're talking about, and specifically the magic of ZK roll ups and why we're here at StarkNet is because of what a ZK roll up is, you actually can do more things, as in what ZK rollups are trying to do is just reduce the cost of computation down to their absolute minimum. And when you do reduce the cost of computation, all of a sudden what is viable to put on chain actually increases. So have you thought about after assets, what goes on Chain now that we have much more commoditized computational costs? What can go on Chain next? What makes sense to put on Chain?
00:14:05.030 - 00:15:19.186, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think we're seeing a bunch of different experimentation with this. Like I mentioned, the Dope Wars ecosystem we experimented with fully on Chain, NFTs and rendering and there's a few projects obviously doing that on ethereum as well. On StarkNet, we're starting to see fully on Chain games like Mumu by Topology, which is they've built a fully on chain physics engine that deals with processes and is basically like a very fun but technical game where you set up different state machines to kind of achieve this objective. You should check it out if you haven't Mumu by Topology there's another game like Influence, which is a space exploration game, which is a lot of fun. And that game as well has some NFT assets that they issued initially that are incorporated into the game. They're crewmates and asteroids and then they've built out this very immersive experience on chain, fully on chain of how you explore this universe, how you travel through the universe, how you can land on an asteroid and start to mine resources from the asteroid and build like a civilization. They recently did a testing event with a bunch of few thousand players and everyone was fully on chain, on StarkNet and playing this game.
00:15:19.186 - 00:16:29.414, Speaker C: And it starts to create these interesting behaviors where one of the cool things was people started building civilizations on these asteroids or machinery on these asteroids to kind of make a picture, right? And because it's on the blockchain, it's almost like, okay, now the game itself is like an NFT in a sense, right, which is like a cool emergent behavior. And then you have the Realms team obviously building a few different games on Sharknet and pushing the barriers of what's possible there. And that too is a fully on Chain game where all of the rules that govern your realms and how you can build armies and the resource management and all these kind of things is all on chain. So I think the next thing that makes a lot of sense to experiment with in the StarkNet ecosystem is the rules and the logic. There's not so much experimentation about putting the assets like media and stuff fully on chain just yet. I think that maybe will come with different data availability solutions as those are rolled out. But yeah, it's a lot of experimentation around just the core logic that governs why an asset makes sense for this.
00:16:29.452 - 00:16:57.026, Speaker B: Ecosystem and you touched on it, but I really wanted to drive this point home, so I want to talk about it a little bit more. What do we get when we put more of our games on chain? There's this vision of crypto gaming as like composable games where your items can transcend across games or your character can transcend across games like game. Composability. When we put more and more of our game on chain, whatever that logic may be, what kind of properties do we get out as a result of that?
00:16:57.128 - 00:18:00.438, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think it's like you described, interoperability and composability are two big value propositions. We've yet to achieve a great deal of that. I think a lot of that will come through some standardization in how games are built and represented on chain. And so we have an effort that we're working on with the StarkNet community called Dojo to build out on chain gaming tool chain for developing smart contract or games on top of StarkNet. And that I think has the capability to standardize a lot of those primitives and allow for interoperability and composability much more easily. You get the hardness of the blockchain, so the guarantees that the things on it are going to exist as long as the blockchain will exist, right, and the blockchain gives you this property where anyone can propagate the blockchain at some point in the future, right? Like if no one is mining bitcoin and you want bitcoin to continue, you just mine it yourself, right, and the chain will continue propagating. So you can get that same property for a gaming universe, right.
00:18:00.438 - 00:18:38.754, Speaker C: Today you might have a centralized publisher. The longest living games are like Warcraft, like franchises and Blizzard and stuff like that. But at some point Blizzard is going to shut down the World of Warcraft servers or something, right? And if you, your options are kind of limited, especially now that servers weren't designed to be run by anyone, right? In theory they could open source it and you would need probably like a DevOps team to figure out how to stand this stuff all up. Whereas blockchain games are inherently designed to be replicated, to be robust to this, that anyone can continue propagating this universe if they're interested in it.
00:18:38.872 - 00:19:16.798, Speaker B: I want to unpack that metaphor a little bit and dive into that. So I've used Hearthstone, which is another Blizzard game, which is much like Magic the Gathering for people that are familiar with that same kind of game. You own cards and then you play them. And this is a server based. And so unlike Magic the Gathering, which is played in person, hearthstone is played virtually similar to Magic the Gathering. You buy cards, you buy cards from Blizzard and then those go into your inventory and then you battle other people. The problem with Hearthstone and what was actually nice about Magic the Gathering is that when you buy the cards, you actually own them.
00:19:16.798 - 00:19:59.210, Speaker B: In Magic the Gathering, in Hearthstone, when you buy the cards, it's just a database log. And so if we want to go through this progression in web3, the first phase of web3 gaming is like, well, no, now you own your assets. And so when you actually buy gauze unchained is now this web3 version of Hearthstone where you actually own the tokens as cards. And so then you can play the game, but you actually own the cards. The issue with that though, is that there's still a server, there's still a client that is needed to be maintained in order to play the game. So if the company behind Gars Unchained goes down, you can't play the game anymore. So it's great that you own your assets, but you also need to own the game too.
00:19:59.280 - 00:19:59.802, Speaker C: Exactly.
00:19:59.936 - 00:20:06.126, Speaker B: Otherwise the game itself will be rugged and all the reasons why you own the assets in the first place, the utility just drops to zero.
00:20:06.228 - 00:20:28.678, Speaker C: I think it's a great comparison. I think really what you can say is a lot of the properties that Magic the Gathering has by being a physical item in the real world can now be given to digital games that live on the blockchain. Right? Like if you have a deck in Magic the Gathering, you can play it no matter what. No one can stop you. Right. As long as you have a deck of cards, you can play it with whoever want.
00:20:28.764 - 00:20:31.638, Speaker B: But you're also limited by the physical constraints of the real world.
00:20:31.724 - 00:20:36.198, Speaker C: Yeah, you are. So you don't have RNG or you.
00:20:36.204 - 00:20:37.882, Speaker B: Can'T play over the Internet and stuff like that?
00:20:37.936 - 00:21:48.686, Speaker C: Well, you could roll a dice. The creator of the game, from my understanding, I'm not big into Magic of the Gathering, but there's like a formalized tournament and stuff like that where they have stricter rules around cards that are allowed and interpretations of them. But if you don't agree with that in Magic the Gathering, if you have the deck and you're just playing with your friend, you can make whatever rules up you want. Right? And I think that property doesn't exist in digital games, right? Like, for example, if you're playing, let's say, League of Legends or Hustler or whatever, and Blizzard or Riot decides to nerf a card, there's no way for you to opt out of that nerf to say like, well, I'm going to play with my friends and we like that card. But with a game that exists on the blockchain, you have that optionality. You not only have this ability for players to be involved in that decision making to potentially nerf an item, which I think will provide a lot of legitimacy in a lot of gaming ecosystems. There's this idea of this top down decisions coming and nerfing things that people get generally quite upset about.
00:21:48.686 - 00:22:44.500, Speaker C: And with the blockchain, you enable this bottom up. If all the players agree this is out of balance, then let's balance it. And you also have this ability for optionality. Right. You can constrain the games in a certain mode while still allowing other modes to exist in parallel or other people to build different experiences that are slightly different. If there's a game built on top of the digital version of Hearthstone, like a fully on chain game, there might be someone that says, look, I think it could be better balanced like this. And maybe we introduce these cards and they're free to inherit a lot of the foundation of the original game and provide a new experience that's better on top of it without this worry that if you are competing with this original game, that there's going to be some adverse consequence in the future.
00:22:45.030 - 00:23:06.242, Speaker B: Okay, so I'm pretty good at daydreaming. I'm pretty good at imagining things. I can imagine some sort of like, MMORPG that's as fully on chain as possible. And there's hundreds of thousands of people and they're all playing and it's all super fun. But first we're at StarkNet. What we got is StarkNet. There's also this thing called cartridge.
00:23:06.242 - 00:23:20.766, Speaker B: But help us go from StarkNet to 100,000 people playing this MMORPG. We don't just get to skip there. What are the necessary steps in order to get to that point? What are the base level infrastructure we need to enable something like that?
00:23:20.868 - 00:24:10.906, Speaker C: Yeah, we're decently far away from that. I think there's a tractable path to achieving it. I think one of the biggest gaps in the short term is just standardization around how games are represented on chain and building out tool chains that enables people to more easily build games on top of StarkNet in particular. And that's taking learnings from the existing gaming industry. There's standardized ways of representing games and patterns and architectures that people have used for a long time and have a lot of inertia and that we can build on top of the blockchain. So there's something called entity component systems, which is a lot of game engines use this to represent the state in a world and the state transitions of that world. And so that's something that we're building with.
00:24:10.906 - 00:25:09.242, Speaker C: Dojo is a tool chain for building fully on chain games that abstracts a lot of the semantics of the smart contracts and all this stuff underneath and allows people to very concisely and easily build games on top of. StarkNet and take advantage of those properties without necessarily having to be exposed to the rabbit hole that's usually necessary to understand. Smart contract, state model and stuff like this. So just making it much more accessible. So I think that's one of the first steps to enabling this. I think once we have compelling games on top of StarkNet, StarkNet itself is an exponential increase in compute available on top of Ethereum, but itself could not manage the throughput necessary for a single very well adopted game. And a lot of the constraints that StarkNet is optimized around is around security and more like DeFi use cases.
00:25:09.242 - 00:26:12.718, Speaker C: So I think a logical next thing is layer threes or executing on the fractal scaling roadmap. So that's like layer three solutions that have properties that are more tuned to what a game needs. So in DeFi or in StarkNet, you probably want decentralized sequencers, right? Because you're touching financialized assets. And the adversarial model is very different. For an on chain game, you probably are okay with a centralized sequencer with high throughput that's checkpointing to StarkNet and that you can easily exit to come back down to StarkNet if the sequencer is not propagating the world state in a way that the players want. So I think the next step is going to look like centralized sequencers, layer three sequences on top of StarkNet, tailored towards specific gaming universes that are just checkpointing to StarkNet. And then another dimension that I think is quite interesting is client side proving.
00:26:12.718 - 00:27:10.310, Speaker C: And so the ability to compute, like today you can do it actually in the StarkNet ecosystem there's provers that you can compile to WASM and run in your browser. There's a really exciting project called Sandstorm of someone working on this. And there's some standards coming out that's going to make it much more feasible to do in the browser as well computationally. And that gives you the property of hidden information as well as you can generate these proofs on the client side that are very easy to verify. So you get another layer of exponential growth of compute available. And so I think all those things are probably going to have some kind of role in building this future fully on chain game, massive multiplayer online game, as well as probably like state channels and different data availability solutions. So really we need to execute on the full roadmap to enable that future.
00:27:10.310 - 00:27:18.146, Speaker C: It's like the abundance of compute and the full spectrum of trade offs available for things that want to live on the blockchain.
00:27:18.338 - 00:27:58.526, Speaker B: So you said the word standard a lot and going back and I kind of see this world of on chain gaming following the same footsteps of DFI, which is on chain finance. But DFI didn't come about until we had the ERC 20 token standard. And then all of a sudden applications could start to reason about the assets inside of them. And that standard uniformity of assets made it easy to have these assets be composable. Same thing with NFTs. We didn't have NFTs until we had the ERC 721 standard. And so there seems to be this inevitable hurdle that must overcome before an ecosystem arrives, which is the standardization hurdle, which I think that goes to what you're doing at Cartridge.
00:27:58.526 - 00:28:03.142, Speaker B: Can you walk us through what cartridge is and how the idea of standardization is so important?
00:28:03.276 - 00:29:02.330, Speaker C: Yeah, so at Cartridge, our goal is to accelerate the advent of onchain gaming. So we're working on dog fooding, we're developing a few games ourselves and then solving a lot of the problems that we see in the ecosystem and working with the community to solve them. So initially our focus has been on onboarding users and we've built a solution called the cartridge controller, which deals with player interaction and identity and leverages something called webauthent. To use the secure enclave in your device to issue credentials and allow people to sign up and start executing transactions on chain, which is a single click like a Face ID or a biometric finger scan. So that's one of the things that we focus on quite early on with cartridge now with Cairo 1.0 maturing and the ability to kind of start building up the stack for on chain games, the tool chain. We're working with the ecosystem, with the community of games like the Realms team, with Loaf and Silv at Brick and a bunch of other talented contributors like Annie and a few others.
00:29:02.330 - 00:29:42.130, Speaker C: On building the Dojo tool chain. And the Dojo tool chain is really this idea of standardizing the primitives that people are using on chain to represent games. So it is an implementation of an ECS system and it has some cool properties of verifiable client side states and stuff like that, that we've built into it. And the nice thing about ECS systems is it's already a standard in the traditional gaming development. And so it's not like we have to necessarily invent something new. We just need to build a way to represent ECS systems on top of StarkNet. And so that's what we're focusing on in the short term.
00:29:42.130 - 00:30:45.994, Speaker C: And I think that level of standardization is going to bring to your point, the advent of powerful infrastructure built around it. So once we have a standardized ECS system or way of representing state for games and the processes and the functions that change that state over time, you can start to build powerful infrastructure that applies to all the games, right? And then if someone is building a game on StarkNet, they get all these things for free. It's like if you issue a token on Ethereum, you obviously do it on USC 20. So you can put it on Uniswap, right? The equivalent. I guess one way to think about it today is the onchain gaming ecosystem with NFTs today is like NFTs are interoperable in a financialized sense that they can trade with each other but it's not interoperable in the sense that the properties of them are legible on chain and you can have functions and stuff like that. So just surfacing that level of interoperability and standardizing it is going to enable this, I think this future continuing with.
00:30:46.032 - 00:31:21.878, Speaker B: The progression of DeFi as a mental model idea. I've always been a fan of the idea that Uniswap is an individual DeFi app and Compound is also an individual DeFi app. But these things also hook into each other and they're also hooked into Aave. And actually every single DFI app that's on the same L one is also really just one big structure because they're all interoperated with each other. So instead of individual DFI apps, there's actually just one big DFI superstructure. And that's because of the composability of these systems 100%. And I kind of think that's perhaps the way on chain gaming also plays out.
00:31:21.878 - 00:31:40.406, Speaker B: As in we have this one on chain game and then we'll have a second on chain game but then there'll start to be composability between these two things and then a third on chain game and all of a sudden this is actually not just individual on chain games but actually StarkNet is the game and it's actually many many games.
00:31:40.438 - 00:32:39.306, Speaker C: Did you share this vision? Yeah, I think that vision or metaphor expands just to life in general, in a sense. But yeah, I think like, that is the meta game. I mean, right now we're in the meta game of building games, right? And on chain games on StarkNet. And it's a lot of fun because it's a great ecosystem to be in. There's so many people that do this for fun. I think that's like a common attribute of people involved in the StarkNet ecosystem is they're here out of pure intellectual interest of what is really on the bleeding edge and it's like a game and it's fun for them. Right? But yeah, I think definitely I think similar to the evolution of DeFi on Ethereum, like the kind of the paradox a lot of people say on chain gaming is very early, but the games that are built today and the things that are built today are probably because they have this property that they can live on perpetually.
00:32:39.306 - 00:33:32.334, Speaker C: The stuff that's built in the next few years probably has the highest chance of being like the next big thing. Right? So while it's so early and hard to figure out what are the paths we should go down or what should we invest in when getting the right formula is going to be like when Hayden was working on constant product markets and no one really knew about them, and then all of a sudden, uniswap is like the size of coinbase. So I feel like something similar will happen once we figure out something cool that players love, that people love to build. On top of that, it manages to attract a critical mass of people, modding it on building new experiences and building sustainable business models on top of entertainment for players. I think it's coming soon and yeah, it's going to be a lot of fun.
00:33:32.452 - 00:33:46.258, Speaker B: So if we've piqued the interest of any of the listeners listening to this, who do you need the most help from? Who could you get the most assistance from out of any of these listeners? What kind of developers? What kind of developers? Who do you need help from?
00:33:46.344 - 00:35:00.250, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think the ecosystem could use with just a lot of experimentation and we're seeing it there's a lot of different pockets of people building different on chain games and different experiences with different constraints, some on Ethereum mainnet, some on Polygon. I think it's important for people to continue experimenting with those and for people that are interested in the space to try them out and provide feedback and be a part of that feedback loop. I think there's a large contingent of the traditional gaming industry that is very hesitant on blockchain technology because of the financialized properties of it. But I think there's a lot of properties that the blockchain can enable for games that any game developer would want. I mean, if you're building a game in a traditional game, especially if it's a game that fits into the constraints of the blockchain, like something that's turn based and has shared state and potentially like adversarial models and stuff like that. It would be significantly easier to build a turn based game as a developer on top of something like StarkNet, once the infrastructure is solid, than to build out and manage that whole backend yourself. Right? You get to start experimenting.
00:35:00.250 - 00:35:55.294, Speaker C: You get a lot more leverage being able to take advantage of all these other pieces outside of the financialized component of things. So I think bringing those people that are familiar with traditional gaming, the industry and game development into the blockchain space and getting them excited to take advantage of these properties outside of the financialized stuff, which can leave a lot of sour taste in a lot of people's mouth. I think that is going to be critical to building the future that you talked about of a massive AAA quality MMORPG. Online game that's fully owned by the players. And has these properties of composability and interoperability and actually just being something competitive with what a studio like a centralized studio with a billion dollars can do today. Yeah.
00:35:55.412 - 00:36:03.422, Speaker B: Well, Terrence, I hope we've piqued the interests of many, many bankless listeners and made them optimistic about the future of on chain gaming. So thank you for helping me tell that story.
00:36:03.476 - 00:36:17.670, Speaker C: Awesome. Thanks for having me. Yeah, and if anyone wants to chat about it or get involved in the ecosystem, feel free to reach out on Twitter or join the discord or just find me around what's the website cartridge? GG. Awesome.
00:36:17.740 - 00:36:18.434, Speaker B: Thank you, Terrence.
00:36:18.482 - 00:36:19.090, Speaker C: Thank you. Cheers.
