00:00:00.320 - 00:00:18.965, Speaker A: From my perspective, like, once you appreciate base sequencing and your base build, there's this. There's no going back. I haven't, I don't know of a single person who has gone the other direction. It's kind of up, only up to the right in terms of the converts.
00:00:22.305 - 00:01:10.829, Speaker B: Welcome to Bankless, where we explore the frontier of Internet money and Internet finance. And today on Bankless, we explore the frontier of based roll ups. Today on the show, we have Ethereum researcher Justin Drake to give us the reasoning why he thinks the future of Ethereum is based. So what are based roll ups? How do they differ from normal roll ups? Why the Ethereum layer 1 is the best sequencer for Ethereum's layer 2 roll ups. How does it fix Ethereum fragmentation? And what does this all mean for Ether the asset? There's already a handful of teams publicly working on the base rollups, Future Tyco, Puffer Spire. But also Justin alludes to at least a few of Ethereum's biggest roll ups already planning to go based in the not so distant future. So with this episode today, and perhaps a few more soon, we are front running all of that by getting you downloaded on based rollups.
00:01:10.829 - 00:01:14.853, Speaker B: So when Ethereum inevitably does go based, you'll have already seen it coming.
00:01:14.989 - 00:01:54.313, Speaker C: I think both David and I, you'll find in this episode, are very bullish on the concept of based roll ups because it really solves a lot of the challenges that Ethereum is facing with its current rollup centric roadmap. So this is the most comprehensive episode I think we' on based roll ups. And Justin toward the end said that he thinks that base roll ups have really reached escape velocity. I know some people listening to that are like, what? They just came on the scene. But realize a lot of work has been going on behind the scenes to sort of like propagate the idea and design architecture for based roll ups. I think it's getting ready to take off. So this is maybe a few months in advance of front running, but 2025 could be a big year for based roll ups.
00:01:54.313 - 00:02:14.157, Speaker C: David and I want to talk to you about all of that in the debrief that we do right after this episode. If you are a Bankless citizen, you're on Bankless Premium. That is an extra podcast, no commercials. It's got the bonus content David and I put in every single week. You have that in your feed. That's the rule. That's the episode that we're about to record where we give our thoughts on the episode.
00:02:14.157 - 00:02:16.805, Speaker C: It's called the Debrief, so go check that out as well.
00:02:16.965 - 00:02:45.153, Speaker B: Speaking of extra content, Justin is giving a talk at the Bankless Summit. So if you are going to devcon and want to hear Justin talk, the Bankless Summit is happening the day after defcon. It's like TED Talks for Ethereum. I've hand selected some of the best speakers in Ethereum and charge them with the responsibility of producing the most interesting talk possible. I asked Justin if he could leak anything about his talk at the end of the episode. He doesn't. He doesn't give me too much, but he did say in a chat that it's painfully bullish.
00:02:45.153 - 00:03:27.085, Speaker B: So I'm excited to see what all of that means. So let's go ahead and get right into this episode all about Base roll ups with Justin Drake. But first a moment to talk about some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible, especially Kraken, our preferred exchange for crypto in 2024. If you do not have an account with Kraken, consider clicking the links in the shuts Getting Started with Kraken Today if you want a crypto trading experience backed by world class security and award winning support teams, then head over to Kraken. One of the longest standing and most secure crypto platforms in the world. Kraken is on a journey to build a more accessible, inclusive and fair financial system, making it simple and secure for everyone everywhere. To trade Crypto Kraken's intuitive trading tools are designed to grow with you, empowering you to make your first or your hundredth trade in just a few clicks.
00:03:27.085 - 00:04:05.787, Speaker B: And there's an award winning client Support team available 24, 7 to help you along the way, along with a whole range of educational guides, articles and videos with products and features like Kraken Pro and Kraken NFT Marketplace and a seamless app to bring it all together. It's really the perfect place to get your complete crypto experience. So check out the simple, secure and powerful way for everyone to trade crypto. Whether you're a complete beginner or a seasoned Pro. Go to kraken.com/bankless to see what crypto can be not investment advice Crypto trading involves risk of loss the Uniswap Wallet is officially the preferred wallet of Bankless, and it's the one we use anytime when we want to transact on chain. Whether you're on your browser or on the go, Uniswap Wallet makes it easier than ever to swap anytime, anywhere.
00:04:05.787 - 00:04:38.743, Speaker B: Use your wallet to transfer funds directly from a top centralized exchange and tap in thousands of tokens across ethereum and over 10 other chains like Base, Arbitrum and Optimism. Uniswap Wallet delivers deep liquidity, fast execution and reliable quotes with zero gas swaps through Uniswap X. And when it comes to security, you can rest easy knowing it's backed by Uniswap Labs, one of the most trusted teams in Defi. Their code is open source and independently reviewed, so you know it's protected. So why wait? Download the Uniswap Wallet Today on Chrome, iOS and Android. And don't forget to claim your free Uni eth username directly in the mobile wall. Start swapping smarter with Uniswap.
00:04:38.743 - 00:05:16.797, Speaker B: The Arbitrum Portal is your one stop hub to entering the Ethereum ecosystem. With over 800 apps, Arbitrum offers something for everyone. Dive into the epicenter of Defi, where advanced trading, lending and staking platforms are redefining how we interact with money. Explore Arbitrum's rapidly growing gaming hub. From immersed role playing games, fast paced fantasy MMOs to casual luck battle, mobile games. Move assets effortlessly between chains and access the ecosystem with ease via Arbitrum's expansive network of bridges and onrips. Step into Arbitrum's flourishing NFT and creator space where artists, collectors and social converge and support your favorite streamers all on chain.
00:05:16.797 - 00:05:49.237, Speaker B: Find new and trending apps and learn how to earn rewards across the Arbitrum ecosystem with limited time campaigns from your favorite projects. Next, empower your future with Arbitrum. Visit portal Arbitrum IO to find out what's next on your web free Journey Bankless Nation we are once again here with Justin Drake, which means that we are going to learn something today. Justin Drake of course is a reacher at the Ethereum Foundation. He has taught us many things on the Bankless podcast and today we are hoping to learn about based roll ups. Justin, welcome back to Bankless.
00:05:49.401 - 00:05:51.477, Speaker A: Hi David and Ryan, thanks for having me.
00:05:51.661 - 00:06:14.245, Speaker B: So before we get into the idea of base roll ups, first, talking about roll ups generally, how would you say the rollup centric roadmap is going? The Ethereum effort defined and then moved towards the rollup centric roadmap in 2019. So five years ago, five years later, how would you evaluate our progress, our direction in the vision that Ethereum set out for itself in 2019?
00:06:14.405 - 00:07:21.569, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we're doing exceptionally well on certain dimensions. One of them is that there is a lot of experimentation and a lot of teams that have taken it to build an L2 or rollup or vellidium. Another thing that I'd say we've been successful at is dramatically reducing the fees. And so in some sense scaling feels like a solved problem. We have a whole roadmap to increase the amount of blob space and we've seen tremendous progress with the fraud proofs and with the validity proofs. And so from the perspective of scaling and having relatively secure rollups, I feel like we're doing exceptionally well. What I think that we're starting to transition into is basically the interrupt phase of the rollup centric roadmap where we realize, we acknowledge that we have a fragmentation problem, we have a siloism problem, and would like to bring back some of the network effects that previously existed at layer one and that we have lost.
00:07:21.569 - 00:07:50.725, Speaker A: The network effects at layer one were unsustainable because we had anti network effects, namely transaction fees. Right. It's not sustainable to have a $100 transaction fee and that's something that we've solved. But now we have another anti network effects, which arguably I'd say is decentralized sequencers which prevent this optimal form of composability, which I call synchronous composability.
00:07:51.545 - 00:07:56.005, Speaker C: When you say network effects, Justin, what do you mean by network effects and why are they important?
00:07:56.345 - 00:08:39.945, Speaker A: So network effects is basically when you have a network and every additional node brings in more synergies than just its raw weight. So you can think of it as just one plus one equals three. You have positive sum games, you have win win situations. And one example of network effect would be shared liquidity. Every roll up kind of adds to the liquidity pool. And now Ethereum as a whole can become this defi hub with best in class execution and whatnot. But right now we're in a position where liquidity is fragmented and so that particular network effect has started to break down a little bit.
00:08:40.315 - 00:09:09.611, Speaker C: So David asked the question how's the rollup centric roadmap going? And you talked about some of its strengths. You also mentioned toward the end some of its weaknesses, maybe short term or medium term or long term. I'm not sure what your perspective is, but could we dwell a bit more on some of the, I guess, trade offs or some of the weak points? Some of the areas that Ethereum needs to figure out one is fragmentation maybe and a loss of some network effect. Are there any others that pop into.
00:09:09.643 - 00:10:20.067, Speaker A: Mind here associated with the defragmentation? There's a little bit also of mimetic confusion and also a loss of unity maybe at the Social layer, there's competitive forces, there's maybe unaligned incentives and things like that, but nothing that fundamentally cannot be solved. So I remain optimistic. And interoperability is a big word under which there's lots of many different constituent parts. So one of the low hanging fruit, for example, is just having basic shared standards at the wallet level, the equivalent of ERC20, but in a cross roll up model. The idea of having shared governance, this is something that's being experimented on. Shared sequencing, shared snark aggregation, shared data compression and blob packing, shared deposits, the idea of having shared fungibility, all of these things are being worked on in parallel and directionally. We're making tremendous progress towards fixing this fragmentation.
00:10:20.251 - 00:10:58.881, Speaker C: When you say memetic confusion at the social layer, a few things that come to mind for me and I just want to sort of name them explicitly to make sure we get kind of our problem statement right on the sort of the social layer side of things. Like one memetic confusion area to me seems to be this idea that L2s are parasitic. Well, are they parasitic? That's one area of question which didn't exist prior to the rollup centric roadmap. There was only one kind of Ethereum shared state. So it's very obvious that every app that deployed on Ethereum was net good for Ethereum. The social layer would sort of hands clap, cheer it on. So maybe that's one area.
00:10:58.881 - 00:11:44.325, Speaker C: Another area of memetic confusion I would say is around Ether the asset and this question of okay, what are the value accrual mechanisms of Ether in this roll up centric world we've seen fee revenue go down at least in the short term post proto dank sharding and the deployment there. And so now there's a question of, well, what about this ultrasound money thing? There's not as much fee burn at the base layer for Ether the asset. So these are two areas of memetic confusion that I've seen. This idea that L2s are parasitic, this idea that there's no value accrual from a cash flow statement for Ether the asset. Is that what you were explicitly referring to when you said memetic confusion? Or if not that, what else?
00:11:44.625 - 00:12:33.937, Speaker A: So I think you summarize the perspective very well of the eth holder who's a little confused, but there's other entities that are also confused. As a developer, I used to have it very, very easy for me. I knew that launching on Ethereum just meant deploying on layer one, but now I have to choose across a whole ecosystem and it's a little bit more confusing and similar thing. As a user now I need to make an explicit choice as to which ecosystem I need to put my assets on. And then there's 20 different flavors of Ether with every single deployment of a roll up. So I think we're in a position of max awkwardness in the puberty phase and hopefully from now onwards it's downhill.
00:12:34.081 - 00:13:48.959, Speaker B: I want to zoom out a little bit and kind of look at the progress of Ethereum in a sense of order of operations. We once upon a time had the very close knit nucleus of the Ethereum layer one. And in 2019, after we kind of solved plasma which turned into rollups with this idea of fraud proofs, we had these roll up teams that extended outwards from Ethereum like these, just like these vertical integrations, these things that would grow away from the Ethereum layer 1, Optimism, Arbitra, Polygon, all of these networks that would scale, scale away. Like you would move your assets from the Ethereum layer one, you know, away to these, to these L2s. And this is what would create the fragmentation. And now that you illustrate us in being in the interoperability phase of the rollup centric roadmap, now it's like we're filling in the space that has been created as these roll ups have extended outwards from Ethereum and there's, I think there's an order of operations, right? Like first we needed to create the fragmentation problem before we could actually solve the fragmentation problem. I don't, I don't know if like we could have even gone back in time in the Ethereum roadmap and tried to solve this fragmentation problem before, before it was even created.
00:13:48.959 - 00:14:02.531, Speaker B: Maybe you can kind of just talk about the benefits of the fact that we first created all of these different roll ups and now we're kind of just like filling in the gap. How do you feel about the order of operations of, of how Ethereum progress has gone?
00:14:02.723 - 00:14:47.285, Speaker A: Yeah, I very much agree with you that it's a logical progression. I mean there could have been alternative past and alternative ways for Ethereum to tackle things. One way would have been to go down the Solana route. But obviously we don't want to be taking these kinds of shortcuts. Another thing that we could have done is to scale Ethereum layer 1 using basically randomly sampled committees, which you can think of as sharding. And so here the safety of each shard is not done through fraud proofs or through validity proofs. It's done through naive re execution from committees.
00:14:47.285 - 00:16:02.327, Speaker A: I guess what we did is that we took a very pure path where we said that we don't like honest majority assumptions and we know how to do these things without an honest majority assumption. And so we kind of opened it up to the broader market to build these roll ups that are in some sense fundamentally more robust because they only rely on pure cryptography or these cryptocurrency games which are fault proofs reflecting on the past and the different strategy that we could have taken. I guess one advantage of this sharding approach that we didn't take would have being that we would have had more homogeneity across the different rollups. But the downside is that we would have had way, way less experimentation. And I'm actually quite pleased that we didn't go down the sharding route because there's a new way to do execution sharding which is so, so much more powerful. So first of all, it uses snarks ZK rollups to give us to remove the honest majority assumption that we knew how to do. But now the technology has caught up that we have line of sight towards having that at layer one.
00:16:02.327 - 00:16:49.431, Speaker A: But the other interesting aspect is that we can take this ZKEVM and create a pre compile within the EVM to programmatically deploy instances of the evm. So with the vision that I described that we didn't go down, we would have had a fixed number of of shards, so something like 64 or 1024. And that is kind of an awkward position to be. It's just an artificial number that we had to pick. Whereas with this precompile we can have as many as we want. And then the other aspect of programmability is that we allow room for creativity. So we can for example, have ZKEVMs with different sequences, with different governance tokens, with different fee mechanisms.
00:16:49.431 - 00:16:52.911, Speaker A: Everything around the virtual machine is fully programmable.
00:16:53.063 - 00:17:29.761, Speaker B: I'm wondering, Justin, if you have an opinion on the following question. In addition to kind of fragment fragmenting the Ethereum network, because we have all of these different roll ups, we've also kind of fragmented DEFI apps, right? There's many different implementations of UNISWAP across all these different networks. There's many different implementations of AAVE across all of these different networks. And DEFI is something that is strictly better when everything is kind of contained in the same environment. Composability and liquidity capital. It's just more efficient when everything is in the same spot. So in a future of Ethereum that we're hoping for.
00:17:29.761 - 00:18:03.905, Speaker B: Do you see that there are fewer implementations of these ave's Uniswap of these applications? And is that kind of something that we should be striving for or hope to be striving for? Is that like a success scenario when maybe instead of like 27 different implementations of Uniswap across all of these different chains, there's actually just like maybe just one, maybe there's just one implementation of Uniswap where all the liquidity has aggregated. Maybe there's just one major implementation of aave. Is that a goal? Is that something to aspire to? Or is that maybe something too prescriptive?
00:18:04.405 - 00:18:47.529, Speaker A: I mean, I'm personally a believer of the app chain thesis, and I think it does make sense once the barrier to entry to deploying an app chain is low enough that there is one uni chain, one avid chain, et cetera, et cetera. The issue that we have right now is that each individual app chain comes with overhead. So for example, if it's a ZK app chain, each one of these ZK app chains need to verify a ZK proof. And if you have 1,000 ZK app chains, then you need to verify 1,000 proofs every once in a while. And that's just very, very expensive. So we need infrastructure to, for example, aggregate the snark proof. So you have one snark proof to verify 1,000 app chains.
00:18:47.529 - 00:19:33.083, Speaker A: And it's a similar thing with the blobs. The blobs are fairly large chunks of data, and it's possible that a single app chain only consumes part of it, let's say 1/4. And so you want to take all of these different app chains and do the blob packing together so you have optimal utilization of resources. A similar thing to blob packing is this idea of data compression. The more data that you're compressing, the better the compression ratio. And so what's happening right now is that each individual roll up is doing its own little isolated compression, when really what we should be doing, and this is a network effect, it's a win win thing where we take all of the data across all of the roll ups, all of the app chains, and we do one fell swoop data compression.
00:19:33.259 - 00:19:35.815, Speaker C: Justin, you were talking earlier about.
00:19:37.875 - 00:19:38.227, Speaker A: You'Re.
00:19:38.251 - 00:20:09.935, Speaker C: Happy, you're satisfied that we took the rollup centric roadmap because ZK has made precompiles on the L1 possible. And so we have more potential for rolling out ZK based VMs and incorporating that into the layer one. I want to isolate that for our conversation because I don't think that is the base roll up conversation. Right. This is something that we're talking about in the medium to long term future and is something that is tangential to based rollups. Am I correct in that?
00:20:10.095 - 00:20:48.157, Speaker A: That's exactly right. It is orthogonal to base rollups and it's called native rollups. So when you look at an L2, there's three different important criteria. Criteria number one is the data aspect. Do you put data on chain or do you put it off chain? The former is called a rollup, the latter is called a validium. And then the other layer you can look at is the sequencing layer. Like how is the ordering of transactions done? And here you have base rollups which use the L1 for sequencing and you have non base rollups that don't use the L1 for sequencing.
00:20:48.157 - 00:21:13.929, Speaker A: And then the final aspect is the virtual machine, the execution. If you are exactly EVM equivalent, because you're using this precompile, which is basically Ethereum, exposing the EVM to the application layer with this precompile, then you are a native roll up as opposed to being a custom rollup with a different virtual machine than the exact copy of the evm.
00:21:14.057 - 00:22:01.463, Speaker C: I mean, we should do an entire episode, a separate episode at some point in the future, probably on native roll ups, because it sounds like that is kind of the almost the final evolution of bringing some of this execution back to the layer 1 validators. The reason we're not talking about it for the bulk of today's podcast is because it's a more distant future. Think of that as the medium to long term, whereas base roll ups. My understanding, Justin, that's the here and now. We're ready for base rollups essentially at this moment. This is not a distant roadmap EIP in the future that we're going to incorporate in some hard fork, though there might be some upgrades necessary to fully optimize based roll ups. But is it right to think of based rollups is maybe the next evolution of rollups in some sense, but the final evolution of rollups.
00:22:01.463 - 00:22:09.647, Speaker C: And I don't even know if this is the end game, but maybe I'll just say the end game for roll ups is native roll up technology. Is that how you think about it?
00:22:09.751 - 00:22:55.221, Speaker A: Yeah. So the very nice thing about base roll ups is that they don't require hard fork. And so you have dozens of teams now that are racing to go build all the infrastructure and deploy them to say that they're ready for prime time. Might be a little bit of an exaggeration in the sense that we only have one base roll up in production at Tyco and there's adjacent infrastructure that is being built out. But I do agree with you that the progress in base roll ups is definitely happening. And I think 2025 and 2026 should be very big years for base sequencing. As for native rollups, in order to get to that very exciting end game, we need ZKEVMs.
00:22:55.221 - 00:23:42.797, Speaker A: But not only that, we need real time proven ZKEVMs. And the good news is that we're definitely getting there. We know in theory how to parallelize snark proving so that you can get the latency down effectively as low as you want. And historically we've had snarkification of the EVM where a single block would take multiple hours, tens of hours, and then it got down to single digit hours and then tens of minutes, single digit minutes. And now we're at a point where it takes tens of seconds to prove a layer 1 EVM block. And I wouldn't be surprised if in 2025 we have single digit second proving latency for the layer 1 EVM.
00:23:42.941 - 00:24:13.609, Speaker C: Oh, very exciting. You can expect Bankless Nation at a future episode, I'm sure, on native roll ups when that comes closer to fruition. But now let's get to maybe the main episode topic and the bulk of where we want to spend our time. Because all of what we just said is sort of a context, it's a preamble. And maybe to your point, Justin, we are not ready for primetime for base rollups. But let's maybe call this the dawn of based rollups, because we are off zero. We have at least one deployed in production.
00:24:13.609 - 00:25:05.175, Speaker C: And you think, and I think we share this belief that 2025 is going to be a big year for these things we call based roll ups. I feel somewhat that we should start with a definition. But before we get there, I just want to say the promise of based roll ups. There's somebody on Twitter who made the comment that, hey, if we had based roll ups when we started rolling out the rollup centric roadmap in 2020, 2021, then we wouldn't have the fragmentation problems or value accrual questions that you were mentioning these memetic problems in the social layer. If we just started with based rollups, and it's almost like it's a shame we couldn't just start with based roll ups to begin with, because the promise of these Things as far as I understand it. And this is again the memetic narrative that we'll have to dig into the validity of this, that it solves fragmentation. You have shared liquidity across all of the base rollups and indeed also with the layer.
00:25:05.175 - 00:25:44.435, Speaker C: One, so isn't that nice? We don't have the fragmentation problem. And two, it also solves the value accrual problem to ETH because we are using the validators as the sequencers and so we get to preserve some of the security around censorship resistance at a deeper level than maybe a traditional roll up. And also ETH validators get some fees from this transaction, a greater share of the fees from this transaction. So if we just say those words, it almost sounds like base rollup solves everything. And so coming into the episode, can we title this episode Based Roll Ups Solve Everything? Justin, give us a definition for based roll ups and tell us the promise here.
00:25:44.875 - 00:26:51.669, Speaker A: So just to set expectations, base rollups don't solve everything. They do try and tackle one specific layer of the stack, which is the sequencing layer. And basically when you build a roll up, you have a choice as to what is the sequencing mechanism, who are the actors who will determine the order of transactions. Now, since the the dawn of blockchains Bitcoin 15 years ago, we've had essentially just one thing which is called base sequencing, where the L1 is doing the sequencing, the validators, the consensus participants, whether it's miners, whether it's validators, all doing the sequencing. And if you look at every other blockchain, whether it's Solana, bnb, Tezos, xrp, you name it, they all have base sequencing. And for the vast majority of the existence of Ethereum, everything was just base sequence. That is the natural, normal, default, canonical way of doing sequencing.
00:26:51.669 - 00:27:46.003, Speaker A: But then something happened a few years ago where we saw the emergence of these centralized sequences, specifically in the context of the roll up centric roadmap. And I think I attribute it to three or four different reasons, extremely pragmatic reasons for those different roll ups. One of them is that they could launch extremely quickly and it was very, very straightforward as to what needed to be done. Just spin up a server and that server is responsible for all of the sequencing. But there's other things that that centralized sequencers provide. One of them is that they are a training wheel for security. So a lot of the virtual machines of the rollups are secured by fraud proofs or validity proofs.
00:27:46.003 - 00:28:48.571, Speaker A: And these are extremely complex pieces of code, potentially thousands and thousands of lines of code. And it Just takes one critical bug to jeopardize the whole roll up. So you could imagine draining all of Arbitrum in one fell swoop. That would be absolutely terrible. And so what the rollups sequences are doing is making sure that the blocks that end up being produced are created using default software as opposed to software that is specifically crafted to go exploit a vulnerability. And so as a black hat, even if I identify a bug in for example the arbitrary, I'm not able to exploit it because I'm not able to convince the shared sequencer to go build a block that will go exploit this bug. The other aspect, the other service, I guess you could say that centralized sequencers provide is MEV protection for users.
00:28:48.571 - 00:29:46.575, Speaker A: So traditionally you would send your transaction in a public mempool, you gossip it, and now you're exposed to frontrunning and sandwiching and that's a terrible user experience. With centralized sequencers, wallets can directly connect to the centralized sequencer. It's an end to end encrypted connection. So the only entity that is able to see the transactions before they land on chain is the centralized sequencer. And that entity is kind of trusted to not front run and not sandwich their users. And so that leads to a great user experience. And then another final service that the centralized sequencers provide is that of pre confirmations or extremely low latency user experience on the order of either two seconds for the the superchain, or even much faster in the context of Arbitrum on the order of 250 milliseconds.
00:29:46.575 - 00:30:50.099, Speaker A: And you can think of the centralized sequencer as being a cheat code, as taking some sort of a massive shortcut which is very strategically meaningful to do because it's very pragmatic, but it's not long term sustainable. And there's all sorts of reasons for that. One is that it's not credibly neutral and we'll talk about that. And that means that it makes it very, very difficult to convince your competitors to join forces in shared sequencing. Would the optimism superchain want to share a sequencer with the off Chain Labs and Arbitrum? It's very difficult to pick one server for all of Ethereum. Another issue is that it is a regulatory central point of failure. It's also a vector for accidental liveness failures.
00:30:50.099 - 00:32:08.505, Speaker A: This is something that we've seen in the past where roll ups just randomly go offline for sometimes several hours and that is not what we want to base the future of finance on. And then finally there's a very, very big Trust component to centralized sequencers. We haven't seen it yet, but we could imagine, for example, a centralized sequencer getting hacked and then millions of dollars of front running happening because the centralized sequencer has been compromised. And then another aspect is that because centralized sequencing fundamentally leverages trust as the technology, it's unscalable. And so if I'm a random Joe, I'm a 16 year old programmer in my mom's basement and I want to go deploy a roll up, well, I don't have any trust and so I can't go spin up my own centralized sequencer. And so I think what the ecosystem has realized is that really we want to go down this route of decentralized sequencing that is I guess, the end game, the proper way of doing things, the long term sustainable path. But not only that, we also want shared sequencing.
00:32:08.505 - 00:32:38.105, Speaker A: And this goes back to this idea of network effects and universal synchronous composability. In order to achieve this shared sequencing in an Ethereum wide capacity, going above and beyond the clusters that are being formed with Arbitrum Orbit and the Superchain and the Zksync elastic chain, we need credible neutrality. And so I think we're going to spend a lot of time in the rest of the episode talking about one thing, credible neutrality.
00:32:38.265 - 00:33:39.481, Speaker B: I want to keep on unpacking the sequencing thing because I think you alluded when we asked what's the definition of a base roll up, you alluded to the fact that well, roll ups, base roll ups are the same as all other roll ups except for this one thing that's different, which is how we sequence things. That is, that is the difference between base roll ups and like arbitrary optimism is that the, it's only the sequencing layer, which is critically different in a base roll up versus the roll ups that we know today. But I do want to put a pin on the typical roll ups and how they sequence things, the centralized sequencer, because I think in the crypto industry we are all kind of like allergic to this word central, sometimes overly so decentralization. That's not decentralized, that's not decentralized. Sometimes it's used as like a cudgel in ways that, that it shouldn't be leaning into. Like what Ethereum does and what Ethereum provides, its roll ups. The whole point of the roll up centric roadmap is that we can actually have centralized L2s because of the checks and balances that the layer one provides, its L2s.
00:33:39.481 - 00:34:54.503, Speaker B: So like the L2s are in A state of can't be evil even when they have centralized components. And that's actually has been articulated in the Ethereum rollup centric roadmap that that's actually strength of rollups in their current form like Arbitrum can be allowed to have a centralized sequencer and lean into the properties of a centralized sequencer because of the checks and balances that's provided by the Ethereum layer one. So even with the centralization of the sequencer for optimism, arbitrary base whatever, there's only so much evil that can really be done here because of what the Ethereum layer one provides. But maybe, maybe you're saying that even if that is true, we have still kind of like tapped out the juice there is to squeeze on the end of the spectrum of there being centralized sequencers. So like we've leaned into the benefits of centralized sequencers as far as we can and we've hit the limits of the growth of the Rolocentric roadmap because Arbitrum has a centralized sequencer optimism as a centralized sequencer. That is kind of the state of play here. And now in order to get the next 10x of scale, we need to actually go to the other end of the spectrum, which is the decentralized sequencer, which is where we return to credible neutrality and refragmentation.
00:34:54.503 - 00:34:57.355, Speaker B: Would you agree with that kind of description of events?
00:34:57.815 - 00:35:47.409, Speaker A: Yes, I would agree. One way to phrase it is that rollups significantly reduce the potential downside. We should be in a position where user funds are safe. And so security is a huge part of being a roll up. And in some sense that is what happens first before you can think of anything else. And if you look at the criteria of L2 beats, there's the stage zero roll up, stage one, stage two, essentially it's all about security, just making sure that if I have an asset on a roll up, we can't have some operator that just steals these assets from me, we can't have some sort of security committee that steals them, or we can't have these assets be frozen. I always have the option to force a transaction on chain in order to at the very least withdraw my assets.
00:35:47.409 - 00:36:13.095, Speaker A: And that is table stakes. But I think once we've all reached stage two and we have these ultra secure roll ups, there's going to be a first for more. And really we want strong network effects like Ethereum wide network effects. And so yes, we have dramatically capped the downside, but we've also dramatically capped the upside.
00:36:14.275 - 00:36:51.465, Speaker B: And so just to maybe illustrate for listeners Here we have the centralized sequencer paradigm of the L2s today, the one of one sequencers where we get all the scale, we get the MEV protection, we've got a bunch of nice things. Would you say that based rollups are on the opposite end of that spectrum where you have a single centralized sequencer on one end, but then base roll ups use Ethereum as a sequencer? We're going to get into that. But base roll ups are kind of like basically on the farthest other end of the same spectrum of the decentralization of sequencing. Would you agree that they're kind of like as far apart on that spectrum as possible?
00:36:51.845 - 00:37:19.437, Speaker A: Yes, that's exactly right. And in some sense the two ends of the spectrum meet and then you can go full circle. So as I mentioned, we started with base sequencing. That was the only thing available for 10 years of blockchains. And then we went down this path of centralized sequences. And I think what's going to happen is that we're going to incrementally move towards decentralization. And the kind of steps that are possible is one, what I call a federated sequencer.
00:37:19.437 - 00:38:02.955, Speaker A: So you have a multisig instead of trusting a single entity. And this is what Arbitrum is looking to do. Fairly soon they have a 14 out of 20 multisig and they're going down this path of a federated sequencer. The path after that is basically a permissionless and decentralized sequencer where anyone, for example, by locking some stake can become a sequencer at some of the slots. So you have random selection across a permissionless set of consensus participants. And I believe, But I'm not 100% sure that Zksync is going down that path. And so kind of they're skipping the federated state and going directly for decentralized sequencer.
00:38:02.955 - 00:38:11.015, Speaker A: And then there's some rollups out there that say, okay, we're going to go straight for the endgame and we're going to go back to base sequencing.
00:38:11.355 - 00:39:09.109, Speaker C: Oh, interesting. Okay, so there's different stages of decentralizing your sequencer that you can get to the federated and then the permissionless and then all the way to. And we'll be talking about which is based roll ups and some rollups may just kind of like go all the way to the end. I want to set some more context for this because every time we've said centralized sequence or decentralized sequencing, listeners might be asking the question, okay, like refresh me again, what are we sequencing here? And what we're sequencing is the ordering of block transactions, right? So it's that, as we've illustrated on many former bankless podcasts, is incredibly important. It's kind of a God like power that gives you abilities to say front run, sandwich attack, all sorts of things. It is one of the things that those that are consuming block space actually pay for. So the sequencing, the ordering of transactions in a given block is a very important power.
00:39:09.109 - 00:39:57.235, Speaker C: And that's why we're talking about decentralizing it rather than keeping it centralized. But you illustrate another point in what you were saying, Justin, was none of this was sort of roll ups wanting to be evil. We want to get our cut, we want to extract rent from users, therefore we're going to centralize the sequencer. And some of that framing is out there. I would say on the memetic level that all roll ups are doing this because they're greedy and evil assholes or something like this. And what you're talking about is no, actually there's incredibly good reasons for this from a user experience perspective, from a security perspective, from a latency perspective, in order to be competitive and make this whole crypto thing useful, there's very good reasons to centralize the sequencer. So you're kind of putting that framing out there.
00:39:57.235 - 00:40:32.141, Speaker C: One thing that's become clear to me, I think is clear to me and I want to get you to verify with the roll ups that we have today with some level of centralized sequencers. Even if we get those to stage two, which by the way, stage two does not mean decentralizing the sequencer necessarily. It's my understanding. So you could still be stage two as a rollup and still have a centralized sequencer. What you get from that is protection against for user, protection against the cannot steal mandate. So a rollup can never, just like yoink your assets, can't steal your assets. They can't.
00:40:32.141 - 00:41:09.395, Speaker C: Sam Bankman freed you. They can't go ftx, they can't. Alex Mashinsky, all of your eth. All right, so that's great. And that's something we've preserved. My understanding though, Justin, correct me if I'm wrong, is in a stage two roll up with a centralized sequencer, we may not have preserved another virtue that we have on the layer one, which is a real time censorship resistance. So let's say you want a transaction that is credibly neutral and so let's say it's sanctioned by some third party nation state and you want to preserve the censorship resistance of that transaction.
00:41:09.395 - 00:42:07.993, Speaker C: Well, I believe Some stage two roll ups have kind of a forced inclusion where you can kind of like after the fact, like push that transaction in, but it's not like as real time as the Ethereum layer one. And so even in a stage two roll up with a centralized sequencer, if they blacklist some set of transactions which they may have to do based on their jurisdiction and whatever regulatory regime they fall under, they may legally be obligated to do this, you kind of lose that property that's inherent on the layer one, which is more real time censorship, resistance. This is something I believe I've learned over the past set of months in going through this as kind of a degraded capability as opposed to the layer one. So we preserve the cannot steal, but we may not have preserved the cannot sensor, at least in a real time fashion. Can you fact check me? Is that kind of true with a stage 2 centralized rollup? Centralized sequence roll up?
00:42:08.009 - 00:43:05.873, Speaker A: I should say yes, that is correct. So you could even imagine an extreme example, a Wells Fargo chain which is only sequencing transactions from 9 to 5 and is closed on weekends and is filtering OFAC transactions, you could still have a Wells Fargo chain which is at stage two. And really, because there could be a very long delay between you initiating a forced transaction and the forced transaction actually landing on the chain, it would be useless to you. Like if you want to make a payment, you know, you want to pay for coffee, it would take 24 hours. That would just not be workable. And so your only option if you're being censored or if you just happen to want to make a transaction on a weekend in some sense is just to withdraw and, and exit completely. Like the chain is not useful to you if you are actively being censored.
00:43:05.873 - 00:44:01.193, Speaker A: And that is, you know, it's pretty good. But I think we can do so so much better so that we can make sure that the short term censorship resistance, the short term liveness is as good as the Ethereum layer 1. But in practice, what I think we've observed is that the liveness is actually pretty good. And again, as you said, the reason why decentralized sequences exist is not because there's some sort of evil plan to degrade liveness every time there's an accidental liveness failure. It's accidental, it was not intended. But really what I see decentralized sequencing as unlocking is a credibly neutral shared sequencer and that unlocks synchronous composability and then that unlocks network effects and brings Ethereum much, much closer together. And ultimately yield an ecosystem that is an order of magnitude more powerful.
00:44:01.369 - 00:44:27.771, Speaker B: There's something that the base rollups do, which I think fits into the theme that we see across Ethereum at large, is that base rollups learn to repurpose the Ethereum layer 1 in a way that benefits them. And this time it's using Ethereum as the sequencer. Can we go into what that actually means technically? So as a roll up, what does it actually mean to use the Ethereum layer 1 as a seque? Pop open the hood, what's going on under the hood?
00:44:27.963 - 00:45:09.033, Speaker A: Yeah, so you're right in some sense. Ethereum was not designed to provide sequencing as a service. And you could say the same thing for data availability. So in the early days of data availability, we had call data, which was meant to be like a place where you put bytes with basically inputs to function calls that you would have. And it was kind of abused in some sense by the rollups to put arbitrary user data. And what was hacked in there, it's hacked in there. And then we came up with a very clean kind of custom designed solution, blobs that were purpose built for the roll ups.
00:45:09.033 - 00:46:31.575, Speaker A: And there's a kind of a similar story, I guess, going on with sequencing, where initially the base sequencer was meant to be for the layer one exclusively. And actually Vitalik kind of had this thought experiment. What if we use the base sequencer for L2? And the term that he used was total anarchy because basically you'd be in a position where all the users would submit their transactions in the mempool and there would be conflict in transactions and some data, some of the transactions would revert, it would be a complete mess and it would not work until we had proposer builder separation. So proposer builder separation basically says that even though the sequencing rights are given to the L1 consensus participants, the heavy lifting of building optimal blocks is done by the builders. And so what it means in practice, what does base sequencing mean is that from the perspective of an L1 validator, nothing changes. I'm connected to mevboost, I'm given the most valuable block to sign and I sign it and I don't even see the contents of that block. All I sign is the block header.
00:46:31.575 - 00:47:01.581, Speaker A: And instead all of the heavy duty sequencing is done by specialized searchers and specialized builders that will do the heavy lifting on behalf of the L1 validator. So not only are you reusing the proposing rights at the L1, but you're also reusing the full PBS pipeline. You're reusing builders, searchers, relays, private mempools.
00:47:01.613 - 00:47:36.125, Speaker B: All of that stuff with the Ethereum rollup centric roadmap, anyone can deploy a roll up though, which means anyone can deploy a based rollup. But Ethereum, the layer one isn't actually aware of base roll ups. It doesn't know that there's a network elsewhere that is a base roll up. So how do the block builders, the people that are supposed to be sequencing this rollup, how do they actually become aware and actually opt into this duty of sequencing the base rollup if anyone can deploy a roll up? And how do these things actually integrate?
00:47:36.745 - 00:48:20.961, Speaker A: Right, so one of the mental models for base roll ups is that it's the same thing as a layer one contract, except that fees are 100 times cheaper. So just like anyone could go deploy Uniswap or AAVE or whatever it is, Ethereum is not immediately aware, has no semantic understanding of what Uniswap is. You know, it's just, you know, bytecode and instructions that are being blindly run. And ultimately what, what is the mechanism to get these transactions on chain, have them executed, is transaction fees. It's incentives. And so users are willing to pay transaction fees and that is an incentive for them to get picked up by the searchers and by the builders and ultimately go on chain. Is the exact same situation with base roll ups.
00:48:21.153 - 00:48:26.047, Speaker B: Is a base roll up mempool the same thing as the Ethereum layer 1 mempool or is there a separate mempool?
00:48:26.201 - 00:49:32.605, Speaker A: This is an implementation detail, you can use whatever you want. One of the trends that we're seeing is that the public mempool is dying. What's happening is that a lot of the top roll ups, sorry, top wallets like Metamask and Rabbi Wallet have their own private mempool where instead of gossiping transactions to the public mempool, they have private deals with builders and they privately share it with the builders. And so that has one great advantage is that because you're relying on the trust of the builders, there's no more front running. And what we're seeing is that these wallets are actually incentivized to operate these private mempools because they can extract the back running. So it's kind of this ethical way in some sense to make money from the order flow that you have, all while improving the UX for your users. And this is the kind of infrastructure that is very, very much reusable for base sequencing.
00:49:32.605 - 00:49:58.555, Speaker A: So one of the things that I said initially is that centralized sequences provide as a service MEV protection. But what we're seeing is that now MEV protection is done one layer out, closer to the edge by the centralized wallet operators. And because of that it's much easier. It's one less thing that you have to worry about if you want to decentralize your sequencer.
00:49:58.895 - 00:50:48.195, Speaker C: Justin, this mental model of a base rollup being like a smart contract on The Ethereum layer one, except a smart contract where gas fees are 100x cheaper, is really interesting and I think a lot falls out from that idea. Can we go over what the main benefits are of a based rollup? Maybe from I guess the different stakeholders involved. So let's talk about from a user perspective, let's talk about from a developer perspective, let's talk about Ethereum as a whole. I don't know where you want to start with this, but when we contrast based roll ups from traditional roll ups with centralized sequencers, what are the core advantages here?
00:50:49.375 - 00:51:48.109, Speaker A: It sounds a little strange, but the core advantage is to not degrade the network effects that we have with layer one. It's just preserving what we already had with layer one. So remember how I said that we had these amazing network effects and that brought Ether the asset to half a trillion dollars and we thought we were all going to the moon. And then there was this big anti network effects, which was the transaction fees. We hit a wall, we couldn't grow these network effects anymore and then we go down the path of roll ups to scale. But then that introduced a different kind of more subtle type of anti network effects, which is the breakdown of composability. And so what I'm hoping can happen is that we reintroduce the ability for any app chain, any contract, to call any other app chain synchronously.
00:51:48.109 - 00:52:36.011, Speaker A: So that means at will within a single block. So one canonical example here is aave. When it makes a liquidation, it in a single block or even a single transaction will liquidate its position to uniswap. But what we want to do is go up one level abstraction and have Avochain in one single block liquidate its positions on uni chain all synchronously. If it's two separate chains that don't share a sequencer and don't have real time proving and real time settlement, you can't do this kind of liquidation. And so the network effects that we have at layer one just break down. Yeah.
00:52:36.011 - 00:52:46.935, Speaker A: In summary, all I'm trying to do is just preserve the network effects of layer one while removing the fees as the main blocker that we've seen historically.
00:52:47.095 - 00:53:34.335, Speaker C: Okay. And then just to emphasize, those network effects are basically synchronous composability, atomic composability, where everything you feel like you're on the same chain is how users will feel and shared liquidity. So there's not this kind of fragmentation of like, oh, this chain has better liquidity for this base pair versus that chain. I got to go navigate and bridge my way and figure out what chain to be on. It's basically one single unified shared state. But we do have that additional really cheap transaction fee capability that has been at the core and the entire purpose of the rollup centric roadmap. It'll all feel like one chain, one shared liquidity pool, except fees will be incredibly cheap.
00:53:34.335 - 00:53:57.015, Speaker C: Earlier in the episode, I said, hey, Justin, do base rollups solve everything? And you said, well, no, hold on, it doesn't solve everything. But what I just said feels like it solves a lot. Everything a lot. I mean, it feels like it solves a lot. Let's just say that. But is this a realistic possibility here, if all of these roll ups become base roll ups?
00:53:57.445 - 00:54:40.811, Speaker A: I think it is. And we can talk about incentive alignment, we can talk about the technology that we need to go build, we can talk about some of the downsides of base roll ups and how we patch them. But fundamentally, in order to have the luxurious first class composability that the L1 enjoys, we need two key fundamental ingredients. Ingredient number one, shared sequencing. Ingredient number two is real time proving. Real time proving is just an engineering problem and snarks are getting so, so good that we should have them relatively soon. And then another interesting thing with real time proving is that we have a training wheel called tees.
00:54:40.811 - 00:55:11.805, Speaker A: TES are capable of providing real time proving today. And so this is an opportunity for someone who wants to build these synchronously composable rollups to use tease as a training wheel. But then the other much more difficult problem in my opinion, is this trillion dollar dance, this coordination problem, this social layer problem. Around which sequencer are we going to decide upon to be the canonical Ethereum wide shared sequencer?
00:55:13.025 - 00:56:00.195, Speaker B: One question I have, Justin, is kind of how this might change user behavior in a based roll up world. Like right now I have most of my activity consolidated to a single L2, like the L2 that I prefer, and my assets are there, most of my transactions are there, and I use the apps that are deployed on that L2 the most. How does that change? How does my relationship as a user change with the network I'm on in a base roll up world. Because some of the benefits of based rollups is that, well, maybe there's an application on the Ethereum layer one that I want to use, but the assets that I want to use in that Ethereum layer 1 are on this based roll up, or maybe they're on a different based rollup. How does my relationship with the network I'm on change if everything is based?
00:56:00.655 - 00:56:39.353, Speaker A: So there's a couple of things here. One of them is that to a very large extent the detail based or not based is relevant to developers. There's been a lot of networks that have tried to go down the async route. There's Cosmos, Polkadot, the Internet computer near Anton Network. And every time it's kind of a similar story. Like when you have asynchrony, in theory, you can have massive, massive scalability. But the downside is that the developer experience becomes 10x harder.
00:56:39.353 - 00:57:07.537, Speaker A: And so developers want simplicity and they'll just, they'll rather go with Solana than Polkadot or Cosmos. And really what we're trying to do here is thread the needle extremely delicately so that we can have the synchrony that the developers want, while also preserving all of the values and requirements that the FML1 has imposed itself over the.
00:57:07.561 - 00:57:42.955, Speaker B: Last since we had the role of centric roadmap, the first things and the dominant things that have come out of that are these very big generalized L2s. Optimism, Mainnet, Arbitrum, base. These are very big generalized L2s. Does a based world lean more towards the app chain model of things, where in a world there's more chains but they're more application, they're catered to specific applications. Rather than there being generalized based roll ups, there's actually just applications that are based roll ups. So you think in a based paradigm that we lean more towards app chains rather than generalized L2s?
00:57:43.375 - 00:58:39.005, Speaker A: Well, in a world where we've perfectly solved interoperability and that includes many other things above and beyond just shared sequencing. So I mentioned this barrier to entry to becoming an app chain. We need to have optimal proof aggregation, optimal data packing, then I think yes, the app chain model makes a lot of sense because for one, it, it removes the dependency of having to opt in to someone else's governance. Why would Uniswap, for example, want to opt into Arbitrum's governance? They're two different things. Uniswap only have its own sovereign and independent governance. And so it makes more sense for it to launch as as a separate unit chain.
00:58:39.745 - 00:59:37.291, Speaker C: It's fascinating here because I think what you're describing, Justin, is Ethereum is trying to attract both types of developers, maybe so developers through which a synchronous composability is fine. We'll still have the existing L2s with centralized sequencers, but developers who want synchronous composability in that devex. Well now Ethereum will have this other thing called the base rollup type of infrastructure and they could just deploy there. I want to ask the question because you mentioned two things that were imperative for this vision, foundational for this vision coming about. One is shared sequencers and the second is real time proving. So when you say shared sequencers, I'm not sure it's clear to banklist listeners the difference between a shared sequencer and a based rollup. So my understanding of a base roll up is that that's where we're using the Ethereum validators as our sequencer.
00:59:37.291 - 00:59:51.115, Speaker C: So of course it's shared. It's like definitionally shared across, kind of like, you know, all of the validators. And you're saying that maybe becomes the shelling point because that is the most credibly neutral, you know, cohort of sequencers that you could do.
00:59:51.155 - 00:59:51.355, Speaker A: Why?
00:59:51.395 - 01:00:24.623, Speaker C: Because you're basically using the L1 validators. But I think by implying you're using the phrase as shared sequencers, maybe you're implying there's also a step before that. So is it possible for an existing rollup with a centralized sequencer, say base? We'll take them as an example, the base rollup centralized sequencer. Okay. They're going to continue doing their thing because why? There's all of the other benefits we just talked about with centralized sequencers. They don't want to give those up too early. They're building kind of incrementally.
01:00:24.623 - 01:00:52.125, Speaker C: They want to preserve those things. Then there's going to be this other cohort of straight all the way to the end game of base roll ups. The tycos of the world, aspires of the world, they're building all of these based roll up app chains on that side of things. Is it possible for those two worlds to connect via route of this interim set of shared sequencer? Or maybe just more generally, what's the difference between a shared sequencer and the end state of a based rollup?
01:00:52.545 - 01:01:59.891, Speaker A: Great question. So base sequencing is a special type of shared sequencing, but not all shared sequences are based sequences. So what I expect will happen, as you said, is that there's going to be an intermediate step, and this is something that we're already seeing. You could call it clustered sequencing, where within individual ecosystems, whether that's arbitrum orbit or the elastic chain or the super chain, there will be a shared sequencer which is considered to be credibly neutral within the ecosystem. So you could imagine, for example, zksync to use the ZK token to come up with a decentralized sequencer. And within the context of this EcoSystem, which is Zksync Era and all of the friends of Zksync, then yes, that is a great place to have shared sequencing and therefore synchronous composability. And the great thing here is that we're going to see experimentation and we're going to see the value of synchrony and shared sequencing come up.
01:01:59.891 - 01:02:52.231, Speaker A: We're going to see, for example, this data compression that I talked about, the block packing. We're going to see flash loans, just like we see on L1, kind of do like crazy kung fu moves in order to squeeze as much MEV as you can and get the best execution. We're going to see latency go down dramatically. Because right now, let's say you have two chains within the zksync ecosystem, and in order for your application to work, it kind of straddles both chains. And so you need to do a transaction on chain one and then you need to wait for the sequencer to pick up the next move and do another transaction on chain two. And so that is a multi slot process which increases latency. It also removes fee certainty.
01:02:52.231 - 01:03:59.015, Speaker A: So as a user today, if I want to make a transaction on L1, I know exactly what I'm paying. But if I have to split my transaction into multiple asynchronous sub transactions, then I know how much I'm paying for the first one, but I don't know how much I'm paying for the next ones because the gas prices are always moving. And this is where you can end up with stock transactions. So for example, you just haven't provided enough gas and then there's a fee spike and then now your transaction never executes or for some weird reason the full transaction is unable to complete. So one example here would be that you have some funds on chain A, you want to go buy an NFT on chain B, you initiate a transfer of funds from A to B, and then someone buys the NFT before you. You're no longer in a position to buy it. And so now you know, in some sense you have a partially executed transaction that you need to go revert and things become become quite complicated again.
01:03:59.015 - 01:04:25.325, Speaker A: Like no single asynchronous ecosystem has thrived in the past. And the reason is that there's this long tail of benefits that synchrony gives us. And as you said, the key to achieving Ethereum wide shared sequencing is credible neutrality. The key to going above and beyond this clustered shared sequencing.
01:04:25.485 - 01:04:42.585, Speaker B: I think we've kind of just stated, without explaining how base rollups provide synchronicity. I don't think we've actually defined it head on. Maybe we could take a moment and actually illustrate how do base roll ups actually provide full synchrony across Ethereum?
01:04:43.405 - 01:05:43.285, Speaker A: Anytime you have shared sequencing, whether or not it's, it's based, you have an opportunity for synchronous composability if you also have the second ingredient, which is real time proving. So imagine that you have Uniswap on Unichain which is trying to liquidate a position on Aavechain. You can have within a single block a first transaction that is going to go from aavechain to read the price on Aavechain and tell Unichain exactly what the price is. And because you have the real time proving, this is an instant message that can happen within a single block. And then if the liquidation price is favorable, then you can have Unichain basically send assets that need to be liquidated. You have a withdrawal which happens within a single block. So you don't have to wait seven days.
01:05:43.285 - 01:06:05.923, Speaker A: In the case of an optimistic roll up, you don't have to wait several minutes. Or in the case of today's ZK rolls, it just happens within a single block. Assets go from the Uni chain to Avid, sorry, from Avid chain to Unichain, they get liquidated and then the proceeds of the sale in a very similar way get immediately withdrawn within a single block and go back to Avochain.
01:06:06.059 - 01:07:14.115, Speaker B: I think the key point here is everything is happening inside of a single Ethereum layer one block that is the sequencer of these transactions that are being made across these based roll ups. In the generalized roll up world that we kind of live in today, if I want to do, if I'm on optimism and I want to do something on Arbitrum, I take like a bridge across, I take across, I take some sort of bridge aggregator and it hops me over the layer one from chain to chain and that's where a lot of the fragmentation happens is because the layer one isn't really aware of what I'm doing until later. And So I think the base roll ups, the important key factor here is that it's actually the layer one that is doing the bridging of states or the bridging of transactions across the base rollups. It's the layer one that's doing the sequencing of both base chain A and base chain B at the same time. And rather than routing my order above the Ethereum layer one across two rollups above the Ethereum layer one, it's actually going down into the layer one. And the layer one is able to process that logic. Is this the correct way to illustrate things?
01:07:14.815 - 01:07:44.345, Speaker A: Yes, that's exactly right. So today we have bridges. And the way that bridges are built is that you have the two pillars and then you have a deck that connects the two pillars. What the real time proving does is that it brings the deck, you know, it makes it, you know, infinitely like extremely small. And then what real time, what shared sequencing does, is that it collapses the two pillars into a single pillar. And so now you've taken your whole bridge and you just collapsed it. And everything can happen within, within a single block.
01:07:44.725 - 01:08:10.435, Speaker B: So in a world of base roll ups, there are many, many, many pillars, but they're all like touching each other. And they're touching each other and coordinated by the Ethereum layer one. And so there's, there's many vertical chains going out from Ethereum, but they're all, they're, they're facing, they're all the facades of each are all touching one another and it's just like one defragmented system because they're all completely touching each other.
01:08:11.015 - 01:08:40.972, Speaker A: That's exactly right. Yes. And one of the initial critiques of shared sequencing is that people will say this is an unscalable model. And the reason is that you can't have every piece of state touch every other piece of state. You have too much locking, it just doesn't scale. But the answer to that is that synchronous composability is better thought of as optional. Opt in synchronous composability.
01:08:40.972 - 01:09:12.223, Speaker A: The vast majority of transactions will stay within a single execution zone. They will only touch one roll up one app chain. But then there's going to be a few super valuable transactions where it makes sense for them to be touching three or four or five or as many as necessary, different app chains. And they will be willing to pay the cost of basically locking the state for that period of time when they're touching the state.
01:09:12.399 - 01:09:55.547, Speaker B: New projects are coming online to the mantle L2 every single week. Why is this happening. Maybe it's because Mantle has been on the frontier of Layer two design architecture since it first started building Mantle DA powered by technology from Eigenda. Maybe it's because users users are coming onto the Mantle Layer two to capture some of the highest yields available in Defi and to automatically receive the points and tokens being accrued by the $3 billion mantle treasury in the Mantle Rewards station. Maybe it's because the Mantle team is one of the most helpful teams to build with, giving you grants, liquidity, support and venture partners to help bootstrap your Mantle application. Maybe it's all of these reasons all put together. So if you're a dev and you want to build on one of the best foundations in crypto, or you're a user looking to claim some ownership on Mantle's DeFi apps, click the link in the show.
01:09:55.547 - 01:10:25.285, Speaker B: Notes to Getting started with Mantle Radically simple ideas always tend to catch on. That's why Cartesi did the hard work of putting Linux on chain so that building Dapps can be radically simple by using Python or JavaScript and their suite of libraries. Simple like not rebuilding the basics from scratch. Simple like dedicated scalable compute for your Dapp. Simple like building Dapps however you want. Web3 should be simple too, like bread and butter. Cartesi brings radically simple solutions to Ethereum so developers can do what they do best build.
01:10:25.285 - 01:10:37.529, Speaker B: Go ahead and discover a flexible modular stack on Cartesi and build your most powerful ambitious project yet. Visit Cartesi IO simple and simplify your blockchain journey and start building today.
01:10:37.697 - 01:11:50.497, Speaker C: It's fascinating Justin used that term execution zones. You know, another term that David and I have been thinking of and just observing how it seems like the roll up union of chains is kind of evolving. Is this term economic zones? Because I want to ask the question of how practically you think we go from a more fragmented world of different roll ups to a more unified set of roll ups from a composability perspective, from a shared liquidity and shared state perspective. And one observation that we've made is we're starting to see these economic zones almost congeal together at the hyperchain or super chain type of level. I mean you see the super chain which is like the OP stack and you have base now you have unichain, you have Zora and they're talking about shared composability, shared liquidity, shared interoperability between all of those chains inside of their economic union. You have the same thing going on with the ZK stack and the elastic chain. They Have Zksync, Kronos lens, AG layer and the Polygon ecosystem doing the same set of things.
01:11:50.497 - 01:12:57.029, Speaker C: Polygon mutable there, Ronin on there, you have arbitrum and doing their orbits thing. And so there seem to be these economic unions of chains kind of forming that are composable within their economic unions, but they have loose bridges to the other unions. Then you also see growing the dawn of the base chain economic union, which of course is the Ethereum layer one plus whatever Tyco does, plus whatever the future Spire does, plus whatever Puffer does. These base chains, you have all of these economic unions that are starting to congeal. And what we want to get to eventually is where we have the right synchronous composability and all of these unions kind of become one super union superstructure. So we have shared composability across all of them. Anyway, we're starting to see hints of there being enough advantage, comparative advantage in kind of like creating mini super chain style economic unions.
01:12:57.029 - 01:13:35.045, Speaker C: And I'm just wondering if you can kind of extrapolate how all of this might happen. Because now we're not just dealing with technology, we're dealing with incentives, we're dealing with economies, we're dealing with all sorts of coordination factors that happen socially. So how do you see this really evolving once we are in a based roll up era, Once this technology, this structure is available, generally will some of these roll ups convert to based roll ups? Will all of the different economic unions eventually migrate and become based roll ups as well?
01:13:36.105 - 01:14:51.185, Speaker A: I think you put it very well that there's these different unions that are happening and the based union is in and of itself an important union. And what I think will happen is that in the early days there's going to be a few pioneers, a few visionaries who can see the longer term future and they're willing to make a bet and make a name for themselves with this based sequencing union. But you're right, as soon as the network effects become bigger and bigger one by one, what I expect will happen is that these clustered sequences will convert and that will have to do, as you said, with incentives. So one of the, I guess observations is that some applications won't have any choice but deploying from day one as leveraging the base sequencer. And that has to do with neutrality. So I think a great potential case study here is ens, right? ENS is not like Uniswap where it can be deployed in many different places at the same time. It has to be deployed in one place.
01:14:51.185 - 01:15:19.561, Speaker A: There's like one root of trust for ENS and ENS is the Switzerland of domain names. I joke that the N in ENS stands for neutrality. And so it can't go deploy on top of optimism or deploy on top of arbitrum. That would break the neutrality. And so it essentially has two options. As I see it. Option number one is that there is an ENS specific decentralized sequencer.
01:15:19.561 - 01:16:08.319, Speaker A: So they could use the ENS token as the basis for a new proof of stake and that is going to be a decentralized sequencer that would power ENS v2. Or option two is that they use base sequencing. Now, I personally don't see any advantages for them to go down the first route. It's just strictly more complex and it doesn't buy them anything. Two of the stated reasons for having your own custom sequencer is that you can have shorter slot times and two is that you can capture MEV for yourself. But ENS does not generate any MEV. ENS makes fees through subscriptions and ENS doesn't need super short slot times.
01:16:08.319 - 01:16:44.345, Speaker A: If it takes 12 seconds or one second to register a domain, it doesn't make any difference. And so I think app chains like ENS make sense to be deployed as leveraging the base sequencer. I guess something similar could be said for fine art and credibly neutral NFTs, things like CryptoPunks. So let's say that you want to build Cryptopunk 2.0 where it's the same concept, but instead of 10,000 punks, you want 10 million punks. And so there's no way that you can Deploy it on L1. You have to deploy it as an app chain.
01:16:44.345 - 01:17:47.173, Speaker A: And the only thing that makes sense is that you deploy it as a based app chain. Now, if we go back to the incentives, one of the, at least in the naive setup, naive Bayes sequencing as a roll up, I'm giving away my MEV to the sequences. And that could be seen as a bad thing and a disincentive to become a base roll up. But the counterargument to this is that the shared sequencing will increase your overall footfall and traffic and increase your execution fees that you go collect. And so the question becomes, am I gaining more in execution fees than I am losing in mev? Now, my personal thesis, and this is a bit of an extreme caricature, is that MEV is going to zero. The amount of MEV is relative to execution fees going to converge to zero. And that's for two reasons.
01:17:47.173 - 01:18:37.385, Speaker A: Reason number one is that we have the wallet protecting users from front running and sandwiching. And we're also going to have better applications that are designed so that MEV doesn't leak to the sequencer in the first place, it's recaptured. And so really from a fundamentals perspective, I think each roll up needs to focus on execution fees. What are execution fees is basically a toll for the right to use the virtual machine. Any virtual machine has a limit in terms of how much footfall it can process. There is the famous gas limit which is 30 million gas on Ethereum. And the way that we charge for execution is that we have mechanisms like ERP1559.
01:18:37.385 - 01:19:23.695, Speaker A: And every roll up today, all the top roll ups, they have the equivalent of EIP 1559 and they're making money through congestion and execution that way. And that is what they should be focusing on. Now one of the things that you said previously Ryan, is that one of the big reasons to be excited about base sequencing is value accrual, right? Because MEV goes to the validators. I actually think that's not the case partly because MEV is going to zero and so it's a rounding error. But also if it's not zero, this is a bad thing because it becomes a disincentive for the roll ups to opt into a shared sequencer.
01:19:24.235 - 01:20:51.523, Speaker B: And with the applications capturing the mev, this is something that we're starting to see out of the world of like Sorella and also Unichain. Unichain just got announced. So we have our kind of, kind of our first big application specific roll up and then Sorella Labs is producing this thing, working on this thing called application specific sequencing, which is explicitly gives applications the ordering of their own internal transactions, more or less with the intent to do exactly what you said, which is allowed the Uniswap application to retain the MEV that it creates in order to give that back to LPs and traders. So this isn't just theory, we're starting to actually see this played out. And so the business model then with this logic continues is that MEV does drop to zero because we get more efficient applications can retain it. And MEV doesn't go to the underlying chain, it goes to the application. Well then the value here is really kind of the GDP of Ethereum, like what total aggregate transaction volume can we produce? And I think within the idea of base roll ups sharing, sharing your apps, sharing your businesses, sharing the things that generate value across other chains is probably the most logical way forward where the value of one base roll up does actually create more value for other based roll ups.
01:20:51.523 - 01:21:09.055, Speaker B: And this kind of gets back into the whole idea of just network effects. When the value of one application on one base roll up increases the GDP of a different base roll up of a neighbor based roll up, the network effects, that is what network effects are. That's kind of the vision that I see. Is that what you see?
01:21:09.395 - 01:22:02.855, Speaker A: Yeah, that's exactly right. So if you have a base unichain, every time you have another based app chain that requires Unichain, that is additional footfall. So AAVE is an example maker, might be in there, for example. And a significant part of Uniswap's footfall today comes from these L1 interactions. And so one of the bearish takes, I guess, on Unichain being non based, is that for the most part it will capture the flow from Uniswap X basically from the Uniswap Labs front end. So if you go on uniswap.org then yes, your flow might be routed to Unichain, but the flow from AAVE and all of the other ecosystem players that will continue going to L1.
01:22:02.855 - 01:23:19.289, Speaker A: And so I could totally see, in addition to the Unichain that has been deployed with an application specific sequencer to also have a base version of Unichain. What I could also see is actually a hybrid and a merging of the two. So really what the unitrain is trying to enforce is that first of all, that there's no censorship. So anyone who wants to do arbitrage can do arbitrage and number two, that the transactions are order decreasing by priority fee. And what you could imagine is an application or chain like Unichain, basically saying I'm willing to be based, but I want these two constraints to hold. So you could imagine, for example, a suave kind of network of tees that are going to sign off on a set of Uniswap transactions that have to be included and have to be included in this order. But the base sequencer is allowed to insert additional transactions.
01:23:19.289 - 01:23:50.665, Speaker A: So you can kind of think of it like a constrained, even more constrained inclusion list where the relative ordering needs to be preserved, but you are allowed to insert transactions. And the fact that the shared sequencer is allowed to insert transactions, this is what creates the synergies, this is what creates. It allows you to fulfill the coincidence of wants and kind of extract the network effects that are otherwise impossible. If the unichain says this is the list of transactions, end of story, no synergy is possible.
01:23:50.965 - 01:25:12.855, Speaker C: Yeah, I was Going to ask the question, Justin, if your personal take, if you think the Unichain would have been better off as a based roll up or would be in the future better off as a based roll up rather than the architecture it selected. But that's still maybe a valid question. But maybe the more general question is, you know, just let's get into the real tactics here. How do you think that this could happen? So a dream scenario for what you're talking about is basically the entire super chain. Let's just pick on kind of the op stack and you have some pretty large chains there. You have base and you have op mainnet and you have Unichain and apologies to the other dozens of chains that I've left out in this, but they're all on the super chain and they kind of fixed interoperability amongst each others and then they sort of opt into some sort of shared sequencer or are on the path to making their entire super chain based or at least having that option so that chains inside of their network could flip that off or on and preferably on for the good of kind of like the network, for the good of shared liquidity, for the good of fixing fragmentation. Do you think that's realistic? I mean, a naive podcaster is like, hey, why can't we just do that? Let's just convert the super chain into a based super chain and all of the chains within them now are hooked into all of the shared liquidity of the L1.
01:25:12.855 - 01:25:25.835, Speaker C: Is it that simple or are there? I mean, you mentioned there's some other designs here that might kind of bring the best of all worlds into play. How do you think something like this happens for Unichain or the broader super chain?
01:25:26.345 - 01:26:34.705, Speaker A: Right. So I've had various conversations with various founders and there's various degrees of being base pilled. I think Hayden understands the value of shared sequencing and understands the value of base sequencing. I don't want to put words in his mouth, but I do think it is a plausible future that Unichain becomes this base roll up where you have these additional constraints which makes sure that mev, you know, ultimately goes back to the users and doesn't leak to the sequencer. I think one likely way forward is that this bottom zap grassroots movement of the base cluster that just incrementally grows bigger and bigger every year. But there is also a possibility for incumbents to one day from another just flip a switch and become base. And I don't want to leak too much alpha, but basically two of the top roll ups by TVL have founders that are base build.
01:26:34.705 - 01:26:38.069, Speaker A: And so I think it is.
01:26:38.197 - 01:26:44.013, Speaker B: It's either Arbitrum, Optimus or base. I don't know if there's many more than that.
01:26:44.149 - 01:26:47.773, Speaker A: No more than the top three, let's say out of the top ten.
01:26:47.909 - 01:27:21.671, Speaker B: Top ten. Okay, Justin, I want to bring in the conversation of the Ethereum layer 1. What kind of capacity does the Ethereum layer 1 need to have in order to kind of fulfill this base roll up vision? Because the layer one execution is meaningfully constrained. But I think if entire chains are going to use the layer one as a sequencer, we have to start to talk about what kind of execution powers the Layer one has in order to actually manage all of that. How does this impact the role of the Ethereum Layer one in terms of just its capability here?
01:27:21.853 - 01:28:47.045, Speaker A: Right, so the Ethereum layer 1 consumption in terms of execution doesn't really change. We don't need to go above and beyond the 30 million gas like the EVM as it is is sufficient to verify the fraud proofs and the snark proofs. And that's fine as is what is a much more important factor is the slot duration. So right now we have this 12 second slot times and one of the discussions during 2024 has been do we need to or can we reduce the slot times? And I think my opinion as of today is that there is a lot of low hanging fruit that could allow us to significantly reduce the slot time, for example to four seconds, all while preserving the decentralization requirements that we have, namely that you can be a validator on a home Internet connection and a Raspberry PI. And so there's basically juice to squeeze in the future for improving base roll ups in that way. But there's another kind of trick that has been developed in 2024 which is this notion of pre confirmation, trustless pre confirmations. Because today we have reputation based pre confirmations where the centralized sequencer just pinky promise that the transactions that they have sequenced off chain will be indeed settled on chain in the way that they've been off chain.
01:28:47.045 - 01:30:07.155, Speaker A: And the idea of trustless collateral based pre confirmations is that the L1 proposers put forward collateral and whenever they make a promise which is nothing more than a signed message saying your transaction will be included in position X and will execute in such and such a way. And if you're doing a uniswap trade, you know, this is the price you're getting, these are the fees you're paying, you know, everything upfront and if this promise is not held, is reneged, then you stand to lose the collateral that you've put forward. And what this allows us to do is basically from a ux perspective, mimic 100 millisecond slot times. Why 100 milliseconds? Because that's the amount of time it takes for information to travel on the Internet. That's Internet latencies, it's ping times. And so what we're going to see is, you know, base roll ups like Tyco experiment very, very soon with these, with these pre confirmations on mainnet and then if this can be deployed to mainnet and be really robust, then what is the advantage of having a non base centralized sequencer? Because even a two second slot time, which is what the super chain has, that would be 20 times slower than pre confirmations.
01:30:07.865 - 01:30:58.585, Speaker C: That's fascinating. You brought up earlier in the conversation used this analog to data availability. So in the early days of the rollup centric roadmap you said Ethereum really as a network wasn't built for rollup data availability. There's this hackish way that rollups were using the call data function and just stuffing their data inside of that. And so the Ethereum roadmap kind of adapted and said no, we're going to make this fast lane for rollups so they could put all of their data in one place. We'll call these blobs, we'll make them super efficient, we'll have a path for scaling them so the fast lane increases in terms of capacity and we have a home for all roll ups for their data availability. Is there an analog to.
01:30:58.585 - 01:31:48.255, Speaker C: Because you also said the current Ethereum network is not really built for shared sequencing. Right. So we have, you know, 12 second slot times, you know, we need to get our slot times down, that sort of thing. You're also talking about trustless pre confirmations. Not clear to me whether that's kind of extra outside of the Ethereum roadmap, outside of the protocol or whether that could be in body. But like I guess maybe just the general question of do we need a kind of a proto shared sequencing, you know, roadmap item to get us to an EIP where we deploy this? And now, now Ethereum is meant for, it's built for based rollups and shared sequencing. What sort of changes might we need to make to the roadmap in order to facilitate that or prioritizations? Would you recommend if this indeed is the future?
01:31:49.075 - 01:33:07.069, Speaker A: Yes. So the answer is yes, we do have such a roadmap item and it's called aps, A Tester Proposer Separation. And the idea of APS is that as a validator, my main responsibility is to attest to the correctness of the chain and to produce inclusion lists. But the ultimate proposing of an execution block, which involves a lot of sophistication through the block building process, but also sophistication in the pre confirmation process that would be offloaded to the broader market. Because right now what we're trying to do, and it's kind of awkward, is that we're trying to shoehorn sophisticated Pre confirmations to L1 validators running on a home Internet connection on a Raspberry PI. And so the solution that has been proposed in the short and medium term is the equivalent of relays, but for pre confirmations and we call them gateways. So as an L1 proposer, I will delegate my sequencing rights to a gateway and the gateway does all of the heavy lifting on my behalf.
01:33:07.069 - 01:33:30.035, Speaker A: And just like we have enshrined PBS that promises to remove the need for relays, APS attest, the proposal separation also promises to remove the need for these gateways. And so that is the cleanest and most aligned path forward in the roadmap to really make Ethereum custom designed for pre confirmations.
01:33:30.195 - 01:33:38.895, Speaker C: Okay, and just a quick question of when on that. I mean, are we talking about way in the distant future or is this short to medium term?
01:33:39.435 - 01:33:44.615, Speaker A: I'd say medium term, I'd say years, but less than half a decade.
01:33:44.995 - 01:33:56.255, Speaker B: Less than half a decade. I love how that's in the medium term in Ethereum world. Justin, how does a base roll, a paradigm, how would that impact the economics of Ether, the asset, if it does at all?
01:33:56.915 - 01:34:59.865, Speaker A: I think any impact would be, would be indirect. Basically we would have a very competitive, a very strong network effect and that would give more credence to the notion that Ether is money and it's a powerful money for the Internet of value. What I think we potentially stand to lose if we go down this asynchronous route is basically lose to a competitor that has decided to fully embrace synchrony. And here Solana comes to mind. The optimistic take here is that we can have the UX and the devex of Solana with shorter latency. So instead of 100 millisecond slot times, we have these 100 millisecond pre confirmations and we have the strong decentralization because validators can be on home Internet connections running on Raspberry PIs.
01:35:00.245 - 01:35:55.175, Speaker B: I think in recent times there's been A debate about the role of centric roadmap is the role of centric roadmap, right? Like all these kinds of like debates, especially with the rise of Solana, kind of like shifting the overton window of the conversation sphere. And I think a part of the framing of that debate could be illustrated as where does Defi live? And the Ethereum layer 1 with 12 second block times and kind of constrained block space has been losing ground in like the home of Defi. It's lost ground to its own layer. Twos arbitrum and base have accrued a lot of defi value. Solana has accrued some defi value. And I think really the, the more, the more accurate way to illustrate this is like where is the home of Defi going to be? Because Defi is kind of the golden goose. It has the most valuable transactions, it has the demand for very low latency transactions.
01:35:55.175 - 01:36:09.035, Speaker B: In a based roll up world where many chains are all base roll ups, how do you think about the question of where does Defi live? Where does the home of Defi? How does that even work in a world of base roll ups?
01:36:09.415 - 01:37:28.947, Speaker A: Right? So in a world where base roll ups win, all of the TVL would be under the umbrella of the base sequencer, but there would still be a migration process from L1 where the gas use is extremely high to a system like L2S where the execution is done off chain and so you can afford to have 100 times less gas. So going back to the idea of network effects and Melkalf's law, right now the path that we've gone down is that roughly 10, 15%, call it of the L1TVL has migrated to the L2s and that's like a relatively small hit to network effects. Like the L1 is still strong and thriving. But the more we go down this path, the more we're carving out network effects and weakening them. And so the better plan, in my opinion, is to have a migration of this TVL that preserves network effects. So we want to go to dapps, from apps to app chains and that is going to save on gas. But we don't want to move from base sequencing to centralized sequencing because that breaks the network effects.
01:37:28.947 - 01:37:47.685, Speaker A: And so there's a little bit of path dependence here, which is like how quickly can we put the train on track to being in a direction we don't systematically break down network effects and instead we can preserve them under this umbrella of base sequencing.
01:37:48.105 - 01:38:25.765, Speaker B: How does a base world impact the user's choosing of the chain that they're on like right now. I got to go to a dropdown menu. I select Arbitrum, I select Optimism, I select zksync, and there's all these choices that come with that. I got to kind of kick the tires of these chains that I'm using. I have to know what chain that I'm using when. We have always assumed in the crypto world that eventually chains will just be completely abstracted, but we've kind of like alluded to that North Star without really knowing the path there. When it comes to actually being on a chain or choosing a chain, what would that look like in a base world?
01:38:26.505 - 01:39:10.705, Speaker A: Right. So from the perspective of ux, the number one thing that we can do is have shared fungibility. And it turns out that fungibility is an orthogonal thing to sequencing. So what we'd like is something like Ag Layer or, you know, many different ecosystems are working on the equivalent of Ag Layer, where there's a shared deposit contract where all the different roll ups basically deposit their assets there. And you get two benefits. One is that this is a homogenization layer whereby you can always go from one roll up to another. And because you're going through this deposit contract, the assets are fungible.
01:39:10.705 - 01:40:01.613, Speaker A: But there's also another massive benefit, which is that if you want to go from an L2 to another layer, two, you don't have to withdraw back to the L1 and you don't have to pay the extremely high L1 gas costs. And so it's a direct L2 to L2 withdrawal process and that is going to remove the dropdown. And this is what Hayden was talking about in his episode, where once you have fungibility, you can abstract away which chain the asset lives on. The bigger impact of base sequencing is around Devex. As a developer today, I have to choose an ecosystem. Do I launch on Arbitrum or do I launch on Base, or Optimism. If I can just launch as my own independent based app chain, then I don't have to make a choice.
01:40:01.613 - 01:40:16.865, Speaker A: That is the natural move for me. And I can still get all of the benefits of being proximate to other applications because the boundaries between these app chains, as you said, is they're touching, they're kissing. There's no space in between.
01:40:17.485 - 01:40:47.387, Speaker C: By the way, just for an update on that shared fungible layer for L2 to L2 communication, we've done episodes on Ag Layer. It sounds like there are some other technologies that would facilitate that. That is also orthogonal to everything we've been talking about today on based Roll ups. But how's that progressing? Are you optimistic that 2025 will see some real progress in that space? Kind of an aggregated layer for L2 to L2 interoperability, fungibility between tokens?
01:40:47.571 - 01:41:37.653, Speaker A: 100%. I'm extremely optimistic and I believe that pretty much every ecosystem is working on the shared deposits system, whether that's Polygon or the super chain or others as well. And the good news is that we're going to see experimentation with these shared deposit contracts and we're going to be able to extract the best practices. And eventually I'm hoping that we're going to see a standard like ERC20, but for shared deposits. Now, the tricky thing is that in order to achieve credible neutrality for shared deposits, we need to completely remove governance. It needs to be a dumb pipe smart contract. But in order to achieve that and to do it in a safe way, we're going to need multiple redundant implementations of snark verifiers.
01:41:37.653 - 01:42:04.373, Speaker A: Because this amazing shared deposit infrastructure depends on Snarks and Snox are extremely complex and buggy. And so I think the ideal outcome is that you have three different ecosystems, each come up with their own implementation and then they all agree together to deploy a shared deposit contract where they've all contributed one of the three verifiers.
01:42:04.509 - 01:42:50.215, Speaker C: So it's that idea back to we'll have these economic zones kind of creating their own shared layer basically. And then hopefully we get an economic like, super zone where, you know, it's, it's all pulled together in the future too. I want to return as we get to a close here, Justin, to the question of eth. Value accrual that David was asking. And so something that I think there are almost like two camps actually. Let me broaden this and just say, as long as I've been in crypto, there's always been this perennial question of like, okay, but like, how do we price, how do we value layer one assets, right? And the Bitcoin community has a very noted take on this, which is like as money, as a store of value. It's digital gold, stupid.
01:42:50.215 - 01:43:44.981, Speaker C: That's the whole purpose, right? Other ecosystems, I mean alternative layer ones, let's call them the Solanas, Naptos and Suis of the world, they're not as bold. They do not think that their layer one asset, at least the organizers of this, they don't think their layer one asset is money. They think of it as kind of a capital asset and it's going to throw off cash flows from execution fees or Mev, I have come full circle to the idea, and I guess this has been the genesis of the Bankless podcast too, that the bitcoiners were right. If a layer one asset is going to have value, it's going to be primarily as a monetary asset. And I know, Justin, you've been a proponent of the memetic idea of ETH as money, but more specifically an ultrasound money, which implies that there's some sort of cash flow burn on the asset. That supply goes down over time. We've also called within Ethereum ether, a programmable money.
01:43:44.981 - 01:44:20.205, Speaker C: There are also other terms. Maybe it's a roll up money, maybe it's money for the on chain economy. There's all sorts of prefixes you might put to kind of like the idea of ether's money. But it comes back to, at least for me, what is ether? How do you value it as a, as a monetary unit, as a store of value with some sort of productive yield? I want to ask your take on this, being kind of an architect partially of the ultrasound money ETH meme. What do you, how do you think eth is valued? Is it, is it still money? What is kind of the memetic narrative that you're taking going into 20, 25 and beyond?
01:44:20.825 - 01:44:59.245, Speaker A: Right. So I do agree with you that the value accrual story for ETH is mostly money. And one way to frame the ultrasound money meme is as a selling point to achieve this moneyness. Right. It's about scarcity, right? If bitcoin has the 21 million bitcoin meme, we have an even more powerful meme and we have more economic security. And so surely these are the two most important shelling points, security and scarcity. And so surely we should be able to win the memetic warfare with Bitcoin.
01:44:59.245 - 01:45:15.355, Speaker A: Having said that, I think I'm still very optimistic on the idea that Ethereum will accrue extremely significant flows on the order of billions of dollars per day. And that sounds completely insane.
01:45:16.655 - 01:45:21.955, Speaker C: And by that you mean you're talking about burn, basically. Basically, or capital flows.
01:45:22.255 - 01:46:30.963, Speaker A: Capital flows, yes, in the form of data availability. And right now we're in this kind of depression phase where data availability just accrues almost nothing because we went from zero to something pretty big and there's just not enough demand. What I expect will happen is that very, very soon, in a matter of months, we're going to see this fee market develop. And I do agree with David's take, which is that we don't want to be too aggressive and celebrate too early. We want to grow the number of blobs as quickly as we can so that we basically have this growth phase of Ethereum before we start accruing value. Basically the Amazon strategy, grow to be a world like Titan and then, and then that ultimately makes you a very, very valuable company. But there's basically two stories to the flows.
01:46:30.963 - 01:47:16.585, Speaker A: There's supply and demand. Let's look at supply first. Ethereum is constraining itself to home Internet connections. Now, what full dank sharding gives us is, roughly speaking, 100x over a single validator. So from a supply perspective, we have the equivalent of 100 home Internet connections for the whole world, for the whole Internet, all of finance, just 100 Internet connections. Now, in terms of demand, what are the network effects of data availability? And I see three of them. The first one is this notion of shared security.
01:47:16.585 - 01:48:08.563, Speaker A: When you deploy an app chain, you can either deploy it as a validium or as a roll up. But if you want to really tap into these network effects, you want to be a credible money Lego. You want to be a money Lego that other applications feel comfortable calling into and can know that in 100 years they'll be working just as well as they are working today. And so if you're building a Uniswap, for example, or Unichain, there's no way that Uniswap can be a money Lego as a valid gem. It has to be a roll up. The second aspect actually has to do with synchronous composability. If you have an external data availability provider, for example, Celestia.
01:48:08.563 - 01:49:09.607, Speaker A: Well, Celestia introduces its own sequencer, right? Celestia is a blockchain with blocks coming one after the other. And now you've lost the single sequencer that has monopoly power over everything so that they can extract all of the synergies. And then there's a third network effect, which is something that I only realized late, but I think it's an extremely powerful one. And that has to do with the native rollups. So you remember how I said that we can zkify the EVM and we can expose a pre compile within the EVM so that rollups can become native. Now it turns out that this precompile, for subtle technical reasons, only works for rollups, it does not work for validiums. And so if you want to have all of the benefits that come from native rollups, you have no choice.
01:49:09.607 - 01:50:23.981, Speaker A: You have to be a roll up. And if you want the quick kind of technical explanation, the Reason is that the snark proofs are generated off chain and gossiped off chain. And in order for anyone to be able to produce these proofs, the underlying data, the so called witness data, needs to be made available. All of this is technical jargon, but the long story short is that if you want to be a native rollup and not have to worry about bugs in your EVM implementation and not have to worry about governance to stay EVM equivalent every time the EVM changes at L1, you have to be a roll up. And so here we are, we have 100 home Internet connections for the whole world. And then what I expect will happen is there's going to be a massive demand from all of these rollups that want shared security, synchronous composability, and also be native. And the rough back of the envelope calculation is that we can scale to 10 million transactions per second.
01:50:23.981 - 01:51:25.147, Speaker A: This is this crazy thing where you start with 100 transactions per second, which is just Ethereum L1. You get 100x from roll up scaling, you get another 100x from dank sharding, and then you get another 100x from Nielsen's law, which is the exponential growth of bandwidth over a period of 10 years. And that gives you your 10 million transactions per second. And then once you have that, there's sufficient capacity for everyone in the world, many, many transactions per day per human. And even if every transaction charges a tiny amount, let's say a tenth of a cent, that's still a billion dollars per day of income. So what I'm seeing, what I think is a plausible future, is that we basically grow the blob space as aggressively as we can. And then in a period of 10 years, we have this gargantuan network effect.
01:51:25.147 - 01:52:10.079, Speaker A: And because we're fundamentally limited, we only have 100 home Internet connections, the fee market is naturally going to do its thing. And even if we're talking about absolute dust per transaction on an aggregated basis, because there's so many transactions that are being processed, we're talking about billions of dollars per day of income. And the reason why I mentioned that flows are important is because they're a way for us to rationalize the monetary premium. And I think the best mental model that I have is gold. Gold is this $18 trillion asset and some subset of it. The number that's usually quoted is 10%. So about 1.8
01:52:10.079 - 01:53:01.227, Speaker A: trillion of the whole gold market cap comes from its use as an industrial metal. And that's something that we can understand fairly well, just by looking at flows, it's an understood science. We understand, for example, the cost of mining gold from the ground, and we understand how much gold is being lost to electronics every year. There's this crazy statistic that tens of billions of dollars of gold is lost every year in dumps, right? Because you have your piece of electronic, it has a few, whatever it is, micrograms of gold, and then you just throw it in the dump and that's effectively a burn. It's a burn. You're burning the gold. And so you can do these flows analysis and you can look at other metals and.
01:53:01.227 - 01:53:58.755, Speaker A: And you would have a market cap of roughly 10% of what it is. And then the rest is the monetary premium that comes from the slow money, where you lock up the money in volts and you want to look at the ratio that is locked. And so if 90% of all the gold is locked, then you'd expect a 1 divided by 1 minus 90%, which is 10x1 divided by 10%. And I think we can be in a similar situation with ether, the asset where 90% of the supply is basically locked in these virtual vaults, either in the form of staking or in the form of smart contracts that basically provide the economic bandwidth for stablecoins or whatever it is. And then only 10% of the economy is really circulating. And that 10% is itself valuable based on flows alone.
01:53:59.215 - 01:55:04.311, Speaker C: Justin Drake, that you just end statement is definitely worth the price of admission for this entire podcast. Very comprehensive. One of my prime questions has been, well, is Ethereum DA a commodity? Can it be replaced with some other DAA from another ecosystem? That I got to say is kind of the best argument for why Ethereum DA is not a commodity. Anyways, just so much there. So thank you for that. I guess as we close this out and end it, I anticipate that because we've been through the blockchain roadmap cycle many times is you create a new solution for a category of problems and then you also spawn another set of problems that you have to then go chase down and solve. And so my final question, we don't have time for a comprehensive answer, but I'm sure there will be some who listen to this episode and they'll say, but wait, this one thing about based roll ups, you didn't acknowledge this set of trade offs I saw roughly before coming into this, I saw a tweet from Torgle from Scroll.
01:55:04.311 - 01:55:38.095, Speaker C: He said this based roll ups do not inherit real time censorship, resistance and liveness guarantees from Ethereum There's a lot of myths. He's going to write a article dispelling them. I know you haven't read that article. I'm sure you can. There's also takes that I've heard that base rollups will increase block builder centralization and that's a new challenge problem for Ethereum in general. What do you think the trade offs or the problems that might fall out of a max based roll up Ethereum? What are the next dragons we have to go slay after this?
01:55:39.275 - 01:56:48.741, Speaker A: One of the things that I've observed with base sequencing is that there's a new reason why it doesn't work every month. And so it's a game of whack a mole where we just have to go through them one by one by one. And I think the best way to prove that this thing actually works is to just stop talking about it and actually deploy it in production. And we could have a conversation or debate and go through all of these technical points one by one. As it stands, I haven't seen a really solid criticism from someone who's really, really gone down the rabbit hole and taken the time to go through all the 15 sequencing calls and pre confirmation calls that we've had. From my perspective, once you appreciate base sequencing and your base pilt, there's no going back. I don't know of a single person who has gone the other direction.
01:56:48.741 - 01:57:38.707, Speaker A: It's kind of up, only up to the right in terms of the converts. Now it is possible that there's unknown unknowns and that we end up hitting roadblocks. My personal thesis is that a lot of the problems that we will encounter are actually universal to any decentralized sequencer and any shared sequencer. And so really base sequencing is just the final layer of veneer at the very end, it's just a small detail. Is it this server or like this Raspberry PI or this other entity that's doing the work? But ultimately it's very much the same kind of technology. And so I'm not at all worried from a technology standpoint. And I would love to have these technical discussions with Toggle and others, if I may.
01:57:38.707 - 01:58:28.479, Speaker A: Just ending this episode, I prepared a little meme and I wanted to see how it lands and it's relevant to based sequencing. The meme goes as followed. If Bitcoin is digital gold, then Ethereum is digital Switzerland, a credibly neutral jurisdiction that can be the basis for Internet finance. Now I would liken Ethereum settlement to the Swiss legal system. It is the final and Authoritative arbiter of truth. And I would also liken Ether the asset to this franc, a credibly neutral unit of account to denominate financial contracts. And this is where Ethereum sequencing comes in.
01:58:28.479 - 01:59:04.941, Speaker A: Ethereum sequencing is like Swiss democracy. It is this credibly neutral layer of mediation that can unlock synergies and network effects that would otherwise be trapped by competitive and adversarial tensions. And so I think we shouldn't be focusing so much on the technical details of base sequencing because those are to a very large extent shared with decentralized sequences and shared sequences. But we should be focusing on what makes face sequencing special, which is, in my opinion, credible neutrality.
01:59:05.093 - 01:59:13.573, Speaker C: Well, maybe Ethereum can be Switzerland, but with America's military, something like that, where you want some security there for sure as well.
01:59:13.709 - 01:59:16.861, Speaker A: $100 billion of economic security.
01:59:17.053 - 01:59:18.029, Speaker C: There you go.
01:59:18.197 - 01:59:34.945, Speaker B: Justin, this has been. I've learned quite a lot in this episode. This has been great. We have you speaking at the Bankless Summit at the day after DEFCON, November 16th. Now, you've described your talk that you are producing as painfully bullish. Now, I don't really want to give anything away. I also don't know anything.
01:59:34.945 - 01:59:48.105, Speaker B: Is there anything that we've covered here on this episode today that's going to be related to or overlapping with your content? Your talk at the Bankless Summit? Or is that all novel material? Novel? A novel talk that you're giving at the Bankless Summit?
01:59:48.925 - 02:00:42.195, Speaker A: I think it's mostly going to be novel stuff. I think that I will be reusing some of the material, but not much. Just as a teaser in 2024. I have spent most of my time focused on sequencing and it is a true pleasure for me to say that I think base sequencing and pre confirmation has reached escape velocity in the sense that my job as a researcher and coordinator is largely done. There's now dozens of teams, very, very strong teams that are building all this infrastructure. And I think at this point it's hopefully an unstoppable force. And so that means that in 2025 I can start working on new and exciting stuff.
02:00:42.195 - 02:00:48.485, Speaker A: And I have all sorts of plans that will be disclosed in due time.
02:00:48.605 - 02:00:50.389, Speaker C: Ethereum stuff, Justin?
02:00:50.557 - 02:00:52.265, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, Ethereum stuff.
02:00:53.325 - 02:01:03.077, Speaker C: Amazing. Cannot wait. David, what are the dates of the Bankless Summit? That's the day after defcon, Right? And we should include. We'll probably include a link to that in the show notes, but give us the date again.
02:01:03.141 - 02:01:20.349, Speaker B: Yeah, it's November 16th. DEFCON ends November 15th on Friday. The Bankless Summit is the day after November 16th. Unofficially, the ETH is Money conference. Just to make sure that at DEVCON there's enough content around Ether, the asset and its future in the Ethereum world.
02:01:20.437 - 02:01:39.757, Speaker C: Please inject some of that painfully bullish material straight into my veins. That's going to be an exciting set of talks. Bankless Nation this has been Justin Drake. We've talked about based roll ups here today. We've also talked about many of the things that the FUD out there about Ethereum's future and very bullish episode here. Justin, thank you so much for joining us.
02:01:39.941 - 02:01:41.669, Speaker A: Absolutely. Thanks for having me guys.
02:01:41.797 - 02:01:52.581, Speaker C: Gotta let you know, of course roadmaps are risky. So is crypto. You could lose what you put in. But we are headed west. This is the frontier. It's not for everyone, but we're glad you're with us on the Bankless journey. Thanks a lot Bankless Nation.
02:01:52.613 - 02:02:22.903, Speaker B: We're doing something we've never done before. Today we're offering an all access pass to all the best parts of our podcast at a price that's kind of a no brainer for the value that you get. This is a price that includes basically everything. It's the private debrief episodes that Ryan and I record after our guest interviews where we say things that we wouldn't have necessarily said on the interview itself. It's also the early access to all of our episodes so you can get the early scoop and stay ahead of the trends. And it's also the private bonus episodes that we keep exclusive to our paid subscribers. Content directly from the best builders that will give you an edge.
02:02:22.903 - 02:02:57.245, Speaker B: So you can scan the QR code for wherever it is on the screen or you can enter the code podcast at checkout for that exclusive discount that's podcast in all caps. And then from there you can click the Premium feed and add your unique link to your favorite podcast player. And if you're in Spotify, we always ship the ad free video of every episode as well. So you can watch or listen inside of your shiny new Premium feed anywhere, anytime. So what are you waiting for? Get your all access pass to the Bankless Podcast today. SA.
