00:09:28.680 - 00:10:23.688, Speaker A: You. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening, everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of ETH Global, and I am super excited to welcome all of you to Road to Web Three hackathon. So for those of you who are joining us for the first time, we're watching this and streaming all of this on ETHGlobal TV, which is a platform we design to make sure the experience is amazing for everybody who's participating, participating at the hackathon as well as the Summit. And if you are using this for the first time, I encourage all of you to log in, say hi, customize your avatar, and this will be a way for you to also ask any questions, whether it's to us about the hackathon or to our speakers. When we begin the Summit shortly, we'll be able to relay these questions directly to all of our speakers live and also answer things to everybody in the chat. And for everybody who also participates, we'll be giving out NFT Poaps.
00:10:23.688 - 00:11:11.980, Speaker A: So be sure to say hi and tell us where you're joining in from. So for those of you who don't know, this event is organized by Ethgobal An. ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to bring thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem, and we do this primarily by running hackathons and Summits, and today is no different. This already has been our biggest event in history. We've been running events for the last four years, and we're constantly amazed by the level of interest and the excitement that we see every time we run a new event. This particular hackathon, we have over 1200 hackers participating, over 1000 people who have signed up to join the Summit on just our platform alone, and it's being streamed on multiple other platforms as well.
00:11:11.980 - 00:12:11.196, Speaker A: The hackers themselves are coming in from 84 different countries, spanning 20 different time zones. This is absolutely incredible. We set out to map out where everybody is coming in from, and it's incredible to see such a massive and diverse representation from five different continents, actually six. And I can't wait to kind of learn more about where everybody's coming in from and talk to you over the next few days. Not only that, we also over 60 ecosystem mentors that are going to be here for the next few days, helping out with all of your projects and making sure that you're not blocked by anything, whether it's getting help for specific SDKs or integrations to questions about front end or solidity or anything in between. On top of that, we are also excited to work with ten ecosystem partners who are here throughout the next few days to help out and also give out prizes. And speaking of prizes, we're going to be giving away over $250,000 at the end of this event.
00:12:11.196 - 00:12:55.230, Speaker A: So there's a lot of prizes everybody can win for just building really cool things that you yourself are excited about. I want to especially thank Polygon for making all of this happen. We're super excited to be working with them. They've been an amazing ecosystem partner for us for the last few years and this becomes one of our tightest ways to want to work with the Polygon team and make sure that we can move everything forward in the Web Three ecosystem. On top of that, we also have some amazing partners. Like Web three auth sequence chain link, the Graph Morales Uniswap Grants program NFT port superfluid and Covalent. All of these amazing companies will be here for the next few days helping out and offering different prizes, which we'll go into very soon.
00:12:55.230 - 00:14:40.216, Speaker A: So the way this is structured is that I'm going to spend a little bit of time talking about the hackathon that most of you are joining in from and we'll cover a bunch of logistics around what's going to happen over the next few days and how everything is structured. And then in about 45 minutes, we'll kick off with our road to Web Three summit, and we'll bring on some incredible set of speakers who are here to talk about everything from the Metaverse to DFI to DevTools and what everybody can do here, whether you're looking for ideas or companies or projects or spaces to kind of consider as you go deeper into web three. The most common question we got asked over the past few weeks from everybody who wanted to participate is what can I actually build? I want to kind of just quickly take a minute and say that this event is specifically designed to encourage and bring in existing Web Two developers and designers to explore what they can do in Web Three. Which means that there are hundreds, if not more than I mean, there are over 500 seasoned Web Two developers who are anywhere from leaving their current Web Two roles to consider Web Three full time to just looking at them now so they can think about should they actually move over to Web Three. And we're absolutely amazed by the level of interest and the level of skills and experience that kind of came in as everybody filled out the applications to attend the hackathon. And as you kind of near what you want to build over the next few days, I want to just kind of point out there are so many different options and there are largely infinite possibilities. The most common things we've seen people talk about has been building really interesting integrations and apps and kind of primitives around leveraging different DeFi protocols.
00:14:40.216 - 00:15:58.804, Speaker A: Then there is so much interest in kind of using NFTs in creative ways, whether it's for videos or content that's not just images. And on top of that, another common thing we're seeing is people are super interested in building audio and video related hacks, whether it's live streaming, using decentralized protocols to making something cool with music and streaming that on chain. And then of course, there's a huge level of interest with gaming and building apps and tools around Metaverse and of course not everything has to be using smart contracts and there is no expectation for you to do so. There's also opportunities for you to build interesting developer tools that can make anywhere from your life to someone else's life easier or simply dig into things regarding analytics. You can just look at what's happening, you can build dashboards that may just analyze what's happening anywhere from on chain to a given project or an ecosystem and all that is absolutely okay as well. Also want to kind of highlight that you don't necessarily have to solve a particular problem. We have a list of ideas on your info center that you can kind of pick an idea from, whether that we've kind of sourced from recommendations from various partners, sponsors and people respecting this ecosystem and you can build whatever you're personally excited about.
00:15:58.804 - 00:16:57.080, Speaker A: So don't worry too much about whether I should aim for this or that or solve a particular problem. Just kind of use the next few days to explore everything that's possible and whatever you get excited about, just continue with that and we're here to help all of you. So let's quickly talk about the next five days. Most of what I want to cover now is about how everything is set up, especially because we are doing this thing across so many countries and time zones and asynchronously there's a few things that matter. So I'll quickly cover what Thursday, Friday and Saturday Sunday looks like. We'll talk about how team formation works, we'll talk about how you can get help, all the prizes you can win, all the talks and workshops that we have planned today and over the weekend and also what happened yesterday. And we'll also cover how judging works and then we'll jump into the summit after which will bring on all the amazing speakers that we have lined up.
00:16:57.080 - 00:17:56.264, Speaker A: As I cover all those logistics. If you have any questions or follow ups to what I've said or any clarifications you need, just type those out in the chat and we'll be able to answer them live as we see them. So let's jump right in. For the rest of the next five days everything will happen on Discord and everything will be happening asynchronously which means that if you are planning to attend as a hacker and you have successfully RSVP'd on your dashboard, you will be automatically given the right permissions to join the Discord channels for this hackathon. You'll be able to verify that by quickly checking if you see a road to web three header on your Discord sidebar and if all the channels from the screenshot are visible, which means that you are all good to go. All these channels have their own purpose and I'll cover some of that, but quickly kind of highlighting some of these things. We have a code of conduct.
00:17:56.264 - 00:18:30.744, Speaker A: We have the information channel which we'll be using for announcements. The Web Three chat is where you can talk to everybody that's also participating at the event. The Find a Team channel is for you to talk about what you're looking for. If you're looking to join the team or if you have an idea and you want somebody to join your team. If you are stuck with anything technical, you can go into Mentorship Channel and ask for help. We also have a Share your Hack channel that you can talk about your own progress and just share what you've built so others can anyone give you feedback to comment or appreciate. And of course we want to make sure that there's a healthy amount of memes going on.
00:18:30.744 - 00:19:31.768, Speaker A: So you can also post and engage in the memes channel. On top of that, everybody would have also received calendar invites for everything that's happening for the course of this hackathon. Which means that for all the workshops that are happening today and also everything that happened yesterday and the next few days worth of talks and workshops, as well as what's happening on judging, all that's going to be directly sent to you as a calendar invite. But all that is also available on the hackathon website for you to just look at and quickly browse and have it automatically be normalized for your time zone. We really want all of this thing to be asynchronous, which means that everything is designed so that you can also catch up if you are not available at that time, whether it's through other obligations like work or school or you are simply not up at that time zone or at that time. We want this to be as available as possible and if you miss something, don't worry too much about it. All of that is recorded and automatically put on YouTube.
00:19:31.768 - 00:20:12.168, Speaker A: And to quickly talk about where you can find the schedule, it's on the event website which is Web Three. Eatglobal.com. So let's talk about how the hackathon works. Essentially, the hackathon officially begins now. So as of 24 minutes ago, you can start working on your projects and you can have up to five members on your team to kind of build the project with. And that gives you three and a half days, which is 84 hours from now, or 83.5 hours from me saying this sentence to submit your project.
00:20:12.168 - 00:21:03.332, Speaker A: Submissions are due at 09:00 p.m. Eastern on Sunday and that is the 84 hours time from here. So you get three and a half days to work on whatever you're excited about, get help and also make something cool. A few things that I want to highlight for the rules for this event. The key thing is that all work must be done from scratch, which means everything you were submitted, you need to ensure that it was started today. You cannot continue building a project from before if you do so, you will be disqualified to win any prizes and also just from this event. And as part of a criteria for this event, everything that you are doing must be deployed to Polygon, especially as Smart Contracts and be leveraging what's happening on the Polygon ecosystem.
00:21:03.332 - 00:21:55.544, Speaker A: I know there's going to be a few edge cases and it's totally okay if you think you are in one of those edge case scenarios, just reach out to us and give us a little bit more context and we'll be able to clarify that for you directly, whether it's over email or Discord. On top of that, the one key thing to note is that only RSVP attendees are eligible to win any prizes. Which means that if you submit something on Sunday and you win a prize but you realize that your team member was not listed, we will not be able to honor that. And they will not be receiving a prize if they were not listed on your team at the time of submissions. So make sure that everybody's actually there and is clearly identified in the submission process. So if you don't see your teammates on your team, that's going to be a problem if you win any prizes. And lastly, of course, we can cover every single edge case here.
00:21:55.544 - 00:22:47.672, Speaker A: So if you have more questions as the event goes on and as you think about other things that may require any clarification, just ping us on Discord or email. You can reach anybody on the Global Discord directly from any of those channels. So simply mention us and we'll be happy to clarify anything for you. One quick question that we get all the time is yes. Although your project and idea must be done from scratch, that mostly talks about you shouldn't be designing or coding something before today, but we absolutely want you to look at and use and leverage as many open source libraries as much as possible. So if you are thinking about using Scaffold Eat, for example, as a framework or any other boilerplate code base, that is totally okay. But if you are working on a side project for fun over the past few weeks and you want to just continue that and submit that for the hackathon, that is not okay.
00:22:47.672 - 00:23:26.564, Speaker A: But we really encourage you to use existing SDKs and open source projects or Boilerplates to make your lives easier and focus on what you want to build and not necessarily entirely on the setup. So that is entirely acceptable. The other kind of question is what if I'm new to Ethereum and or the Polygon ecosystem? Once again, this is totally okay. The goal for this event is particularly to bring in lots of people who are experiencing web Two to try out what's possible in Web Three. So this event is designed to be an exploratory in nature and encourage everybody to give it a try. So if you're new to this thing. That's why we have a lot of workshops and talks you can do.
00:23:26.564 - 00:24:25.460, Speaker A: We have a lot of mentors who you can ping for getting help asynchronously over Discord. And even if you don't get to finish what you wanted to do originally today, we still encourage all of you to submit and showcase what you did to all of our judges and get some feedback or get pointed into some right directions for using or leveraging resources or existing work that makes it easier. So this is entirely okay. And this is kind of why the event exists where you can sort of have a compressed window, just quickly learn just enough to get something going and then use that to now continue building your skills and your background and just kind of getting more deeper into how everything is structured. Another question we're getting is does the project have to deploy to mainnet? No, it does not. You can absolutely stick to testnets or even locally if you're leveraging just something like a hard hat or truffle. You are not required to put everything or anything to Mainnet.
00:24:25.460 - 00:25:01.876, Speaker A: If you want to, you are definitely welcome to. But we definitely encourage people to be careful about deploying anything to Mainnet or building anything that others can immediately use. That also may be a risk for capital, so be careful about that. But you don't have to necessarily deploy anything to Mainnet. Another question is can we only enter with brand new ideas? That is correct. Which means that you cannot continue building anything you've already worked before. If you had an idea before but you had never started working on it, you can continue doing that.
00:25:01.876 - 00:26:22.812, Speaker A: But if you had committed a code before for anything before this morning, at least in my time zone, then you were not allowed to submit that because that would be considered getting a head start and cheating as part of the event rules. Which brings us to another question around what if I'm still looking for ideas or I'm looking to either join a team or want somebody to be on my team to make your lives easier over the next three and a half days. And the answer there is that there's quite a lot of people who are in the same situation and that's why the Find a Team channel exists. And if you go to that channel, you'll be able to see anywhere from what people are excited to build or what they're looking for or what they can offer. And you can do that asynchronously and message people directly on Discord to see if you would like to pair up. And to also make that easier, we encourage all of you to introduce yourself in the Road to Web Three chat channel so we can learn about where you're from, what you're excited about, what you are here to do and learn, and also just get to meet everybody from different parts of the world. I also want to kind of point out that we're doing two other things today, which is a brainstorming call, which I believe already happened this morning, and a team formation call later in the evening so we can accommodate for different time zones where you can come on a call live and talk to everybody who's looking for a team.
00:26:22.812 - 00:27:15.148, Speaker A: So if you don't want to do this over discord, there's going to be 100 of you joining live and just talking to each other on a call and finding potential teammates. And lastly, just one thing I want to also clarify is that we encourage you to work in teams because it makes your life easier for the next few days, but it is not a requirement. If you want to build something on your own, you are more than welcome to do so. You can use this as a way to just assign yourself a solo project and just measure your own progress over the next few days and see how far you got and you can totally do that on your own. You have no requirement to work with necessarily a team. We'll talk about all I know we're getting a couple of questions on what's happening with judging and we'll kind of COVID all of that very soon. So just a couple more minutes of patience and we'll get that.
00:27:15.148 - 00:28:40.984, Speaker A: And it looks like somebody's already answered part of that question too, but I'll go into a lot more detail so talks and workshops. There is so much excitement from so many people who are beginners and we want to make sure that we do whatever we can to encourage all of you to continue learning as you kind of learn and dig into what you want to build. A lot of that started yesterday, so we had so many incredible talks and workshops and live sessions that you could have attended and asked questions to our speakers if you were not able to do so live, it is totally okay. All those things are available as recording. So you can catch up on a lot of those tutorials and even use some of those GitHub repos and just kind of clone that and have your basic framework set up for doing anything from minting an NFT to getting started with Hardad or having a Scaffold repo ready to go so you can just work on your business logic. On top of that, we also have amazing talks and panels today and then over the next couple of days, including feedback sessions where you can kind of come on live and get feedback on how things are going. So far as well as get recommendations for what you can do to anywhere from make your life easier to simply just seeing what others think about it.
00:28:40.984 - 00:29:23.530, Speaker A: What you've been building. All the talks and workshops and panels and everything else is also laid out on the website and you can see more detail about how everything is set up on the road to web three Infosenter, which is a really big button link on your dashboard as well as a link in every calendar invite that you're receiving. And of course, as I had mentioned before, if you were not able to make a talk live, that is totally okay. Everything is recorded and will be made available instantly as it ends on our YouTube channel. And the YouTube link is Youtube.com slash youthclobal. So you can watch everything, including this talk itself right after we finish.
00:29:23.530 - 00:30:16.808, Speaker A: The website is web three ecobol.com. That's where you can see everything from prizes to the schedule to who the speakers and judges are and kind of catch up with everything there. And after every talk day ends, we'll also be putting a link next to the schedule on the talk so you can also watch a recorded version directly from the website if you can't find it easily on YouTube. Now, quick reminder on submissions. Submissions are due at 09:00 p.m. Eastern on Sunday the 6th. I'll share more about how the judging process is set up and how submissions are going to be structured and we'll kind of spend a couple of minutes there, but that is now officially 83 and a half hours from now.
00:30:16.808 - 00:31:00.936, Speaker A: And you'll also get ample reminders over email and discord when we are nearing the submission deadline. So speaking of that, let's talk about judging. So there's going to be two ways that judging is structured for this hackathon. There's a main judging that is a live session that we do with some really notable speakers and people in this ecosystem. And then there's a sponsor prize specific judging track which is asynchronous. So I know we already got a question about prizes and I'll kind of COVID what that looks like. But the two things to note are as you submit your project at 09:00 p.m.
00:31:00.936 - 00:32:08.508, Speaker A: Eastern on Sunday, you will have an option to pick which judging route you want to go to. If you select the first one, you actually are selecting both options at the same time, which is you are defaulting to saying we're going to present live to our judges on Monday morning Eastern and at the same time be considered for all the sponsored prizes. If you select the second one, that means you are only considering yourself to be looked at for sponsored prizes. And in that case, after you submit, your projects will be sent to all the sponsors to look at, and they'll have a couple of days to kind of go through everything and decide who wins what prizes, and if they have any questions, they'll ask you directly over discord or email and clarify anything that they're unsure of. And then they'll send us the list of winners for each of those prizes. And we'll be announcing those winners on Wednesday live. So the way everything is still going to be set up, whether it's sponsored judging or the main judging, is that you will have to submit a video submission for your project and you will have four minutes to demo.
00:32:08.508 - 00:33:11.010, Speaker A: What you built. Which means that you're recording a four minute video that has everything from who you are as a team, where you're from, what you built, why you chose to build this thing and do a live demo or a demo of your project in that recording and then make sure it's under four minutes. And then once you have that, you upload that video on your dashboard and fill out all the relevant details on the submission form, which includes everything from the project name, all the prizes you're going for, making sure that all of your team members are there, and deciding if you want to go with the live judging or not. One thing we want to kind of note is that we see a lot of people do this to the very last minute. We really encourage you to not do this last minute because you want to have at least an hour to make sure you have a good video time prep, because sometimes people go over and if you are over four minutes, the submission page will automatically reject that file upload. So don't do this thing last minute or find out that you've made it too long. Make sure you have at least an hour to prep for all of this.
00:33:11.010 - 00:34:01.008, Speaker A: And you can also update everything after so you can still do something immediately. And then if you realize that you've made it anywhere, if you want to have an edit or you want to replace it, you can do so after the first attempt. So just don't procrastinate on this and make sure you plan for it ahead of time. And all these details again, are also on your dashboard. I saw somebody already linked the submissions guideline on the chat, but if you click on the Info center, you'll see an easy link to the judging and submission guidelines that talks about the process expectations. You can see some sample submissions from the past events and just kind of know how everybody has structured this in the past. And also I want to quickly talk about the code of conduct, all the rules and our code of Conduct has been laid out on Ethlobal.com
00:34:01.008 - 00:34:49.216, Speaker A: rules. And in summary, we want you to be respectful. This is still an online community and we want to abide by the same rules that we would apply to an in person event as we would hear, which means harassment and abuse is not tolerating any capacity, whether it's towards anybody on the global team or any other attendee. If you see somebody that's behaving not the way they should be, please tell them, please tell the Global Team about them and we'll take immediate action. And if you need any help with anything about this event, you can always reach out to us in private or publicly and we'll be able to address things immediately. That's mostly on the code of conduct. The other quick thing I want to talk about that has come up in the past a few days over Discord is everything you build as part of this event.
00:34:49.216 - 00:35:33.520, Speaker A: You retain the intellectual property of it, which means that none of the sponsors or the global team will have any rights to what you build. So you will own everything that you built here and you don't have to worry about any issues around IP in the future. So all that is quick overview on logistics. I want to quickly get to our prizes. And what we did is we asked Polygon to tell us who they are for those of you who don't already know and talk about why they're excited to be part of this event and why we're doing this together with them. So we'll have Sandeep, co founder of Polygon, joining us and telling us about everything that there is to know about Polygon. So without further ado, let's welcome Sandeep.
00:35:33.520 - 00:35:37.456, Speaker A: Hi.
00:35:37.478 - 00:36:08.308, Speaker B: Guys, this is Sandeep. I am one of the co founders at Polygon. Thanks for having me here. We are very excited to have this road to Web Three hackathon in partnership with ETH Global team. Hackathons have always been a very important part of Polygon journey. We have been doing a lot of hackathons, many, many of them with ETH Global and across the world. In the last two years, we would have done like probably 200 to 300 hackathons.
00:36:08.308 - 00:37:05.230, Speaker B: And we will keep doing that in the future too, because we feel that to have the grasp of the grassroots developer community from where and especially Eid Global, from where many of the top ranking projects today have come, it's very important for us to be connected with the developer community. So we'll keep doing that. In the past couple of months actually we have seen a lot of influx of web two developers who have done or who are doing already great work on the web two side. But they are trying to break into web three stack. But due to lack of clear guidance roadmaps and how the technology works and all those things, many of the times it's very difficult to begin that journey. This is why we are doing the Road to Web Three hackathon to onboard a new wave of developers onto web three and Ethereum ecosystem. And we see this hackathon as a bridge for the web two developers into web three.
00:37:05.230 - 00:37:51.220, Speaker B: It's clearly a very big need currently. So for those of you who don't know Polygon, polygon is a MultiChain scalability suit for Ethereum. That means we are like AWS of web three. We are trying to become AWS of web three and Ethereum Scaling. Basically, when you want to build your Ethereum compatible application or decentralized application, DAP as we call it, and you are looking for decentralized compute, you can choose from a suit of solutions depending upon. How much decentralization you want. If you are building a game, you need extremely low cost and you are okay to compromise a bit on the decentralization.
00:37:51.220 - 00:39:05.664, Speaker B: Whereas if you are building a full blown DeFi ecosystem where you expect multiple billion dollars to come into it, then you might use a full blown ZK roll up. So we want to present across the spectrum and provide all the plausible solutions to the developers. And then each developer, each business can choose their own solution which suits their business application the best. So Polygon, as you might also know, that have been really popular. The daily average users on the Polygon chain has surpassed even the mother chain that is Ethereum chain. And if you see globally also even by the context of layer ones, the other layer ones which are trying to compete with Ethereum and forget about competing with Ethereum, polygon has more number of developers, number of users, number of active addresses than many of the layer ones at times combined orders of magnitude more than them combined. Right? So this has become a very popular platform for developers to build their DApps.
00:39:05.664 - 00:40:10.772, Speaker B: And the main reason for that is that we want to keep Polygon as extremely compatible with Ethereum, where if you know how to present Ethereum or how to build on Ethereum, you basically already know how to build on Polygon. And that's the goal with all the current as well as the future solutions coming from Polygon. So we wish you all the best or doing your project for this hackathon. And we are seeing a lot of things like on the commerce side, shopify is coming in and then on the brand side recently we had Adidas and Prada previously, dolce and Gabana did their NFTs and things like that. So we are seeing a huge amount of adoption on the gaming side, like Polygon has emerged as the most used chain currently. So if you are building games or NFTs, you have direct integration with OpenSea. If you are building something in DeFi, you have the access to the entire DeFi ecosystem.
00:40:10.772 - 00:40:45.590, Speaker B: Recently one of the last protocols uniswap also launched on Polygon. So you have the entire suit of Ethereum D five products on the Polygon chain. The current TVL over there is $12 billion and almost all the protocols available over here. So that's why with Polygon you have a full blown chain where you can do anything that you want to do, any kind of composable smart contracts you want to build. So I want to wish you all the best and all the luck for this hackathon and the product that you're going to build. Thank you so much.
00:40:49.080 - 00:41:39.270, Speaker A: Amazing. That was Sandeep with a really quick overview of what's happening right now in the Polygon ecosystem. And the good news is that there's a lot more that's happening that can't be fit into five minutes. So we'll be bringing on Sandeep and Halo in just a few minutes to give a broader update on the state of the Polygon universe and we'll also be able to ask them questions from the audience and anything you would like to know about what's happening in that ecosystem. So without further ado, let's jump right into prizes. There's over $250,000 in prizes that we're giving away for this hackathon and all of them are in different categories as well as kind of laid out differently in different sort of ways to think about tiering and pulling them. And I'll cover all of that now.
00:41:39.270 - 00:42:40.036, Speaker A: So the first one I want to talk about is the list of prizes that are offered by Polygon. So for those of you who don't already know, polygon is the leading platform for ethereum scaling and infrastructure development. And there's so much that's going on in terms of what's going with deployments on NFT or DeFi projects or just being able to make experiences that reduce the friction on gas costs for your day to day interactions. All that's happening here and the way Polygon prizes are set up are going to be split in five different categories in two other separate parallel tracks. So the first one is the grand prize which is going to be $75,000 and every team that wins the grand prize, which would be 15 teams, will get $5,000 each. Then there are five categories that will be giving out the prizes to the top five teams in each of those categories. So the first one is DFI.
00:42:40.036 - 00:43:32.644, Speaker A: So the best five DFI apps that are deployed on the Polygon ecosystem, whether it's main, net or testnet, will receive $3,000 each. The five top teams that are building NFTs on the Polygon ecosystem will also receive $3,000. Then we have the same thing for gaming hacks or the top five gaming. Whether they're games or gaming related applications and submissions, the top five of them will receive 3000 each. The five best tools will also receive $3,000 each. And there's a special category for web two to web three which is anybody who makes an interesting attempt or effort to sort of anyone from bridge their own skill sets to build something that offers a seamless web two experience. But leveraging web three technologies will be receiving 3000 each in the five teams.
00:43:32.644 - 00:44:37.292, Speaker A: Of course we recognize that there are a bunch of edge cases here, so for the time being we believe we will be entertaining overlapping categories so you can build something that is, for example, gaming and NFT and possibly qualify for both categories. On top of all of that, there's going to be a pool prize of $50,000 for every project that is deploying to Polygon. Which means that as long as you are able to prove that you are sufficiently using Polygon in your code base and this is also a process and part of the submission process, you'll be able to point out exactly what line in your code base. And just as a small detour. Everything must also be public. So your GitHub repos must be public as part of the submission process or you will also not be considered for any prizes. Anyway, anybody who uses Polygon and deploys to polygon will equally split $50,000.
00:44:37.292 - 00:45:07.844, Speaker A: And that is not an exclusive thing. This does not mean you have to make a choice of the other grand prize or any of those five categories. So for somebody who just asked does this have to be a super polished UI and look really fancy for me to win any prizes? The answer is no. You have to make sure that it works. And we recognize that three and a half days is not enough to make something super incredible and we don't want you to do that. We want you to first learn and see what's possible. Then we want you to make it work and then you make it better so that others can use it.
00:45:07.844 - 00:45:44.860, Speaker A: And the audience that you're making this for is delighted to use it. So you can also qualify for equal split of $50,000. We'll get a lot of questions on what the pool prize means in general. So I'll just give you one example as well. Which means if 50 teams submit for the pool prize and all of them are using polygon sufficiently as part of the criteria, then every team will get $1,000. So it's an equal split based on number of teams. And another question we just got is do the project have to be open source? The answer is yes.
00:45:44.860 - 00:46:38.148, Speaker A: It does not mean that you have to make everything open source for others to use. You can still do licensing, but right after submission and all of our partners must be able to click on your repo, verify your code base, check your commit history and see that you did not cheat as well as you are using Set SDKs the way you are saying you are. So next up is the Sequence prize. Sequence is building a smart contract wallet for Ethereum and network of Ethereum chains. So the best use of Sequence SDK and integration will be receiving $5,000 in total. So the first spot will receive $3,000 and the second spot will get 2000 and the third place will get 1000. Another question we just got on Polygon and I'm happy to answer any questions as well.
00:46:38.148 - 00:47:30.950, Speaker A: Will using superfluid SDK on polygon qualify for the polygon pool price? Yes, as long as you're deploying something to the polygon network, that is the minimum criteria. So you have to specify how you're using it and if you're actually using it properly, whether it's Superfluid or any other protocol that's on Polygon, the criteria is for deploying and not using the Polygon SDK specifically in some form. Then we have web three auth. Web Three Auth is also an Auth infrastructure that enables wallets and applications to get a seamless identity and user experience. So you can bridge web two and Web Three interfaces really easily and not make the user think about any difference in the interaction. So web three auth will also be giving three prizes. So the first place prize for the best use of Web Three Auth will receive $2,500.
00:47:30.950 - 00:48:06.560, Speaker A: 2nd place will be receiving 1500 and the third place will be 500. Another question on the polygon stuff. Yes, it can be deployed to Mumbai testnet. But also, and I know we're going to get a couple of edge cases, so what we'll also do is we'll also specifically clarify this on the prizes page so you can actually see that again. And if something changes, you will be notified of that. And the final version of what means what qualifies will be what's on the price page. Next up is the graph.
00:48:06.560 - 00:49:02.124, Speaker A: So for those of you who don't know what the graph is, graph is an indexing protocol and it indexes and organizes data from all blockchains so you can quickly access information without querying the nodes every time. And the graph is also offering $4,000 in prizes. $1,500 will be given to the best use of an existing subgraph on the graph network and $1,000 will be given for the best new subgraph creation and $500 will be given for the runner up price for creating a new subgraph. So yeah, just one more time, deploying your testnet on polygon does qualify you for the pool price. You don't have to do mainnet. Next up is Morales. So Morales is the fastest way to build and deploy DApps on Polygon, Ethereum and a bunch of other chains.
00:49:02.124 - 00:49:36.588, Speaker A: And this is also one of those reasons where you don't have to reinvent the wheel and getting everything set up on your developer environment. So you can use Morales SDKs. Just get started on whether you want to get some NFT boilerplates in or you want to use a specific protocol. You can do all that easily and spend less than 30 minutes in just being set up so you can work on what you want to build. And Morales is giving $4,000 in prizes. So the best use of the Morales SDK will receive 2002nd, place will receive 1500 and the third place will get 500. Then we have Chain Link.
00:49:36.588 - 00:50:32.684, Speaker A: And Chain Link is an Oracle service and it enables you to query any real world data, whether it's an API somewhere else or any other service or even on chain contracts and use that information in your smart contract to be able to do interesting things. So you have the best of both worlds in being able to understand and query what's happening outside of a chain. And Chainlink is offering $4,000 in prizes. So the top group projects that use Chain Link will receive $1,000 in link tokens for this. Then we have the Uniswap grants program. For those of you who don't know, Uniswap is an exchange decentralized exchange which is as of recently available on the Polygon network. And the Uniswap Grants program wants to make sure that they're able to help you and support you in being able to leverage that D Five primitive to build any creative apps.
00:50:32.684 - 00:51:14.280, Speaker A: So they're dividing the prices in two different categories. The Uniswap Grants Program is offering $2,000 for the best polygon adoption and integration of the Dex contracts on Polygon, and then $2,000 divided between 1500 for the first place and 500 for this runner up. For the most innovative use of the Uniswap contracts on Polygon. Then we have superfluid. And Superfluid is a D Five primitive that lets you stream money on ethereum, leveraging polygon and let you transfer money by the millisecond. Actually, it may be even more granular by the block. And Superfluid is offering $4,000 in prizes.
00:51:14.280 - 00:52:25.972, Speaker A: So the best use of Superfluid will receive $2,000 for the first place and then two $1,000 prizes for the best Financial Innovation Project category winner for the best integration of Superfluid, and then $1,000 prize for the most futuristic streaming related application built on Superfluid. And then I want to talk about Covalent. So, Covalent is building a unified API to bring transparency and visibility into what's happening on blockchain across all blockchain networks. So you can query things easily, whether it's data around the latest state of a contract or just anything that you would ideally have to spend lots of time querying, because you have to do this in a for loop in an inefficient way. So being able to query information is kind of what they're doing to make your life easier. And if you expand the NFT Collection dashboard templates for Covalent, you will be eligible for $2,000 divided between 1st, second and third place for twelve, 5500 and 250. And any project that meaningfully uses Covalent SDK or the API will split $2,000 as a pool price.
00:52:25.972 - 00:53:09.900, Speaker A: So if ten teams submit and build on Covalent, they'll be receiving $200 each. Then we have NFT Port. An NFT port is the stripe for NFTs. So you get to simply integrate that SDK and infrastructure and let developers build stuff and anywhere from Mint to transfer to manage NFTs. So any meaningful use of NFT port SDKs will split a pool price of $4,000. And those are all of our prizes. So one other question we got is what happens if there's stacking? Which means that if you were to build something on Superfluid, will you also qualify for the Polygon pool prize? The answer is yes, everything is stackable.
00:53:09.900 - 00:53:48.684, Speaker A: So we really want to take composability here and make sure that you are able to do cool things and you don't have to explicitly choose one or the other, so you can absolutely go for multiple prizes. So finally, before we jump into our summit, I want to quickly remind everybody to pace yourself. We really don't want this to be exhausting to you. This is especially an event for hundreds of you to understand what's happening in crypto and web Three overall. So don't go crazy with doing everything and not sleeping. Pace yourself, have fun, learn what's possible, experiment. And even if you don't get to what you wanted to do at the end, that's totally okay.
00:53:48.684 - 00:54:31.220, Speaker A: We just want you to continue building and not necessarily competing to win some massive prize because that's not the goal. So with that happy hacking, we'll see all of you on Discord. And with this, we are ready to kick off our summit. So we got the next 4 hours jampacked with an incredible set of speakers and we're going to be talking about what's coming. So I want to quickly give an overview to the talks we're going to see. So we're going to kick off with the update on what's happening in the polygon ecosystem with Sandeep and Halo. They're going to talk about everything that's going on with Polygon and what they're excited about now and what's coming, as well as the future of the ecosystem.
00:54:31.220 - 00:55:06.032, Speaker A: Then we'll have Ryan and Pierce talk about future of gaming and just what that looks like when you blend this in with Web Three. Then Justin Khan, one of the co founders of Twitch and currently the co founder of Fractal, will be coming on. We'll be doing a Fireside chat and interview with him. Then we have an amazing fireside chat between Matthew Ball and Jonathan Click. And they're going to be talking about the metaverse and how that is uniquely positioned to succeed. Now with the advent of crypto and Web three. Then Austin Griffith and Matt Debbitt will be talking about the state of Web three developer tooling.
00:55:06.032 - 00:55:54.384, Speaker A: So many of you are seasoned Web Two developers and we'll kind of talk about things we've seen anywhere from Gotchas to interesting observations we made from people who are transitioning from web two to understanding how Web three works from a developer standpoint. And our last talk of the day will be a chat about the future of ownership economy, where Legion and Spencer Noon from Variant Fund will be coming on and sharing their excitement about how does the ownership economy and the passion economy is uniquely forced is uniquely enabled by Web Three. So, without further ado, I want to thank everybody for sticking around for the logistics and let's get the summit started. So I want to just jump right in and introduce Sandeep and Mihalo on screen and let them take it from here. So sandeep.
00:55:54.432 - 00:55:54.740, Speaker C: Hello.
00:55:54.810 - 00:55:59.156, Speaker A: Welcome. We're super excited to have you again and loving the shirts.
00:55:59.348 - 00:56:02.810, Speaker B: Yes, we were saying that we are the Polygon twins today.
00:56:04.220 - 00:56:05.720, Speaker A: Mission accomplished.
00:56:06.140 - 00:56:12.300, Speaker B: Yeah, we should take a picture of it to post on Twitter also because this looks funny.
00:56:13.360 - 00:56:50.740, Speaker A: All right, so it's been incredible to get this event going. I'll summarize people who are just joining us for the summit piece. This is officially the biggest event that Global has done and in our four years of running things we have never seen this much interest in what's happening in Web Three, especially from people who are uniquely leaving Web Two to join. The last two weeks, we got record number of applications to attend the hackathon and we had to sadly say no to a lot of people because we couldn't support them for judging. So that's already a great start to this day. And I'll let you kick off with what's happening with Polygon.
00:56:51.180 - 00:56:51.640, Speaker C: Yes.
00:56:51.710 - 00:57:09.070, Speaker B: Awesome. So I will take the first part of the presentation and then from there Mihailo can pick up. So let me quickly share my wait, just one.
00:57:17.970 - 00:57:18.720, Speaker C: Okay.
00:57:20.790 - 00:58:19.538, Speaker B: So basically I'll start with a brief overview of Polygon. And first of all, welcome everyone who has shown interest in this road to Web Three hackathon. And then I wish to all the people who are already in Web Three and who are coming from web two to Web Three fantastic experience with this hackathon and they get to at least a good mental framework of their journey into Web Three. To start with, Polygon's journey like Polygon was founded in 2017. Then we did an IEO on finance. But in June 2020, we launched our main net with the proof of stake chain. And by end of 2020, Polygon was already showing signs of very high amount of adoption and we were previously called Matic Network.
00:58:19.538 - 00:59:06.886, Speaker B: Many of you would have heard that before also, but we rebranded from Matic to Polygon and some of the things I'm going to talk in the next slides that Polygon now is. Previously, Matic Network was one kind of chain, like it was Plasma chains to be scaling Ethereum. But now Polygon as Polygon, we have a much larger vision of having this multi chain internet of blockchains for Ethereum, where developers can choose from various different kind of solutions that we provide. And I'm going to talk more about that going forward. Then in April 2021, a large amount of DFI started coming onto Polygon and then this culminated with Uniswap, I think.
00:59:06.908 - 00:59:07.766, Speaker C: Three, four weeks back.
00:59:07.788 - 01:00:06.614, Speaker B: Uniswap also deploying, which completes the entire Ethereum DeFi community having a store on Polygon. So they continue to exist on Ethereum main chain, but they also have their, you can say stores on the Polygon chain also. And it has been absolutely fantastic journey from there. And many of these protocols have larger number of users on Polygon now than the main chain. Of course, the volume of the transactions is smaller, but the number of users they have there is. And that's why the DeFi initiative is called DeFi on Polygon because it basically allows retail community to participate in the DeFi because of the low gas fees and everything. And then from June to the end of last year, we have expanded Polygon and kind of made Polygon as one of the powerhouses of zero knowledge technology.
01:00:06.614 - 01:01:14.906, Speaker B: Now, some of the most famous projects in the zero knowledge space, like Polygon Hermes, Polygon zero one protocol that we are doing with Ernst and Young. Polygon Nightfall and Polygon Midnight constitute the zero knowledge suit of Polygon. And pound for pound, many people have said that probably Polygon has probably one of the best, if not the best like top two teams in the Ethereum Scaling space. And then there have been multiple things with Polygon zero. We announced Plonky Two which is like 100 x faster than any other Zero Knowledge recursive proof generator to kind of scale the Zero knowledge technology. So what exactly is polygon? So Polygon, as I said, that is a multi chain suit of these blockchains. So basically Polygon is not one chain, although many of you will interact with Polygon POS chain for now in this hackathon.
01:01:14.906 - 01:02:11.998, Speaker B: But if you see and if you follow my cursor like Polygon has a much larger visibility or kind of the mindset for the Ethereum scalability. We don't believe in one narrow definition of Ethereum Scaling which primarily has been purely layer two. And layer two means like you have full security guarantee of Ethereum. That means both your data as well as your dispute resolution, which are the technical terms of layer two, are guarded by Ethereum. But for Easiness perspective, just think that full blown layer two means full security from Ethereum. But then obviously when you are getting full security from Ethereum you have to pay for fee for that. Right? So we believe that each application has its own requirements and Polygon wants to be present across this spectrum where on the left extreme you see this low security, low security from Ethereum, or almost no security.
01:02:11.998 - 01:02:46.218, Speaker B: You have sovereign chains and the security of the chain is fully guaranteed by the sovereign validators of that chain. And then if you come to the middle you will find a chain like Polygon POS which is built on top of Ethereum, does not derive full security from Ethereum. But there is the staking rewards. Everything happens on ethereum. And then on the right extreme you can see the full blown roll ups where we have 40 knowledge roll up efforts going on. Each of them have their own benefits, own trade offs and right now they are all four different products. Maybe some of them will converge with each other.
01:02:46.218 - 01:04:12.674, Speaker B: And then in between that we also have a Polygon Avail which is the data availability solution from Polygon which allows and the people who know Zero Knowledge Scaling space which allows for validium where you can have the zero knowledge proofs back on Ethereum. But the data availability can stay on an off chain layer. So that's basically again the idea to take back home is that Polygon provides spectrum of these solutions across the board for Ethereum Scaling. And you as a developer, you choose what is better for you. Are you a DeFi application who needs absolute security from Ethereum then choose Zero Knowledge Roll Ups? If you are building a very casual game where you need a bridge from Polygon or your own chain to Ethereum, maybe use Polygon SDK. Or if you want like somewhere in the middle, you want to interact with the larger DFI and NFT ecosystem, maybe you want to remain on a shared chain, still low cost, you can be on Polygon POS. So giving the power back to and the power of choice back to the developer for this web three compute, right? And Polygon actually, if you see we want to kind of become the AWS of web three, where today if you are coming from web two you are building an application and you want to deploy it, you go to AWS, choose the server you want, choose the database you want, and then you deploy your application, right? In web three you are looking for decentralized compute.
01:04:12.674 - 01:05:16.614, Speaker B: In web two you are looking for centralized compute, right? So in web three, when you will be building your application, you will probably come to Polygon and see okay, what is the requirement of my application? Whether it's a DeFi, it's NFT how much security I want and how much controls use, censorship, resistance I want and you will choose your solution according to that, but fully connected with Ethereum because that's where the large network effects lie. So, I already mentioned about these around seven products that we have. Polygon POS polygon SDK, which is now called polygon edge polygon avail. Hermes, nightfall, midn and zero are the zero knowledge projects. In terms of the investors in our Polygon ecosystem, like the largest of the largest names are there. And then all these investors are investing very heavily in Polygon ecosystem. A lot of these investors have committed multiple hundred million dollars into the protocol.
01:05:16.614 - 01:06:03.850, Speaker B: And if you are building into the into the ecosystem and if you are building something and it is great, we are more than happy to provide all these investor connections to the people who have strong product aspirations. Post the hackathon. In terms of the Polygon project, these are like very small number of the projects like Ave, Uniswap and decentraland. Especially let's say Meta versus people talk about meta verses, but some of the largest meta verses, not some of the in fact all the largest meta verses in the web three space are all on Polygon. Decentraland. Somnium, Space, Sandbox, Ave Gotchi, all of them are on polygon. Some of the top games, like Neon District, Zedrun, Mega, Crypto Policy.
01:06:03.850 - 01:07:13.706, Speaker B: All of them are on polygon. And now big brands like Adidas and Prada, Dolce and Gabana are launching their NFTs and you have access to this large ecosystem. Now if you are building on Polygon, I mean, I already spoke about this metaverse and the brand related things know, Macy's Thanksgiving Parade had their NFTs launched on Polygon, NFL had their NFTs on Polygon. And on the Metaverse side, like all the blue chip metaverses are integrated with mean in terms of adoption polygon currently I think that by the daily average users and the number of developers building on Polygon. Polygon has emerged as the most used polygon POS has emerged as the most used blockchain globally. It has surpassed even the mother chain Ethereum and then even like all of the other layer ones. If you take by the number of daily active users and the total number of unique users in the ecosystem, you would be probably five to ten x of any of the even the layer ones alternate layer ones which are trying to compete with Ethereum.
01:07:13.706 - 01:08:12.098, Speaker B: Right? So, I mean, it's an order of magnitude. It's not like Polygon has more than that, it's orders of magnitude higher of these matrices on Polygon and the benefits like as some of you would already understand that Polygon will provides full Ethereum compatibility scalability, that means low cost transactions, security and sovereignty. If you are looking for a polygon SDK related or polygon edge chain interoperability bridges between these chains and user experience related things like metatransactions and all that developer experience like if you learned Solidity, which is predominantly the largest and the most used kind of blockchain programming language. You have access to all the tooling, including Hard Hat or Tenderly or RPC providers like infura Alchemy. Everything. These are some of the benefits. But once you start building on it, I'm pretty sure you'll love the developer experience.
01:08:12.098 - 01:08:53.054, Speaker B: Overall adoption I already spoke about. As I was saying that many of the other layer ones that even the layer ones, if you see they would have like 100, 200, 300 application alchemy sometime back they posted that Polygon has 7000 plus applications. We have generally three to 4 million average daily number of transactions. The TVL on the network is around $12 billion and overall market cap of the protocol has reached fluctuates between $16 to $20 billion. On Polygon postn you get two second block times, which makes it very fast EVM compatibility and a lot of other.
01:08:53.092 - 01:08:53.680, Speaker A: Things.
01:08:55.750 - 01:09:56.686, Speaker B: Especially if you are building on NFT. All the biggest NFT enablers like OpenSea as a marketplace, fractionalization protocol like uniquely and many other things like Showtime, they are all available on Polygon. And if you are building an Ft project, you get direct access to this entire NFT ecosystem community wise. Polygon is now one of the largest crypto communities and people and the projects which are building on Polygon, they get visibility directly to all these users. Now, even if you are building a gaming platform like Indig, which is the India version of YGG, which is the play to one community, you have direct access to that also. And Indig is also very closely worked upon by Polygon Studios. Then we have mentioned some of the stats about the OpenSea in terms of the NFT tech support, it has been a constant growth overall on Polygon.
01:09:56.686 - 01:10:39.662, Speaker B: And here is a brief self explanatory comparison of some of these other layer ones which are trying to compete with Ethereum. But we. Believe that Polygon already provides all those advantages on the top of Ethereum. So generally negates the need for any other blockchain platform. And with the Ethereum's huge community, massive, massive community, it gives every reason to remain intact in this high network effect community. In terms of the tooling, you see the wallets, almost every wallet available in the web three space is integrated with Polygon. Oracles.
01:10:39.662 - 01:11:12.746, Speaker B: Almost every oracle is integrated with polygon. Exchanges, integrations, every exchange is integrated dow devtooling. It is pretty extensive in that sense. Anything that you are used to using on Ethereum, most likely you will find them those same tools working on Polygon like a charm and NFT and gaming. These are some of the top games that we could mention here. OpenSea Super Farm Battle Racers. I mean, many of these comet arzora and all that.
01:11:12.746 - 01:11:46.806, Speaker B: These are big names in the NFT space, some more names on the NFT side of things. And this is like a very small list of this ones. Like I think gaming wise we'll have 500 to 1000 various level of games on Polygon. DFI, as I said that the entire DFI ecosystem is there on Polygon. Like whatever you have on Theorem main chain. If you want to experiment with DEXes, lending, borrowing protocols, everything is available on Polygon on the main net. So you can have direct integrations and testings of your project that you are building.
01:11:46.806 - 01:12:25.250, Speaker B: And this is DeFi two point second slide and then third slide. Like everything that you can imagine on DeFi is available on Polygon. So that's all from my side. And then that's the closure of the presentation. And then I would also request my co founder Mihilo, who has been pretty prolific in the Ethereum research community, to talk more about, let's say, what Polygon is doing on the zero knowledge side. To just give you a brief flavor of what all we are doing on the zero knowledge and why we believe that this is the future of blockchain scaling.
01:12:25.590 - 01:12:47.286, Speaker C: Of course. Hi everyone. First of all, thanks Kartik and the team for organizing this. This is really amazing. And of course we are super thrilled and humbled to see this level of interest. More than 1200 hackers already applied and that's really amazing to see. And that's basically why we started this whole thing called Polygon.
01:12:47.286 - 01:13:51.342, Speaker C: And we're super happy to see all of this. I think Sandeep covered pretty much everything that is important. I don't know, for the hacker, for the builders community to know. Maybe as Sandeep said, I can briefly cover our efforts on the ZK side and maybe I can take a step back, maybe and cover actually more the vision itself of Polygon, how it started and how do we see this web free. Because the title of the event, the name of the event is Road to Web Free. So I was thinking maybe I can just briefly share some of our thoughts basically on how do we see the whole web free ecosystem, what it means for us and what do we want to actually do for it? So for us, web free is one of the most potentially impactful technological movements in the world this point in time. And we believe it can have significant and profound impact on the whole society, on the whole planet in general.
01:13:51.342 - 01:14:01.394, Speaker C: And to try to kind of this is too vague, of course, but to try to maybe articulate some points is.
01:14:01.432 - 01:14:02.020, Speaker A: That.
01:14:04.070 - 01:15:00.754, Speaker C: One of the things that we're trying to build with web free is this global network of values. So with internet, we established this global internet of information, right? And we kind of democratized access to information. So prior to internet information, let's say education, obtaining certain knowledge or skills was not really widely or globally available. And maybe people who had better financial status or were maybe living in certain geographies were able to acquire knowledge, go to universities, et cetera. And internet kind of democratized that. So anyone in any remote, I don't know, villager in Africa or in whatever, Philippines can now access this global pool of information and knowledge. And that's really transformative concept.
01:15:00.754 - 01:16:10.406, Speaker C: Of course, what was lacking there like one major thing that was lacking there is this global network of value. So okay, now we democratized knowledge with democratized information. How do we now allow these people globally to monetize this knowledge, to actually benefit from the knowledge they acquired in a lot of parts of the world? Many parts of the world? This is not really possible. I don't know. I lived in some time in Africa, in Tanzania, and for example, a huge part of population doesn't even have IDs, not to mention bank accounts. So they are kind of excluded from this current financial system. And web free and establishing this global network of value is really a transformative concept that can actually now also democratize access to this global economy and establish actually this global borderless economy and allow everyone in the world literally to just simply spin up or install a wallet and actually become part of this global open borderless economy.
01:16:10.406 - 01:17:11.854, Speaker C: And that's for us, hugely, hugely transformational concept. There are some other also important concepts I guess I can speak about polygon and web free for days. I'll just try to be mindful of time. And yeah, concepts like ownership, where people finally own their own assets, of course, digital assets primarily, it's hugely transformational, having no intermediaries, you're actually in charge and holding actually your assets. This is also something that we never had in modern history and several other ways. The ways web free and its concepts can affect the way we organize ourselves, the way companies work, all sorts of human organizations, from companies to NGOs to governments, even all of this can be disrupted and we believe taking everything into account. Web free is in my opinion, the most transformative tech movement in the world.
01:17:11.854 - 01:17:52.830, Speaker C: Now and I'm personally very humbled and excited that I'm a small contributor in this movement. And yes, that is the primary and unlimited, I guess, source of inspiration for us at Polygon as the founders, I guess, and the team overall. So that being said, we believe Ethereum is our best shot by far to actually build this web free. And we are fully committed as a project to Ethereum. We are a part of the Ethereum community. We consider Polygon integral part of the Ethereum ecosystem. That is how we position ourselves.
01:17:52.830 - 01:19:22.506, Speaker C: Ethereum is again, when it showed up with its energy, with technology, this programmable blockchain emerged as again our best shot to build this web free. The thing that we just realized along the way is that Ethereum layer One that we originally all used for building applications and trying to realize this dream that we have is basically highly limited in terms of throughput. There's only a certain amount of activity that can happen on actually layer one. Soon enough we realized that in order to actually onboard the masses, we of course want to onboard 1 billion plus people to this new global network that we call web free. In order to do that, Ethereum layer One is eventually going to become some sort of higher court, some sort of settlement chain central component of this wider ecosystem that is actually Ethereum MultiChain that we believe Polygon represents. So that being said, I can now transition to say what is Polygon? We understood that first thing, that Ethereum layer One cannot support this level of activity that we need for web free. We understood that we have to have these scaling solutions to scale it.
01:19:22.506 - 01:19:52.798, Speaker C: And we understood also that we are basically in an early phase of building this infrastructure. Okay? So we want to build robust, decentralized, secure, eventually probably even private infrastructure that can support 1 billion plus people. That is our goal here. If you want to have really a global network, building such infrastructure takes time. It cannot be built overnight. This is basically a marathon. That is what we understood.
01:19:52.798 - 01:21:01.610, Speaker C: And we will probably get there, I don't know, I hope in five years, maybe in ten, but definitely it's not going to happen this or next year. We understood that this is basically right now an early phase of innovation in web free. And having understood that, we decided that the community needs a project like Polygon that is supporting all meaningful scaling solutions. That is basically a hub of innovation and R and D and development in general in this field of scaling and infrastructure development. Ethereum didn't have such a project before and we are happy that we managed to start it. Polygon is an unoppinionated platform that supports all major scaling solutions from as sandeep covered for us, scaling Ethereum is basically scaling Ethereum stack. So anything from fully standalone Ethereum chains up to fully secured layer twos and hold that spectrum in between is something that we are interested in and we are working hard on providing.
01:21:01.610 - 01:22:10.746, Speaker C: That being said, we are definitely a little bit biased in the long term towards ZK based solutions. Having being involved with ethereum scaling since ever since 2017, I guess. When plasma was originally introduced as the first formalized scaling I guess approach for ethereum. We analyzed all these major approaches to scaling, analyzed the trade offs. And we believe, basically, that ZK based solutions are solutions that offer the best set of trade offs that actually can allow us to offer or to satisfy these strict design criteria that Ethereum ecosystem has. So Ethereum is ethereum as an ecosystem is really making no compromises when it comes to these major design principles like decentralization security, scalability and other important design criteria. And with ZK Tech and privacy, of course, ultimately with ZK Tech, I believe we have a good chance to kind of deliver on all these requirements.
01:22:10.746 - 01:23:15.822, Speaker C: So several months ago, we basically announced or formalized that bias, I guess, by announcing our ZK thesis, which is a short, basically post that speaks generally what I just talks about, what I said in general now, and our commitment to support these ZK based solutions. And we also committed $1 billion from our treasury to support all the relevant efforts in that field. Since then, we introduced as sandeep covered several major interesting ZK projects. Polygon Hermes, polygon midn, polygon zero and polygon Nightfall. For now, we have a lot of meaningful efforts happening in the background, everything from hardware acceleration to tooling in ZK ecosystem, et cetera. I don't think we have the time to cover that now. But what I would like to say is that specifically with one of the projects, Polygon Hermes, basically Polygon Hermes is ZK rollup that is currently live on Ethereum, Mainet.
01:23:15.822 - 01:24:08.774, Speaker C: But it supports, like all other ZK rollups, it supports payments, basically like simple transaction logic only. Until, I guess, six months ago, it was uncertain whether it's even possible, practically possible, to build ZK based EVM compatible solution. And I think with Hermes now and several other projects, this is becoming the reality. And we are very optimistic now when it comes to results that we have with Polygon Hermes, we basically have the proverb already in place. We don't see any major obstacles on the research and design side. We are very confident now that I can confidently say within three months from now, we will have a testnet for full blown Zkevm, which is going to be the world's first, basically ZK EVM roll up. We are super excited about that.
01:24:08.774 - 01:24:49.278, Speaker C: And we're preparing a lot of auxiliary activities to support that announcement. And hopefully the testnet that should happen three months after that, roughly again. So, yes, this is something that we are very excited about and we're working around the clock to build and to deliver. And yeah, for us also, one thing that I forgot to mention, ethereum compatibility, being of course, integral part of Ethereum. Ethereum compatibility is very important for us. We kind of learned that as a project the hard way, I guess. We started originally with this POS chain that most of the people are using now, which is fully EVM compatible.
01:24:49.278 - 01:25:22.762, Speaker C: And plasma implementation that we have that never really took off. And the reason it didn't take off, it was because it wasn't EVM compatible. To use it, you actually had to learn how these Plasma predicates work, express your application logic using those predicates, et cetera. So it was kind of a new paradigm and we understood that there's so much hunger on the developer side. And as we can see, there's 1200 people here now that want to build their applications. They want to use solidity is mainstream already. EVM is mainstream.
01:25:22.762 - 01:25:53.062, Speaker C: People want to build their dreams, basically. They don't want to learn new paradigms like these predicates and whatnot. So we learned that kind of lesson, I guess. And all the solutions, at least for now, that we're working on, are fully EVM compatible, including this Polygon Hermes that I'm mentioning. So everything you basically learn developing on Ethereum and then developing on Polygon. Now polygon POS chain is fully applicable for also upcoming polygon Hermes. And that's something we're also very excited about.
01:25:53.062 - 01:26:28.894, Speaker C: So you will basically have the same Ethereum developer experience like you have on Ethereum, on Polygon POS. You will have this highly secure, robust solution that is Polygon Hermes. And yeah, I think I can wrap it up here. I mean, I could talk, I guess more, but I hope this was helpful. Just to put things into perspective and to say it from Polygon side, we are heads down, really working on more exciting and advanced solutions from our side. Until then, enjoy using Polygon PS as a super cheap alternative to Ethereum. And yeah, enjoy hacking.
01:26:28.894 - 01:26:30.180, Speaker C: Thank you so much.
01:26:30.790 - 01:26:49.160, Speaker A: Thank you so much for that amazing overview. And of course, lots more to come in terms of brand new primitives and ease of use for Hazard knowledge. Proofs will just make all this easier. So thanks again for that. And so I don't have enough time for Q A, but I'll relay them to you directly and we can relay those answers to our audience later.
01:26:49.610 - 01:26:51.180, Speaker C: Sure we can answer them.
01:26:51.950 - 01:27:19.074, Speaker A: So, without further ado, let's move on to our next talk. So I'm super excited for this talk. I want to bring on Ryan and Pierce to talk about future of gaming. Ryan recently just joined US c at Polygon Studios and Piers, heads gaming at Delphi Digital. And these two have an amazing chemistry and so many amazing things to talk about here. So I'll let Piers kick this off and kind of take over and interview Ryan. And without further ado, I'd like to welcome both of them here.
01:27:19.074 - 01:27:20.610, Speaker A: Thank you for joining us.
01:27:20.760 - 01:27:36.134, Speaker D: Thanks a lot, Karthik. Yeah, super excited to kick this one off. Ryan, you've now officially joined the dark side of crypto. So excited to be able to chat on that side of things. So perhaps you could kick us off with just a sort of general intro, a bit about you and sort of what set you to where you are now.
01:27:36.252 - 01:27:57.598, Speaker E: Yeah, thanks. So I'm the CEO of Polygon Studios. I think this is actually the first time I've said it out loud in a formal setting. So exciting to do that. Pierce, I'm in kind of a transition phase right now, juggling both roles. I'm making sure, as the former head of gaming at YouTube, that I unwind and leave them in good hands and transitioning up working with the studios team. And it's been great.
01:27:57.598 - 01:28:10.180, Speaker E: What a fun experience. Looking forward to diving in more and more with that team, but that's what I'm up to. And you're right, I've long wanted to jump in full time into the Web Three world and come to the dark side to your point, so I'm excited to do it.
01:28:10.550 - 01:28:19.122, Speaker D: Absolutely, yeah. Perhaps you could sort of tell us a little bit about sort of why Polygon, where the decision came from, kind of what that whole process looked like.
01:28:19.256 - 01:28:26.006, Speaker E: Yeah, no, it's a great question. I spent almost seven and a half years at YouTube and I started the gaming vertical there.
01:28:26.028 - 01:28:26.214, Speaker C: Right.
01:28:26.252 - 01:28:42.854, Speaker E: And so when I joined YouTube, we were just under a billion users on the platform. Gaming was this really emerging vertical and they didn't have a team to kind of work on it. So I joined the organization as the head of gaming and started to build out the team, build out the vision.
01:28:42.902 - 01:28:43.730, Speaker A: Build out the strategy.
01:28:43.750 - 01:29:44.254, Speaker E: And I loved it, right, because in the early days, I was an esports player and commentator and broadcaster and streamer, and a lot of people back then would be like, look, who wants to watch people play video games, right? And so I kind of took that on as like, I think people are going to enjoy this. And so I spent the next ten years of my life really focusing on that business, growing the creator economy and so forth. And so what happened was I started to spend I prided myself on knowing the gaming industry really well and then all of a sudden, blockchain gaming comes up and it kind of hits me like a ton of bricks and I'm like, Wait, what is this? I was not leaned into DeFi. It was not this huge area of interest for me. I wasn't totally inundated with crypto. And so I started sitting down and looking at this and I'm like, wow, it really was very enlightening, to say the least. And so as I started to spend more time with people in the industry, more time on it, I was like, this is such a fascinating space, I feel like I really want to spend more time in it.
01:29:44.254 - 01:30:10.680, Speaker E: And it largely led me to spending more time back in early August with the Polygon team and just spending time working with them and seeing what they're up to and such a hardworking group of individuals that have a chip on their shoulder that is building really something special on ethereum. And so it really was like, look, let's figure out how we can do more of this and how I can kind of join. And one thing led to another, and now I'm excited to jump in and lead our studios team.
01:30:11.130 - 01:30:11.874, Speaker A: Super exciting.
01:30:11.922 - 01:30:20.380, Speaker D: Yeah. Maybe you could talk to us a little bit about what the sort of immediate objectives are for you and the team at Polygon Studios. What's the next sort of six to twelve months look like for you guys?
01:30:21.230 - 01:30:35.594, Speaker E: Yeah. Look, the best part about kind of this industry is it's fast paced, it's growing, there's no shortage of things to do. I laughed. Sundeep and I were talking the other day and he said, yeah, it's really easy to know crypto if you can spend 16 hours a day reading.
01:30:35.642 - 01:30:35.854, Speaker B: Right.
01:30:35.892 - 01:31:01.060, Speaker E: And so a lot of what I want to do is get really acclimated with the organization. First and foremost. They've done a lot of great partnerships. You saw us announce us doing stuff with an NFL in ticketmaster. You saw us doing something with 100 thieves, the Esports organization. So that studio team has been doing a really great job and a lot of work. And so it's like, how do we actually add fuel to the fire? I think it'll be really great to stand up our organization and hire for really key.
