00:00:03.290 - 00:00:25.782, Speaker A: Hello. Hello. Yay. One more day to go. Right? This is a ridiculously long title for a talk, but it's an exciting one. Headless brands and IP nfds with remix rights. So I'm just going to kind of like give a bit of context before jump being into it.
00:00:25.782 - 00:02:03.860, Speaker A: So I oftentimes preach this whole narrative around how everything is a supply chain and everything is rolls all the way down. And essentially what I really mean by that is like, take everyday products that you're interacting with, right? So the things that you consume, the things that you buy, the sweatshirt that I'm wearing right now is essentially a bunch of roles doing individual things within a supply chain. So you have like someone that comes and sources something, someone that comes and manufactures it, someone that comes and designs it, someone that comes and purchases it, right? So there's a whole entire value chain, there's a supply chain, there's roles within that supply chain. And so far, our main interaction with products in general are via what we would say a verticalized supply or a verticalized brand IP. And I've intentionally put this quite captivating image in the background, which is one that I came across during an exhibition at Design Museum in London, which is around like designer, creator, maker. And it's essentially individuals that are working within these factories that are really just producing pretty much our very cheap t shirts and cost type of items. And it's in the Fujian province in China, captured in 2005.
00:02:03.860 - 00:03:50.440, Speaker A: My relationship or my experience with this world started around like, 2011, when I first started my first company in sustainable fashion, where I spent a lot of time in Bangladesh. And seeing things like this became very clear that we had to do something slightly different when it came to the utilization of our products and the consumption of our products. So there's this concept that is interesting. So when we started looking at crowd muse, we came from the world of supply chains, software, et cetera, and realized that actually there's a lot of this linear supply chain seems to be the thing that we're kind of stuck in. And we thought, okay, so how about you actually take that vertical supply and turn it into a supply web? And then, interestingly, doing a lot more digging and writing and so on, turned out that Deloitte, good old Deloitte, if anyone remembers those guys, actually had already thought about this concept around supply webs, clearly capturing research around the fact that this thing was coming into fruition, which is this concept around like, making supply, making the creation of products much more co created, much more collaborative, much more localized, and essentially what we realized was that, okay, we can actually reference this quite nicely with blockchain nodes, clusters, et cetera, which is quite exciting. So bear this in mind as I'm going through the presentation, because this is a major, major part of it. So thanks to Ethereum, we have smart contracts, right? These are digital agreements that you and I, multiple parties, or even an individual can spin up with a line of code or digital agreements to say we agree in something.
00:03:50.440 - 00:04:55.370, Speaker A: What that is doing is essentially IRL use cases have been something that is very obvious for smart contracts to be utilized for. And the features, as you probably are aware of, is that it provides verification, it provides authenticity, it provides a proof of ownership of your terms within that contract and within that agreement. It's a public record. Right? So blockchains are naturally public records. On the flip side, in the traditional industry, what we've seen in the past, like three to five years was that the one that I came across was LVMH, utilizing LVMH and DHL. But LVMH, more relevant to this talk, spinned up a private blockchain to track counterfeit of their products, right? So that's a very clear, obvious use case. Public record blockchains would make things like transactions, assets, agreements public and much more visible.
00:04:55.370 - 00:06:09.940, Speaker A: It creates this concept around verifiable ownership. So I can say that I have submitted an artwork, I can reference the fact that I did a certain type of work, and that verifiable ownership is actually really key to the whole co creation aspect of product creation. And as I'm going through this, I just realized that my slides are a little bit blurry. So apologies, but just bear in mind the images in the background, because I'm going to be coming back to them over the course of the slides. So as part of writing our white paper, one thing that we. Well, first of all, we love doing good diagrams. And as part of the architecture, we realized that actually there's this concept of creator networks, right? What if a role, what if a 3d designer that is creating an animation, creating a model, is working across or co creating with a bunch of other roles, with a bunch of other people to create a digital product? And then they're also wanting to create a digi, physical or physical products, for lack of a better word.
00:06:09.940 - 00:07:51.522, Speaker A: And so we said, okay, these are this bunch of nodes, clusters of people, networks that can actually play between each other's networks, and why should they not be able to do so? It's quite clear what this is showing, right? You have a brand, you have a 3d designer, you have a fashion designer, you have a pattern maker, you have a metaverse builder. Right? All of these are actually examples of roles of products that we have helped collaborate with or have dropped on our marketplace. And I will show you some more examples in a minute. So the idea that an individual role that is creating a product can just take their assets or take their ip in a sense, and transfer that, or just also open that in another co creator product is essentially just unbundling that whole IP process. And it's like making every individual creator, every individual contributor of a product creation visible, which is pretty awesome. I'm intentionally going to stop on this muse and get you guys to get your phones out and take this QR code here. And the reason why I'm forcing you guys to do this is only because we have spent a really long time writing resources in our white paper, in the research papers that we put together, our articles, et cetera, to really just set the stage of the fact that there is this thing coming, which is the future of the way we trade, there's a future of the way we consume, future of commerce, basically.
00:07:51.522 - 00:08:34.340, Speaker A: And how also ip interoperability, composability plays a really big part in that. So, yeah, thanks for taking that. Okay, so what is crowd muse? So crowd muse is a platform for multiplayer collaboration on consumer products and digital IP rights. We went after the physical use cases first because it was something that we understood really well. We went after consumer because we were like, crypto is lacking consumer adoption. So what is the most obvious thing that crypto needs, which is a thing that every person here interacts with, is consumer goods. So this is one example.
00:08:34.340 - 00:09:14.842, Speaker A: So this actually is a really interesting one, and I'll come to it. So two of the key things that designers, creators, brands, et cetera, small scale brands struggle with is access to supply, access to distribution, and access to an audience. So a lot of the times, the designers that I've worked with in the past years, the brand that I originally created, I failed because I couldn't scale, right? I couldn't scale the brand, I couldn't get the supply that I needed. I couldn't get the audience that I needed. And we just decided to close the company down. And that is happening again and again and again. So we need this supply web access, we need much more unbundling.
00:09:14.842 - 00:09:52.498, Speaker A: We need access to different buyer and creator networks. The other thing that is interesting is that, and you always hear this from a creator perspective, or in general, is the fact that my ip got stolen. Right. Let's say, oh, this looks similar to what I created. And so I think this idea around IP appropriation, or this idea around protection of IP is very, very important. And this is like a very big example where the likes of Sheen and H m just love ripping designers and creators off all the time. And this was one that got a lot of mean.
00:09:52.498 - 00:11:11.890, Speaker A: We see a world where individual creators can actually tap into economies of scale through collaboration tools, through the methods of co creation, through the methods of attribution, through making the creation flow visible and a direct access to buyer networks. This is essentially just showing you a very similar thing. So this is an example of a FWB bag that we created with a pattern maker at tropical Futures Institute who basically we are experimenting with how would it work if someone dropped a product and showcased who manufactured it, who designed it, and then other creators in the network came and licensed the original pattern and created all these new product derivatives out of it. So what that basically means is the bag as a blank, the bag as a pattern, which is industry terminology, would just get like another logo put on it, it would get like another print put on it, et cetera, et cetera, or another type of stitching on it, it gets remixed similar to how like music is very much so remixed. These physicals, these types of designs can also be remixed. I've just realized I might be running out of time. So what we've created is pretty simple.
00:11:11.890 - 00:12:25.206, Speaker A: So what we've done is modified a seven two one, a contract, a seven two one. A contract is a multi buy contract, so enabling you to come on to our marketplace, which has a smart contract, back end, and obviously an off chain database as well, to get you to buy multiple items, like as you would on an ecommerce, right? Like put it in your basket, checkout, et cetera. These are some of the features that we have modified the contract for specifically for a use case for consumer and creator drops. And some of the things that are exciting is not only are you showing attribution of the things that you've created, but you can also add your files, right? So you can sell a consumer product directly to your community and fans. You can add your assets within the NFT, and that showcases the 3d file, the OBJ file, the PNG, the SVG, et cetera, et cetera. So when a minter comes and mints that, they get access to everything that's obviously subject to if the creator or brand wants to open source that, or I guess get the consumer to buy it, or the creator to buy it. So anyway, top three features that we've got currently is creator spits and permissionless fund distribution.
00:12:25.206 - 00:13:11.980, Speaker A: What essentially that means is that the smart contract has revenue splits as a modification in the contract. So when someone comes and purchases, the splits go straight into the wallets of the creators of the collaborators. And the permissionless fund distribution is basically saying any creator at any point that is utilizing a crowd muse contract and dropping that contract or deploying that mint on the marketplace can come back, connect their wallet and click distribute funds, and it goes back straight to all their wallets and they can off ramp. Right. The other aspect of it that I mentioned already is IP and role attribution. And the other is this, access to a creator and brand network, or even supply, which is exciting. And that's something that we've been basically developing out for the past year and a half.
00:13:11.980 - 00:13:47.886, Speaker A: These are examples of the jobs that we've done to date. This is one that I'm wearing right now, which is a job that we did for bass in collaboration with an LA based brand called Slow Rodeo. This is one that we did for optimism. Just remember this NPC man in a minute, because you might be able to mint him and then remix him if you want to. And you can see just the UI is mimicking e commerce. Don't make it complicated, make it easy for the buyers to come and purchase. Make it look like a UX they already know, but just add like little touches of features that makes it different, like revenue splits.
00:13:47.886 - 00:14:56.486, Speaker A: And if you put this stuff in front of someone that has been in the trad brand industry for a long time, they get really excited. So this is our awesome network, just spotlighting some of the awesome, amazing people that we've been working with and collaborating with, bringing their products on chain, bringing their creativity on chain, collaborating with them across the whole consumer creator value chain. And it's one of those things where we're super excited to be able to work with a lot of early adopters coming into crypto that are creators and brands and basically be able to kind of create some new experiences for themselves and their fans. So I'm just spotlighting some of the features so that you can see how some of these mechanisms are working. So here, for example, a limited edition sweatshirt that is represented with this 3d model is showcasing you, the splits is showcasing you, like the number of addition of mints, et cetera. Very similar to an ecom. And really this diagram here, I think it's a gorgeous looking diagram.
00:14:56.486 - 00:15:58.798, Speaker A: Some people might think it's boring, but I think it's showing the profiles. So these use cases are the core use cases that we're working with. They come in, they add their assets, like I mentioned, their artifacts, they co create, which they're already doing anyway because that's how you create stuff and they're selling directly to the buyer. So very much similar to the direct to consumer model and not really changing that because that's important. Another example, just to make it very clearer visually, you have a blank, you have a base, right? That base gets, you can source that you can produce that. You can go to a manufacturer and say, hey, I wanted to use a blank. You collaborate with an artist, you then add a brand logo onto it and say, hey, brand, can we use your distribution and audience and add your co brand or IP into the mix? But give us attribution, give us visibility also through the splits, give us visibility and then bundle all of that into the final thing.
00:15:58.798 - 00:16:25.720, Speaker A: Give them all the fair amount that they deserve. Right. Okay. The other one that's really exciting. The other one that everyone is really hyped about and still is something to be patient around and not enforce onto creators too much because the IP. I got distracted by this hype. The IP conversation can be quite an infringing one.
00:16:25.720 - 00:17:05.506, Speaker A: But take the NPC man. So the NPC man is as an OBJ file is sitting within the products bundle the products NFT that you saw previously. This one over here can basically be sitting within the product NFT first, then get minted as its own artifact. NFT. This is what we're calling it with all the scraps, all the ingredients, all the working files, zip file, obj, FBX, whatever file they use, mint all of that, get a licensing agreement. And eventually what we would do is wrap that as a legal wrapper around the smart contract. So when someone comes to license they can essentially just trigger that.
00:17:05.506 - 00:17:36.942, Speaker A: And the original creator, that is the second creator that is licensing the original creator's work is getting up to 20% by default every single time. Just exactly like music royalties. This is also very similar. So apologies because I did one for bass just earlier and I had 30 minutes, but I have way less time for this one and I didn't manage to cut my slides down. So I'm going to skip some. I've skipped this. Okay, so examples in the industry that we got really excited about.
00:17:36.942 - 00:18:23.680, Speaker A: So this is a phenomenal pattern maker designer that we work with called Hugh Clark. Hugh Clark and Rickard, which was another example that will come up next. They are literal pioneers of open source and design. So the reason why this is so exciting is that you haven't really seen this in fashion, right? You haven't really seen this that much in physicals. You've seen it so much more in code repos, open sourcing music perhaps, but that is also still ripe with a lot of licensing terms. But the fact that you can come on and go to an open pattern library like this and get a blank already prepared for you, that you can go to a manufacturer to make and add your print or different variations on top of it, it's pretty powerful. So he's already been pioneering this.
00:18:23.680 - 00:19:07.414, Speaker A: Another example is the one from Ricard, who is also another reputable designer out in Sweden. He open sourced his patterns with Hugh Clark and got over 100,000 downloads in like two days from all these other creators that were like, hey, we've been waiting for something to happen. So I think from a trade know, these industries are also craving open source, but that doesn't mean that they should just be open sourcing it for the sake of open sourcing it, right? They should be open sourcing it and also earning from it. So these are just like free examples to test demand. This one is a really exciting one. This is a very recent example. This is a drop that has been dropped on mischief that showcases decentralized supply.
00:19:07.414 - 00:19:48.694, Speaker A: So what's happened is that they did an experiment, so they created this thing which is like this global supply chain telephone bag, and they went and got all the famous bag blanks, like from Balenciaga, et cetera. And they said to factory a in Peru, hey, why don't you go and make another knockoff version of the Birkin bag? How about you go to another factory in Portugal and get them to do a knockoff version of the celine bag, et cetera, et cetera. And they came out with this beautiful looking bag, right? So it showcases the modularity of things and how it's really important for examples like this to come on chain. Okay, I'm wrapping up. I got 1 minute. Oh, I'm going to risk it. Okay, this is a really cool one.
00:19:48.694 - 00:20:21.886, Speaker A: I got really hyped about this one. This one just got minted recently on Zora from two very awesome AI designers, Matt and holly. They have their own studio out in Berlin. And essentially it's the same thing, same type of thinking, right? Mint your files, mint all your access, get other people to remix it. Although we're working with Zora, so we're trying to understand how it would make sense to utilize our contract in their network. So they can get access to our products bundle feature as well. Okay, so, MPC man, you remember him, right? I've got 39 seconds.
00:20:21.886 - 00:20:38.854, Speaker A: We remixed him with a collaboration with Lightworks. So you can now go and mint it. I'm going to leave this up now. So get your phones out, go mint it, so that you can get access to all the files, et cetera. If you want to remix it, go for it. You'll be part of the experiment. It'll be really fun.
00:20:38.854 - 00:20:54.620, Speaker A: If you have any issues minting, just let me know. You can mint this on optimism using USDCe on optimism or eth op. Or you can just use credit card straight the crowd muse website. So, yes, thank you and follow whatever and come chat to me later. Thanks.
