00:00:00.920 - 00:00:51.876, Speaker A: All right, thank you to the organizers for inviting Annalisa and me to give a talk on our slide. Another third member of our inter global systems group here in college of Charleston is Stephane La Fortune, who's originally a student of. He's from. He's from Montreal anyway. And, and we also have a few of our master's degree students who've done projects with Annalisa and Stefan over the years in this same area. And some of them have contributed results and some of them contributed imagery that has helped us. Okay, so the talk is going to be mostly about the methods we use to construct closed solutions to the vortex filament equation.
00:00:51.876 - 00:02:12.644, Speaker A: And then Anneliese is going to more take care of what we can do with them in part two, in terms of geometric properties of closed solutions to this equation, and also their stability, their linear stability. And I guess we should acknowledge support from the US National Science foundation through these grants that you can see on the title slide. Okay, so, in outline, I will, you know, very briefly remind you of the model of the connection between fluid mechanics and this vortex fillmit equation. Mostly concentrating, as I said, on the connection with the non linear Schrodinger equation, which, as Bob said, we exploit the integrability of that equation in order to. In order to, you know, say something about closed solutions and get examples of closed solutions to the VFE. There'll be a lot of, a fair amount of detail about how we do that construction of closed solutions and then some of the phenomenology and what we say about linear stability. That's sort of looking ahead to Ann Lisa's talk towards the end of this talk, if you all have any questions, please go ahead and chime in anytime.
00:02:12.644 - 00:02:50.894, Speaker A: So, Annalisa found this cool photograph of a red winged blackbird blowing smoke rings. I believe this was taken to Alexander, Virginia, on maybe a cool fall morning. So, of course, the smoke rings being formed out of water vapor in the air. And so it's a beautiful kind of picture. And we saw the volcano etna belching smoke rings the other day. Here's something that's a little bit more down to earth. So the Vfe is sometimes known as the smoke ring flow, but we'll call the vortex rimulant equation.
00:02:50.894 - 00:03:42.888, Speaker A: And remember that, of course, a vortex rimulant is a thin, tubular region of non zero vorticity surrounded by irrotational fluid, and it moves under self induction. If you have a small core radius and circulation held constant, then that center line moves with the fluid, and so it points along it it's just the velocity at those points along the curve. And x, I'm going to use a longitudinal parameter along the curve. And of course t is time. But as you make the core radius approach zero, the dominant term in the expansion, after you do some rescaling, becomes the binormal vector field times the curvature of the curve. So just to remind you now, I'm going to use x to be arc length. There's s in this picture here.
00:03:42.888 - 00:04:16.882, Speaker A: So this really should be gamma sub x, which is of course the unit speed. So we've been doing an arc length parameter along the, along the center line of the filament. The acceleration vector is perp to the unit tangent vector. And their cross product is what is the velocity under the vortex filament equation, the time velocity. And that is a, the unit vector in that direction. That cross product is the binormal vector of the frenet frame. Kappa is the curvature.
00:04:16.882 - 00:05:08.374, Speaker A: And as I said, x is arc length. So again, this is sometimes known as the kb flow. If you want a simple example, if you had a circle in the plane, its unit tangent and normal are also in that plane. A cross product is a unit vector pointing perfect that plane. And this equation, since the curvature is constant for a circle, this equation would make that circle translate, sweeping out a cylinder with velocity proportional to the curvature. So the sort of the engine, the thing we exploit in this whole project is called the Hashimoto map, and that's associating a complex function of x and t to this evolving space curve. That's a solution, the Vfe.
00:05:08.374 - 00:06:11.482, Speaker A: So how does that come about? Well, for a space curve, the basic invariants are curvature, kappa and torsion tau. And we package curvature and torsion into a single complex valued function of x and t by doing the following. We, if you think about it in terms of polar coordinates, the sort of the magnitude of that complex function is the curvature. And the argument is an antiderivative of the torsion. And in fact, to get on then times a factor of one half, which is some people put in, some people don't. And in fact, to get this to satisfy the non Lear Schranger equation on the nose, you have to make sure that the constant of integration in this antiderivative of torsion evolves in a certain way, determined by kappa and tau. But the theorem is if you do this, and by the way, these will be compatible if gamma satisfies the Vfe.
00:06:11.482 - 00:06:58.644, Speaker A: If you do this, then you get a complex function that satisfies the focusing cubic nonlinear Schrodinger equation. And this was discovered, as you can see, by Hashimoto back in the 1970s. So, as I just mentioned, planar circles evolve by just translation under the VfE. And if the radius, remember, so the curvature of a circle is one over its radius. So if I make the radius one over a little, a is the constant curvature of the circle, and that's the vertical velocity of these translating circles. And if you make the corresponding q under the Hashimoto map, it has no x dependence. This is a plane wave solution of nls.
00:06:58.644 - 00:07:36.172, Speaker A: But as you can see, that the theta that's in the, in the, in the exponent there has to have non trivial t dependence. Well, it's just a constant times t, but we do have to pay attention to this evolution. All right, so translating smoke rings, again, smaller smoke rings would have more curvature. Move faster. Okay. Map over into the hashimoto map to plane wave potentials. So I'd like to give a little bit of an explanation as to what the hashimoto map is doing.
00:07:36.172 - 00:08:20.064, Speaker A: Okay. And this, since I'm a differential geometry, this geometry, this explanation will be kind of flavored with classical differential geometry. So you may remember the classical Frena equations. The way you get curvature and torsion for a space curve is that you take the arc length derivative of the unit tangent. That's kappa times the unit normal. And then the arc length derivative of the interval vector is minus kappa t plus tau b. And finally, b, sub x is minus tau n, where t and n and b, of course, of the Frena frame, the orthonormal frame along the curve and kau can be used to determine that curve up to a rigid motion.
00:08:20.064 - 00:09:18.286, Speaker A: So an alternative to. So one of the, by the way, one of the problems with the Frenet frame is that it's an ill defined at inflection points, okay? Places where kappa is zero. So you might have this thing where n is momentarily undefined at an inflection point. And so that's not so nice. There are alternatives to the Frenet frame which are not so well known, and one of them is, one of them is called the natural frame, at least we call it that. Other people have the other name sort where you still retain that unit tangent vector, of course. But then you have a different choice of vectors of unit vectors in the normal plane such that they have the x derivative of each one is a multiple of the tangent plus a constant multiple of the other normal vector.
00:09:18.286 - 00:10:10.332, Speaker A: So it's sort of like they spin at a constant rate in the normal plane of the curve, while also bending the direction of the unit tangent vector. And these will usually be well defined when you go across inflection points. And the relationship to the Frena frame is, well, I mean, this is easiest to write if you use a little bit of complex notation. If you write those two new normal vectors as u one plus I u two. So a single complex value normal vector, then it's a certain e to the I theta times n plus I b, where theta is the appropriate antiderivative of torsion, and, well, antiderivative torsion minus a constant, I should say, to account the fact that there's this constant spin added in the normal plane. But if you. Yes, go ahead.
00:10:10.508 - 00:10:14.372, Speaker B: So, implicit in what you're saying is that it may sometimes be useful to.
00:10:14.388 - 00:10:51.124, Speaker A: Take c non zero. Yes, and I'll explain that in a moment. But if you do say, if you do make it zero, which is the simplest choice, then you get what Richard Bishop called frames of least rotation. He wrote a article on the MAa monthly, American Mathematical Monthly, about. It's more, there's more than one way you could frame a curve. And in that case, this is just antiderivative torsion. And we see from this formula that q is exactly, well up to a factor of one half the two natural curvatures for that spin zero natural frame.
00:10:51.124 - 00:11:33.424, Speaker A: So it's just a different way of packaging the frenet type invariants. Now, as a complex function of x and t. Now we would like a way of inverting the hashemol map. In other words, going from a complex valued function of x and t, and a solution of the nonlinear schedule equation back to a space curve. And the way that's done is through the mechanism of the AkNs system a. Alowitz, Kaup, Newell and Sager, also known as the Zakharov Shabbat system, your brushing school. So this is equivalent to the lax pair.
00:11:33.424 - 00:12:16.012, Speaker A: The non linear Schrodinger equation is an integrable PDE. And so it's got, you know, all the wonderful things about integrability, including inverse scattering, and that's mediated through the lax pair. So this is a, a system for a two component vector valued function of xt, and also the spectral parameter lambda. And this is compatible. This should be v sub x. Here, this is compatible if and only if q satisfies nls. Now, when q is in the image of the hashimoto map, in other words, if it comes from a space curve, we can recover that curve and its natural frame from solutions.
00:12:16.012 - 00:13:15.584, Speaker A: This Akns system. So here's how you do it. So we're going to identify r three with the Lialgebra Su two by just picking a basis for the Lialgebra and declaring them to be the unit vectors, orthonormal unit vectors, which they are for, I think, for minus one, two times the killing form. So. So I've identified three reals with the lialgebra su two. And what's interesting, what you might notice about the spatial part of the lax pair of the Akns system, rather, is that when lambda is real, this coefficient matrix is in the algebra su two. And so that means that if I take the lambda derivative of, if I take a fundamental matrix solution of a kns, and that'll be, as I said, su two valued when lambda is real, because this is algebra su two valued coefficient matrix.
00:13:15.584 - 00:14:15.654, Speaker A: And then if you take phi inverse phi is a matrix rather than a vector, phi inverse dphi d lambda, that gives you a matrix in the algebra su two evaluated when lambda is real. That is, we can identify that with a vector in r three, and that vector satisfies. That's our solution of the vfe that generated when lambda is zero. I should say, when I set lambda equals zero, that's the solution that generated q. And you also get for free the solutions of the natural frame equations along this curve with a certain spin that's just twice the value of lambda at which you evaluated. Now, I should say this is not quite a solution of VFE, because it's got a constant slide along the tangent, director. But if you kind of, you know, changed coordinates a little bit to get rid of that, you could do that.
00:14:15.654 - 00:14:40.742, Speaker A: So this is, this, this brings, I wanted to answer Bob's question about why bother with the natural frame equations when c is non zero? And if it's okay with you, I'm just gonna, um, stop sharing for just a moment. Can I, can I do that and still see the board? Would that work? Sarah, we're just going to write something in the board behind me. Sounds good to me.
00:14:40.758 - 00:14:41.358, Speaker B: I think it's fine.
00:14:41.406 - 00:14:54.550, Speaker A: All right, all right, all right. Yeah, you should be able to stop sharing and. Okay, so return to sharing again. Yeah. Okay, so if you. So, so, diagrammatically, where is my, where are my notes? Okay, there they are. Excuse me.
00:14:54.550 - 00:16:16.904, Speaker A: So, diagrammatically speaking, we had, we have this VFE equation, and we apply hashimoto, and we get a solution to NLS, okay? And the thing about this talk is, as I said about closed solutions. If you have a closed curve that is periodic at x. Then it turns out that q, as formed under the Hashimoto map, is not necessarily periodic. Okay? Because what a hash moda, say it's q, is kappa e to the I anti derivative of torsion dx. Well, kappa and tower will be periodic, but integral of tau will not be periodic unless it's got, you know, average value zero. So this q you get here will not, will only be quasi periodically periodic about, you know, if, if gamma is, uh, if gamma of x plus l, let's say, is gamma of x. So this is a closed curve of length l, then q will be quasi periodic.
00:16:16.904 - 00:17:21.944, Speaker A: U of x plus l will equal to e to the I integral of torsion ds times q of x. So it won't be periodic, but it will be related to a periodic solution of nls through galleon transform, which consists of doing sort of a galleon transform in x and t and multiplying by the appropriate unit modulus function of t. So let me just not write the details in. But there's a dead on periodic solution of nls that's related to this. And moreover, you can get back to your original curve if you do sim at a related nonzero lambda. So that's closing the loop between periodic curves and periodic analysis solutions. That's why you want to use Sim at a non zero lambda value.
00:17:21.944 - 00:17:35.356, Speaker A: All right. Is that answer your question? More or less. We can talk about more afterwards, but if you want. But. Perfect. Okay. Okay, great.
00:17:35.356 - 00:18:14.012, Speaker A: All right. Let me go back to screen sharing. There we go. So again, this is about the Sim correspond, the Sim formula that our Sim palmeier formula, I should say, that lets you construct curves that evolve by Vfe up to a tangential slide from a fundamental solution matrix for the AKNS system. There we go. Okay, so now into how we actually, the details of how we actually get are closed vortex filaments. And as I hope my explanation the board showed you.
00:18:14.012 - 00:18:51.750, Speaker A: I want to start by work by getting together some periodic analyst solutions. Periodic and X. Okay, so those are constructed by considering the flow k spectrum of such a solution. Okay, what does that mean? Well, we can take the spatial part of the AKns system. And remember there was that lambda in there, and I can rewrite that system as an eigenvalue problem. I can rewrite that AKNS system. The spatial part is an eigenvalue problem for a certain first order linear differential operator.
00:18:51.750 - 00:19:54.794, Speaker A: It's a matrix differential operator with a zero thorough part that just depends on q. And so that spatial part of the Aknos system is equivalent to this equation. And we can ask for certain. Okay, if you have an eigenvalue lambda for a particular lambda value, look at the solution of this system. If q is periodic, we could potentially have periodic solutions for this system. Now, the flow case spectrum of that operator is a set of lambdas such that this system has a solution which is bounded in x. In other words, it's got, you know, if you look at how much it grows over, let's say, one period in the x direction, that growth rate has to be, well, since it's complex, it has to be a unit modulus multiplying by unit modulus thing, or by a unimodular matrix.
00:19:54.794 - 00:20:47.444, Speaker A: And this is not quite the definition of the flow k spectrum, because it's actually equivalent to it. But if you think about when this system has, let's say a solution that grows by, again, that grows in a bounded fashion, the x direction. One example would be something that just gets multiplied by a complex scalar of unit modulus. So that would be an eigenfunction of the transfer matrix. This transfer matrix is, we have a fundamental solution matrix for that linear system, and we evaluate it after one whole period having started the identity. That's the transfer matrix. The eigenvalues of that correspond to solutions that grow by just a scalar multiple over one period.
00:20:47.444 - 00:21:52.904, Speaker A: And because this transfer matrix has determinant one, then the eigenvalues are reciprocals of each other, and they're determined by taking its trace and just solving this equation. So this is called the flow k multipliers. They're telling you, for every flocate multiplier, there'll be a solution that grows by that multiple over one period at x. And if this trace is between minus two and plus two, then the flow k multiplier is unit modulus. So we have something that's bounded over one period and hence bounded for all x. By the way, this flow k discriminant, of course, is an analytic, complex analytic function of lambda, and that means mu is sort of a branched function of lambda. So you can think of mu, the multiplier, as living on a Riemann surface that double covers the complex lambda plane.
00:21:52.904 - 00:23:38.554, Speaker A: So what lambda values belong to the flow case spectrum? Well, for one thing, as I mentioned earlier, when lambda is a real number, the transfer matrix which starts at the identity, will belong to lgebra Su two, which is compact, or, sorry, other lie group sq two, which is compact. And so if the transfer matrix is just multiplying by an element of a compact lead group, the eigenfunction stays bounded for all x, and so every real lambda belongs to that flow k spectrum. And moreover, this whole spectrum is conserved by the time evolution under NLS. In some sense, the fact that NLS is an integrable evolution with all these conservation laws is all wrapped up in the preservation of the flow k spectrum, at least in the case where q is periodic, because all that information, the flow k spectrum, more or less corresponds or can be used to generate all the conservation laws. So what does a fluke spectrum look like? Well, as I said, it contains the whole real axis, but it will also contain branches that come off the real axis and maybe even disconnected ones I haven't drawn here. And those branches will terminate in what are called simple periodic points. Moreover, the flow k spectrum is symmetric under complex conjugation because of a certain symmetry in the transfer matrix.
00:23:38.554 - 00:24:46.904, Speaker A: These places where these branches terminate are called simple points, and they're simple zeros of delta squared minus four. So that's where mu is equal to one or minus one. You have that simple single zero for delta squared minus one. And so at those points you'd have a single up to multiple periodic solution of the, of the Ak and s system, periodic and x. And the simple points are part of a more larger set of periodic points where delta is plus or minus two. And the form colloquium multipliers are plus minus one, where you'd have, where the spectral, the, the AkNs system has function has solutions which are periodic or anti periodic. And critical points of this located discriminator are called, well, critical points and those which are where delta, where you not only have a critical point, but delta is plus or minus two or higher order multiple points.
00:24:46.904 - 00:25:48.114, Speaker A: Since this is, you know, this spectrum is, remember, this is defined by, I don't know if I can write on this or not. Oh, probably not. Okay, so remember, this spectrum is defined by saying delta is real between plus and minus two. So at places where D delta, D lambda is zero, that's one of those are these corners where branches come off of other branches of spectrum, of the flow case spectrum. So I've kind of indicated by sort of a gray dot these critical points, and they're well, critical for making closed solutions to the vortex filament equation. So let's look at some examples. So corresponding to, as we saw earlier, just a plain old circle.
00:25:48.114 - 00:26:27.368, Speaker A: Okay, so let's say, let's say radius is, let's say the kappa is one is two. So the q is identically equal to one and sort of correspond to radius one half and length PI. Well, here's the floquet spectrum of that. And, you know, q is constant in x. So I don't know what you mean by the period of q, but let's just say l is PI to go with the. The circumference of the corresponding curve. And we just have that flow case spectrum just has two simple points, one critical point, which is also a periodic point.
00:26:27.368 - 00:27:35.604, Speaker A: So these x's are double points, where you have a second order zero of delta squared minus four. Now, turns out if we just lengthen the period, we take double the period corresponding, let's say, going around the circle twice and saying, that's our, our period l, then you'll pick up more double points. You'll get more double points in the, in the flow k spectrum. And those are kind of illustrated by these additional x's that have appeared along the imaginary axis and also between each of the x's we had before. And as sort of a deformation of that double covered circle, you can actually pop it out of the plane in a way that Annalisa will talk about more explicitly tomorrow to get a trefoil knot. And as you do that, the flow k spectrum deforms. Actually, this double point is opened up into two simple points, and this piece of the imaginary axis is bent into a curved spine.
00:27:35.604 - 00:28:24.964, Speaker A: Okay, any questions about this example of flow case spectrums and their corresponding? I guess this is supposed to be kind of tantalizing for setting up for Ann Lisa's talk later. Okay, so the periodic solutions of NLs and their flow k spectrum are served two ingredients we want to use to make closed solutions to the vortex filament equation. So, let's look at how we would get, first of all, periodic analyst potentials. And that's through. Well, it's kind of like I have to move in some heavy machinery here. That's done for us through the algebra geometric construction of solution to NLS. So I need to talk about how that goes.
00:28:24.964 - 00:29:00.372, Speaker A: So, you saw earlier that when we have a periodic solution q, to the nonlinear Schrodinger equation, we got this associated Riemann surface where the floquet multipliers live. So, let's construct such a Riemann surface. It's a double cover of the complex plane. So it's a hyper elliptic Riemann surface. It's going to have a bunch of branch points that will come in complex conjugate pairs. And as we maybe saw, every branch point is. Sorry.
00:29:00.372 - 00:29:33.664, Speaker A: Every spine terminating at a couple of branch points is also going to have one corner in the middle where it branched off. Another thing. So there's going to be g plus one of those critical points. Let's say you wrote down such a hyperelliptic Riemann surface. It's easy to write those down. You just say just the product of lambda minus lambda I, including the conjugates in this product, and just say nu squared is equal to this thing. And that's the equation of a hyperlipic Riemann surface and its genus is g.
00:29:33.664 - 00:30:38.948, Speaker A: Now, we can, there's some natural functions that come associated with such Riemann surfaces. One of them is the Riemann theta function, which is expressed as an infinite sum here over an integer lattice in g dimensional integer space. And this is a rapidly converging series, so it's very good for numerics. And the coefficient here, this script b is based on, that's made up of the periods of certain holomorphic differentials on the Riemann surface. A genus G Riemann surface will have g independent holomorphic differentials, which can be built out of the coordinates in this equation, the lambda and nu coordinates. But we usually do is we pick a normalized homology basis on the Riemann surface. And the normalization, by the way, is that it's got a cycles and b cycles g of each of them.
00:30:38.948 - 00:31:18.122, Speaker A: And the a's dot with each other to be zero. The b's dot with each other to be zero. And a dot b is, I think it's delta ij. And then corresponding to those a periods, you normalize the holomorphic differentials. So they have, you know, have a delta ij inner product with integrals along the a periods, times, for convenience, sake of convenience, two PI I. And then you take the b periods of those holomorphic differentials. And that's, that gives you a negative def, a matrix, a negative definite real part here.
00:31:18.122 - 00:32:01.654, Speaker A: And that's what makes this rapidly converging as a series. Okay, so you've got a Riemann surface, hyperliptic Riemann surface of genus G. You've picked some basis of homology basis, and you make your hallmark differentials from that. And then what we need, though, is a function that really will solve the ak and s system. And that is was sort of cooked up by and eats and craviato in the 1970s and eighties. And we can pick a unique function by making the following specification. We want a function of lambda.
00:32:01.654 - 00:33:00.754, Speaker A: Well, actually really living on this Riemann surface and of parameters x and t, that's meriamorphic on most, the Riemann surface except for, by the way, this Riemann surface has two points at infinity over complex lambda equals infinity, because lambda equals infinity is not a branch point. So there's two points. And I guess I better stop that. And we pick a divisor on the Riemann surface and ask that the poles of this metamorphic function have be inside that divisor. We prescribe its essential singularities of those two points at infinity, infinity minus infinity plus in a way that depends on x and t. And with all that input, it turns out there we can actually write down a unique way such a function. And it's kind of a nightmare formula.
00:33:00.754 - 00:33:59.094, Speaker A: Its ingredients are that theta function I showed you on the previous slide evaluated at a linear combination of x and t with terms that depend on the obel map. So it's got, it's, as I said, it's a function of x and t and a point on the Riemann surface. And remember, the obelmap is. Can I get out of the comment mode here? Okay, that obl map is what you get when you pick a base point to integrate along a path the holomorphic differential. So that gives you a vector in, in g dimensional complex space. And all of these, all this information anyway, can be determined by doing certain integrals on your Riemann surface. So you bring that package all together and this vector valued function turns out to satisfy the AKNs system for the endode solution that's given by this quotient of theta functions with an exponential factor up front.
00:33:59.094 - 00:34:48.894, Speaker A: So this all kind of comes, you know, off the shelf. And, you know, we've got mathematica code that can just, you know, you can just pick some branch points and it'll do all the integrals. And although I have to say, with mathematics, you have to be really careful, it'll make branch cuts on you that you don't want and then you can just, you know, you've got your NLS solution. Now, we wanted to have something that is periodic at x. So what do you have to do to maintain that? Well, the theta function is two PI periodic in any of the, of its input directions. It's a function of c to the g. So you have to make sure that these v, the coefficients of vector v are rational, are, sorry, rational related numbers.
00:34:48.894 - 00:35:38.704, Speaker A: And this coefficient of x here, that would cause q to be periodic, sorry, quasi periodic. You can actually take care of this by shifting the branch points the left or right in the complex plane. You're actually getting rid of that. So really periodicity of q is just controlled by the components of this vector v, which are related to the b periods of certain abelian differentials on the rheumatoid surface. Once you have that periodic queue, however, you achieve that by choosing your branch points carefully. Then you can try to get a closed VFe solution periodic and x. And how do you do that? Use the Sim formula.
00:35:38.704 - 00:36:25.210, Speaker A: Remember, what you need with that is a fundamental solution matrix for the linear system, for the Akns system. And what you do is, well, for every lambda, there's two points on the Riemann service. So you just evaluate the Baker function at those two points above and below, and they give you the column of the fundamental solution matrix. I mean, you'll have to normalize it. So it starts with the identity, but still, that's how you do it. And when you do that, identification of su two with r three, the sort of the e one component of the curve you get looks like this, right? So this is the ingredients of this. You've got log of the theta function.
00:36:25.210 - 00:37:16.424, Speaker A: The gradient is, you know, the multidirectional gradient in g dimensional space dotted with the derivative of the, of the obel function of the abel map, rather respect to lambda. But the point is, if you want something that's periodic and in, in three dimensional space, now, this is no problem if the theta is already periodic in x. So this will be periodic in x. But you really have to watch out for this linear growth here. This will not be periodic. So you have to make sure that this omega one prime, which is a certain, which is a certain differential called the quasi momentum differential, that you get, again, is uniquely determined by your Riemann surface. You have to make sure that that is evaluated at a point where this numerator is zero.
00:37:16.424 - 00:37:32.704, Speaker A: That's just a polynomial. There'll be a g plus one of those points where you can make sure that this quasi momentum is zero. So that's a necessary condition to get something to get a gamma that is smoothly closed in three dimensional space.
00:38:18.444 - 00:38:20.948, Speaker B: Okay. Can you hear me? Yes.
00:38:21.036 - 00:38:22.276, Speaker A: Yes, we can now.
00:38:22.460 - 00:38:45.624, Speaker B: Okay. Sorry, people. Let's see. Check, check, check. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. We can definitely hear you. Okay, thanks.
00:38:45.784 - 00:38:46.484, Speaker A: Great.
00:38:47.944 - 00:39:21.594, Speaker B: Okay, so, equipment failure in midstream there. Okay, so I was on my way to talking about what do you have to do to get to construct closed solutions from a periodic analyst potential? And what you have to do is make sure that you've chosen a point in the flow k spectrum where the quasi momentum is critical. So omega one primed is zero and also the flow k discriminant.
00:39:23.334 - 00:39:23.846, Speaker A: Is equal.
00:39:23.870 - 00:39:47.914, Speaker B: To plus or minus two. In other words, a periodic point of the flow k spectrum. This is also a zero, the quasi momentum differential. And by the way, this flow k discriminant and quasi momentum function omega one are related by this equation. So when delta is plus or minus two, that's the same as saying that l times omega one is like a multiple of PI.
00:39:49.464 - 00:39:50.244, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:39:52.584 - 00:40:59.898, Speaker B: And as I said, the zeros of the, since, because this relation, the zeros of omega one primed, will occur at corners of the flow k spectrum. So bottom line is, if you have a periodic analyst potential q, that's come from this algebra geometric construction, you have to then make sure that you plug into the Sim formula, a lambda value along the real axis, that is a, a periodic point, and b, also a corner of the spectrum. So maybe at this moment, I'll just go back to this picture just a second. So here we have, here are a bunch of corner points, okay? That are, you know, critical points of the, of the quasi momentum, but they're not periodic points. The periodic points are the ones with these x's. They're not double points. But if we go to the next slide down here, and I don't know why I can't get out of this.
00:40:59.898 - 00:42:08.444, Speaker B: Okay, these ones are both corner points and periodic points. And no wonder that we can plug into the sim formula and they correspond to a closed curve. Okay, how about more examples of satisfying these closure conditions? Well, again, with multiply covered circles, again, taking the length of b two PI for the, for example, the plane wave solution has full k discriminant that has this formula. And the only zero for that, for the quasi momentum is at the, is at the origin in the lambda plane. And that's a double point only when a is chosen to be an integer. So what we get then is a bunch of, when a is an integer m, we get a bunch of multiply covered m times circles, which of course, you know, translate when you move. And each thumb, there's exactly one reconstruction point where we can get a closed curve.
00:42:08.444 - 00:43:33.294, Speaker B: But these multiple covered circles will be important for what Annalisa talks about later because they're kind of our starting point. Remember my picture with the bending the spectrum that I just reshowed? You showed how I desingularized a double covered circle to get a trefoil notch. Okay? That can be done in a more systematic way, in a way that Anneliese will describe. Now, a really interesting family of examples are the genus one potentials where the Riemann surface you use to make the Baker a. Keser construction of an analyst solution is genus one. So in that case, since two g two is the number of simple points or branch points, we have four branch points, lambda one lambda 1 bar lambda two lambda two bars and two critical points where their spines intersect the real axis. Since the theta function only has one scalar input now, plus that exponential out front, the corresponding q's just depend on two linear phases, one in this exponent and one inside the theta function, which for an appropriate choice of branch points can be just a plain elliptic cn function or conoidal potential.
00:43:33.294 - 00:44:56.310, Speaker B: And by the way, the elliptic modulus one uses for that is just determined by this ratio of differences between the branch points. And as I said before, you can actually slide the branch points to the right or left to actually eliminate this e coefficient. So this is automatically so you can easily arrange that this is periodic. And moreover, if you're careful, you can range the branch points so that the double points along the real axis line up with one of the corner points, and so that we actually get a point where you can plug into the sim formula and get a closed curve like the, like the, I guess this is a twof, two five torus knot that we see here. Now, these genus one filaments that you get out of the Sim formula are known as keto filament. So Keta studied back in the eighties solutions of the vortex filament equation that move by a rigid motion, that is, that, you know, up to a slide along the curve, there's a screw motion. That's the general, that'll be a general rigid motion in clinian space.
00:44:56.310 - 00:45:36.304, Speaker B: They move under gamma sub t is kb. That equals a killing field. The restriction of a killing field along the curve plus possibly a tangential component. And they showed that all such curve, all such filaments are center lines for kirchhoff elastic rods. So we saw elastica in one of the talks yesterday. Elastica, of course, are critical points for a Lagrangian where you don't have this torsion term, classical elastica. But if you add in that torsion term, then you get these elastic broad center lines.
00:45:36.304 - 00:46:34.494, Speaker B: David Singer and I showed that for appropriate choices of these constants, these Lagrange multipliers, you can realize all torus knot types through these elastic rod center lines. So here's just a few of them drawn with mathematica. And I should mention that my notation maybe needs a little bit of explanation here. When I write a pair of integers, the first one's always going to be positive and then the second one could be negative or positive. When I'm using that to describe a torus knot type, the first interest, how many times it goes around the torus, the long way. So this is a two, three, or goes around twice. And the second one is how many times you go around the waist of the torus, but with a sign, depending on whether it's left handed or right handed.
00:46:34.494 - 00:47:18.004, Speaker B: So this actually has negative torsion. So it's a minus three, a left handed two, three torus knot, and similar for these, for this one here, whereas this one goes around a right handed way as you go around the torus in a counterclockwise fashion along the long way. And that's why that's called a two seven. And of course, these are mirror images of each other. And David and I showed these that you can kind, kind of tweak the parameters and boundary conditions to achieve an a torus knot type. But more is true than that. Now, these, all these shapes, as you may be able to see from these pictures, especially the overhead view of this one, that they're composed of congruent pieces.
00:47:18.004 - 00:48:01.354, Speaker B: And that's because they come from NLS solutions that are basically made of, out of, that are periodic in x. That means the curvature and torsion are periodic in x. And so this is made up of a bunch of congruent pieces fitted together. So in particular, they all have rotational symmetry. This has threefold rotational symmetry, so it's given by the absolute value of the second integer in this. This is an instance of what's called the elastic rod homotopy. And I will just kind of say this really quickly, since I'm running out of time.
00:48:01.354 - 00:48:57.454, Speaker B: For a fixed symmetry rotational symmetry group, such as, in this case, 120 degree rotational symmetry, there's actually a one parameter family of elastic raw center lines that pass from an unknotted circle to a two negative three, in this case, trefoil knot. And that's accompanied by a deformation of the flow k spectrum for the corresponding cue. So what we want to do in the second part of this talk is sort of drill down into this deformation procedure and actually use it to build filaments of increasingly increasing complex, increasingly complex knot types. And I think I will leave it right there, since it's ten to three.
