00:00:19.620 - 00:01:09.252, Speaker A: Hey, my name is Vasili and I'm going to tell you about the impact liquid staking can have on ethereum security in the age of proof of stake on ethereum. So you can understand where I'm coming from here. I'm CTO of Ptp.org, a pretty prominent staking provider. So we do staking for a long time and pretty good at it. And I'm a co founder of Lido, the leading liquid staking solution on ethereum and tech lead of Lido. Basically Lido is a dao that builds a family of liquid staking protocols starting with ethereum liquid staking protocol.
00:01:09.252 - 00:02:40.096, Speaker A: We have our headquarters on ethereum and that's our main thing that we do. We've got just yesterday we've got about 650,000 stake and we've got nine node operators among the best in the space. And the talk is about from the first principle what's staking, what's liquid staking, how liquid staking impact the security properties of the protocol, what's the solution space to have the best impact and what the end game for Lido? So the staking basically is a crypto economic primitive that's used basically everywhere these days from financial protocols to network protocols, et cetera. And the gist of it, you lock up some capital and you maybe perform some work on behalf of the protocol and maybe you set yourself up for extra risk and in the end you get rewards. The second and third steps are optional. For example in DeFi summer we've seen completely riskless and workless staking like people were locking up USDC and getting some coins in return. So this is optional.
00:02:40.096 - 00:03:38.840, Speaker A: But locking up capital is the core of the staking primitive in protocol, in financial protocols as well as getting rewards. Here I'm talking about the basic staking when the person stake themselves without any delegator or service provider to help them. It's a pretty great primitive as we see it's used everywhere these days. That's because it works. Why? Because the most important thing it does is value alignment. So when you lock your capital it's locked, you can't do anything with it. You want the price of your locked asset to go up so you are value aligned with the protocol where it's the main asset.
00:03:38.840 - 00:04:55.312, Speaker A: That's why staking works. It also can provide direct incentives to work well and direct risk management. So if you are getting rewards on your stake tokens for good work you do, if that works, evaluate properly. The better you do it, the better rewards you get and you can manage your risk if you expose yourself to additional risk, if that's proof of stake consensus protocol, you can run a lot better, you can have more security there, you can have like 24 hours alerts or something to be better at it. You manage risk. The cons are the basic act of staking is allocating capital that locking capital and people who have a lot of capital they don't want to work really their numbers go up and right but a lot of time. The staking vaults are pretty complicated work to do that require skill that require some operational capacity and things like that and this really coincides with a lot of money.
00:04:55.312 - 00:06:08.730, Speaker A: Basically people who are in business of capital allocation do that well, but not other things. So that results in basic staking protocol, in low participation and low quality of this participation. People who stake directly are well, they usually don't when they need to do the work and expose themselves to risks, it's complicated, they don't want to do that and when they do it's often like superb, they not very good at it. Another second order effect is the direct staking is not compatible with DeFi. Tarun wrote a great paper on that about the gist of it that people stake for rewards, that's the economic incentive for them to do it, the rational incentive and when DeFi yields are higher, they stop staking. And for example, network security depends on amount of stake which it does in theorem's case, for example, the success of a network as economic space directly opposes the security of it. So it's not great.
00:06:08.730 - 00:07:05.912, Speaker A: So the next step in evolution of staking protocol maybe not evolution, that's development probably it's not simply better, it's just how things are. Mostly done right now is delegation where people lock up capital but delegate the work and the risks to some other person like not operator, professional, staking provider, a manager or something. So they are keeping getting rewards and the delegate takes some fee. The pros of this is it's much easier, it's just better product. People delegate when they can in general, because staking is hard, when there is some work involved, it's hard. People don't want to work, they won't find someone to work for them. So that's what delegation is.
00:07:05.912 - 00:08:23.700, Speaker A: And it's much easier and cheaper for Stakers and it has steel value alignment because you're still locking up capital and you are stuck with it and you want your numbers go up and that results in more capital. Staked and the work is performed better because it's performed by professionals and that resulted in emergent staking provider community. That had been a very good thing for the industry, in my opinion. The problems here is the first most important one is principal agent problem. So we have a principal, a person who stakes the capital, and an agent, a staking provider who works but has much less risk and much less is much less directly aligned with a staker here. The risk management is also delegated, which is not great for the network generally, and it still doesn't have a good compatibility with DeFi. And another thing that is less often talked about is that in delegation there is a natural centralization drive that is completely rational because it's basically the route of prisoner's dilemma.
00:08:23.700 - 00:09:15.860, Speaker A: So when you stake with a delegate you can choose the best delegate, you know, who gets the most rewards and has the least risk out of all. And if you do that, you maximize your own rewards, you minimize your own risk, but you centralize the network. Because if there is obviously best not operator, everyone who does that will stake with them and the stake will be centralized. That's often. Not very often. Sometimes it's not a problem when for example staking doesn't require well, doesn't is not a prerequisite for security of the network. But very often decentralization of stake is desired in protocol.
00:09:15.860 - 00:10:17.480, Speaker A: Or you can comply, you can distribute a stake to subpar, maybe not super, maybe good, but second place, third place like 10th place, not apparatus. You take on more risk and you get less rewards, but you make my network a bit better, a bit more decentralized. The saving grace here in most protocol is that stake providers are not very differentiated. So there is no clear best one and that results in somewhat decentralized stake. So it's a weak form of the game, but it is there. So what's liquid staking? Liquid staking is taking the first point of staking the locking up capital out of a caution. When you stock an ice, a staking position, you stake, you lock up capital, but you get a voucher in return that corresponds to your share, to your staking position.
00:10:17.480 - 00:11:11.770, Speaker A: And you can trade it, you can lock it, you can transfer it, use it in DeFi, whatever you want. It means that your capital is no longer locked. So it runs counter to the basic mechanism in some forms. But it's just a better product for people because unlocking staking capital, making it productive is very desirable for people. So the pros of liquid staking is that is DeFi compatible. It's got lower drive for centralization at a staking level. That means that when you're liquid staking protocol provider or not necessary protocol, you can distribute your stake because you're so big that you can coordinate yourself in prison dilemma and comply by yourself.
00:11:11.770 - 00:11:59.240, Speaker A: There is some steel value alignment and even more stake is locked, which is usually good. The cons here is that liquid staking usually has winatex all dynamics. The reason is liquid staking is not again not very differentiated. If there are multiple liquid staking products, they are similar or very similar. And the only real differential qualities there are fees that are easily to that come into equilibrium eventually and liquidity and liquidity begets liquidity. So it's a positive feedback loop. People use a liquid staking derivative because it's the most liquid and it becomes more liquid in that process.
00:11:59.240 - 00:12:39.872, Speaker A: And the next person also select that staking radioactive. So there is positive feedback loop. That means that liquid staking will eventually win the tax most market and principal engine problem is amplified here. So we have a user that has capital the staker and we have liquid staking protocol that is an agent of the user. And that liquid staking protocol delegates the stake to a node operator. So we have two levels of indirect alignment and that is often a problem. Delegations are inevitable and liquid staking is inevitable.
00:12:39.872 - 00:13:53.688, Speaker A: It's so much better the product for people that it will happen no matter what. The regular staking doesn't have a chance in capturing most stake. We can compare an impossible solution of people who stake on their own laptops or some of that, but that's not going to happen. The space of outcomes here is very limited to solution that have some form of liquid staking and some form of liquidation because that's the natural market driven force here and you can't really fight that in protocol. That's a common theme with naive staking protocols of 2017 18 before Cosmas and Teslas came out, that made a lot of in protocol decisions to align stakers with users or the note operators and to limit how staking can be done. The thing is, protocol is not self contained. The best example of liquid is the most prominent, the most widespread liquid staking available right now is liquid staking on exchanges.
00:13:53.688 - 00:14:45.660, Speaker A: It happens right now forever staking coin in existence, including ethereum. People are trusting their capital to a custodial exchange and exchange stakes it and circumvents any in protocol restrictions. The good example is for example in Tezos there is a self bond mechanism. That means that staking provider, in order to serve the clients, they have to put up a self bond, their own bond, their own money that will get slashed if they get slashed. So they get the first order consequences of their own misbehavior. It's been shortened the lack of independent note operators because not operators are usually not very rich, they don't have a lot of self bond. But exchanger that's five lines of code for them.
00:14:45.660 - 00:15:50.380, Speaker A: They are complete control of user funds. They use users funds as self bond and they are in much better position in the results. So when design staking protocols or working with staking protocols, you have to think how out of protocol solution like custodial or threshold signature decentralized solution will work with that. So that's how ethereum stake distribution looks right now. The biggest known blob that is known to us in staking is E. You can see that's exchanges that's Kraken takes like 12% of stake single handedly and that's the result of the drive to have a liquid staking derivative and delegation the feature that lack from basic ethereum protocol. So what we got to choose here is the flavor of liquid staking we're getting and how we get there.
00:15:50.380 - 00:17:00.660, Speaker A: And that's not a trivial thing to decide. So what's the decision space? The protocol can be custodial or noncustodial custodial like changes or noncustodial like decentralized in some form like smart contract ethereum or throw chain like protocol or something like that. It can be in protocol developed, for example, for ethereum it can be developed a smart contract or it can be out of protocol like custodial liquid technical TSS based solution like Renault thought chain. Again it can be mutable or governable mutable in some form permissionless for not operators or gated and node operators can be bonded or unbonded. Some flavors are very clearly better than others for the protocol. I mean for example noncustodial is no brainer and it should be in protocol. But best flavors are expensive, the more not operators you have, the more expensive is to run them.
00:17:00.660 - 00:18:00.230, Speaker A: Decentralized protocol require more research and development than regular code on enclosed network that is extended on to the rest. It's more expensive to run. There is less revenue usually in noncustodial solution because custodial solution can have a lot of vertically integrated stack like they get staking fees and trading fees and trading fees are so much more than rewards usually. So there is just more money to be had by exchanges here. It's slower to move, there is more risk. Smart contract risk is not negligible and less capital efficiency in case of bond. The good thing is many expenses are flat, not scaled so they can be sucked up by a sufficiently rich project and some other can be scaled along with the amount of money available to the protocol.
00:18:00.230 - 00:19:54.854, Speaker A: What is my opinion is the best option here? I think the best option for liquid staking protocol that can eventually be the winnertex most we know that wintex most Nemex is noncustodial in protocol, mostly immutable and mostly permissionless and mostly unborn protocol. The reason for that is well noncustodial and protocol is no brainer. It's pretty clear that to be aligned with ethereum, for example ethereum liquid staking protocol should be noncustodial and protocol. I don't think that fully immutable solution is possible here because the base layer is mutable is governable and its upgrades but the mutability and governance can be very much limited by time logs, by some voting wakes or something like that. So it can be not immutable, but the changes can be telegraphed along the way and people will have the chance to opt out. Mostly permissionless, because, again, I don't believe in fully permissionless protocol here because the staking is where the crypto economics touch the mid space and midspace is by the not operators are the most important thing in liquid staking protocol in any staking protocol, and it's very hard to choose them for value alignment, et cetera. So I think that there will be some slightly gated form of admissibility for not operators and mostly unbundled, because bonding is very capital inefficient protocol that has a full bonding.
00:19:54.854 - 00:20:47.030, Speaker A: They can't win because they can't grow. And that means that some other liquid syncing solution will grow faster. And the win and tax mode dynamics means that if you don't grow fast enough, you're out competed. So how can LiDAR get this to the point? The good thing if it does it has the budget to cover most of these expenses. All of them the leading liquid staking protocol, a lot of inefficiency because its main mode liquidity and integrations. And it can afford to be wasteful, basically in decentralization. Decentralization is not cheap.
00:20:47.030 - 00:22:00.830, Speaker A: It should ossify as ethereum staking protocol ossifies. Right now it's changing right under us, so there is no option for that. But in a year, two or maybe three, the idiom staking will be probably more defined and less prone to changes. The decentralization must improve mostly in form of getting more not operators and the better protocol for not operation and for admission of not operators and reducing the governance power of LiDAR over liquid staking and shift most of that power to stakers themselves, including operator selection. And there are concrete steps we take in this regard. We switched our threshold signature based withdrawal credentials to smart contract on the execution layer of ethereum and all new deposits are fully non custodial since a few days ago. We are running a second round of Validated expansion.
00:22:00.830 - 00:22:56.530, Speaker A: To should start any day now, working with secret shared validators team to introduce SSV to Lido eventually. And we are committing to governance minimization when it's feasible at all. And what can stakers do here? So the good thing about staking is that stakers are the main force in the protocol. They are owners of capital. They not only have a say in public spaces and Twitter or something, they can vote with their capital. If you like a protocol, you can stake with that protocol, you can stake yourself. That's your political gesture and push for the best possible result versus the best impossible.
00:22:56.530 - 00:23:47.998, Speaker A: So that's how I see the impact of liquid staking on ethereum. Thank you. Any questions? Can you talk a little bit about mev? Sure. Can you talk a little bit about mev in the Lido protocol? Yeah. So the mev part is actually pretty simple here. So unlike with miners, the stakers decide what happens with me. The ethereum holders basically decide what happens with mev when there are multiple liquid staking pools or just staking pools.
00:23:47.998 - 00:25:10.110, Speaker A: The ones that on one hand provides additional profit to the stakers in form of community instruction, on the other hand, do it in a way that doesn't hurt the network very much or doesn't hurt the network at all. They will attract more stakers because stakers want their network healthy and they want to take a profit. So there is only one stable point in this decision space where staking pool exacts mev, but not in a bad way, right? And distributed mostly to stakers on practicalities of that. I think that it's going to be like staking pools will outsource the extraction like miners do right now with Flashbots. And it's probably going to be Flashbots, honestly, because the extraction itself is a core competency for these groups that a lot of people just don't possess. It's just a combination of being very smart and not sleeping for three months straight that most people can do. Right? So it has to be outsourced because it's a very difficult field operation.
00:25:10.110 - 00:25:52.320, Speaker A: Okay. Looks like that's it. Thank you. Coming? Yeah.
