00:00:07.290 - 00:00:35.522, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Stan Lee. I'm from Gnosis Chain. Specifically Gnosis Builders ecosystem builder team for Gnosis. Today I'll just be going through the what, why and how of Nosischain. So yeah, like just the firstly to introduce the prizes we have for E Waterloo. So we'll be awarding a total of 20,000 USD for the use of nosis chain.
00:00:35.522 - 00:01:15.938, Speaker A: So we have in addition to our gold, silver and bronze price, we also have different tracks. So best AI project on we also have best project on Hashi. And lastly, best project on safe. Yep. So I'll just be going through what is nosis chain, why and how and also going through a bit on what's nosis builders and at the last I will just introduce hashi. So what is nosis chain? So nosis chain is a level one proof of stake based EVM compatible chain. So it utilizes a dual token system.
00:01:15.938 - 00:02:02.670, Speaker A: So for Xdai for gas fees and GNO for staking. So the XDI token is a USD pack token. So it's a stable coin that is derived from die on ethereum. So that makes it possible for the transactions to be very cheap because with $100 you can perform as many as 100,000 transactions or more. And for nosis chain, it's also community powered and developer focused, so anyone in the world can become a validator on a chain. So the goal, what's the mission of Nosischain? So, Nosischain aims to be the most decentralized blockchain. We already have the tools actually to measure the level of decentralization as shown as the screenshot.
00:02:02.670 - 00:03:03.266, Speaker A: And why nosis chain is most suitable for this goal is currently because we have over 129,000 validators and it's still growing every day. And the barrier of entry to become a validator in nosis chain is very low. So one GNO is all you need compared to like 32 if for Ethereum. And nosis chain also tries to be accessible for user types through like a straightforward user onboarding experience. So the key priorities of nosis chain is, like I say, decentralization. We want to have a resilient backbone for Nosischain and we also want to have an intuitive validator experience for anyone who wants to come and validate for Nosischain. And we also provide a seamless and accessible onboarding process for users into the Nosischain ecosystem.
00:03:03.266 - 00:04:04.490, Speaker A: And lastly, we also have a growing ecosystem of tools and infrastructure to support DApps, DAOs and et cetera on Nosischain. So just to introduce what is noisy chain, I'll just go through why. So noisy chain. With over 129,000 validators, it is the third most decentralized chain. So after bitcoin and ethereum and our speed noisy chain is fast with a rich block time of 5 seconds. And getting started with nosis chain is innovative and cheap because we have affordable transaction costs. And lastly, because fees are in XD stablecoin, nosis chain is stable gas transaction because the cost is not susceptible to market volatility.
00:04:04.490 - 00:04:55.850, Speaker A: So this is the current state for nosis chain. So these data derived from nosis metrics. So we have 237,000 active accounts with over 5 million transactions and 129,000 validators with $14.9 million in total deposited USD. And for validators who are validating for nosis chain USA have a yield of 14.6%. So this is another incentive for validators who want to validate for Nosischain. So why developers choose noisy chain? Because it's user friendly and nodded chain is accessible for everyone and anyone can actually interact with your project easily.
00:04:55.850 - 00:05:40.410, Speaker A: It has also a strong ecosystem of budding ecosystem of exciting projects, tools and resources. And we also have a grants program by Gnosis Builders so we also allow public good projects to apply for ecosystem grants. And through Gnosis Builders we also provide project support. So projects built with Nosischain can actually hit us up and you can receive support for marketing, liquidity networking and more from the nosis Builders team. So this is a summary of our ecosystem at a glance. So this was taken in December. So from then we are still growing.
00:05:40.410 - 00:06:37.690, Speaker A: So I'll just go through how to build for chain. So nosis chain is an EVM compatible chain. So anything that you have developed, for example smart contracts that we developed for like Ethereum can be easily ported over to those chain. You just have to check out these operacy endpoints and alternatively you also can also auto config your MetaMask wallet by going to this chain list where we have like a one link setup. All of this information will be available in the Docs or so this is just for your consideration. And like I mentioned, Noisy Chain is 100% EVM compatible. Means you can actually use all of the DF tools, development tools that you use on Ethereum on nosis chain without changing anything.
00:06:37.690 - 00:07:21.386, Speaker A: In fact, you can take a smart contribute for Ethereum and deploy nosis chain without much hassle. So here are the useful resources for Nosischain. So we have the first is the Gnosis IO so it's the main website and provides a quick overview of the Gnosis chain. We also have Docs Nosischain.com so it's the entry point for all documentation for Nosischain and Gnosis wallets will just list the support wallets for Nosischain. Gnosis Faucet will allow developers like you to actually get a small amount of XDI to deploy your projects. And yeah, for users who would like to validate for Nosischain, after this hackathon you can actually visit validatenosis.com
00:07:21.386 - 00:08:19.050, Speaker A: and we have an interface for you to actually learn on how to validate for Nosischain. So yeah, I'm going to just go through like a quick overview of what's Nosys Builders so I'm from nosis Builders so we actually provide tools for users and developers to get on board on Nosischain. So yeah, our tools are on nosis Builders tools and we also have useful information for developers, users, validators and we also have committee events and all of these are here and all of you can check out. And for projects who would like to collaborate with us, you can actually reach us out and we will try to meet with you and provide as much support as possible. So let's switch gears. Today. I'll also be going through hashi.
00:08:19.050 - 00:09:29.486, Speaker A: So Hashi is a new project launched by nosis Guild, which is a cross chain protocol based on additive security. So Hashi is the hash Oracle aggregator for cross chain communication based on additive security. So multiple inputs and multiple oracles. So at its core, Hashi is a hash Oracle aggregator and it allows developers to build what Oren calls Ryho. So reduce an array of hash Oracles. So the main goal here is to distribute trust for bridges on the mechanism level, where essentially you don't have to trust a particular individual bridge mechanism and allow users to set up a layer of independency for their systems. So why hashi? So Hashi was created by the Gnosis Q team because there were many security incidents involving security incidents related to breach exploits.
00:09:29.486 - 00:10:31.234, Speaker A: So in 2022, there's more than $2 billion worth of tokens that are lost due to breach related exploits. So four of the five top exploits on the Rec News leaderboard are all related to breach. And because of this, there's no single breach implementation that is 100% secure. So we shouldn't building security, we should not be building security critical systems that solely depend on them. And at bridge designs have also some trade offs, whether it might be due to cost security or auditability. And most important thing to take away is that systems built on top of bridges get hacked and get exploited because they are put all their trust into individual bridges that eventually get exploited. So for Hashi, essentially what we want to standardize at the lowest level, which is the block header.
00:10:31.234 - 00:11:19.158, Speaker A: So in addition, we want to be modular and agnostic to the underlying mechanisms by implementing Ryho. So what Riho is, is a redundant array of hash oracles. So let's say you have a critical piece of data, you will not want to save only this data on a piece of hard drive. So ideally you want to create multiple backups of this or you can create a rate. So in a computer terms, you'll be redundant array of inexpensive disks and so where you have multiple disks running in parallel. So if in a case that any data is lost, you will actually not lose any data. So like any redundant systems, rate can also have its own trade off.
00:11:19.158 - 00:12:15.842, Speaker A: So in terms of speed versus cost versus redundancy, so Hashi system is like sort of rate, but for bridge oracles. So in Hashi, we decided to optimize for security over costs and speed. So Hashi will only move as fast as the slowest Oracle, since multiple bridge oracles will have to report the same hash in order to consider the hash valid. Because of this robustness and security is definitely going to improve, but at an expense of cost and speed. So here are the main components that the team has built and at the same time we're also looking for other people to others to build as well. So we are very interested in applications such as token bridges, government bridges and NFT bridges. I'll just go through the architectural overview of hashi.
00:12:15.842 - 00:13:25.790, Speaker A: So on the left hand side, starting from canonical example, we have a token bridge contract that wants to ultimately mean tokens at the destination chain. So on the source train it's going to send a message to the storage and that message is going to be reported to a variety of different mechanisms into the destination chain. So in this case you can see that we have this EMD reporter and woman reporter that's reporting to a variety of mechanisms into the destination chain. So at the destination chain each of these mechanisms is going to essentially validate the message independently and the results from each mechanism is going to be aggregated by hashi. So hashi will be at the end here. So the token bridge control will actually ultimately request from hashi using a hash that's associated either with the message ID or block ID. And if they all agree with each other it will then allow tokens to be minted on the destination chain.
00:13:25.790 - 00:15:00.166, Speaker A: The core contracts for hashi is kind of stateless and very unoppinated way of querying for multiple Oracle adapters. And Girigiri bashi is a kind of governable extension to hashi that allows you to have an ownable contract where you can define explicitly which set of adapters must agree for a given hash for the system connected to consider it valid. So systems built on top of this will also want to leverage things like storage proofs reporter contracts for broadcasting and then executing messages based on the hash and then relayers for listening to events on the origin chain and reporting hashes or triggering corresponding destination chain. So for hackers who like to build with hashi, so what to build with hashi? So we like to see people working on its adapters, so preferably a ZK like clan based one and we love to see kind of optimistic bridge and community based bridges. So diversity is kind of the key here and we also love to see contracts that check for local proofs for some events or storage on the origin chain. We also like to see alternate implementations of Girigiri bashi. So right now it's a relatively kind of simple aggregation rule and we like to see different governance rules or different aggregation rules.
00:15:00.166 - 00:15:52.540, Speaker A: And lastly, we love to see things built on top of hashi so like token bridges, NFT bridges, government bridges or other novel things that we are not thinking about. So here are the resources for hashi we have the singular repository in GitHub where you find all the information that is related and get you started. And the Gnosis guild team has already implemented adapters for Gnosis EMB wormpole and connects and we also have deployed the contracts on girly chado and yeah, just to summarize again, these are the prizes that we are giving out. So that would be it. Thank you for this are listening and all the best.
