00:00:00.570 - 00:01:05.060, Speaker A: What is up, you beautiful people? Welcome back to the Built on Bitcoin podcast, where we're covering everything going on in the stacks ecosystem. I'm your host, Jake. You'll see me around as Jake blockchain on the interwebs. And yeah, today we have another of this Stacks grant series videos where I've been interviewing past grant recipients, or just talking of people in that ecosystem and trying to get people to apply to more grants, because the foundation is doing fantastic work trying to foster adoption of stacks support people that are building. And so I'm trying to help you guys become more aware of some of the things that they offer and what people have built and how the process was, because it's not as scary as some people might think it is, like I thought it was initially. So with that said, today we have two wonderful people from the foundation, Jenny and Will. They are the grants program manager and ecosystems development lead.
00:01:05.060 - 00:01:36.730, Speaker A: And yeah, they have a ton of changes coming to the grants program. They're going to onboard some new roles to help going forward on how grants get approved. Fostered a bunch. There's a ton going on, so I don't want to give too much in this intro. We cover a ton in this talk and. Yeah, so let's just jump into it with this conversation with Will and Jenny from the Stacks foundation.
00:01:42.210 - 00:01:44.990, Speaker B: Welcome to built on bitcoin.
00:01:50.770 - 00:02:07.430, Speaker A: So, Will and Jenny, pleasure to have you guys here. I'm super excited for this one. Crypto's been falling off a cliff lately, and some people are freaking the f out and others just kind of being heads down building. How are you guys feeling in this kind of, like, crazy time right now? Maybe we could start with you, Jenny.
00:02:08.650 - 00:02:39.006, Speaker B: I feel fine. I didn't even know it was happening. I know it's happening. It's just never been my thing to care that much about how the market. I mean, obviously I'm excited when I see stacks in all time high, but that's for obvious reasons. I think I've been trained well to ignore market trends and to keep building because it's already so busy and exciting building with people. I don't want to add the stress of caring about the market, too.
00:02:39.006 - 00:02:44.754, Speaker B: That makes any sense. It's a very simple reason. I'm just like, oh, I just try not to care about that stuff.
00:02:44.952 - 00:02:46.980, Speaker A: Yeah. What about you, will?
00:02:47.750 - 00:03:29.920, Speaker C: Yeah, I suppose I'm on that side, too. I don't really think about it. I mean, of course I look at it and it gets to me, but really, it's just about keeping building and I don't know, I feel like having gone through in my professional life, like gone through 911, gone through the 2008 crash, sometimes, you know, when it's really bad and then there's just other times when it's kind of bad and you just got to keep working then. Otherwise you're going to be really in a bad position if you let it get to you and you just stop moving forward.
00:03:30.930 - 00:03:57.330, Speaker A: Yeah, I know. I can't tell if it's like being blessed to work in stacks where the builder ethos is so strong and I'm just like, I'm unfazed at all by it. I'm just going to keep doing this podcast and talking to cool people. And just as what it is, it hasn't changed at one iota, but I see my timeline and I'm like, okay, that person's going off a cliff, that person's crying. There's all kinds of different variables. I just want to get pulsed on it. So it's cool that we're all kind of in the same page.
00:03:57.500 - 00:04:33.700, Speaker C: We seem to have so much more analytics at our grasp, and so you can really doom, scroll through a bunch of charts and convince yourself that things are really getting ugly. And yeah, there's some very concerning market conditions going on at a macro level and I think just coming out of COVID in general or coming through Covid, but yeah, it's beyond my control, so I really can't do anything about it.
00:04:34.230 - 00:04:41.320, Speaker A: 100%. Okay, well, curious, because lots of people know you. You guys are like kind of staples in the.
00:04:42.250 - 00:04:43.400, Speaker B: Oh, thank you.
00:04:44.250 - 00:04:54.218, Speaker A: For sure. That's putting it lightly. But I'm curious about a little bit of your background. Before you got into crypto, what did you guys do before you landed here?
00:04:54.384 - 00:04:56.780, Speaker C: I want to start with Jenny because I don't even know.
00:04:58.830 - 00:05:00.438, Speaker A: Here we go. Details.
00:05:00.614 - 00:05:28.714, Speaker B: I don't think that there was life before this. No, I'm. No, I think like a lot of people in crypto, I obviously didn't study this, didn't really work in this for a long time. Before landing in this in college and grad school, I studied philosophy and public policy. I was going to go into academia. I thought about getting my phd in philosophy, which is really not where I'm going now, really not what I'm doing now. And before the SAC Foundation, I worked for blocksack, which is now hero systems.
00:05:28.714 - 00:06:07.682, Speaker B: And before that I worked at a coding boot camp called was actually, that was like my first sort of foray into tech, and it was a really good soft intro to tech. Because I was working with people who were learning software engineering. So I got a lot of time to get ramped up within a matter of months. I wasn't really afraid of talking about technical things, not that I was afraid before, but it is intimidating. If you don't have a technical background, suddenly people are talking about programming languages. It just sounds like they're listing off a bunch of rocket parts in the first month. But that really gave me a lot of confidence in tech in general.
00:06:07.682 - 00:06:55.954, Speaker B: And I think through that, seeing all the different places that software engineers could work made me realize how much I wanted to work in emerging tech. So I was interested in AI, did a little bit of learning on my own with deep learning, but was also interested in blockchain. And I think that I moved away from the AI sort of sector because the barriers to entry are so high, whereas when you look at blockchain, industry and crypto, it was so much more accessible. It was friendlier, to be honest, a lot of the podcasts I listened to early in my time of researching, there were a lot of women on the podcast. So it felt like a more promising opportunity for me. So I just did a lot of reading. And at that time, this was 2017, so it wasn't that long ago, but at that time, the content out there was so shitty too.
00:06:55.954 - 00:07:08.360, Speaker B: So I had to really dig. So I feel like I put in some work to at least get a fundamental understanding. And I applied to blocksack and the rest is history.
00:07:09.130 - 00:08:01.398, Speaker C: Yeah, I guess also came at this from a point of view where I was not trained to be in this world. I was involved in architecture for 20 years, and I've had a chance to sort of throughout that period of time, I was practicing architecture in a lot of different ways on different points of that landscape. So at one point I was doing advanced digital design at a large multinational firm. That's when I started programming and got really into interoperability and advanced modeling and simulation. It was in the lead up to the eight crash, and there was this kind of like arms race between the different firms in terms of what services they could provide. And we almost had this startup within this large firm called Som. They did like the Freedom Tower and Sears Tower and stuff like that.
00:08:01.398 - 00:09:12.214, Speaker C: So I got all working on a lot of really cool buildings, but I was sort of felt disconnected from being an architect and doing there's sort of this capital a architect where you're more in this well rounded, traditional sense, I suppose. And I wanted to go and do that. So I actually got into design build back in New York, and that's where you're simultaneously the construction manager and the architect on the same project. So I spent a lot of time on job sites and working with a lot of different trades and being able to talk to a lot of different audiences on the same day about the same thing in very different ways. And so, yeah, I mean, architecture is like 50% designing buildings and 50% designing the documents that communicate those buildings to people, whether it be like a spreadsheet or a set of construction drawings or a virtual reality model, like an immersive model. So you get to experience a lot of different mediums, and you're just always iterating and always trying to refine ideas and facilitating the creative process. And that's what I loved.
00:09:12.214 - 00:10:24.590, Speaker C: I knew that I wanted to get into tech because my partner, she's a front end engineer at Hero, actually, and she used to be an architect and went through a similar transition where I guess that the more contemporary ways of getting work done is aligned with a lot of people in architecture, where they come from a very computer centric world, the way that they learn. But then you kind of smash that up against the construction industry, which is still using fax machines and scribbling on drywall to put together a Home Depot run order or something like that. And so there's a lot of friction there. And so at one point in know, she just wanted to cut that free and get into technology. And I've just been learning vicariously through her process. And then she came across this lecture by munib, and we both kind of went down the rabbit hole together of falling in love with stacks orange, pilling on bitcoin. And then that really just kind of like, philosophical shift in the way that you think about value and money and your time.
00:10:24.590 - 00:10:40.140, Speaker C: I just, just had to walk away from architecture, and luckily I came across this great job post on Twitter that Brittany put up originally and then had my first interview with Jenny, and luckily things clicked and the rest is history.
00:10:41.390 - 00:11:07.170, Speaker A: I love it. Yeah, especially your story is cool, because I think a lot of people calcify their knowledge base and they just like, they do what they do and they get comfortable, and that's kind of like you're stuck there. And so making that jump. I mean, it had to be scary at some point, but how was the transition initially when you were kind of thinking about it to talking with Jenny and saying yes, it was more the.
00:11:07.240 - 00:11:38.886, Speaker C: Convincing that it took to just finally quit the profession. Architecture is very deadline driven profession. It's also a team, and I was leading teams, know close with all the people that I worked with. And so you want them to be successful, and you kind of, like, get the thrill of meeting the deadline and designing a cool building and seeing the built and all that stuff. But it's extremely exhausting. And looking back on it from the point of view that I have now, the incentives are very misaligned. It's very extractive.
00:11:38.886 - 00:12:17.590, Speaker C: It's a total zero sum game in terms of the winners and the losers on that. So, anyway, there was periods where you're really happy and really satisfied, and it's intellectually stimulating, but then there's periods where it's just like, you can't do it anymore. So, anyway, it took a lot of convincing to finally walk away from it and take the first step into the unknown. Taking the job, that was a no brainer. It was quitting the old job that took years of convincing to do it.
00:12:17.740 - 00:12:49.458, Speaker A: Got it. Okay. Well, yeah, I think seeing you, it's cool because I've only been here for six months, but I feel like I've experienced so much already because of how fast crypto moves. But seeing how fast you jumped in and you really seem like you're a natural fit. You're almost like a marketing team now on Twitter, and you're interacting on the discord. Will is everywhere. So from the outsider, you've been a crucial piece that's really helping the interface between the grants program and the public more broadly, which has been cool to see.
00:12:49.458 - 00:12:58.340, Speaker A: But I'm curious. We somewhat know what the stacks foundation does to kind of support the blockchain. What does an average day look like for you guys?
00:12:59.030 - 00:13:27.818, Speaker B: I can start. Well, first, like, on the question of what the foundation does, I think our purview is really broad, and that's really awesome. But also, sometimes it can be really confusing for a decentralized ecosystem. Right. But I think the best way to sum up what we do is that we enable people to build on stacks, and that can mean something very literal. Right. We have the grants program, we have, like, the residents program, and we literally fund people to build things on stacks.
00:13:27.818 - 00:14:14.454, Speaker B: But then you also have the work that the foundation does to make stacks more accessible to people around the world. But I think at the core of what we do is always just empowering people to be able to contribute. Not everyone's technical, right? But I think that we really operate on the belief that everyone can contribute something of value, create value, and distribute that value in this ecosystem. That's the great thing about this technology. And I think we're constantly on top of just funding the builders that are in front of us. I think we're also trying to constantly find ways to surface new contributors, maybe people who didn't think that they could contribute to stacks in meaningful ways before. What are programs and initiatives that we can come up with that educate those folks, that build them up to a point where they're confident in contributing? There are a lot of calls involved, but there's also a lot of strategy.
00:14:14.454 - 00:15:00.774, Speaker B: There's also, like, a lot of tactical stuff, right? Will knows this now as the grants program manager, but it can be really exhausting because you're talking to people for hours every day, but you also get to talk to really brilliant people. You're working so closely with them to pull out that gold in a list of ideas so someone can come to us and be like, I want to build this. I have this idea. I'm just not really sure how to approach it. And you get to have an hour long conversation about, like, well, this is maybe a six month project, but maybe in the next month you can do this thing, and that's going to be incredibly valuable to developers. So I don't know if that really answers the question of what a day looks like, but that's what a day seems like to me. It's like switching from program management to community relationship building to looking at partnership opportunities.
00:15:00.774 - 00:15:06.800, Speaker B: Just anything that will help community members build and contribute to stacks is what the foundation is about.
00:15:07.570 - 00:15:12.240, Speaker A: Okay, I have some follow up questions, but first I'd like to hear your thoughts. Will, how's it been for you?
00:15:12.790 - 00:16:35.174, Speaker C: It's been great. It's simultaneously, you're a team, but there's complete autonomy, and every member of the staff is, first of all, they're amazing, they're awesome, they're a lot of fun to work with. And there's very little in terms of hierarchy, and there's zero kind of like, sense of territorial protectionism that comes along with a lot of work environments. And so you have people that are just naturally inclined to want to move in a certain direction. And it's kind of like everyone, like vector math. So vectors are described by their direction and their magnitude, and so we all kind of have our own direction that we're going, and our own magnitude is based off of our passion, and then the resultant vector is the direction that the whole ecosystem is going. And the really fun thing is, trying to empathize with what the community wants is always a constant part of the conversations.
00:16:35.174 - 00:17:39.600, Speaker C: It's kind of like what is it, the twelveth man? When you see in a football game, they're not on the field necessarily or on the Zoom call, but they're always there in terms of the influence that they're going to have that they would want for the good of the community is kind of always in the back of your mind. But, yeah, I mean, there's people that are focused on growth, on education, on developer advocacy. You obviously have amazing core developers. Jude, Jesse, Marvin, that you're working with, and Kenny now Alejandro. And then, you know, you have Brittany and Mitchell, which are really sort of integral in leadership and partnerships. And Louise and Jenny and Shannon and Caitlin are sort of running point with a ton of different programs, comms and social outreach and events and, geez, I really hope I didn't leave anyone out. Yeah, everyone just is a joy to work with, and it's been a lot of fun.
00:17:40.130 - 00:18:04.118, Speaker A: Very cool. First of all, thank you for saying vector math and then describing it, because I for sure don't know what that means, but now I'm a little more big. Smile, just like a, yeah, just nod your head degree. But no, you got to be the dumb one in the room. Ask the question. But you followed it up with the how and the what. Okay, that's interesting.
00:18:04.118 - 00:18:50.082, Speaker A: You did say one of the beautiful things about it is that you guys are a team, but there's also autonomy. And I know trying to community organize in some small fashion in the ways that I have, that's the tricky thing with decentralization, is that it's hierarchical lists, so it's very flat, and everyone has their own itch to scratch, which curiosity is the best driver and fuel. So let them go. But then reining people in is very weird to do with this decentralization. How do you guys balance that? I'm sure you have a mission statement or some directed goals, but how do you let people go, but then also rein them in or police each other in that sense as a foundation?
00:18:50.226 - 00:19:20.762, Speaker B: That's an interesting question. Language is interesting, too, I think. Well, first, the foundation's philosophy on all this is really interesting. We figured this out pretty early on as a team. When we finally found the language for it, I think it was like a big aha. Moment for everybody. But in terms of hierarchy, and this is like, one of the first things I told Will, is that not in order to work at the foundation, but everybody who works at the foundation isn't necessarily interested in that traditional management hierarchy.
00:19:20.762 - 00:20:08.238, Speaker B: All of us are very much not interested in managing people. If anything, we're just interested in managing programs and initiatives. So will mentioned direction and magnitude, and your passion being correlated to that magnitude. I think that's what's really fun. And what you're really grateful for in the beginning of the foundation is there are going to be so many things that you're good at, but the thing that you're going to be able to contribute most to the community is the thing that you're passionate about. So will and I have been really passionate about empowering people to build. So let's turn that we have a grants program, which is a standard grants program in a lot of ways, but because we know community members really well, we get to tweak the program in ways that we think will be helpful to the community.
00:20:08.238 - 00:20:54.954, Speaker B: The residence program, for example. There are so many community ogs that for years I've just been like, how do we get you to work full time on this thing? This is so cool. We've been talking about this idea for so long. How can we support you in a way where you can just go heads down and focus on this for a whole year? And then at the foundation, because there's so much autonomy and there's so much trust, you can just say, like, does a residence program sound good? And everyone's like, yeah, what would that entail? It's a really high trust environment, and I think that's probably one of the key things about how we operate. I don't think that you could do that without trust. And it's funny to say that, because in a decentralized ecosystem, it's a little bit about removing that factor of trust. But right now, it's like a really critical element to decentralizing correctly.
00:20:54.954 - 00:21:32.166, Speaker B: So with that model, I would say that it's important for us to experiment with that. This idea that you're managing programs, initiatives, not people, to take that to the community, right. It forces you to take your ego out of it. So when we're thinking about what the community wants, it's not like, oh, this is what I think the community wants, but secretly it's what I want for the community. It's literally being like, in a year's time from now, I might not be here. How can I set this program up so that community members can run it for themselves? And not just run it, but pay themselves, be happy running it themselves. So it's lots of really interesting thought experiments.
00:21:32.166 - 00:21:39.020, Speaker B: You really have to take your ego out of it. You're not managing people, you're managing programs. Yeah, those are some key takeaways. For me.
00:21:39.390 - 00:22:13.190, Speaker A: Okay, that's interesting. Yeah, it kind of sounds too like the ethos in tech is kind of like, move fast and break things. And so there's a comfortability with just experimentation. And you guys are doing that at the incentive and the program level, where it's like, here's an idea, throw it on the wall, we can try it. If it doesn't work, we could scrap it and move on. And because it's focused on the program and not the individual person selling it or doing it, there's no reputational harm or you guys are focused on the ultimate goal of expanding the ecosystem.
00:22:13.530 - 00:22:46.850, Speaker B: Yeah, it's not like I'm putting myself or my rep on the line. It's like the ideas that I have for these programs are truly inspired by needs that I'm seeing in the community. So it's like, it is very know, not Jenny's idea. It's like, well, I saw that community members needed this. Maybe we can throw a grant to that, or maybe we can put a program on that. It's a really interesting way to think, and I can't see myself ever working in a different structure. When will talks about his previous life in architecture, I'm like, totally sounds terrible.
00:22:46.850 - 00:22:55.990, Speaker B: Not exactly, but, yeah, I personally really enjoyed the sort of paradigm switch.
00:22:56.890 - 00:24:06.698, Speaker C: Yeah. I think that we're all kind of having this group epiphany where cryptography, smart contracts, tokenization of things, it's allowing us to begin to explore these trustless systems. And rather than having a manager holding you accountable, like having some type of verifiable system or that you volunteer to be a part of, not you are required to be a part of, and you are rewarded for that. And so I guess all that being said is we get to support amazing people that are building amazing things, but we also get our own little grant because designing these things and tinkering with the way the foundation works is our own little thought experiment. And it's been a lot of fun because it's a new industry. It's a new typology for a nonprofit supporting that industry. We're also encouraging people to build things.
00:24:06.698 - 00:24:58.940, Speaker C: Nothing set in stone. So everything is new, everything is up for debate. And you want to provide just enough guidance so that you don't prescribe for the way that things need to happen, but you also don't allow for chaos. And so I always go back to this idea of building a trellis and then not putting the vines up and planting the vines, but just allowing nature to run its course. And so just by building that trellis and being this very simple grid structure that you then allow something that's way more beautiful and organic, you could never anticipate what's going to happen there.
00:24:59.470 - 00:25:03.200, Speaker B: Okay, add something, because you asked about how we rein people in.
00:25:03.730 - 00:25:04.382, Speaker A: Please.
00:25:04.516 - 00:25:54.734, Speaker B: That's probably the harder part of the question to answer. I think the answer is that is like, how can you when everybody is your colleague, right? And there's no hierarchy and you work so closely with community members. I do think it gets tricky, because sometimes you do need to prioritize, right. You can't just throw ideas at the wall and build whatever you want. But I think it helps that everyone in the community is generally aligned on the mission. And that's super helpful, right. Because I can go back and forth with community members about the timeline for their milestones or their roadmap, and someone might think like, no, it's better to actually, we do this with a grant program all the time, so someone might want to build a whole application first.
00:25:54.734 - 00:26:43.520, Speaker B: And we'll have these conversations where we'll say, that's a great idea. But there are so many risks involved in that. Right? Like, what if the app isn't something that community members want to use right away? Or what if you run into some technical issues? So through a lot of conversation, the question that we often ask is, what is a version of this that you can build that's going to be immediately helpful to people or is going to deliver the most value to stacks community members? So that's often the easiest way to sort of rein people in when you have tons of ideas, is just thinking in terms of what is actually going to be beneficial to builders, what's going to be beneficial to contributors. So I find that that is a great way to do it without having to micromanage or tap into that hierarchical structure. Because at the end of the day, I think people want to be aligned on what they're building. They want to be helpful to each other.
00:26:44.130 - 00:27:09.654, Speaker A: I love that. Yeah, I think it sounds like you don't bring people in by coercion or force. It's by reassessing that you're aiming at the same direction. So you ask a clarifying question and then make sure that, does this goal serve us in the best way possible? If not, let's keep molding the clay and shaping it. And then maybe it looks slightly different, but it still gets that same end goal. I like that a lot. Very interesting.
00:27:09.654 - 00:27:28.730, Speaker A: Okay. Well, we've touched on programs in many different ways. Grant program, residence, program advocates, all kinds of things, and there's some new things coming down the pipeline. Maybe give us a brief overview of what's the lay of the land of the programs that the foundation currently offers.
00:27:29.070 - 00:27:58.354, Speaker B: I can give an overview, but I feel like Will has a lot to say about all the exciting stuff that's coming down the line for the grants program. But yeah, so in general, we've got a few. I think the most well known one is the grants program. I think people generally know how that one works. We launched the Residents program, almost like a beta version of it in the fall of last year. So we've got a ton of residents right now who are working heads down on a few cool projects. Actually, you'll hear from them on a public community call on February 4.
00:27:58.354 - 00:28:27.354, Speaker B: Shameless plug. So if you're curious, you can tune into that. We've got the chapters program, which is a lot of, you know, supports global community growth. So we've got chapters in different regions like Pakistan, India, Korea, China, all over. We're talking to new regions as well. Indonesia, Australia, Stack, southwest, us. So that program is exciting because I think that one really acknowledges the power of decentralization.
00:28:27.354 - 00:29:14.650, Speaker B: When we started that program, we were really like, we have a lot of experience building community, but community is going to be different everywhere. How can we support people to build their own version of stacks in a way that's going to support their community in a way that is tailored to their community. So with the chapters program, I think you can expect to see a few new chapters signing on. And what's going to be interesting there is that there's going to be a real focus on sustainability for chapters. So a lot of the chapters are exploring ways to basically become financially sustainable on their own. So some chapters have experimented with NFT campaigns. We've talked to a lot of chapters about having their own stacking pools or like partnering with community pools, like freaker pool, and sort of referring community members to those different community pools.
00:29:14.650 - 00:30:10.430, Speaker B: And with some of the chapters, we're talking about using Citicoins model as a way to fund themselves as separate entities. So I think we're going to see a lot of really cool experimentation with business models from the chapters program and from the Advocates program. That program has been incubating for a little while now. Jake, I know that you're part of it, but that one I'm really excited about because there's such a sophisticated algorithm and team that is running the program. I honestly feel like it's not just the first in stacks, it's kind of the first in the space where you have a really positive culture of people reporting their contributions and acknowledging others contributions. And based on that community collaboration, you get something like a reputation score. There's probably a better way to explain it, but based on that, you're paid out rewards from a stacking pool, and that's the way to share in value creation.
00:30:10.430 - 00:30:31.800, Speaker B: I know that that is going to launch more officially and welcome more advocates in the next couple of months. So, yeah, you can expect a ton of new ways to get involved. Whether it's building communities on a global scale, whether it's just contributing on a day to day basis through advocates. Whether you want to build something, you've got the grants program, or if you want to focus on a longer term project or research, you've got the residence program.
00:30:32.970 - 00:31:30.920, Speaker A: Very cool. Yeah, I know. The advocate program was one of the first things I interacted with, and the reason I liked it is because it felt it's almost like the grassroots first level entry point where it's pretty easy to get into, and then you just kind of contribute whenever way you can. And yeah, like you said, there's this reputation score, which they call source cred, and it tracks. You post what we call a data thing, and when you post that thing, then you get points and it tracks it, how many you posted per week and also how long you've been doing it. So it's like a history component, too. But yeah, when I look at the programs, it seems like they're almost layered to ascend in either trust or contribution, where the advocates program is very like anyone can join if you're a lover of stacks, come in and write an article, do whatever, and then grants is one step up, and then the residents is almost one step up above that.
00:31:30.920 - 00:31:34.634, Speaker A: Was that intentional, or did it kind of organically go that way?
00:31:34.832 - 00:32:04.706, Speaker B: I think it was a little organic, but I do think that there's a lot of intention in acknowledging that anything that you contribute is valuable. Right. I think that this has been kind of a challenge across crypto, is how you distribute value to people based on what they are doing. And lots of people do labor that's not recognized. Right. Like just being on discord and answering questions. That takes a ton of your time, and people will do that for free.
00:32:04.706 - 00:32:46.226, Speaker B: And I'm not saying that you should expect to get some sort of compensation for everything. I'm not saying that it should be transactional. But I'm saying that it's important to foster a culture where people feel valued for the work that they do. And I think that's what I really loved about advocates, is that with that algorithm, you can actually apply like a decay. So if you're someone who was really active for six months and you contributed something super impactful, people are going to feel the impact of your work much longer than six months. Right. So that algorithm can make it so that you're getting paid something like royalties for the work that you do, even if you decide to pull out of the community for a little bit.
00:32:46.226 - 00:33:02.454, Speaker B: So I love that. And I think that that was really foundational to the way that I think about the other programs. Right. Again, it's not just transactional, it's really recognizing the holistic value that people bring to stacks and just want to make people feel appreciated and recognized for what they do.
00:33:02.652 - 00:33:35.060, Speaker A: Yeah, no, 100%. And like you said, commenting in the discord or the Telegram is one of those things where the hero team or the stacks team is only so big and you got ten different things they're doing. But if you have someone who's answered that question before they can hop in, answer it, set them on the right path, and then get a small amount of credit for that thing that they're doing, which is fantastic, will. Okay, I'm curious what's coming down the pipeline. I've seen you've sent me some pre release documents. It's insane. What are you guys working on?
00:33:35.430 - 00:34:37.714, Speaker C: Yeah, I guess there will be a series of blog posts that come out, but to kind of follow up with all this. So there's really like three different flavors of change that we've been working on. So we did a really thorough competitive analysis of other grant programs in the space and just did some reflection. I think we had issued close to 250 grants when we really started reevaluating how we're going to move forward. So we had a nice body of work to look back on and reflect on. I guess the three flavors of change are like change in process, change in mechanics, and change in structure. So just top level change in process to build off of what Jenny was saying and what you picked up on in terms of giving people opportunities to scale into where the support mechanism meets them, where they need to be.
00:34:37.714 - 00:35:21.170, Speaker C: So there's going to be four levels of grants. There's going to be a level one, level two, level three, level four. There'll be more recognizable names coming out with them. But each level is going to have, like, a monetary target that we're trying to hit, a target audience that we want to direct it at, and different approval requirements that come along with it and perks. So a level one will be, for instance, like up to $5,000. A level two will be up to $25,000, a level three will be up to $250,000, and a level four will be up to $500,000. Now, you're only going to be eligible to apply for the two bigger ones, the three and four, if you've gone through the process of a one or a two.
00:35:21.170 - 00:36:19.222, Speaker C: And so the idea is that we want to really increase the throughput of grants. So we always want to be good stewards of the Stacks foundation treasury, but we also want to be in a position where we're more inclined to support than to not support. So it's a delicate balance that you need to strike. And as we grow as a community, the number of grants applications that come in are going to start to exponentially increase the scope, and the breadth of those applications are going to increase with them. The needs of the community are going to grow beyond what the three of us on this call could be aware of. And so we really want to make it even more transparent and more opaque and more community led. And so there's going to be an addition of a new role within the process and some changes to the process.
00:36:19.222 - 00:36:53.806, Speaker C: And that new role is going to be an ambassador, like a grant ambassador. And so there will be a call for applications going out soon where we want to onboard as many ambassadors as we can, hoping somewhere between six and twelve, like really committed, really talented individuals. We want to hit the full complement of what the community needs. So we want technical, we want design, and we want community. So you don't need to be a developer to be an ambassador. You don't need to be a designer to be an ambassador. You don't need to be a community lead to be an ambassador.
00:36:53.806 - 00:37:44.730, Speaker C: We want all of them because we want those ambassadors. They're going to serve as part mentor, part project manager, and part consultant within the grants ecosystem. And so all of the reviews of the level ones and level twos, those will be up to myself, Jenny, and a couple of other advisors and the ambassadors. So that's going to allow us to not have to convene a large review committee that is busy with their own contributions to what they're doing with stacks. And it's going to allow us to be a little bit more intimately involved with those people. And we're also going to have all of these meetings be open on discord. So everyone is going to be able to hear the conversation they're going to be able to hear what the expectations are for applications.
00:37:44.730 - 00:38:29.198, Speaker C: It's going to be hopefully a big value add in terms of people being able to trend in the right direction in terms of what the application should be. And also you hear about this menu of options that are available to you for support. And one of the biggest challenges is just Jenny and I are working together to make sure that we put the right person on the right path and make sure that it works for them also. So I think that by having all this open for people to be able to listen in on is going to be helpful. So these will be very flexible positions. Like I said, we want the best of the best. It's going to be a very competitive rate of payment.
00:38:29.198 - 00:39:34.754, Speaker C: These ambassadors are also going to be eligible to take out or apply for a level one grant every month. So that's an additional $5,000 that they will be able to be eligible for. We want them to use those grants to say, hey, I see this team over there or this team over there, and they're deficient on this skill set that I can bring to it. So I'm going to jump onto that grant and I'm going to be like this sort of consultant that's going to help them move forward and round out their team for a week or two, or I'm going to look inward at all these cool things that we're talking about at the foundation and be like, hey, you could make this process run much more smoothly with a smart contract or with a platform, something like that. So those are the changes in process, then the changes in mechanics. We're building our own platform, so we're going to be going away from GitHub. We have this great body of grants that we're looking at, and I came in and I wanted to evaluate them.
00:39:34.754 - 00:40:36.678, Speaker C: And GitHub, it's great for a lot of things in terms of transparency and the low barrier of entry for developers, but it's also kind of a high barrier of entry for people that are more community minded and more design minded. And it's also like, when you look at these issues, it's really hard to find, to make sense from an administrative point of view, what it is that you're looking for, and also from someone doing research. And so we took all those grants and spent a long time coming up with a taxonomy of how to organize these grants. So this dashboard is going to be totally open to everyone. Anyone that's interested in a grant, researching a grant, applying for a grant, been accepted for a grant, is going to be seeing the same exact stuff that Jenny and I look at, that the finance people look at. So we're all going to have access to the same thing. It's been designed with that in mind.
00:40:36.678 - 00:41:05.154, Speaker C: It's going to require a lot of power users giving us feedback, which the ambassadors will also help with finishing out. And then I want to give a shout out to Jonathan from pixelate. He's one of the residents. He's been working with us. He's been awesome on the design and build out of the sewing Andrew that Jonathan works with. So that's the second one. The changes in mechanics and then changes in structure, I think, is one of the most exciting ones.
00:41:05.154 - 00:41:49.982, Speaker C: And it's one of these that's kind of like chicken or egg like. How do we proceed forward with it? Because we are sensing that the grants program, there's a lot of benefit from it beginning to dematerialize into a dow. We don't want to make that decision. We don't want to decree that this will be a dow that needs to be a community led decision. So I think one of the most exciting things these ambassadors will be working on is being core members of a DAO working group. They will be learning by doing, and then they will be evaluating by doing, and they will be evaluating. Okay.
00:41:49.982 - 00:43:03.000, Speaker C: All these processes, this dashboard that's been built doesn't make sense to turn this into a dow. How can all these processes be made that much easier, that much better if they were codified as smart contracts? How can we crowdsource the review of this even more if it was through a dow? How can we align incentives even more if it was a Dao? And so going through the thought experiment of first determining, is this the right thing to do? And then if they decide that it is really shredding out and coming up with the governance processes, the mechanisms know, beginning to pull it all together. So working with people like Marvin, working with Stacker Daos, trying to pull together the best of the best in terms of Dao Os, what Drew's doing, and that team and the other group with the residency. So we have a lot of different people working on dows in a lot of different ways. And we hope to put this, we want everyone to learn from each other's efforts, and so hope this will be another opportunity to make that happen. So please apply.
00:43:04.810 - 00:43:40.930, Speaker A: Yeah, I love that you guys are really at the bleeding edge of trying to figure out this, especially the word dao. It's a buzword nowadays. But I remember asking Drew and Mark, what is a Dao? What is a, and like, there was three completely different answers. Sometimes it's the governance aspect and there should be some kind of token involved so you can vote. But I don't think we know what that means at all. And I think it's going to come very organically by what you're saying. There's a decentralized, kind of like trustless, smart contract aspect where you're moving people as much as you can.
00:43:40.930 - 00:44:05.980, Speaker A: So it's kind of like run in the cloud in a sense, but what that looks like in practice and how does it work? By incentivizing people in a proper way and not being abused, we have no idea. So I don't see a better use of a dow than what you guys are building with ambassadors and funding grant programs. And if we can make that work, it's super interesting.
00:44:08.590 - 00:44:50.120, Speaker B: I'm really excited, actually, when my first call with will, I think that's what we vibes about because we'd been talking about how the foundation is set up in a way that it could potentially become more like Dao. I'm not going to go and say it could become one. That's a really big decision to make. But I think a lot of the programs that we have are set up in a way that it would be tempting to maybe move them toward this structure. So when I mentioned that to Will, I know he got really excited about it. And I was like, I'm so excited. I'm so happy that I've talked to a candidate who doesn't think this is crazy, who is sort of already diagramming it the way that I've been diagramming it.
00:44:50.120 - 00:45:52.574, Speaker B: But now that we're here, I think that, and now that there is so much discussion about daos, we're very aware of the fact that we have to be thoughtful about a decision like this. It's just like what you mentioned, Jake, with a dow, do you need a token? Do you need a governance token? It's so tempting to sort of do what everyone else is doing. But then like you said, you can set it up in a way where people abuse it, right? And anytime you have a token, anytime you have a secondary market for a token, you have to ask yourself whether you're comfortable with people buying their way into this dow, right? People who aren't ambassadors being able to, maybe they can use the token to buy entry into the dow. They have no experience looking at community projects. They have no sort of concern about funding public infrastructure for stacks. So in that way, you're like, well, we shouldn't have a token and you can go back and forth. So I think that through experimenting with the structure that will has really thoughtfully set up with ambassadors, we're going to basically share this burden with community.
00:45:52.574 - 00:46:44.874, Speaker B: And it'll be like a big working group of figuring out, like, okay, the first stage is moving toward a phase where the community does feel comfortable taking on a lot of grant decisions themselves. Right. Like, imagine a world in which you go and there's just a directory of new grant applications, and everyone who's part of the grant committee can just go in, have a really easy to use interface where they're clicking through, giving their comments, and then all that is showing up, and you can get like a sentiment from the community. And then based on that, people are comfortable saying, yes, I'm comfortable funding this. And that can happen on a daily basis to the point where you're funding hundreds of applications a month and you can trust that the decisions about what to fund are actually coming from the community. That's where we want to get first, and I think that's what matters to us the most. The Dow structure is secondary to that.
00:46:44.874 - 00:47:12.680, Speaker B: There are going to be a lot of kinks that we need to work out. But should that work out, then absolutely. It's time to turn this program into a Dow. So I'm mostly really excited about figuring out just the community and social aspect of it. Can we motivate people to want to go in and review grants every day? Are people going to feel like it's in their best interest to go and review grants every day? So it's going to be an experiment with incentive alignment, too.
00:47:13.930 - 00:47:51.326, Speaker A: I love it because everything about stacks is like, we don't need to be first. Jumping into a Dow would be very cool, but you want to do it right. It's very deliberate. And so even, like the levels I can see, maybe the Dow does the level ones first because the potential for harm is low. And then as the system is proven over time, you can go to level two and level three, and then eventually maybe the whole thing can be run by the ambassadors or something. Yeah, that's very cool. Well, I want to start to close this down, and I like to do an aspirational question towards the end, kind of leave on like a crazy over the top high note.
00:47:51.326 - 00:48:20.886, Speaker A: So I'm imagining stacks is like where Salana is now. They've swapped. Salana is whatever, 52 now. We don't care about them. And stacks is number seven or whatever it is. And there's just a ton of people coming to stacks, and everyone wants to build here, so you have almost too much interest. What does a home run look like for the foundation in two, three years time, if stacks is in that position, whoever wants to take it, and you can riff.
00:48:20.886 - 00:48:27.070, Speaker A: And again, this is like not saying it's going to happen. It's aspirational. But, yeah, I'm curious.
00:48:27.730 - 00:49:25.380, Speaker B: Yeah, it's definitely going to be half baked. And I'm going to riff on this, but I did a deep dive on a bunch of governance stuff a couple of months ago, and I came to this idea about what a successful community looks like. And you hear decentralization all the time, but sometimes you just have to sort of research again and remind yourself what that means. And so, for me, I think a success for the foundation and success for stacks would be people being able to flow between different subcommunities, right? So, like, stacks is your overarching chain. You join stacks for maybe technical reasons, or maybe you're aligned with the mission, but you're comfortable as an individual pursuing your personal interest within various small groups. Right. And actually, by then, I would hope that stacks has cracked a lot of decentralized identity stuff and very confident about it, especially with some of the projects that we have on the chain right now.
00:49:25.380 - 00:49:55.242, Speaker B: Okay, so I can speak for myself as a citizen of stacks. Maybe not a good or tease, but as a citizen of stacks, you could see on discord or something, different badges I have. So you can see which sub communities I'm a part of. I might be part of the governance lab. I might be part of the advocates program. I might be a grants ambassador. And so I've got these different identity markers that show which causes I'm involved with.
00:49:55.242 - 00:50:26.302, Speaker B: And based on the causes I'm involved with, based on the experiences I've had, I'm able to participate in larger decision making bodies. Right. So you might have these smaller working groups, maybe at most Max, they're like 150 people. And then beyond that, you have steering committees. And based on the expertise you have and the experience you have, you might sit on a couple of steering committees, and those are the committees you work with to make certain decisions. I see my future with stacks. I see myself being very involved in governance.
00:50:26.302 - 00:51:16.114, Speaker B: I would hope that one of the committees or decision making bodies I'd be a part of where my voice would be heard has to do with governance, whereas some people don't care as much about that, and they should be totally welcome to pursue whatever other interests they have. So I'm seeing this like, it's almost like being in different clubs at school, but it's a lot higher stakes because you've got tokens and money involved and you're on decision making committees. But that's kind of the dream future I see for sachs. It's very personalized to me, but I want people to feel comfortable sort of going in and out of different groups and participating. And you kind of have that now, right? Like, you have different groups, people work together, and it's very organic. But I would love to have a structure for that, like an interface for that, where you go and you see the different little dows you're a part of, and then you go and see the different decisions that your steering committees have made. I don't know how many years.
00:51:16.114 - 00:51:20.390, Speaker B: That's how many years out we are from that. We could be like nine months from that. Who knows?
00:51:21.450 - 00:52:03.986, Speaker A: No, that's very cool. I know Balaji has the 1729 site, which is like a paid newsletter. And I've heard him talk about one of his ideas was this proof of contribution, where if he did a thing in the newsletter, you got like a badge. And his thinking was, there's so much knowledge in parts of the world that isn't seen. It's just in rural areas, and maybe they have Internet access, but that's all they have. And they're brilliant and they can do the things, or they can at least learn to do the things. And so over time, by doing small tasks and then elevating up slowly, you establish a track record of like, yeah, I can do this thing.
00:52:03.986 - 00:52:22.506, Speaker A: And then you become seen on this kind of, like, more global meritocratic stage, and it's something like that. And you can have 100 different subcategories with reputation or a history of contribution that can then be solidified into your decentralized identity. That's cool.
00:52:22.688 - 00:52:59.926, Speaker B: Yeah, it is a bit like that. And I think, I find that idea really interesting. I do think that there's a risk of people sort of feeling like they have to start from the very beginning, right? This idea that you have to build your way up. I think the reality is that your contributions and the value that you contribute to the ecosystem is going to be relative to different groups. Right? Like I said, some people might want to be involved in governance. They might want to be involved in completely different interests, and that's fine. Maybe those folks don't have as much weight in terms of how they're evaluating my work because it doesn't really impact them as much.
00:52:59.926 - 00:53:38.770, Speaker B: So I guess what I'm thinking about is a system that is truly peer to like with the advocates program you have. And it's not perfect. We're still working it out. But the fact that you can have people shout you out for the work that you do, because sometimes you might not even recognize your own contribution. So the fact that there's a culture of people saying like, hey, Jake was super helpful on this thing, I don't know why he didn't report it, but that should go in his history, or that should go in his reputation. Because in future, I would want to refer other people to Jake for podcasts, for interviews, for video editing. It's impossible to capture all the value that people create for this community, but I would want us to get close.
00:53:38.770 - 00:53:50.200, Speaker B: And I think the first step is recognizing that not everybody has the same reference point for what's valuable. And you need to sort of build that into the system to be as fair or as just as possible.
00:53:51.290 - 00:53:55.030, Speaker A: Love it. That's a great goal to strive for. What about you, will?
00:53:55.100 - 00:55:34.022, Speaker C: I'm still trying to figure out today, but yeah, I suppose just riffing off of what Jenny said. I think that taking that world and then allowing. It'll be interesting when all of the on chain experiments that Jenny was talking about start to catch up with mobile and Internet of things, and the overlay that all of these governance and organizational experiments that are happening online begin to show themselves in the physical world, that might be the architect in me, but just seeing how that can begin to recast the physical world in hopefully positive ways. I think that there's a really interesting working model that I shared on Twitter earlier today of people sort of wanting to liken your blockchain to a city. And that's something that I think is really important and fun to work towards as we all contribute to stacks is like, right now, stacks is this sort of like the quintessential small town America, like an intersection with a few things emanating out from the intersection. And it's going to be fun to just see all of the points, nodes, edges, districts, and landmarks that come together to turn that into a really vibrant city. So those are two different architectural metaphors I'm using.
00:55:34.022 - 00:56:09.246, Speaker C: One is actually occurring in the physical world. It'll be fun to see how that plays out. And two is like Jenny was saying, being able to navigate your way through a world and find places that are defined and find places that you want to spend your time and really contribute. But how is all of that stitched together in part of our little stack city? And then how does that city begin to connect to other cities? It should be a really fun next couple of years.
00:56:09.428 - 00:56:56.690, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I love that. Especially because as more and more things go online in these platforms, at least the web, two ones, are meant for us to consume on them. And so the whole ethos of a user on Internet kind of flips that entirely. And so how many things start to move in a more positive light or empowering light when some of these kind of like inroads are laid from small town stacks to big city, whatever it is? And how do we all kind of act differently and our lives are better off for it? So, yeah, I like that a lot. Well, this has been fantastic. I think just a last parting message. Anything that we didn't cover or any closing thoughts that you want to give to the four people listening to this podcast?
00:56:58.070 - 00:57:54.098, Speaker C: No, just thank you for your time and thank you for covering the stacks community. I love your content and you've been a lot of fun to work with and I hope that we continue to be able to do this. I do think that getting what you do is really important and something that we didn't really touch on too much with the changes to the grants program that's coming up. But grantees are going to be required to create some type of content that can be shared. A tutorial, a solution. We're going to have this online knowledge base where people are able to go there and do research, whether it be a smart contract template or a click by click video or a blog post. We want people to sort of memorialize something that comes out of their grant so that everyone can benefit from it.
00:57:54.098 - 00:58:37.140, Speaker C: But also what you're talking about. And I've shared that diagram with you of the flywheel, those little bits of shareable content, information that help someone learn something, is also what onboards more people into stacks to create that next wave of shareable content. And so I think that you're going to be, I think, a vital part of the ecosystem moving forward. You already are. But just having more great content to share and an awareness about all of these people building all these fantastic things, all seemingly with really pure intentions. It's really cool.
00:58:37.990 - 00:58:45.694, Speaker A: Yeah, 100%. I'm blessed to be part of this community. I couldn't agree more. Jenny, do you have any closing thoughts?
00:58:45.822 - 00:59:29.858, Speaker B: I'm going to echo will and say thank you. It's been so fun to work with you, and I think, I'm sure it's a lot more than four listeners. That's why we're super excited to talk about the grant on this podcast because I know we can reach even more awesome community members with it. As far as parting messages, I have so many different things going through my head, I can't really choose. I think this conversation was really fun because we got to talk a lot about the social and social coordination impact of what we're trying to do. Obviously, there's a lot of technical building that happens, and that's very key and critical to keeping an ecosystem like this running. But I would kind of encourage people to start working groups, think about some of these other issues around.
00:59:29.858 - 01:00:24.850, Speaker B: How do we better distribute value to each other? How do we recognize work that isn't seen? How can we utilize things like proof of transfer to encourage people, community that are underserved, to launch their own token and fund themselves? That's such an interesting use case for proof of transfer. Do you know people who are interested in doing that kind of work? What are the implications of stacking? It's really cool. This mechanism that doesn't really exist elsewhere, that generates bitcoin for people. We're in the process of partnering with this organization called open grants to allocate our stacking yield, which we've done for bitcoin core development. We're going to be doing it for women in Afghanistan in the next couple of months. And that's a really creative use case. Basically, I want to encourage community members to be even more creative about the social benefits, like the real world that stacks can have.
01:00:24.850 - 01:00:34.310, Speaker B: We're very heads down building in our own community, but I think that there's so much potential for what stacks can do for other communities outside of ours.
01:00:35.050 - 01:01:11.566, Speaker A: I love that. Yeah, I think we got a taste of that with city coins where the civic engagement thing was, I did not want to do anything with my city, but I vote. And then if I get jury duty, I'm like, oh, here we go. Like three days of wasted time. But now it's like we're rethinking the entire idea of what does a connected city look like and how can we get involved, and how does the outside help the inside and that kind of thing. And that's just the first look. Like cities are like a broad category, but you can go into the community level or an idea can go that you can niche down all kinds of different ways using proof of transfer or small working groups.
01:01:11.566 - 01:01:19.640, Speaker A: So I like that a lot. Yeah. I don't want to say anything else, though. I think you guys ended it beautifully. So thank you guys so much.
01:01:20.410 - 01:01:20.982, Speaker B: Thank you.
01:01:21.036 - 01:01:22.150, Speaker C: Thank you. Jake.
01:01:22.970 - 01:01:50.926, Speaker A: I'm trying out a different outro for these. What do you guys think of that video? There's some exciting stuff coming. If you want to learn more about what we talked about, hit the show notes. If you're in podcast form, hit the description if you're on YouTube. And do me a favor. We're trying to get the word out on stacks, and this podcast is one vehicle to do that. And if we can bloat this podcast even bigger, maybe we can spread that message a little better.
01:01:50.926 - 01:02:14.802, Speaker A: So someone told me, hey, you should shout out at the end of your podcast. Have a call to action. Tell people they need to subscribe, like share this stuff. So that's what I'm doing, mainly if you can leave me a review on any of the podcast platforms. But Apple Podcast seems to be the King dog. So if you can leave me a review. Fantastic.
01:02:14.802 - 01:02:27.240, Speaker A: Or subscribe on YouTube would do wonders. More than you know. So, yeah, with that said, I love y'all. Go apply for a grant, and I'll see y'all in the next video.
01:02:29.290 - 01:02:32.042, Speaker B: Welcome to built on bitcoin.
01:02:32.186 - 01:02:46.780, Speaker A: I know that things don't always go your way, but I'll be right here waiting. Waiting. Now, I've been trying to figure out a way to make it out. Make it out because I don't think about everything going wrong. Close.
