00:00:05.130 - 00:00:05.680, Speaker A: You.
00:00:08.610 - 00:00:31.990, Speaker B: We are going to get started with the Lightning talks session and we are starting by uncovering Ethereum's geodegraphical node distribution through P two P network analysis. Those are like five minutes talks. We are probably not going to take questions, but feel free to reach out at the end of the of the session or tonight.
00:00:33.530 - 00:01:15.220, Speaker C: Hi everyone. So in these five minutes I wanted to show you a bit how we leverage chainbon technologies to really understand the Ethereum peer to peer topology and geographic distribution. To start off, we'll give a bit of an introduction about Chainbon. We are a research organization mainly focused on Ethereum and we build optimized infrastructure and networking tools for blockchains. We currently have two products in production. The first one is called Echo and it's a unified interface that allows fast transaction and bundles dispatch to mempool and block builders. It's currently in production and processes around 10,000 transactions and bundles every day.
00:01:15.220 - 00:02:08.050, Speaker C: Why people use it is for improved of UX and enhanced convenience. We will provide portals and solution to our users and we also vet new builders and try to make an easy integration for our users. Second product, which is what actually what I'm going to show you later, is built on top is fiber, which is a global private network of nodes that directly connects to Ethereum peer to peer networking layer both on consensus and execution. Escardium production is mainly used by people that are interested in having low latency and highly reliable streams. And these streams are mainly streams that are available on the consensus execution. The most famous obviously is the mempool stream. So pending transactions and new block streams on consensus.
00:02:08.050 - 00:03:14.370, Speaker C: Before kind of diving into the topology of Ethereum, I want to show you a bit the backbone of how we gather all of this data and they come from the fiber network. Fiber has 16 nodes deployed, sorry, has 20 nodes deployed across 16 data centers and has an internal connection through VPC peerings and directly connects every fiber node to around 600 to 800 Ethereum nodes. This leads us to have a very good and comprehensive understanding of the status of Ethereum in a sort of live manner. We called it Ulysse and this is the network topology explorer that we built. And again, how it's built is it fetches live data from fiber. It's completely open source and you can access it through a link that we're going to provide you later. And you can really understand the geographic distribution of the nodes.
00:03:14.370 - 00:04:09.114, Speaker C: We locate nodes through their peas and we use public IP databases to do so. Why we think this is so important is because to track the node geodestribution is an important factor understanding Ethereum decentralization geographically and also ensuring network reliability and resistance to censorship across regions, across continents and across different times horizons. I'm going to show you a bit of screenshots about Ulissa and a bit of data that we've been able to gather. We've seen that. We are pleasantly happy to see that there are more than 2600 unique locations where at least one non has been seen active. And this is across 84 countries. There are more than 9000 active nodes right now.
00:04:09.114 - 00:04:46.566, Speaker C: And an interesting fact is we try to see active nodes, cross references, consensus and execution layer data, therefore having a very comprehensive understanding of the status. A bit of a better understanding is the green axes that you see here. I hope you see them well enough. They are active nodes, so they've been seen active in the last 24 hours. And the yellow ones are nodes that we've seen active but are currently not active right now. This is the world map. I think it's very interesting.
00:04:46.566 - 00:05:24.930, Speaker C: There are nodes everywhere. We've seen nodes in Nairobi, in Lagos, in Iceland and wherever. And here instead is the geographical area where there is the most active. I would call them the most number amount of hotspots of Ethereum. And these hotspots are both where we've seen validators and we define validators with few heuristics. And these Heuristics is mainly where we see blocks propagating from. So we've seen validators in Franco's, in OVH, in Germany, and we've seen them also in France.
00:05:24.930 - 00:06:08.082, Speaker C: Again, we can't really divide between relays and validators. So in some cases they are relays. And here, last important I think factor we wanted to show is that the geographic distribution of nodes is very high. It's high. But the only thing that's a bit worrisome is that the actual validator set are mainly in two regions. They are the US and Germany, with actually Europe being more active than the US in number of blocks proposed in the last 24 hours. So that's a bit of a short understanding of how we've been able to leverage our technology to show some interesting data.
00:06:08.082 - 00:06:14.900, Speaker C: And you can access the portal at this QR code. And this is our team.
00:06:15.830 - 00:06:35.610, Speaker B: Thank you. Next up we have a token order flow auctions on Ethereum trends and design by Tuka Chiomikowski.
00:06:38.750 - 00:07:05.090, Speaker D: Yeah, that's a good attempt. No one gets the finished names right, so thanks guys. My talk is going to be on orderflow auctions in Ethereum. I'm Tuka. I'm an investor and researcher at Monsters Ventures. So I think we all agree that MEV is still an existential issue for the adoption of crypto. One solution that's gained significant traction in the last year is order flow auctions.
00:07:05.090 - 00:07:43.658, Speaker D: From the data, we can see that there's been a significant uptick in the amount of private transactions that are going to the Ethereum mempool or to the Ethereum blockchain through private mempools. The current data puts it at about 20% of transactions in recent blocks going through private rpcs or ofas. So let's kind of recap the definition. We can define an OfA as a mechanism to pay back users for the MEV that their orders contain. That's obviously ideal, because users currently are losing a lot of value to MEV. So how does this work? This is a great idea. So currently, if we think about the supply chain for meV, most of the value accrues to the validators.
00:07:43.658 - 00:08:05.778, Speaker D: And this is specifically because most of the transactions are going through public Mempoles, where all the bidders, so all the searchers, are able to actually extract value from them if they're constructing bundles using these transactions in the public mempool. So the problem is that there's a lot of competition for a single place in a block, which forces the bidders to bid most of their MeV to the validator.
00:08:05.874 - 00:08:06.182, Speaker C: Right?
00:08:06.236 - 00:09:03.590, Speaker D: So right now, most of the value is going to someone that's just running an MeV boost client, right? So if we can turn this around, we can do it by running an auction. Before any block builders and validators are involved by this, the auctioneer chooses generally the highest bidding searcher and allocates them the exclusive rights to extracting value from any orders. And then this searcher goes on and submits the bundle to the block builder. And this way, we can redistribute the auction revenues back to the orderfall originators, and this way kind of compensate users for their med. Now, this doesn't seem terribly complex, so why are we here talking about it? Well, I don't think I need to tell a kind of lecture theater full of crypto economists that designing options can be quite difficult. You can even win a Nobel Prize if you do it well enough. So before any one of you tries and goes out to solve MeV and win a Nobel Prize by designing an OFA, here's a few kind of pointers as to what you should be kind of paying attention to.
00:09:03.590 - 00:09:47.190, Speaker D: So, number one, I think it's very important to obviously try to maximize for user welfare. Welfare, I hear, define as kind of the explicit rebate, so immediate payment that you're getting through the auction by selling your order in the auction, but also kind of the utility in the difference in execution. So I'm using an OFA that changes my execution in some sense. It can give me more latency, it can give me faster latency. If I go through an intent based system, maybe my execution actually gets optimized somehow. So this is kind of a constrained optimization problem, because it's not kind of as simple as just trying to maximize this kind of explicit rebate that you get from the auction. If 99% of the MeV gets paid back to the user, potentially the user actually gets included much lower.
00:09:47.190 - 00:10:27.826, Speaker D: And that's highly negative. Right. So, faith designers have to kind of tread this very carefully, how much they're actually rebating back to the user and how trust minimization robustness are also two very important things. So there's a kind of a sequence of different trust relationships here that could be violated. So when I create systems that essentially optimize and minimize these kind of trust assumptions. And the other part, which is very important, is also robustness. So what's the worst case that can happen if someone kind of acts maliciously? If I'm signing an intent that allows a solver to do a lot of things with my wallet, with my funds, what's the worst case scenario that can happen? And we want to minimize that.
00:10:27.826 - 00:11:11.582, Speaker D: So the states that might result from me participating in an OFA, we want to make sure that those are entirely negative for the user. So if we think about the different design dimensions that an OFA designer has, in order to actually actualize those three properties that we want to optimize for, we can choose between transaction based, intent based systems, we can choose between generalized. So, taking all sorts of transactions or intents, or just, let's say, swaps, privacy is also one thing that's quite important. So how much information am I revealing of the orders that affects the biding behavior, potentially execution, if someone takes advantage of the information within the order. So these are all things that needs to be taken care of. Where are we today? Today, the market is quite saturated. There's over 28 different ofas that are actually trying to buy for market share.
00:11:11.582 - 00:11:52.346, Speaker D: This is explained by the fact that there's a clear market opportunity, but not a single one that's dominating. But I think we will see that this number will probably go down. I think one thing that's really important to notice here is the ofas aren't strictly positive. There's high centralization risks that are resulting from them. So there's a great paper by SMG that goes into this a little bit deeper. Basically, searcher builders, these kind of high frequency trading shops, have advantage in bidding for orders in an OFA because they're able to extract more MEV from transactions. And this makes it so that they're actually going to be ending up dominating those ofas because they're more competitive than normal searchers.
00:11:52.346 - 00:12:25.414, Speaker D: And that basically contributes to centralization, both at the auction level, but also at the block building level. And then finally, what does the future hold? We're going to see significant consolidation in the market. I think long term, most of the MEV will be kind of addressed at the application layer, both because of better application design and a move towards more intent based systems. I think this makes kind of these single transaction order flow auctions kind of irrelevant. But obviously we want to avoid a situation where basically we have to choose between this kind of centralized entity and a decentralized entity that's actually centralized.
00:12:25.462 - 00:12:25.722, Speaker C: Right.
00:12:25.776 - 00:12:39.790, Speaker D: And that can be the end result from these systems where we're trying to optimize for user execution, but in reality, we're creating a system that's losing against centralized entities. So thank you very much. That was my talk, and. Yep.
00:12:46.370 - 00:12:53.330, Speaker B: All right, next up we have Cooper kund for the impact of Mev on Aztec.
00:12:56.870 - 00:13:15.446, Speaker A: Hello. I was told I can only have three slides today, so we'll keep it short. Yeah, I work on Aztec. It's a privacy first layer. Two. For Ethereum, we have composable public and private virtual machines. What we mean by privacy is different than probably what other people mean by privacy.
00:13:15.446 - 00:13:55.330, Speaker A: We mean zcash style privacy, where your state is managed in an encrypted tree and you have access to the notes in that tree. So proving a transaction in Aztec is proving that you have something in the current state tree and proving that it doesn't exist in the nullifier tree. And users run what we call a private execution environment or a pixie locally to generate client side zero knowledge proofs, which are sent to the sequencer, to the network, and then put into a block. So an aztec block doesn't contain transactions. It contains a list of zero knowledge proofs. All accounts are private smart contracts, and this is related to MeV. So we'll get to that on the next slide with native account abstraction.
00:13:55.330 - 00:14:28.480, Speaker A: And smart contracts are written in noir, which is a domain specific programming language for building zero knowledge applications built by Aztec and funded also originally by the Ethereum Foundation. Noir is general purpose improving system agnostic. So you can use it with Aztec, but you can also use it with any other zero knowledge proving system out there. There's people that have circom integrations, halo two, et cetera. It is not just for Aztec. And yeah, for those familiar, Aztec has been kind of at the heart of zero knowledge research for a while. Our CEO Zach was one of the co authors of the Planck proving system.
00:14:28.480 - 00:14:52.200, Speaker A: We also have funding from Andreessen Paradigm and others, and the sandbox is available now. So if you want to go write as technoir contracts, deploy them, get privacy. You can do that right now. We're expecting a testnet in 2024. Let's see if I can figure out how to work this remote. There's the big green button. That makes sense.
00:14:52.200 - 00:15:26.238, Speaker A: So, things to note about Aztec related to MeV. We have a fully permissionless network architecture from day one. We will not start with a centralized sequencer like you're seeing in a lot of the other l two ecosystems. And that actually gives us MeV that looks much like Ethereum. We have a random leader election for sequencer block proposal rights, which is facilitated on Ethereum, and it is completely compatible with out of protocol, PBS or MeV. We expect a similar ecosystem like Ethereum's to pop up, but we'll maybe talk about that in the next slide. The currently elected sequencer can choose who proves that specific block out of protocol.
00:15:26.238 - 00:15:56.950, Speaker A: And when I say proves that block, we are not proving those individual transactions. Those ekps were proven on the user's device client side. We're recursively aggregating zero knowledge proofs together in a parallelized two by two proof tree until you get to the top of the tree and have one proof. And that's what we actually send to Ethereum for validation. And so the currently elected sequencer can choose whoever gets to prove this block. It supports third party proving, marketplaces, vertical sequencer prover integrations, or proving pools, et cetera. We support private and public function composability.
00:15:56.950 - 00:16:35.254, Speaker A: And this is one of the most interesting things about our design that impacts MEV transactions. Each of them can have their own unique call stacks, with each of them having varying amounts of MeV. And what this gives you is you actually have a spectrum, basically, of fully private or encrypted transactions to partially encrypted transactions. And you kind of have a private encrypted mempool out of the box on Aztec, which is really exciting. People talk about encrypted mempools, encrypted transactions being like the holy grail for mev mitigation or otherwise. And this is something that if you're building private applications or software, you get for free. And so this is just three examples of what function call stacks could look like.
00:16:35.254 - 00:17:23.110, Speaker A: All of your accounts are private smart contracts by default, so they all have to originate from a place of privacy. But then you can have as many kind of calls back and forth between public and private virtual environments as you would like to. And because all these private functions are generated client side, you do not have the similar gas constraints that you do on other networks. The entirety of the network does not have to execute any of your public functions. They just need to recursively aggregate and verify the zkps. So in these cases, you can see transaction a probably doesn't have any publicly identifiable mev, and it probably falls back to a priority gas price auction or something that looks kind of like a knapsack auction, if you're familiar with those, and the green function. So transaction B and transaction C, in this case, probably do have some form of mev that looks similar to what you see in other public virtual machine contexts.
00:17:23.110 - 00:17:49.466, Speaker A: So this makes MeV on Aztec a lot harder. It'll be interesting to see what happens. And, yeah, so this is kind of the two major takeaways from my talk today, is Aztec will be fully permission solicit launch. If you want to run a sequencer, want to run a builder, searcher, whatever, would love to talk to you. I'm on the product team responsible for all the network infrastructure. And. Yeah, the other thing is that we do have public and private functions.
00:17:49.466 - 00:18:38.430, Speaker A: No one can see your private function calls or their call stacks message to us senders, like nonexistent, stuff like that. And so there's a bunch of things that we're currently thinking about. We take a lot of pride in researching in public. So if you go to our forum aztec network, you can see about eight to ten different designs for sequencing and permissionless l two sequencing, eight to ten designs for proving we have upgrades, governance, stuff like that. Yeah, some of these might be obvious questions, but with privacy constraints, will an Mev ecosystem emerge and will it be profitable enough to participate in? Will there be something like prover boost? Or we have a flavor of plonk called goblin plonk, which is why I might call it goblin boost. But how do we facilitate out of protocol proving rights, l one to l two, arbitrage? Aztec has pretty long block times. We're currently targeting about five to ten minutes, potentially.
00:18:38.430 - 00:19:26.766, Speaker A: Are users going to get wrecked before they can settle their transactions every single time, or if they're trying to exit to l one? We're currently quite aware, as everyone else in this room is as well, about l one, censorship. And so will the current l one builder ecosystem kind of deal with privacy preserving l two s, both in terms of actually landing transactions on chain and blobs on chain. It might be easier for them to just ignore us entirely. And then we have a third of the builder set to deal with, or proposer set. And, yeah. What does privacy preserving DFI look like? Obviously, that has major implications to what MeV is going to be available natively on Aztec. Does it look like dark pools? Does it look like everyone in l two batching to l one uniswap to make sure that the liquidity stays there? They'd probably get wrecked by arbitrage if they did that, but yeah.
00:19:26.766 - 00:19:36.420, Speaker A: So these are all things that we're publicly debating on our forum. There's a lot of smart people in this room. We don't think that we're the right people to solve all these. So we'd love to talk to you and solve some of these problems together.
00:19:38.710 - 00:19:51.910, Speaker B: Thanks. Okay, the next talk is by Emory Tekil Salsalp on ZK approver marketplace on Mina.
00:19:53.050 - 00:20:15.386, Speaker E: All right, before I get started, it's so good to see such a room full of amazing people. I attended business school here seven years ago, and when I mentioned crypto, classmates and teachers used to laugh at me. So just moved back to New York. It's great to see Columbia on the frontier of this. My name is Emmettekisalp. I work at a company called O one Labs. We're a zero knowledge development shop that's been around since 2017.
00:20:15.386 - 00:20:55.542, Speaker E: We incubated a l one fully zero knowledge proof based blockchain called Mina that has been live for two and a half years now, and it has an embedded prover marketplace. So that's what I'm going to talk about. But first, what is Mina? Why does it exist? The green button is not working. Is there a keyboard or something somewhere? Oh, there we go. Okay, perfect. So, Mina, some suggest that it's the first validium design out there. When I said fully zero knowledge based, all transactions, all block, gets zero knowledge proofed.
00:20:55.542 - 00:21:26.934, Speaker E: And what you end up is with a canonical proof that represents the entire chain at all times. And it's a fully recursive proof. Our proof system was the first in production fully recursive, infinite recursion supporting proof system in the zero knowledge space. So that was great. So the benefit is users can always connect to the blockchain with full node security. And how we achieve that is there's two types of independent actors in the Mina blockchain. There's block producers, similar to any other blockchain, or sequencers, validators, whatever you call them.
00:21:26.934 - 00:22:01.134, Speaker E: And then there's snarkers, or snark workers, or provers and block producers. Obviously, Mina is a proof of stake chain. They stake Mina selected to produce a block, and then snark workers on the other side, they snark or zero launch proof, recently added transactions to blocks. And if you look at a block in amina blockchain, what you see is actually a bunch of different types of transactions, some of which are snarked, some of which are not. There's a whole other rabbit hole of how that works. I'm not going to get into that now. And the whole interaction between block producers and snarkers are based on a marketplace.
00:22:01.134 - 00:22:42.334, Speaker E: It's a very naive marketplace. It's a very simple, fully transparent, bid based, lowest cost, bid based marketplace. No fancy auction designs. So block producers basically buy or purchase snark work from snark workers, and the cheapest snark work wins. So, as I mentioned, two and a half years of decentralized proving some stats here, there's been a lot of snarks produced, some fees earned by block producers, and about close to 700 independent entities that have been producing snarks. A fully decentralized marketplace. However, as you can see here, half of the blocks or proofs have been sold for zero.
00:22:42.334 - 00:23:24.870, Speaker E: And you can actually see what the average fee this is in Mina, the Mina token, the fees across the two and a half years. So why is that happening? That's what I wanted to cover, the key observation that we've achieved as a result of this. One thing to notice about Mina, many of you may not have heard about it, and the reason is because Mina today, the main net, does not have smart contracts on it, which feels weird to say in the year 2023, but that's because we were too early into ZK. That is changing really soon. So fully private client side, off chain execution based on zero knowledge, proofs are coming. And the key observation has been that decentralized marketplaces do have transaction costs when there's no demand. So there's both explicit and implicit.
00:23:24.870 - 00:24:15.942, Speaker E: And when you don't have significant demand, the costs take over to incentivize more centralization and what we've been seeing is when there's at times of peak demand at the blockchain, the marketplace goes back to decentralization. What I mean with centralization is block producers actually have been selling themselves their own snarks and basically bidding it up for zero fee or very infinitesimal amounts of fees. So if you looked at the current snark marketplace today, this is what you would see. Where the blue bars are. Snark work that's up for grabs for free, and with a tiny amount of those that are not for free, but across the whole history of the chain, there's been times of peak demand where you see the sum of the fees bought by block producers or unique provers. So I wanted to take a look at what happened recently, about a month ago, where a korean exchange decided to list Mina. So the blockchain got really active.
00:24:15.942 - 00:24:58.010, Speaker E: So if you zoom down into that section, you see the fees starting to get more active. There's a weird peak here. Someone was able to sell for 500 mina, which is about $400, which is crazy, but if you take that out, there's actually a lot of activity in various different places. So what we're seeing here is if you look at the mempool of Mina, what's been happening is there's been a lot of transactions that are coming in, and I'm going to focus on these two mountains real quick. This is a lot more smooth than this one, right? This is because in the second mountain, snark work has been produced rapidly enough such that the transactions have been snarked as they came in. And then there's a valley here, right, which is what the hell happened there? What happened there is. And we can look at actually the number of unique provers.
00:24:58.010 - 00:25:48.214, Speaker E: It also went down. The reason for that is actually, I know this because the Mina foundation, seeing how much transaction demand there was, they basically enlisted some other ecosystem partners to put up snarkwork for free, such that the blockchain relaxed a bit. And this is those block with the snark workers selling it for free, whereas in these other periods, there has been more than a dozen or few dozen snark workers that have been generating snarkwork and actually selling it for a fee. So the main takeaways I want to wrap up with are, first of all, this was a massive rush, but decentralized proof marketplaces work. It's been working for two and a half years. However, there need to be significant demand to optimize how many independent agents can work together to achieve an efficient marketplace design. Otherwise it ends up being laggy and it ends up requiring scale for decentralization.
00:25:48.214 - 00:25:53.900, Speaker E: So thanks for listening and look out for this. You can find all this information on minaxplorer.com if anyone's interested.
00:25:58.450 - 00:26:08.930, Speaker B: Great, thanks. Then we have a talk by Eugene Chen about Mev on Solana.
00:26:16.630 - 00:26:54.474, Speaker F: Hi everyone, I'm Eugene. I work at Ellipsis Labs. We build on chain order books on Solana. Today I'm going to talk about some of the differences between Salana and Ethereum block production and how it impacts the Salana Mev landscape. So, very roughly speaking, Ethereum transactions build up in the Mem pool for 12 seconds, and then at the end of the slot, the block builders will try to build the most valuable block. Salana's block production is quite a bit different. In particular, transactions are sent directly to the leader, and they're scheduled for execution as soon as they reach the leader.
00:26:54.474 - 00:28:03.190, Speaker F: And so, in effect, what this means is when there's low congestion, transactions are roughly processed first and first out. And then when there is congestion, there's a priority mechanism that if there's a bunch of transactions that are buffered, waiting for execution, having a higher priority fee will let you jump the queue. And so there's a bunch of effects on the network itself. The first is that users get very fast pre confirmations because blocks are continuously streamed as they're getting built, even before the block is finalized. And so this also allows other validators to begin replaying transactions before the block is completed, which reduces the voting latency. Another big difference with Ethereum is on chain compute is extremely cheap on Solana, and so a lot more of the searching logic lives on chain. We call this optimistic meV, and essentially what this means is an optimistic mev transaction, roughly just like pings the network, and then the execution of the transaction itself does the searching and then makes a trade if it finds a profitable one and reverts otherwise.
00:28:03.190 - 00:28:44.830, Speaker F: There's also a lot of spam on Solana. This is due to the FIFO nature of transaction ordering. The cost of failed transactions being extremely cheap and then also jitter across the stack really increases the incentive to spam for latency sensitive transactions. Today, more than half of all on chain compute on Solana is failed arbitrage transactions. There's also this pretty fundamental trade off between continuous execution, which Solana has today, and optimal block packing. Usually we think of blocks as a unit of consensus. Sometimes we also think of them as a unit of transaction pre confirmation.
00:28:44.830 - 00:29:44.366, Speaker F: But these concepts really should be decoupled. And there's a fundamental trade off between the two. Jito's approach here is to build a validator mod that pauses execution during the beginning of a slot, which is very similar to running a blockfix auction that's very similar to Meb Geth. And finally, atomic arbitrage is still king on Solana dominates stat Arb, which is very different to Ethereum. One reason here is that the cost to hedge on chain is very cheap on Solana, where one, you don't incur any additional gas cost, and two, the on chain liquidity tends to be a lot tighter than it is on Ethereum. Probably in the long run, stat Arp is still going to dominate. As I mentioned earlier, state updates are propagated continuously on Solana, and in particular the network topology itself, the way the transactions get propagated out.
00:29:44.366 - 00:30:28.730, Speaker F: This is baked into the mechanism, which is called turbine on Solana. And with this mechanism, higher stake validators are more likely to receive state updates more quickly. And so a trader whose trade is latency sensitive to these state updates is going to do better if they're co located with a high stake validator. So isn't this all very centralizing? I think in theory the answer is yes, but in practice, not yet. There's still plenty of time for Solana to address these long term issues. Today, Mev on Solana is a drop in the bucket compared to Solana's inflationary rewards. And probably the MEV is also much smaller than implied future airdrops for these stake pools.
00:30:28.730 - 00:30:40.314, Speaker F: So if you're interested in learning more about MEV on Solana, you should check out umbrella research. We dive into a lot of Solana topics here, and I'll also be around all afternoon to chat.
00:30:40.442 - 00:30:41.120, Speaker E: Thanks.
00:30:47.750 - 00:30:56.930, Speaker B: Great. And then our last talk is on mining Ethereum open source software development and community dynamics by Maria Petric.
00:31:02.530 - 00:31:59.966, Speaker G: Well, let me introduce first myself. My name is Maria Petrick. I'm an assistant professor in information systems and operations management at George Mason University, and today I'm going to present my work with a colleague of mine, Jason Lee, who is the finance professor at George Mason University, and we essentially are researching the open source community of Ethereum. Interestingly that a lot of cryptocurrency and blockchain related projects are open sourced. More than 60% of projects that you currently can see listed on the coin market cap essentially have their code open sourced, available for everyone to check and join for contribution. Thank you very much. So open source model is essentially built on the principle of openness and decentralization of effort.
00:31:59.966 - 00:33:26.430, Speaker G: However, whether the decentralized model is efficient and sustainable for the development of the public blockchains in the long term is questionable. Hence, we explore the open source community dynamics to identify which mechanisms drive the innovative input into this technology. There are over 152,000 developers in the Ethereum GitHub community that contributed over 1.2 million activities over the past ten years, 200,000 of these activities, or roughly 17%, they essentially ended up in the effective change of the code source code of Ethereum, which is quite a good proportion. Also, interestingly, we find that the involvement into the development of Ethereum blockchain is correlated with the market price. In the bull market the activity goes up, and in the bear market the activity consequently goes down. When we look into the more detailed structure of how these activities are distributed among community members, we find that 80% of all activities are generated by the top five of Ethereum users.
00:33:26.430 - 00:35:02.510, Speaker G: We also measure this concentration within different types of activities that are available on GitHub, and largely those activities that effectively change the code, they have similar levels of concentration. More of our analysis can be found in the working paper that is available by the QR code, and I have to give a thanks to Professor R. Joles, who introduced the Genie index before, and we also calculated the Genie index to measure the inequality, and we find that the Genie index is zero 80, which essentially indicates then acute disproportion of contributions among the top active developers versus the bottom. However, such structure of activities is of no surprise, very similar concentration of activities we observe in other open source projects such as Apache or Mozilla. Interestingly that Ethereum also has other common features with major open source projects. We rely on a significant body of open source literature to test whether the Ethereum community essentially follows the same dynamics as other major open source projects. And we find that there are a lot of commonalities in the development dynamics between nonblockchain based open source projects and their blockchain projects.
00:35:02.510 - 00:36:01.550, Speaker G: The open source collaboration essentially forms a network of developers, and over time, as the project volume grows and the complexity of the project grows, we observe certain tendencies in this network. One of them is the clusterization. As the volume of work grows and the community grows, the community becomes more clusterized and focused on several sets of repositories or like folders with code. But interestingly that for core developers these tendencies are quite opposite. Over time, their clusterization decreases and the density of connections also decreases. On GitHub. Only developers who have a permission to contribute to the main branch of the code that will go into release.
00:36:01.550 - 00:37:20.698, Speaker G: Only the core developers have this permission. However, there is also a large community of peripheral developers who can also contribute code, but before they need to ask a permission of core developer to review it and to be eligible to be submitted. So when analyzing the network structure of developers, the network effects become the driver of the increased community participation. As I mentioned earlier, we rely on the significant body of prior work on other open source projects and we estimate how are these network dynamics work. For Ethereum in particular, we find that every ten new ten peripheral developers, they generate five additional people who will watch the project or simply follow it, and also in addition, they generate one additional developer who will create the fork, which may result in some effective change to the main code. As I mentioned, we also test for other dependencies that were previously revealed for other open source projects that we outline in our working paper. But one major conclusion that we find is Ethereum project.
00:37:20.698 - 00:38:15.530, Speaker G: Open source project is not much different from other non blockchain projects, which provides an interesting evidence for us to consider that all major tendencies that drive open source development are common for the Ethereum as well. Overall, the open source model benefits the technology development from bootstrapping innovative inputs from voluntary contributors. Nevertheless, the expectations should be calibrated by the revealed innate selectivity of participation in such work and unequal contribution among developers. This will end up my presentation, but as I mentioned earlier, if you have any feedback, we would like to hear back from you and thank you very much for your attention.
00:38:20.990 - 00:38:28.970, Speaker B: Great. Okay, so we still have a five minutes break and maybe another round of applause for all the speakers.
