00:00:00.170 - 00:00:18.382, Speaker A: The Alt l one rotation and getting a newer, faster l one. Not gonna go away. Be the same thing in two years. It's like the simplest and most attractive investment for people in size about an ecosystem. What do you do? You go by salt or you go by ETH? And they are getting faster and better every single time. So great. Like, they're pushing the tech forward.
00:00:18.382 - 00:00:31.606, Speaker A: Salon is like not gonna go away. And like, there will be similar chains like that that are like relevant and have like this big general purpose execution and community around it. And then I do think that there will be like a ton of roll ups and lTUs, but you will still have that just like very strong mix of architectures in my mind.
00:00:31.708 - 00:01:11.558, Speaker B: All right, everyone, this episode is brought to you by Monad, an l one bringing performance to the EVM with parallel execution and both a custom consensus engine and new database solution. You'll hear more about them later in the show. Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my cohost, or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode. What's up everyone? Welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed.
00:01:11.558 - 00:01:42.266, Speaker B: We are doing another roundup, but with a twist this week. We have John Charboneau joining us and excited to kind of dive into the latest happenings this week. It was an exciting week in Salana land. A lot of things were going on, and that's not to leave Ethereum out either. We have EIP 4844, the Denkun upgrade going live tomorrow, and we get the pleasure of making predictions the day before during the recording, with the episode going live the day after. Supposed to be airing on the Thursday, we're recording on the Tuesday. So do keep that in mind when we get to that section.
00:01:42.266 - 00:02:32.160, Speaker B: But I think with good jumping off point, here is Jito. So last Friday, the team announced that Jeto Labs will be choosing to suspend the mempool offered through the Jeeto block engine due to the negative externalities that were impacting Solana users. So there's a lot to unpack with this, but I honestly think a good jumping off point would maybe murd. I'll throw it to you if you want to just explain from a high level overview of what the decision changed in terms of the jido block engine. And then there's two pieces I want to dive into. So a, what those negative externalities are that they described, and then b, who are the users that we're really trying to protect here? What are those users doing? How are they interacting with the chain and kind of go into those two things? So, yeah, I'll throw it over to you to give, like, a high level overview of really, what changed with the Jedo Labs engine.
00:02:32.930 - 00:03:23.702, Speaker C: Sure. Yeah. So I think most people are familiar with ethereum and how it works. And you send a transaction, it goes to this mempool, and then people like searchers might reorder some of those transactions in some way and extract some profit or maximize their profit that they can make. Jared from subway, you might have heard, is quite good at doing this and is a major source of fees for Ethereum right now on Falana, you don't have a mempool by actually, basically, the blocks are built continuously, so, like, they're streamed, basically. And Jito basically has said, well, they added a discrete auction process to this mix, and they literally added a mempool to the Solana client. They forgot the Solana client.
00:03:23.702 - 00:03:47.302, Speaker C: And so now the same types of M B attacks that were possible on Ethereum are basically or were available on Solana. But the ecosystem wasn't as evolved as the Ethereum MeV ecosystem. Right. There wasn't RPCs with private MEV protection. People, especially the users, aren't as sophisticated. Right. Most of them don't even really know what slippage is.
00:03:47.302 - 00:04:57.260, Speaker C: These telegram bots have like 99% slippage ratings. And I'm not kidding, by the way, some of them have crazy slippage ratings. And for example, to the listeners who are unfamiliar with what this would look like, you can just imagine you place a market order to buy something and somebody's watching you, they can drive the price of that up so that you buy at a higher price, and then they can just sell it after and profit from that price swing because there's probably poor liquidity, and your slippage is probably pretty high for the market order. And so this was happening quite a bit on Solana due to the recent meme coin season, right? Like there's hundreds of coins being launched, and people are just buying and selling and trading a bunch of shit all the time. And that gives searchers who have this edge because they obviously have this mempool, they can see what's happening, and they were giving users very basically the worst possible price possible that you set. Like, if you said my slippage is going to be 25%, that's the worst I'll accept. You would just get that.
00:04:57.260 - 00:05:32.194, Speaker C: Basically it was guaranteed. And so the users would be getting worse prices while these bots would be getting more money. And obviously the Defi protocols were not happy with, you know, I think there was some social pressure. I've seen quite a few things on Twitter calling Jito out, even though I really don't think they should have been called out at all. They were buildings in the open for two years now, but that's another topic. And so last Friday they decided to shut down the mempool so that users aren't affected. So, yeah, that's a little context.
00:05:32.194 - 00:05:34.840, Speaker C: I'll kind of pass it over to John for his thoughts on.
00:05:36.170 - 00:06:07.010, Speaker A: Yeah, like, it was definitely interesting to watch play out because it was funny. I think it was like one or two days before they announced that. I listened to the weekly roundup that you guys did the week before, and I quote, tweeted it. I was like, this conversation sounds like really familiar. If you followed Ethereum MeV for the last few years, it was like the exact same things you heard, like two years ago of like, all right, there's a problem, and at least we democratize the MEV rather than send it to some centralized party. It funds the network. Jito is doing a good job.
00:06:07.010 - 00:06:57.840, Speaker A: They're a good team that's running this, all things considered. It's like the best kind of thing. So it was just really ironic to me to see one or two days later, and then I was like, all right, never mind. I could take the exact opposite approach of Ethereum to see what happens with it. So I was a little bit surprised when I saw it. I guess at first, even though I guess I shouldn't have been like, it was clearly something that was being considered, my first reaction was more in the direction of like, I don't think that this is worth doing because I think that everyone knows this is obviously not a sustainable outcome of this is not going to hold up indefinitely. The more that I thought about it, I do think that this probably is the right decision for them, particularly just at this current point in time with Solana's development and the way that the ecosystem looks.
00:06:57.840 - 00:07:50.846, Speaker A: It is still a very different situation than Ethereum. And you actually had a very good tweet about this, mostly pointing out the fact that I do think that this will basically hold longer than it would have if someone tried to do something like this in theorem, just by the simple nature of the fact that it is going to be much harder for someone to go spin up a jeto like fork competitor or whatever, to go recreate this thing than it would have been on Ethereum. When we're already in this situation, we're like, all right, we already have the public mempool. This is kind of how everyone's used to operating. There's a lot more people working around the space. Quite frankly, here, it's not easy for someone to just go recreate the Jeto Solana mempool and then get the social kind of complexity solved of getting enough people to onboard onto this thing to start to use it in the first place. So my assumption is this is not a stable equilibrium of at some point, if you just look at the numbers, obviously there is a lot of money that's being left on the table.
00:07:50.846 - 00:08:20.502, Speaker A: Now. Even I was surprised by it when I looked at the dashboards. Like the day that they announced it. I tweeted out, the current rudrate at that point was like there was ten k a day in Seoul in tips, which is like a million and a half dollars. So this is over half a billion dollars a year at least annualized, at least at that run rate that was going through the auction site. It's a lot of money. So not all of that is obviously removed with getting rid of the mempool, but it points to the right order of magnitude.
00:08:20.502 - 00:09:13.678, Speaker A: There's a high incentive for someone else to go spend something like this up over a long enough period of time and to try to capture that value themselves. This does just buy you so much time, at least in the short term, that it is enough that it's probably worth it. And then in that interim, you start to think about, okay, what is the better long run solution? And this is where it starts to get tricky, because this is where you start to have the same conversations again that Ethereum had like a couple of years ago. It's like, okay, what are some of the things that we think of as the possible solutions? We could add them and pull back, but you keep it more private and you kind of auction this off to a permission set of fillers, something that's more either looks like Mev share or uniswap back, something more in that direction of like, okay, we trust the parties that we're going to send this to, so they're not going to sandwich and screw all the users. Or you start to do something more like a full block PBS and you have a private mempool with that. So there's not a perfect solution. And that's why this is not going to hold.
00:09:13.678 - 00:10:01.520, Speaker A: But it probably buys enough time and saves enough value in the Solana ecosystem that it's also just worth trying the experiment right now, there is much more social cohesion, I would say, within the Solana validator set, compared to Ethereum, of like. It is just as a byproduct of kind of like who owns a lot of the soul, quite frankly, of like. It's still held, at least relative to Ethereum, much more heavily concentrated among investors and the foundation that's delegating stuff like that. So you can actually just kind of direct at least a large portion of the stake. That makes it easier to control at a high level. But it is still the same idea of someone is incentivized if they're running like 5% of stake or whatever, some small amount to go start doing this on the side, if your validators start searching on your own or start striking these agreements out of band. So how long this will hold, no idea, but it'll be a fun experiment to see, if nothing else.
00:10:02.290 - 00:10:45.706, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's well said. I think the thing that most people, I think the first initial reaction was like, the incentive is to now bootleg this and maybe fork it or something, but then, because maybe pattern matching from Ethereum. But this is actually a very difficult technical challenge. Like, Jiro took a very long time to do this, and the labs client is pretty hard to read. So somebody would have to understand how Solana works at a very deep core level and then get basically half the validators to adopt this new client. And it took Jito a very long time to do this. And so it's actually like a business that's quite hard to compete with.
00:10:45.706 - 00:11:45.086, Speaker C: So that's interesting. I would be very interested to see if there's competitors that rise up in the next few months to years based on the amount of money that's on the table right now. The other thing that makes this interesting is actually, I think, the fire dancer client, because once fire dancer goes live, and let's say it's like, I don't know, let's say it's a ten x improvement over the labs client. Are validators now going to run this, or are they going to run Jeto? Assuming Jeto runs the Mempool back, right. Which one do you use? Does Jeto now add a mempool to the fire dancer client? There's a lot of really difficult questions here, and this is all coupled with the fact that the fees actually basically don't work right now. And there's network jitter, and so there's a lot of fun problems that are I tweeted this the other day, which was like, Salana is working this fast and it's like insanely broken. So I'm kind of curious, what happens to l one scaling when these problems are actually fixed? What does that look like?
00:11:45.188 - 00:12:30.502, Speaker B: Okay, guys, quick break from the episode to talk to you about Monad the L1, optimizing the performance of the EVM. The team is working to materially advance the efficient frontier in the tradeoff between decentralization and scalability. The internal devnet is currently live and public. Testnet is coming soon, and testing on the internal devnet indicates that the chain can handle up to about 10,000 transactions per second, significantly increasing the throughput capabilities of the EVM. This, of course, opens doors for new applications and more interesting use cases, even those with greater complexity and higher usage, to run in a decentralized manner. Importantly, Manad is fully compatible with the EVM and the Ethereum RPC API, which provides EVM developers with a seamless portability for their applications. Given the popularity of the EVM today, this is really a no brainer.
00:12:30.502 - 00:12:40.122, Speaker B: To stay up to date with all of the latest developments, join the Manad community by following them on Twitter and jumping in the discord. They're a lively bunch, so hit the links in the description below. All right, let's get back to the episode.
00:12:40.186 - 00:12:41.600, Speaker C: Dan, I believe you had a question.
00:12:42.050 - 00:13:30.158, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it's funny, I think actually out of pure chance, the three of us kind of immediately all went to the same direction of like, oh, the incentives are now there for someone else to take advantage of this. And it was interesting because most of crypto Twitter definitely went to the opposite direction. It's like, oh no, this is the better end state. But what I still am struggling to get my head around is I pay attention to this industry for long enough that I'm going to dabble in some meme coins here and there. I can't not. And so when I make trades to purchase any meme coin, I guess maybe I'm an outlier here because I have full understanding of when I set slippage to ten plus percent, I'm just going to get nailed. But I'm buying this thing because of the potential price appreciation to see if we can make a quick trade, right? That's the whole point.
00:13:30.158 - 00:14:20.638, Speaker B: And it is very much so gambling. And so if I'm using a telegram bot or something, I don't know, I struggle to think that that is the user that really we should be prioritizing here. Now, if you abstract all of that away and you just think high level, should users be getting better or worse prices? It's like fundamentally the answer is absolutely a better price. I don't think we should be creating systems that end up negatively impacting users or you won't have users for much longer after that. That does seem fairly true. So it's like this weird push and pull for sure. Now the question is, I guess, how long does this go on for? Because John, to your know, a half billion dollars a year sitting on the know, you throw tokens, incentives, plus this MeV potential at some validators and people will switch, you would think.
00:14:20.638 - 00:15:30.562, Speaker B: However, Jito was pretty loud about the fact everybody, all the validators in their circle and all the searchers were applauding them for doing this because ultimately they're thinking long term, not short term. And that's hard to do in any industry, let alone this one, where the incentives tend to be very short term focused. So I think that's an interesting plus there as well, is we do have the right people building it, which I think we kind of hit on in last week's episode as well. The question is, for now, is Mev is a very unsolved problem in Ethereum land in all of this industry. And what if the social layer actually is the answer? And it's like this weird backwards world where we build all of these engineering systems, but the end of the day, the only way you can prevent this one thing that nobody can crack is saying, hey, this is bad for our users. And maybe as the DAP or the wallet, if you see a validator sandwiching users or whatever, you'll skip that leader or something like that. I'm curious if you guys have any thoughts around maybe taking the social aspect one step further and not just saying, hey, it's bad, but actually holding off sending order flow to leaders that are participating in this, what's considered Bad MeV.
00:15:30.562 - 00:15:42.298, Speaker B: And I guess that's kind of possible because with four millisecond slots and leader holding what, four concurrent slots, then you just wait a couple of seconds and you're going to get that better price. It kind of seems like it'd be.
00:15:42.304 - 00:15:42.746, Speaker A: A good trade off.
00:15:42.768 - 00:15:45.660, Speaker B: So maybe, John, I'll throw that to you. Curious if you have any thoughts there.
00:15:46.670 - 00:16:52.922, Speaker A: So in general, I think that the social layer approach to MeV, I think is completely valid and is actually probably how MEV will be addressed in most circumstances in the long run. The thing that is just fundamentally super difficult is I don't know that that is going to work super well when you're talking about a completely general purpose and trying to be maximally decentralized type of system that wants to have very decentralized ownership and permissionless and very unoppinionated about running the network. So this works in a cosmos chain where you have more concentrated ownership and there's a double digit number of validators. Because it's like, yeah, we know all the guys who are running this and there's a handful of people who are running this and we understand, all right, if someone tries to screw me, it's like, hey, I know that guy. We're in the same telegram group chat. We're going to kick you out of the chain. That makes sense when you're trying to do this in a network where the end state vision of this is like, this is a maximally decentralized, permissionless, the ownership of Seoul and the network is completely decentralized.
00:16:52.922 - 00:17:37.360, Speaker A: It's not just like a handful of larger parties who control large amounts of stake and kind of can drive the messaging a lot. I think where it is today, it's sustainable enough. It's a small enough community where there is meaningful cohesion of you can kind of rally around something like this. I don't think that this is sustainable. If you look on a multi year time horizon of where you kind of want Solana to go of, you don't have the foundation delegation program or large investors that hold a large amount, and there's a bunch of different validator clients and we don't even know who a bunch of the validators are in that world. I think it's pretty difficult to start to rally around this. And that's why I think that Ethereum's decision was probably rational for where they were.
00:17:37.360 - 00:18:29.806, Speaker A: It was a very different social system at the time. And now, compared to Solana, still, where it is more challenging in that situation to actually have social cohesion around this, particularly for stuff that Ethereum is not willing to trade off on. So it is like that is also going to influence a lot of people's views on this is there is a level of, oh, like, if this does work on Solana, does that mean Ethereum screwed up? In hindsight, that is going to be in people's heads and so that is going to color people's opinions, what they think is right or wrong and what's going to work here. So in general, I do think this makes sense for more opinionated environments. I don't think it's probably like a super stable, long run solution for something like Solana. This works if you've got a roll up and you got a couple of sequencers and you know who they are and it's fine. It probably doesn't work in a system like this where you want thousands of validators and decentralized governance and all of that.
00:18:29.806 - 00:18:30.560, Speaker A: In the longer.
00:18:33.330 - 00:19:09.900, Speaker C: Think I saw Tolle mention maybe kind of a hybrid solution as well. It can't purely be social, but it can probably be somewhat mixed in that as adapt you can with the help of RPCs, let's say, figure out which values are sandwiching you. And when you are sending transactions, you can kind of choose to not send to those people. Maybe some sort of rough efficiency or reputation metric that you can use for rattling transactions. The people who are sensitive will use the protected ones, the ones who aren't won't. That could be interesting, or at least it's a first good approach. I think that could be interesting.
00:19:09.900 - 00:19:43.910, Speaker C: One thing I'm curious, just from a place of ignorance, is how MeV would work on l two s and roll ups and sequencers and shared sequencers and all this stuff. Because obviously due to actually there's kind of two questions here, because I'm not even quite sure if some l two s are actually going to decentralized sequencer in the first place. It seems like some just won't and then some obviously are interested in it. What is the overall bird's eye view of MeV on roll ups currently and what that landscape is today?
00:19:43.980 - 00:20:24.814, Speaker A: There's a mix of stated plans and current state, and there's big differences between them. So fundamentally, particularly based on what a lot of them want their future plans to be, there should be no fundamental difference between an L1 and an L two or roll up or whatever, because a lot of them say like, oh yeah, we want to decentralize the sequencer. We're going to have like 75 sequencers. It's going to look like a validator set, blah blah blah. In that scenario it looks like any other chain and then it's kind of the same situation in practice. What most of them do today is they're running a centralized sequencer that does first come, first serve and you just kind of trust them. And yeah, they could screw with you if they want to, but they're not going to because they are the centralized party who's kind of behind this thing, and their reputation.
00:20:24.814 - 00:21:28.418, Speaker A: The value that they're getting from this far outweighs getting some sandwich profits. I actually think that is probably directionally, where a lot more of this will go than people expect, there starts to become. In general, I am very frequently, I had tweeted about this actually kind of at the abstract at the time, but I'm generally a fan of systems that make very strong trade offs and then just kind of lean into that and understand, okay, we are obviously making a trade off in this regard, and then pursue that to the fullest extent. Most systems that try to like, oh, we're going to solve all the problems, we're going to perfectly decentralize. It's going to completely solve MEV and we're also going to be completely decentralized and permissionless. There is no perfect solution to this. So my inclination is that I actually think that a lot of roll ups will start to gravitate closer towards the centralized, decentralized mix of like, yeah, we do just have a fully centralized operator and we accept that that is a trade off of there is a centralized operator who is responsible for the ordering and execution of this chain.
00:21:28.418 - 00:22:09.506, Speaker A: They're the one who decides what is the construction of the blocks, what is the ordering of transactions. And then we have fully decentralized, like after the fact verification, self custodial, all of that. But fundamentally, at the end of the day, a centralized sequencer is always going to give you the best MEV protection, quote unquote, of like, yeah, you just like, you trust if Coinbase is running a sequencer, they're not going to go front run their customers for the same reason I trust them not to screw me when I trade on Coinbase. The exchange, they're not going to do that. And they're always going to be able to offer the best product in that circumstance of like, yeah, just like jack up the hardware requirements because who cares? Decentralized sequencer, you can offer just like instant latency. You don't even need like a few hundred millisecond block times, just be instant. I think it's always going to be inherently super hard to compete with that.
00:22:09.506 - 00:23:07.240, Speaker A: And I think you're going to see people lean more into that direction and realize that this is kind of a big fundamental reason in my mind why you do a roll up in the first place is that just this real time guarantee of who is sequencing and ordering the transactions is a pretty different role than, okay, we're just signing off on the data after the fact and everyone can go verify that the first one is the MEV, one that is always going to have all these centralizing problems that we see in practice, whether it's Ethereum, and now Aslana. And you go down the road of where does most of it lead? Is like, you end up with some form of permissioning usually to fix it. It's like, all right, we either permission to set our fillers, who are now the only ones who are executing this, or we do a full block PBS. And then it's like, all right, well, we have a million validators, but three different block builders are building all the blocks. So it's like, why don't we just make, make the blocks in the first place? And you see Ethereum, PBS moving even more in that direction of like, all right, we outsourced block production, and now you're asking like, oh, with execution tickets and stuff more in that. Like, maybe we just outsource, like proposing too. And it's like more the testing role that you keep.
00:23:07.240 - 00:23:35.326, Speaker A: So I think it's going to keep moving this direction. I think that you probably will see more and more roll ups in the long run, realize that it's a perfectly acceptable trade off to have a fully centralized or small set of sequencers, and then you just completely, really take advantage of that and lean into it. You understand it's a trade off. And, yeah, it simplifies the problem. It's like it's taking a shortcut. I do think a lot more people will do that in the long run once you start having like, all right, we're a roll up and we're going to have 100 different validators. Just go be an one.
00:23:35.326 - 00:23:44.660, Speaker A: There's no reason for you to be making this trade off in the first place than and posting to some other d layer and doing all that kind of like, usually that trade off is not going to make sense in my mind.
00:23:45.130 - 00:23:45.686, Speaker C: Interesting.
00:23:45.788 - 00:23:46.390, Speaker A: Okay.
00:23:46.540 - 00:24:13.018, Speaker C: Actually, so talking about that, let's assume we have a centralized sequencer, right? And there's no mev because it just protects. So, okay, I'm going to read Kyle swanni's tweet. That quote tweeted June. I believe you quote tweeted it back. And the tweet is, there's a common trope that sol cannot capture value because gas fees are too low. This is nonsense. The primary value driver for asset ledgers, inclusive of l one, l two, l three, is Meb.
00:24:13.018 - 00:24:16.670, Speaker C: Nothing else matters. What do you think, Sean?
00:24:17.890 - 00:24:48.120, Speaker A: I think that's definitely not true today. There is some reasonable argument that that is true in the longer run, in a quote unquote rational market that is strictly looking at valuations. I think that is very obviously not true today. No one is buying Tia or Sol or ETH or any of these things based on a DCF of their future expected MEV or fees. I can promise you no one's doing that. You'll get very different numbers and be very sad with it if you try to do that in the long run. There's like a fair argument of that.
00:24:48.120 - 00:25:13.054, Speaker A: I also don't think that's even. It's also interesting to me that he will argue that often for Solano, when there is also. The argument that he will generally make is that it is reasonable that Sol becomes like a money like asset, even though Tolly will obviously say like, no, it's just spam. But a lot of people will argue like, no, it can actually serve a money like function. And obviously, if you're valuing it on this kind of just like intangible. Oh, it's like ETH. It's like.
00:25:13.054 - 00:25:56.414, Speaker A: Like people just want to use, like, no one's valuing that based off of a cash flow. So the question is, what is the asset? How are people valuing it? It can just be valuable because people want it as a money like asset and it has value in reality, in the long run, in a more efficient market. Is most stuff going to be priced that way? No, probably not. And then there's a reasonable argument for stuff like this. Like, all right, it's just like a cash flow business. And that becomes particularly reasonable as you start to see potentially more of these chains move towards this model over time of like it is this kind of hybrid, centralized, decentralized product of. You could just have some roll up with a centralized sequencer and it's running some exchange or whatever, and it just feels like Coinbase or whatever.
00:25:56.414 - 00:26:31.186, Speaker A: You don't really know the difference. It doesn't even need to have a token or anything else. It's just like, how do they make money on it? They make money on fees, like, the same way that Coinbase does today. So I think there's like a reasonable argument that stuff starts to gravitate towards that over time. I don't think that's ever going to be true in practice of, are people ever going to value ETH based on a DCF of the. I? I just don't really buy that as an outcome, because clearly that is not why anyone is interested in the asset really in the first. So, like, it's definitely important to understand what are the value flows going through these systems.
00:26:31.186 - 00:26:40.780, Speaker A: But in practice, no one's valuing these things based on a DCF. Today, you won't get any of the numbers that you see on any of these coins today, if you value literally any of them on a DCF, like maybe one or two.
00:26:42.590 - 00:27:17.654, Speaker B: Yeah. And the worst part is when you do that in the heat of a bear market, you still don't get the numbers that you'd want to see to make any level of sense. But let's use this conversation on sequencers to kind of roll into the Denkun upgrade that's coming for Ethereum. So Denkun brings a couple of things to Ethereum. Many of them are quite important, but we'll focus in on EIP 4844, which brings blobs to block space. Right. So just as a refresher here, blobs are like a sidecar on a block, where a blob itself is just an arbitrary data structure that roll ups will post their data to.
00:27:17.654 - 00:27:54.178, Speaker B: So they post all of their transaction data or state diffs into this blob, and it has its own pricing mechanism. So regular transactions will follow the same EIP 1559 curve where there's a base fee that changes based on demand. So it's the same concept just taken into a separate fee market. So you now have like two fee markets, one for transacting typical defi transactions, NFT transactions, sending someone ETH. That's all in the original market. We just have a separate market specifically for rollups to post their data to. However, this is also a permissionless market, so theoretically anybody could participate and purchase blob space.
00:27:54.178 - 00:28:32.480, Speaker B: So, John, I want to throw it over to you. We talked about this last week a little bit just on the idea. I know the optimism team. They put out like an analysis using prediction markets to kind of say, here's a potential outcome. Of course, those prediction markets didn't have a ton of liquidity, which is a huge disclaimer around that analysis, which I think they're aware of. But I want to get your take on where you think this will end up with, meaning the impact that it will have on l two transaction fees. Again, I want to convict this with, we're making the prediction the day before the upgrade goes live, knowing that the episode airs the day after.
00:28:33.270 - 00:29:06.330, Speaker A: We'll rerecord it tomorrow. If I get it wrong, it's fine. Everyone is completely guessing on this. My very, I think reasonable intuition is like, yeah, when the thing launches, you're going to see gas prices drop a lot for some reasonable period of time, and then you're going to start to see them creep back up on the market is going to adjust to kind of the new capacity. Does that take one month, two months, six months? Honestly, I have no clue whatsoever. Could be choppy along the way. Kind of unclear.
00:29:06.330 - 00:29:57.882, Speaker A: My general view on it is that, at least from a higher level, is that it will be helpful. It will, on the margin, reduce gas fees relative to what they would have been. I don't think it approaches anything that is of enough significance that it is going to meaningfully change the architecture or the paths of most of these other chains. It's not going to be the type of thing that moves the needle of like, hey, if I'm spinning up a new chain today that wants to be this ultra high performant new chain that it's basically free to use, blah blah blah, is competitive with Solana, Ethereum with Voyager four is still not going to be the thing that you pick. You are still going to opt for something like Celestia, maybe like something like Eigen da. When it goes live. It is a multiple improvement over what the current status is.
00:29:57.882 - 00:30:36.902, Speaker A: It's not something that's going to put you on par with being cost competitive, transaction throughput competitive with something like Solana. Particularly as you're thinking about spinning up these new chains, you're still going to go use the newer, meaningfully cheaper thing. I think it is like a meaningful benefit, particularly for the large high value roll ups that aren't going to leave Ethereum and are on Ethereum. Like the chains, like optimism, main net, like arbitrary one, those types of chains. This makes a big difference to them of when things are bad. Users could have to pay a few dollars to go swap on one of these chains and this will meaningfully help with that. I don't think it is something that is of enough significance that it really shifts the playing field at a higher level.
00:30:36.902 - 00:30:55.200, Speaker A: On crypto of like, oh, now all these chains are just going to go be Ethereum roll ups now. And there's no need for all these other alt like, it's not an alt, a killer or an alt L, one killer, like those kinds of things. It'll be helpful to the current chains, but I don't think it's like this radical change that's going to meaningfully shift the playing field.
00:30:56.050 - 00:31:54.100, Speaker C: Yeah, and actually one of my favorite interactions about this was yours with Vance, and he said there'll likely be 100 to 1000 roll ups in the next year. So 1000 roll ups each paying east stakers one to ten ETH per day is where this ends up. And then you were like the 4844 spec target, 0.375 megabytes per block will support roughly 100 tps combined across all roll ups. Lol. First of all, so what I'm actually the most interested in is because I think the net difference probably won't be too noticeable after the market demand picks up a little bit. I made a tweet that I got trolled for, which is like, okay, so you're telling me that the fees will go down, but then ETH will go up and then the demand will go up, and so what's going to be the difference? And I got trolled for this, but that's not new.
00:31:54.100 - 00:32:01.266, Speaker C: So my question actually is, because I believe you're an investor in Celestia, right? In Tia. No, you're not.
00:32:01.288 - 00:32:06.962, Speaker A: Okay. I'm a personal angel that I'd angeled into it a couple of years ago, but dBA is not an investor.
00:32:07.106 - 00:32:31.920, Speaker C: Okay. Okay. So what I'm actually the most curious about, just, again, from a place of ignorance, is because there's also eigenda now, or there will be eigenda, and there's kind of like, what are roll up teams thinking of how to pick between these two things? I'm kind of pretty confused because, again, I don't think 4844 is going to do anything that crazy.
00:32:33.330 - 00:33:12.860, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, the very practical consideration from teams so far has been like, Eigen Da is still a theoretical thing. It's not like actually a live thing. If you are someone like eclipse or Avo or manta or any of the other chains that are starting to use Celestia now, when they're building this thing, they needed the first viable thing that is a good choice. And that was the primary decision factor is that, yeah, Celestia is going to be live, like at least six months, probably more than that before I can da. They launched them end of October or something like that. So quite frankly, that was the main decision point, I think, in practice for most of these teams so far. It's just like, yeah, the thing is live, we understand it's stable, it works.
00:33:12.860 - 00:34:44.338, Speaker A: And that is going to be a moat for some meaningful amount of time in my mind, because we'll see when I canda launches at some point later this year, presumably, and then people will want to see the same thing of like, all right, it's live, it seems to be working well, like some other people using it. And then you get to a point where like, okay, both of these things are live and competitive with each other. Both work reasonably well. They're both reliable, they're both cheap, et cetera. I don't think that there is going to be these gigantic moats between these types of da layers and the super long term, the big question is going to be is there is clearly a gigantic demand for people to come off of Ethereum and go to something like celestia for those first few orders of a magnitude of cost reduction, like going from a dollar per swap to a fraction of a penny per swap matters a lot. But is it going to be a moat or is it going to be like a meaningful differentiating factor? Rather, if my chain is on celestia and that costs me a 10th of a penny and then eigenda shows me the math of like, oh, but you can get like a thousandth of a penny if you go use eigenda, is that going to matter to most people? Am I not? For some use cases that may be a meaningful factor. It's also a guess of what are the orders of magnitude difference between those things going to be and where does that stay over time? So in practice, my general assumption is both of them and others are going to be in the same orders of magnitude of really cheap.
00:34:44.338 - 00:35:17.294, Speaker A: And from the user perspective, they will just be really cheap. And whether those orders of magnitude make a difference between them, probably not for most things. And then it's just going to come down to, quite frankly, what is the brand that you want to be associated with? What is a reliable thing that you trust? And that is the main thing that quite frankly Celestia has going for it. Right now. My mind is that of just like, that is the assumed and safe and market understood thing now of like, hey, we're going to swap out our da and we're going to go use. Like, that is a thing that users in the market understand. It's like this is like a safe and normal and reliable thing to go use.
00:35:17.294 - 00:35:45.050, Speaker A: It's not like someone who's trying to say like, oh yeah, I'm going to go use this weird committee that you've never heard of before, and it works this way, but trust me, it's safe. That is still something that you're not going to want to sell to most people. So just really, just the brand and the reliability around it is going to be a moat for at least some period of time. But what happens when you have three or four that are super reliable and well understood by the market? I don't think there's going to be like a gigantic moat between one or the other probably over time as you start to play that out further and further.
00:35:45.710 - 00:36:19.446, Speaker B: So I've been poking around the cost of DA for roll ups data quite a bit now. And I got some numbers, so I'll use arbitrum as an example here. And let's just see. So over the course of its lifetime, it's posted about 63, almost 64,000 megabytes of data to Ethereum, and it's paid $79 million to do so. So that comes out to about a $1,250 per megabyte of data. Celestia charges twenty cents per megabyte of data. So that is multiple orders of a magnitude difference there.
00:36:19.446 - 00:37:00.834, Speaker B: And I did some napkin math on the optimism numbers we referenced earlier, that their prediction, again, using prediction markets, maybe not the best idea, but for what it's worth, that was the cheapest outcome of any of the predictions we've really seen. For 4844, that was coming out to about 13 or so dollars per megabyte. And again, Celestia is $0.20. Eigen da expect it to be slightly cheaper than Celestia. I do agree with your take, John. That's like, once you're at that 20 cent mark, do you care if it gets cut in half to ten? It seems like the answer is intuitively no. But there's a good example we have in production here is Manta network right now is actually paying about $2 per megabyte of data.
00:37:00.834 - 00:37:28.554, Speaker B: They're simply overpaying. Celestial uses a first price auction fee mechanism, and that enables overpaying. There's just nothing that protects against that. Not the best fee mechanism, but really just like a non issue for celestial right now. And Manta just needs to pay less and they'll still get in the block, but they're not. And the reality is, they just don't care because it doesn't make a huge difference in their bottom line. So, yes, I'm sure they'll fix that in the future, but that's kind of a point that we have in production that kind of lends that to being true.
00:37:28.554 - 00:38:08.678, Speaker B: It's like I started here, it's effort to change, and I'm really not even going to end up saving money. Why would I? Have you heard of either of you, I guess really heard. If there's anyone that's like, yeah, we're rolling out on day one. Because the other piece to this is, if you're going to post data to a blob, you must consume the whole blob, even if you only like. The maximum amount of data per blob is zero point 125 megabytes. If you only need to post half of that or a third of that or a 10th of that, you got to buy the whole blob. And so for some roll ups, I'm curious if we see some sort of, like, shared blob strategy that sounds incredibly complex and even more engineering work that would need to go into that.
00:38:08.678 - 00:38:16.970, Speaker B: So that's, I guess, a two piece question here is, have you heard of any blob sharing strategies and how quickly do you think teams will roll out adoption of 4844 blobs?
00:38:17.630 - 00:38:57.314, Speaker A: So as far as zero point 44, I would strongly expect most all major l two s to adopt it very quickly. They've known this is coming for quite a long time. I don't know the exact timelines for all them. I'd be quite surprised if any of them have any meaningful delay beyond the upgrade. So that's my strong guess there. As far as the blob sharing, yeah, it's an annoying quirk with it. In practice, it doesn't matter a ton, particularly for mostly the larger roll ups of like, yeah, you just like, you wait a little bit and then you build up enough that you have a full blob and then you post it in practice.
00:38:57.314 - 00:39:35.118, Speaker A: A lot of these roll ups are already playing kind of these timing games to some degree of like, arbitrum does this with their sequencer, for example, of like, all right, gas prices are really high. We'll wait a little bit longer to post a batch based on we determine this, that it's likely to save us some cost. And then like, oh, gas prices, like, we'll post a bunch more of them now, like a little bit faster. So I think it's going to be reasonable for people to do similar stuff like this. I have heard some people working around strategies for sharing blobs, and in theory it is more efficient. I just don't think it's probably a pressing need for, like, most of them. Particularly at least for the large roll ups.
00:39:35.118 - 00:40:09.034, Speaker A: For the small roll ups that just have small transaction volume, that is something that actually would matter more for them. And then you can imagine different types of aggregation layers, whether that's like posting through an L two from an L three, or having different forms of shared sequencers that are aggregating the data from a bunch of them and posting them together in the most efficient way. So it's going to become relevant, particularly for probably longer tail stuff that can't just fill up a blob pretty quickly. But for the larger chains especially, it's within the reasonable amount of. They'll fill it up within a pretty short period of time and they don't need to post every block.
00:40:09.082 - 00:40:42.758, Speaker C: Anyway, John, you recently tweeted something I found interesting and I commented, misaligned to it, but I thought it was an interesting tweet, which I don't think arbitram. I think this is arbitram. Right, agreed with. And yeah, it was. L two is aggressively pushing l three s is a strategic business move rather than a scaling one and one that ethereum l one should be cautious of the power dynamics. What does this mean? What did he mean by this?
00:40:42.844 - 00:41:36.282, Speaker A: First, I guess I'll explain. What are we even talking about when we say like l ones, l two s, l three s? Because I think that it's actually valuable. All we're really talking about is in practice, where do you have a contract that you're quote unquote settling to, that you're determining your fork choice off of if you're optimism or base? Right now they are l two s in the sense that their contract that they're looking to that hey, we're looking to Ethereum for our fork choice. You can just have a chain that deploys that same type of contract like you deploy it on top of an l two, and now you're quote unquote an l three and you're settling down to the l two and then they settle down to Ethereum. The thing that has annoyed me with some of that conversation is a lot of people will tend to imply that, oh, this is an amazing scalability thing, and l three s are going to be like a million times cheaper. And this solves all the problems we need. L three s.
00:41:36.282 - 00:42:04.740, Speaker A: This is what you need for customized block space and high scale and all of those things. There is no fundamental difference between an L1 or an L two or an L three. It makes absolutely no difference in this regard. If you are an L two, you can post to some other da layer. If you want. You can aggregate proofs with other chains such that you amortize your proof costs together. There is no fundamental difference in this regard for scalability from whether you're in L two, an L three, whatever.
00:42:04.740 - 00:42:50.318, Speaker A: Either one can use whatever da layer you want and you could do whatever you want for settlement costs, you could post to some other chain. It doesn't matter. So that's the kind of fundamental side. The in practice benefit of them, I would say, is like, and this is kind of the same thing that I had written in the L1s versus l two s, modular versus monolithic app specific verse general purpose thing. I'd written is the main thing I honestly view between L1 and l two is it's honestly mostly a ux thing, quite frankly. And that is the situation where in practice today, I think it actually does make sense to have l three s in some of these cases is like, what is the real benefit for an L two in most of these cases is it is just like a simple and understandable mapping for the use of like, all right, this is an ethereum extension. The native asset is ETH.
00:42:50.318 - 00:43:31.486, Speaker A: This is the single bridge. We don't have like 20 different wrap versions of this thing. You don't have to understand all these different complicated things with it. It just feels and looks like Ethereum and the users will supposedly just generally come through there. That is the user base that you're trying to tap into. So by extension of that, if you are an app chain where all of your target users are onboarded through base, it actually makes sense for you to just directly settle to base, because all you're doing is you're giving yourself an opinionated bridge native to base. If you think that all of your users are going to come from base and they're not coming from ethereum, l one or some other roll up or whatever, it makes sense for you to just tie your chain to base because it's the simplest bridging experience that gives you instant bridging up.
00:43:31.486 - 00:44:10.746, Speaker A: So it makes sense, but it's not like a fundamental scaling thing. You can have an l two that's cheap. You can make all the same customizable decisions. So that is a situation where it makes sense today in particular, the main thing that would remove a lot of the need for this is I think you guys actually just recorded a pod with Brendan for polygon. And talking about Ag layer is like the main thing that removes the need for this is once you have really good zk aggregation across all of these chains. So I kind of hand waved over that at the beginning of the answer is that theoretically solves these problems. That doesn't really exist in practice quite yet today.
00:44:10.746 - 00:44:54.710, Speaker A: That should be in the pretty near term is that that would mostly solve a lot of these problems. It's like, all right, we can just aggregate the proofs across these chains, and then it doesn't matter if, as long as we're sharing a bridge contract, whether I'm going from this l two to that l two or this l three to the l two on it, it shouldn't make a difference in practice. That doesn't actually exist today. These chains in the super chain in particular, they don't have proofs at all. So having the data bridge that settles to it, and you could just bridge to it instantly, that actually is just a benefit for it. The reason I was saying to be careful in some sense, is you can imagine playing this out to the very strong extreme of like, okay, let's say it's base or arbitram or whatever. Let's say everything is an l three on top of them.
00:44:54.710 - 00:45:26.370, Speaker A: This is where all the users are coming from. This is where all the native assets are coming from. Once you play this out to the extreme, it becomes some degree of like, all right, what do we actually need ethereum for at the end of the day in that to some extent of why do they need their bridge contract there, why do they need to post their data there? All of these customers are there for base. They're not there for Ethereum, which again, is like a totally rational thing for all these chains to do. It's perfectly understandable. But I do think that we at least need to realize there's a very strong business reason that these l two s are pushing l three s. It's because it's very valuable for them.
00:45:26.370 - 00:45:50.860, Speaker A: They own the customer, they own the relationships. They are the funnel to all of those chains. That is a valuable thing to own. There's a reason that it has always been free and permissionless to launch an arbitrum orbit l three that settles to an arbitram l two. But if you want to fork it as your own l two or settle to another l two, you cannot do that permissionlessly and for free. You do need governance, permission or pay. So there's a business motivation here, which is totally fine.
00:45:50.860 - 00:46:08.370, Speaker A: I just want to make sure that everybody acknowledges there is obviously a business motivation here. It is a smart, strategic move. It can be good ux, but it's not this inherent, like, oh, it solves all the scalability problems like l three s are cheaper, we don't need l ones anymore. So, yeah, that was kind of the point behind it.
00:46:08.520 - 00:46:47.738, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a really valuable perspective. I think people do definitely, most certainly need to understand. And base in particular, I do agree it makes the most sense for just given Coinbase will put users on base, and if everybody like you as a builder, you want to be in front of the users in the easiest way possible, and that's probably going to be one of them. So I think base is probably one rare instance where it does indeed make sense. You brought up the Polygon episode, and yes, Jonas from the future, the Polygon episode will air the Tuesday following this episode's release. And in that episode we touched on the aggregation layer. Of course, it's a huge technical advancement for the industry, specifically ethereum.
00:46:47.738 - 00:47:20.066, Speaker B: And you also mentioned there that you need some of these requirements, like the same bridge contract. Polygon is not the only people that is building something that looks like an aggregation layer. Everybody's spending a shit ton of money investing in the latest and greatest on the zk side of things. That's like billions of dollars being poured into this stuff. And all of the incentives are for their solutions to win their ZK circuits, to be the ones that everybody else is trusting and plugging into. If you could rewind everything. And of course, this is not how ethereum existed.
00:47:20.066 - 00:47:53.182, Speaker B: It had to do a lot of pulling back the curtain for everybody else in the industry. And now it's kind of got this situation where it has all of these different bridge contracts to all of these aggregation layers, to this networks of chains. So you get what's called constellations and going in transactions between chains within the same constellations. Super straightforward. That's what the aggregation layer is for. Going between the constellations themselves is still like this frictionful challenge. And so in a perfect world, you'd kind of have one bridge contract, one aggregation layer, one set of zk circuits.
00:47:53.182 - 00:48:02.070, Speaker B: But the reality is that's just not how things unfolded. Do you think that that plays a negative impact into Ethereum's success or growth story here?
00:48:02.220 - 00:49:02.858, Speaker A: I don't know that it has actually meaningfully hurt Ethereum either in the past or going forward, at least in practice. I know the fragmentation and the UX and all those things. That is the main reason why Solana has done very well lately and has gotten a lot of people interested because, yeah, this stuff is very difficult and annoying to use. That being said, there is a tremendous benefit in Ethereum that has happened over its lifecycle of having these kind of diverse ecosystems built on top of it and not just having, oh yeah, it is like everything is a polygon ag layer chain and we all settle to the same bridge contract. It's been incredibly beneficial to have the incentive for all of teams to keep building on top of Ethereum and just keep incrementally pushing the ball forward. Like, yeah, in practice that means a bunch of fragmentation, but it also means that all of these other teams are competing against each other and they do have to get better at what they're doing and they do have to keep building a better thing because of that. I do think that is the better solution over the long run.
00:49:02.858 - 00:49:30.660, Speaker A: I don't think there's ever going to be something that is super opinionated that would ever get anyone to opt into. And I think that is a general part of the benefit of aglayer is that it tries to be minimally opinionated. It's like something like a shared sequencer is like. I would generally consider a more opinionated thing that you kind of put on top of it. You can use a shared sequencer with this, or you could not. You can control whatever sequencing rules you want, whatever da layer you want. So having that flexibility is important.
00:49:30.660 - 00:50:10.670, Speaker A: So putting everything together, it would have been nice from a UX perspective. I don't think for an ecosystem growth perspective overall, it actually would have been good. I think having all these different ecosystems kind of built on top, each kind of pushing forward has been helpful. You probably see in the longer term, more coalescing around. What are some of the winning and better standards? What are the simple, minimal things that we can all agree on that are helpful standards? I think you will generally move towards that direction. Naturally, over time, the UX will only get better and the unification will only get better. It will be like a long and painful process.
00:50:10.670 - 00:50:32.630, Speaker A: But I do think that in the long run, that is probably the more valuable path for Ethereum. It was never going to be able to compete on unity and the simplified UX versus something like Solana on the same timescale. This is just never going to happen. That is the trade off that you're making. Lean into it. Let all the ecosystems build the cool stuff on top of you. It was never going to be as good as using one chain.
00:50:35.450 - 00:51:37.980, Speaker C: Well, so actually what I want to do now is get some general commentary, because you mentioned Solana, but there's actually other l ones now. Yeah, there are other l ones now. Suiato say Monad coming out soon, and then there's a lot of l two s, l three s, sovereign roll ups, a bunch of shit, basically. And I'm curious how you think about holistically the space. If you were to just try to reason about what trends you think will emerge in the next two years or something like that, like any sort of prediction. Do you think the l ones kind of like sweet aptos make more of a splash, or do you think zk tech improves very fast, or abstraction happens faster than people think? What are your just general thoughts? If you're talking to somebody and you're trying to give them a bootcamp to starting dBA as like an analyst or something, how do you describe the industry currently.
00:51:40.910 - 00:52:19.142, Speaker A: On a two year time span. I actually don't think it's going to look crazy different than it does today. I think we're going to see a similar mix of all of these approaches, like the Alt L1 rotation and getting a newer, faster l one. It's not going to go away. It's going to be the same thing in two years, if for nothing else. Quite frankly, because of the investment incentives there of like that is still going to be in my mind for most things, like the simplest and most attractive investment for people in size of like they're excited about an ecosystem. What do you do? You go buy soul or you go by ETH? That is still just like a useful thing.
00:52:19.142 - 00:52:36.880, Speaker A: And I don't think that's going to go away. People are going to get excited about it and that means there's an incentive to go build those things. Therefore they will probably still exist and people will keep building them. And they are getting faster and better every single time. So great. They're pushing the tech forward every single time. So I don't expect that to go away at all.
00:52:36.880 - 00:53:51.670, Speaker A: I don't think you'll see a million general purpose super decentralized of these, all ones that are actually really valuable and have any meaningful community around them. I do think that stays in the handful of them that we can reason know, maybe it is Solana and three or four, whatever that number is. I do expect like Solana is not going to go away and there will be similar chains like that that are relevant and have this big general purpose execution and community around it. And then I do think that there will be a ton of roll ups and L two s and just like more app. I don't even want to say app specific, but because I think that's honestly, in half the time, they're really general purpose, not app specific, but there will be a lot of chains and they will look more like this L two ish model. It's just that the lines on that are also going to blur of what is this thing of like? All right, it's primarily using ETH assets, but it's using this other DA, and maybe it's using restaking to secure the thing and maybe it's not using DA. I think that you're going to see all different mixes of this and everything is kind of going to blend together.
00:53:51.670 - 00:54:22.826, Speaker A: I think most major assets are going to start to look very similar in that regard of like, you're going to have a major asset that is used for some form of restaking. That is going to be the staking kind of center of this ecosystem. You're probably going to see the same with Salana that you see with ethereum of people will start using sole restaking and there'll be an incentive to have. I know that you've also been more positive on it might make sense to have more l two s on top of Salana. I think that will probably happen over the next few years. People will build those because it actually does make sense to. You'll probably see the same thing with Celestia.
00:54:22.826 - 00:54:52.298, Speaker A: Sure, why not build Celestia restaking? I think a lot of these major assets are going to converge on a kind of similar ecosystem type model. But yeah, in two years, I actually don't think it'll look crazy different. I think it will look similar, just more developed of you'll have a handful of these integrated chains that are still super, super popular that people are excited about, but you'll also have a million different chains, and most of them won't be relevant. Most of them won't. People won't care about them at all. But you will still have that just like very strong mix of architectures. In my mind, that's a good thing.
00:54:52.298 - 00:54:57.820, Speaker A: I don't think we need to all coalesce around this exact same standard for everything, particularly in the next couple of years.
00:55:00.270 - 00:55:33.430, Speaker C: One thing I want to touch on quickly is your recent investment into eclipse, which is an SVM roll up, which I believe uses Celestia for DA and settles on Ethereum. And I think probably there's some plans for changing that DA later, but for the time being, that's what it is. One criticism I heard of this was that the overwhelming bottleneck is obviously DA. And so why do you also need to make the execution environment SVM? What do you think about this criticism?
00:55:34.330 - 00:56:13.860, Speaker A: So the bottleneck depends on the different chains, and you can actually have the different bottlenecks at different times. I would say in practice, for most Ethereum roll ups, particularly in aggregate, like DA is the bottleneck for. I mean, that's why eclipse will not use DA, because a lot of this would go to waste if you were still using Ethereum. Da. You need to remove that as the bottleneck for them, and that in practice is the bottleneck for a lot of them, at least on your steady state costs. Is that so they will remove that, and that sets your baseline back to like, okay, very cheap now for Celestia. And then you could all like, let's juice up the execution environment, bump up the gas limits on this thing and let's see where it goes.
00:56:13.860 - 00:57:15.602, Speaker A: You do eventually potentially end up on the same fundamental limit depending on how big Celestia blocks get, though, of like maybe Celestia blocks are eight megabytes, but over that time period, eclipse keeps bumping up the hardware requirements, and they need ten megabytes over that same time period. Now that is the bottleneck again. So it's always going to be a moving goalpost based on that. But yeah, that is why eclipse and most of these other new chains, in my mind, they just won't use Ethereum DA, because it's not cost competitive. And so you need to think about the different bottlenecks kind of at the different times because there are other times where Ethereum rolls will get constrained by their own execution, where you'll see gas prices on arbitrum will get really high, but they won't get high on optimism. And it's because of they have some finite gas limit on arbitrum and everyone wants to do an airdrop or some mint or whatever, and that's just bound by that own execution environment and not just like the DA of the chain underneath. So it depends on the different situations.
00:57:15.602 - 00:57:19.910, Speaker A: But yeah, you definitely have to address both bottlenecks if you want to be super performant.
00:57:20.650 - 00:57:47.330, Speaker B: So Neil had a tweet that I thought was hilarious, and it says eclipse will push the hardware requirements of the SVM to laughable extremes to levels that would make a Salana L1 validator. Gawk. This is only possible by virtue of our small sequencer set. I'm curious to get your thoughts around this. It really does seem like we kind of alluded to this earlier. Honestly, it's like, own the fact that you have a small sequencer set and max that thing out. Just give us a little more insight onto how you think about this in the context of eclipse.
00:57:47.670 - 00:58:24.086, Speaker A: Yeah, this is my general view of if you want to be these ultra high performance chains, I think that is the way that most of these chains and these roll ups will go if this is what they're trying to go after, is this super high performance market, and that is what eclipse clear wants to do. So why not increase the hardware requirements arbitrarily? There's a very good argument that you should already do it on Solana today or at some point in the near term, but you can be even far less cautious if you're just running this centralized thing by yourself. Like, yeah, like raise it higher. We're running it. We know what it costs. It's fine. And yeah, if you get problems with it, maybe you get a liveness failure.
00:58:24.278 - 00:58:24.766, Speaker C: I don't know.
00:58:24.788 - 00:58:41.970, Speaker A: It's fine. It's going to happen to all these chains. You should just be pushing the limits on all of these things much, much further once you're making this trade off in the first place. I think that's what directionally makes sense for them to do. If fire dancer is way better when that comes out. Sure, just run that instead. Don't even run both clients.
00:58:41.970 - 00:59:04.758, Speaker A: I think you'll see other chains start to do this over too. Like chains, like mega ETH, like the same thing. If you want to be this super high performance all too, like for the AVM side. For them, yeah, you're going to want a much, much beefier sequencer. I think that is going to be, in practice, a trade off that is worth making for these types of chains. If you want to be the most performant, that is the trade off that you're going to make. They're not trying to have a million validators.
00:59:04.758 - 00:59:12.800, Speaker A: There's no reason to. It's the whole point of getting the data availability sampling improves is like, it lets you jack this up. So take advantage of the trade off.
00:59:14.370 - 00:59:16.190, Speaker C: John, what do you think about meme coins?
00:59:21.010 - 00:59:49.786, Speaker A: Like, I like. I definitely just don't want to be one of the VCs who's like writing the thought pieces on VCs, on meme coins, which is honestly most of the reason why I don't write about them at all. I love them, they're great. I own meme coins personally. It's not something that we do in the fund, but they're fun. This is what crypto is in large part, and that's fine. Particularly today.
00:59:49.786 - 01:00:16.766, Speaker A: Realistically, all of the people who are still here today are the early people who are nerds and just like using all this shit. Stop taking yourself so seriously and just getting annoyed at the people who are trading meme coins. It's fine. That is why a lot of these people are here. This is like a fun industry to work in, and that's never going to go away. I have no problem with that. And I do think that it is for a lot of what the thought pieces are of.
01:00:16.766 - 01:00:48.234, Speaker A: At least the general point actually is valid of like, we're going to move closer towards this. What is this thing priced on? Based on attention and people like the thing. And that's perfectly valid. And you're going to just see the stuff getting weirder and weirder, particularly with all the political ones. For example, half of them are really a joke on Solana. But the ones that are like, the serious political meme coins, those are going to get really valuable, and those are things that the real world is going to notice. And that is not a trend that is going to go away.
01:00:48.234 - 01:01:11.300, Speaker A: If some of these political coins go to billions of dollars in market caps, that's not a trend that's going to go away in the future. This is obviously going to keep happening. So, I don't know, trying to ignore them or downplay them or say this is like a bad look for our industry or whatever is just like, I don't know, it's kind of ridiculous. This is why we built crypto in large part. It's like, yeah, it's permissionless. Go make whatever the hell you want. It's fun.
01:01:11.300 - 01:01:23.080, Speaker A: That's my main take on it, is. It's fun. And something that is fun and people want is like, that is a huge value add for crypto. It's great. Go play with your shit coins. It's fun.
01:01:24.330 - 01:01:51.470, Speaker B: Gambling is fun, there's no doubt about it. And I'm with you, I think the serious political meme coins is quite funny. But you're right, keeping my own personal politics completely out of this. I'm a pretty a political person, but I will take the over on Trump mentioning his own meme coin on there. Come on. He's already talking about bitcoin. I believe there's Trump tokens in the known Trump wallet from the NFT days.
01:01:51.470 - 01:02:02.242, Speaker B: Don't quote me on that. But I believe there is. And he thinks he's cool because he has a meme coin. There's just no doubt about it. But Martin, you can go ahead if you got something.
01:02:02.376 - 01:02:12.520, Speaker C: I was going to say, yeah, no, Trump launched his shit on Polygon and Melania launched her stuff on Solana. So there's a marriage problems going on there.
01:02:14.010 - 01:02:38.586, Speaker B: That's a great point as well. I mean, who knows? I agree with you, John. It's going to get more and more obvious. And we've talked about social tokens last cycle, and here they are. They don't look exactly like what we thought they would look like, but this is them in real form trading today. But maybe if we can close things out on Solano, because I think there's something interesting going on. We just had Vibu from Drip on the podcast.
01:02:38.586 - 01:02:45.682, Speaker B: Was that a couple of weeks ago? And he was really talking about they're hitting some scaling issues and now there has been some more conversation around.
01:02:45.736 - 01:02:45.954, Speaker A: Really?
01:02:45.992 - 01:03:24.566, Speaker B: What that is for some context here. Salana is incredibly active right now. There's like over 8500 SPL tokens getting created each day. Again, to John's point about all these meme coins, NFTs are kind of in that same category, just at a much smaller number relative to historical values. We've briefly talked about the scheduler issues on this pod before, but there's some network jitter, and ultimately that creates this optimal strategy of spamming the network. So all those things to say, there is a ton of activity happening on Mainnet right now, some of it good, some of it not so good. And this is impacting Drip's ability to mint their NFTs for their users.
01:03:24.566 - 01:03:55.622, Speaker B: And Vibu actually had a tweet the other day. It says, we have mints that have been pending for four to five days now. The current state is putting the best consumer app on Solana, the number one shot to bring crypto to real people in our industry out to pasture. And to be quite honest, I'd be like remiss. Not to mention that this is the exact problem that a lot of the modular folks are talking about, is you need your own dedicated block space. So maybe you can just give us a little more background on the issues that drip. Drip vibu and the team at Drip are kind of experiencing right now.
01:03:55.622 - 01:04:01.034, Speaker B: And what activity on Solana that is kind of like creating that negative externality for them?
01:04:01.232 - 01:04:33.646, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a combination of things. One is obviously, the fees are super cheap, and the problem is the fee markets don't work properly currently. They're quite buggy. And what I mean by that is, if Dan, me and you both send a transaction and I add a fee to mine, and you don't add a fee to yours, there's not a guarantee that mine will beat yours. Every included. There's no guarantee that mine will be included over yours. It's actually probabilistic because there's so much jitter in the scheduling.
01:04:33.646 - 01:05:13.070, Speaker C: And this is kind of something inherent from building blocks continuously. I'm not going to get into the technicals, but when you start making things continuous, there's a lot of different edge cases that you don't really get with discrete. And so that is to say, what happens is people obviously get frustrated because it's probabilistic, but then people also end up overspending because they're like, wait a minute, my transaction didn't get in. I'm just going to increase the fee. But it's like, that's probably not why your transaction didn't get in the first place. It's probably because the randomness actually just got the best of you. So you need to increase your sample size, which is something I have to tell people all the time as an RPC provider.
01:05:13.070 - 01:05:47.354, Speaker C: That's one issue. The other issue is that when blocks get full, some of the unstaked nodes start throttling connections or getting throttled by the leaders. And so the staked nodes actually get more priority. And then the other part of this is that there's shitcoin season. And shitcoin season means price movements, which means arbitrage, which means failed arbitrage, because that's how it works on Solana. And there is no mechanism to deter. If you now add the first thing that I mentioned of the fees not working properly, now your incentive is to spam the chain because the fees might not actually work.
01:05:47.354 - 01:06:19.698, Speaker C: So spamming actually is a good strategy. And since it's a good strategy, people do it. And since they do it, the block space fills up. And as a result, since this block space is shared, other people get affected. And to be clear, there are fixes for this, like multiple, actually, there's a networking fix or a transaction scheduling fix coming out April 1 that's going to fix probably most of the problems, I would say for the jitter at least. And then there's some discussion about reworking that working layer. That's what fire answer suggests.
01:06:19.698 - 01:06:58.580, Speaker C: And maybe some of the D five teams. And then Tolly has SIMD 110, which is about improving the economics such that people are discouraged from spamming and they get like exponential fees for spamming. So all those things are being worked on. Now, drip's case is that drip does an insane, okay, let me kind of tackle the. They use compression on Salana, which is like, it lets you mint millions of NFTs for like a few hundred dollars. So this is already just not doable on an L two. This is due purely to the storage compute ratio that Salana has with the account model.
01:06:58.580 - 01:07:30.986, Speaker C: And you just could not do this anywhere else. Okay. Like millions of NFTs. And the problem is they are onboarding many more people while Solana is also getting congested. So there's like channel being burnt at both ends and the official compressed NFT minting API, and I called this out many, many months ago before it was released, lets you do it sequentially. So it's not a batch mint. Okay, like on Ethereum, even you can actually do batch mints, right, because Ethereum obviously ran to these problems way back.
01:07:30.986 - 01:07:46.610, Speaker C: And certain minting contracts let you batch mint on Solana. You can't do that. It's one by one by one by one. And so that's a lot of transactions. And so now you're competing against radium bots. So that's a recipe for disaster. And there's actually quite a few approaches to fix that.
01:07:46.610 - 01:08:32.430, Speaker C: Like you can add a batchment API instead to the contract. That would help a lot. And you can use durable nonsense, which is what a team called get code does, which have been on the show before. So there's some solutions to it. The L two approach to this wouldn't work because the state says this all the time. The problem is the state isolation. They get a certain part that they get to write to and on a roll up that's also shared basically, right? Unless it's a specific app chain, in which case your costs are probably not going to be as cheap as Solana in my view, because ultimately you have to use some DA.
01:08:32.430 - 01:09:12.778, Speaker C: And so I don't think any blockchain today will be able to handle what drip is doing. They're doing some crazy stuff, millions of NFTs per day, every day. And it's definitely challenging, and I understand it's frustration, but there is a lot of, and this is what I said way earlier in the episode, which is that Salana is actually insanely broken right now. It barely works. You'll still be able to get your stuff through as a user. But if you're a Dap, those four hundred s and five hundred s in your data doc charts start adding up. You're like, what the hell is going on? And then people start blaming the RPC.
01:09:12.778 - 01:09:49.078, Speaker C: But of course it's actually not the RPC, it's literally the network. Which actually goes back to John's point about it's already like, this is already priced and nobody gives a shit if it goes down at this point, honestly. Or you could probably just do what optimism did and just say you're going to do schedule maintenance and just, if not now, when are you going to do it? Are you going to do it when the total chain TvL is like 500 billion? You're not going to be able to do it. Then you'll literally get sued. But while the stakes are like Joe Bowden and Donald Trump, I think it's probably okay to try.
01:09:49.244 - 01:10:08.026, Speaker B: It's just interesting to see that we're still building out every scaling solution in every direction, whether that's scaling a single integrated chain or pushing out into the more modular side of things. So it's probably a good place. Wrap it, guys. This was another awesome episode. John, thank you so much for joining us. We'll put links to your Twitter. That's a must follow for anyone who made it this far in the episode.
01:10:08.026 - 01:10:16.720, Speaker B: There's no doubt about it. I'll throw a link to dBA in there as well. Again, this is the fund that John co founded, so thanks again for joining us and Merd, it's always a pleasure to talk to you, and we will see you guys next week.
01:10:17.570 - 01:10:18.700, Speaker A: Ton of fun. Thanks, guys.
