00:00:00.490 - 00:00:29.270, Speaker A: Welcome to Chainlink Research Reports, a YouTube series featuring research across the web, three industry and academia with scholarship that expands our understanding of decentralized technologies. I'm Dr. Jason Anastasopoulos, a researcher at Chainlink Labs and an assistant professor at the University of Georgia. Today I'll be joined by Dr. Timothy Lang, a senior lecturer in economics at the University of Brighton. Dr. Lang will be present his paper entitled Forest Carbon Offsets over a smart ledger.
00:00:29.270 - 00:00:42.410, Speaker A: This paper discusses how blockchain oracles and smart contracts can help improve environmental sustainability through preventing forest degradation and assisting with maintenance. And now, Dr. Timothy Lang.
00:00:48.430 - 00:01:25.522, Speaker B: Well, thanks, Jason. Thanks for inviting me to talk about our paper today. And this is a paper that I've done with a couple of my colleagues, Grameya Kutiyalu at London School of Economics and Carly Kurabaleva at the King's College London. And we've called it at the moment, this is a working paper version of the paper that we've got out, which is called forest carbon offsets over a smart ledger. It's not a really fancy title, but I'll give you a bit of context of where we've come from on this and what we've done so far. And a little bit, I think, about where we want to go with this or where other people I think, can take this on. And I think it's a really interesting topic for lots of future investigations.
00:01:25.522 - 00:02:34.094, Speaker B: So my context, I'm a climate change economist and a forest economist who spent quite a lot of time thinking about carbon offsets and carbon markets over 15 years or so now, really, and where we've come from as authors is we've seen in the last year or two and especially around the recent cop, this massive growth of lots of organizations. So companies and countries committing to these net zero targets by 20 30, 20, 40, 20 50, whenever it may be. And net zero is an interesting thing because it's not actually saying I'm going to reduce my emissions to zero. What it's meaning is I'm going to reduce my emissions a lot and basically offset the stuff I can't do or the stuff I'm not willing to do. And if you look at some of these detailed plans with corporations and companies, some of them have got quite a lot of offsetting involved and some sectors it's just not very possible to reduce emissions to zero. So things like aluminium and steel, very hard to get your emissions to zero. And so lots of these companies have basically said, well, we'll fill the gap with these offsets and carbon offsets have been there.
00:02:34.094 - 00:03:29.310, Speaker B: They've been floating around for 1520 years or so. This idea where I can keep emitting but invest in some sort of project elsewhere that will reduce emissions and that's all right, that means I can keep emitting. And we're all hunky dory and they have a really important role to play in carbon markets and other aspects. But with these really big growth in these net zero targets, the potential demand that people are talking about these offsets over the next 10, 15, 20 years is huge, like much bigger than what we've seen over the last 1015 years or so. And one really important aspect of this offset market is those related to forests. And there's sort of different aspects of this. It could be carbon projects looking to reduce deforestation in areas where there's lots of pressure on the forests, but it may also be projects looking to plant new trees and reforested areas.
00:03:29.310 - 00:04:45.650, Speaker B: And this sort of stuff has been floating around for again 1015 years or so and is often bundled together by this group of policies and projects called red plus, reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. And lots of people have talked about it having lots and lots of potential to a save the forests and reduce pressure on biodiversity and water and all that sort of stuff, and also really contribute to the fight against climate change. But what we've seen really is lots of, and I just call it for this stage of the presentation, a range of issues. And we'll get into depth about what these issues are in a few slides. Time that have really stopped the growth of these offset projects have reduced people's willingness to buy them, invest in them, and the ability for them to create emissions reductions. And so we've got these two things going on, big demand of offsets, problems with our existing mechanisms of generating offsets. And at the same time, what we started to observe by looking at the carbon offset market generally, and red plus in particular, is that lots of these digital technologies, including things like blockchain and smart contracts and nfts, have already started to be used in red projects, certainly at least at very early stages.
00:04:45.650 - 00:06:01.594, Speaker B: And this was something that we were seeing in the market and we wanted to understand a little bit more about how they're being used and also their potential for basically solving some of these fundamental problems that we found with Red plus. So this led to our question that we thought about in our research, which is, and I'm not sure we haven't answered this yet, and I think it's still something to go on to future research, but can this emerging, this nascent use of blockchain in red trust projects address some of these key issues impacting the growth of the offset projects, both from a demand perspective and a supply perspective? And in turn, can it therefore help the offset projects help to meet net zero commitments of big companies and corporations and countries? So this was our initial starting point. This is really interesting question to try and get into and try and understand. The challenge that we faced pretty much from day one is that all the projects involved in red plus that are starting to use this blockchain idea or components or similar technologies are in a really early days. Like some of these are from 2019, 2020. There's not much deployment on the ground that can be empirically assessed. I'm an economist.
00:06:01.594 - 00:07:15.718, Speaker B: I love collecting numbers and crunching them and couldn't really do any of that sort of stuff yet. There wasn't enough data to assess the success or otherwise of the use of blockchain in these sorts of projects. So really what, the approach that we took at this stage in the paper that I'm discussing here is almost trying to throw out questions and throw out ideas to be answered by us or other people going forward about where it's playing a role, where it could play a role, where it probably isn't going to play a role, or where it may even do harm. And I think that was the idea behind this sort of paper. The information I'll present to you a bit more, this is just to give you a bit of a sense of some of the organizations involved in red plus projects using things like smart contracts and nfts in components of their projects around the world. And we found, basically, I said nine or ten different companies advertising the use of these technologies. Now, the majority of them, well, at least half are still at pilot phase or in development, while another sort of five or six are launching, but at the very early stages of generating credits.
00:07:15.718 - 00:08:05.782, Speaker B: And most of these are in projects to do with avoiding deforestation. That's like protecting an area of forest that's potentially going to be cut down by incentivizing communities and people around it to do something else. And so the idea is you generate some money to pay these guys through something else. There's some involved in reforestation, so planting trees, or actually reforestation, planting trees on areas that previously been cut down. And aforestation is like planting trees on completely new areas and a little bit around mangrove forestry, which is these forested areas on the coast of rivers and swamps and that sort of stuff. And there's quite large geographical coverage of companies and organizations looking at the use of these technologies from Africa and South America, North America and Asia, and so on and so on. And I'll talk a little bit more about some of these companies as we go through.
00:08:05.782 - 00:08:59.106, Speaker B: Some of them are using more the idea of smart contracts to bring together lots of different data and information to assess the validity of carbon credits. Others are using tokenization of natural assets to really sort of help connect buyers and sellers, to help boost demand and provide verifiability about the performance of these sorts of stuff. And so there's a variety of different technologies being used by these different people. What we try to do very briefly and very simply in the paper, hopefully very simply, I don't know if it's very simply or not, but is to contextualize how this technology may fit within this carbon credit idea. And this is a diagram that one of my co authors put together. So the story goes a bit like this, is that there's some sort of natural asset out there that we're interested in protecting or encouraging or growing. And this is represented by the tree.
00:08:59.106 - 00:10:12.634, Speaker B: And this could either be an existing natural asset that's there that we don't want to chop down, or one that we're planting. And by protecting that natural asset, we are saving the emission of co2, either because it's sequestering new co2, or it's stopping the emission of that sort of stuff. And on the basis of that natural asset performing that job, we have a carbon credit that's issued. That is an esoteric, it's a nontangible property, basically. And if we tokenize that, that could sit within the owner's app wallet or whatever it may be. Now, the validity of that carbon credit, of the emissions reduction that's associated there at trees, is predicated on that tree still being there and performing its duty and basically sucking up carbon and not being chopped down and not being damaged. And in order to verify that, as, let's say, a purchaser in Europe and the trees in South America, there's a big information disparity going on here where we could see potentially, the role of smart contracts is playing a role of bringing together a range of information from different sources that's starting to emerge in the use of forest monitoring.
00:10:12.634 - 00:11:20.600, Speaker B: So satellite coverage, which is really prevalent in places like Brazil, maybe the use of drones, potentially, if necessary, the use of on ground inspectors and various other data sources, bringing together all these multiple data sources, evaluating it in a smart contract, which basically then continually updates the decision about whether that carbon credit is valid or not for the purchaser. And if something happens, which, unbeknownst to the purchaser, that destroys the validity of that natural asset. That in turn destroys the validity of the carbon credit. The process would update and the carbon credit would adjust accordingly. And by doing so, you basically hopefully cut out transaction costs involved in the whole process and also give validity and verifiability and veracity to the credit that the buyers are purchasing. So that these guys know, okay, actually what I'm purchasing is a valid credit and not something that is some bogus tree that was chopped down five years previously. And that's sort of what we contextualize and certainly how other people and organizations are starting to contextualize the use of smart contracts for red plus.
00:11:20.600 - 00:12:22.206, Speaker B: So with that in mind, what we did was we said, okay, let's take a step back and let's understand what are the things that have really affected red plus projects today. What stopped it becoming the dominant offset component on what's that stopped it? The projections for its growth 1015 years ago were huge and it's got nowhere near. And what we did is we sort of put these into sort of baskets of three different sorts of issues. And based upon their type, and also the extent that we could see technologies like blockchain and smart contracts and NFT playing a role at assessing them and solving some of those issues. So we have issues around the verifiability of your forest project and your carbon credit. How easy is it to verify that tree is still standing and still there and sucking in carbon and storing that carbon? There's related issues to that regarding financial transparency. So I'm paying somebody for this carbon credit and hoping that money ends up in the ground on a farmer in Brazil, so he's not chopping down a tree.
00:12:22.206 - 00:13:34.286, Speaker B: There's often lots of actors in that supply chain. How do I have transparency that my money is going to get to that guy at the end of the supply chain? Unrelated to that is the issue of transaction costs, where every intermediary is going to want a little slice of the pie. And those transaction costs can often become quite significant. And that's a real barrier for Red plus projects and certainly demand for increase of price and causes problems for the demand side. There's conceptual issues with Red plus, things like permanence and leakage and additionality, and I'll define all those in a sec when I get to them, which are really affecting the question of is that Red plus project generating a large stream of emissions reductions that are genuine and actually causing less co2 to go up into the environment. And then the last component that we were thinking of assessing, which has been a real barrier for lots of red plus projects, is the extent to which local communities are thoroughly involved in that project versus it being run by particular middlemen. And the role that property rights, and lots of these areas property rights are not exactly completely clear about who owns a forest, where's the right to do x, y and z in that forested land.
00:13:34.286 - 00:14:33.326, Speaker B: And that can be both a cause of deforestation and a reason for Red plus to fail, basically. So we looked at these sorts of baskets of issues in turn, and we tried to think about where smart contracts and nfts could play a role, or maybe could not play a role at solving some of these issues. So the first set that we thought about in the paper was these issues around verifiability, financial transparency, and transaction costs. And as I said, there's often lots of intermediaries in carbon offsets projects generally, and Red plus is no exception. And that has a number of problems in that they often retain an admin fee, and it can also create a sort of cognitive dissonance between a buyer and a seller and a disconnect. I buy a piece of paper that says I'm saving some emission somewhere, but I don't actually have a strong connection to that project, to understanding what's going on, or some belief in helping that situation. And this problem is exacerbated by a general lack of standards for offsets.
00:14:33.326 - 00:15:08.750, Speaker B: There are offset standard programs, but they're not universal. They differ. And there's often lots of stuff falling between the cracks. And often what we've seen as well, is that the verification of emissions reductions, like what's going on on the ground, and often related projects, issues related to the red plus project is often relies on humans. And when I say humans, not me and you sat behind a computer, but actually people on the ground going out with gps and stuff. And that's expensive. And that adds quite a lot of cost to these red plus projects and would add a lot of cost to the offset programs.
00:15:08.750 - 00:16:35.020, Speaker B: Where we could see a role for digital technologies was in a few of these sorts of areas to help solve components of these problems, at least. Now, one of the ideas that we discussed in the paper, and certainly something that's been used by companies such as Game Forest, is, like I mentioned, the sort of use of smart contracts to bring together these data collection sources that are now emerging or publicly available, or potentially available at local level, depending upon the investment in technology. So satellite coverage on forest cover, seeing what's happened on land use, changes in and around the red, plus projects if necessary, pinging on ground verifiers to say, go out and look at this particular thing and see what's going on. And I think we could see a role, and certainly that's one area where the smart contracts are starting to play a role which helps reduce those transaction costs about human verification and also improves that process of verifiability. And I think there's different levels that this could happen. And we see potentially role for things like smart algorithms that could help reach conclusions on different types of conflicting data, where we have something different between satellite data and drone data and underground data, and being able to assess the validity and veracity of those different sorts of things. So I think there's different ranges of technologies that could be employed here.
00:16:35.020 - 00:17:26.758, Speaker B: And I was thinking this basket of problems, we also see a role for NFTs. Carming credit isn't really a physical property, it's a piece of paper, whether it's digital or whatever, it's a non tangible thing associated with a natural asset. And that we think at least, and other people have started to think about this lends itself to tokenization in know you can sell that unique natural asset potentially to a, you know, every tree is different, every tree has different level of carbon content. Every forest has a different level of carbon content. Now, often what's happened with red plus is that they've been sold generically. So whether I'm saving a tree in Africa or South America, we apply a carbon content to that tree and I sell it generically. I think NFTs offer the opportunity for a much more unique fella, a unique product to be sold.
00:17:26.758 - 00:18:17.130, Speaker B: And that can also help solve that disconnect between buyers and sellers and potentially cut out the need for intermediaries, which again, cuts out these transaction costs, potentially increases financial transparency. If I'm dealing direct with somebody on the ground to an NFT, there's not a whole bunch of other organizations that I'm worried about stealing my money, whatever it may be. So I think in this first basket of problems, I think we see, there's potentially a big role that these sorts of technologies could play. The second grouping of problems are more sort of structural, I think, about offset projects. And there's three that we identify that have been identified a lot in the literature around red plus. The first is this issue of permanence. So I'm going to pay money to save some forests and get carbon credits out of that.
00:18:17.130 - 00:19:13.106, Speaker B: Now, that's only valid if that forest is in place for a long period of time, it doesn't get chopped down, doesn't burn down, whatever it may be, and keeps generating those emission savings. And so permanence relates to the longevity of the carbon poorness stability of its stocks. And there's been a number of problems recently with carbon offset projects in the states that have just burned down because of wildfires and then becomes, well, what's the validity of the carbon credits that were sold related to that project? Leakage is something a bit different. Leakage. Okay, so I might maybe paying people in and around the forest to not do the activity that's chopping down the forest, whether that's mining or farming soy or farming cattle, whatever it may be, but maybe they just leave and do it somewhere else. So that original bit of forest has been saved, but I haven't reduced emissions overall because they've just gone, chopped down some forest somewhere else outside of my project. And that's leakage.
00:19:13.106 - 00:19:48.082, Speaker B: Again, it doesn't really mean that we generate emissions reductions, it just looks like it does on paper. And the third one is additionality. Like additionality is a huge problem for carbon offset projects generally. So the additionality is idea about would those carbon savings have happened anyway in the absence of the project or not? So, okay, maybe I'm going to pay somebody to preserve some forest, but they were going to do that anyway because the forest is rubbish. It's miles away from the village or the community, and they're never going to use it. If I'm paying them to save that forest. It's not additional, it's not generating any actual emissions reductions.
00:19:48.082 - 00:21:10.206, Speaker B: Or maybe it's a project that they were planning to do anyway, I don't know, installing solar panels so that they can grow something else, whatever it may be, but they're always planning to do it, then my project doesn't make any difference. And this has really caused big problems in the carbon offset project market generally, and especially for red plus. And I think what we see in this basket of problems is not that blockchain or smart contracts or whatever it may be, is a direct solution to any of these problems. But what they may be able to do is help collect and transmit information between buyers and sellers about the situation generally that can create more veracity around the offsets and thus boost demand and boost performance. And we talk about some of these examples in the paper and permanence, it's not going to solve the problem directly that, okay, my forest may burn down in five years time, or someone may come in and chop it down. But what you may be able to do through automating some of those processes is be able to more directly transmit information to buyers and update their credits accordingly. So if I've got a, I've got a wallet of credits that's offsetting my emissions, if there's a forest fire, suddenly my wallet might go down by 10% because that's automatically built into the smart contract, and that whole process happens automatically.
00:21:10.206 - 00:22:13.686, Speaker B: And so buyers, okay, it's still a risk to buyers. I want to buy one that's not at risk of wildfires, but it adds more validity to that purchase, because if something does happen, that credit disappears rather than still hanging around, which is what the case at the moment with leakage. Again, I think we don't see this as a direct solution, but again, it's about automating, processing and transmission of data. So one of the things that's often built into red projects is a buffer zone around it. So information, not about the project itself, but what's happening to the forest in the vicinity, in whatever, 20 miles, 50 miles, whatever buffer zone that you want to put in. And what we could start to think about is in the same way that technologies could monitor and process and transmit information about the project itself, they could also do the same for the buffer zone. And if something's happening in that buffer zone and it meets a certain threshold, we could remove some of the validity of the carbon coil, whether it's an amount of emissions or whether it's the emissions in totality, whatever it may be, to cope with that leakage issue.
00:22:13.686 - 00:23:05.046, Speaker B: So again, it's a case of processing and transmitting that information between buyers and sellers. Now, additionality, there's endless tones of stuff about additional fee of offset projects. Generally, additionality is truly unknowable. Yeah, how will I know what you're going to do in the absence of this project or not? And we could spend a lot of time concerning ourselves with it, but it's still something to be thought about. And I think where we again, see a potential role for these technologies is through capturing information and communicating information. So things like what is the price of gold, what's the price of soya, what's the price of the other things that you might be doing with that forest? Maybe even timber, but very little deforestation happens because of timber prices. But a basket of these sorts of things, if those prices are falling, the ods that you're going to chop down that forest for, those sorts of things are much, much less.
00:23:05.046 - 00:24:03.930, Speaker B: And the additionality is therefore removed and the validity to that credit is less. If they go up, the opposite happens and your credit becomes more valid. I don't know how we quite capture more valid, but again, it's that sense of collecting a variety of multiple data sources, processing it, aiding that transmission between buyer and seller to basically automate that process of validity and verifiability. The last set of issues that we started to think about at the paper and the things that could affect red plus is this idea about how it could involve local communities and property rights. And so one of the biggest sticks that's used to beat red plus stuff is you've cut out local communities from that process so often. But it certainly happens. Communities living around a forest, an ngo or somebody, a company comes in and says, we're going to sell the carbon credits to that you can't do anything that forest, and the credit gets sold off and the money ends up in intermediaries.
00:24:03.930 - 00:25:01.710, Speaker B: And this problem is exacerbated because of many places, especially in sub saharan Africa, but also in South America and Southeast Asia, to a greater, less extent. These property rights around forests are really often very unclear or maybe ambiguous or overlapping. And this can cause deforestation itself, but also cause underlying forest offset projects. Because if you think you've got the right to save a forest, I've got the right to chop it down, you have to a pay a lot of money to stop me coming to chop it down, or maybe I'm going to do it anyway because it's my forest. You get into these sorts of problems and I think where again, what we see is that blockchain probably can play a role, but even a slightly lesser role in solving these sorts of issues compared to some of these other baskets. But there is still potential to create and shape it in a way that could aid these sorts of processes. In terms of local communities, I think the biggest role is potentially cutting out these use of intermediaries.
00:25:01.710 - 00:27:15.142, Speaker B: The fewer intermediaries that we can have in this process, the more connect that we can have between buyers and sellers, the more potential to increase demand and also the greater potential for local community to be involved in the markets and receive more of the value that comes from these sorts of markets with property rights. Look, property rights issues are way beyond use of digital technologies in these sorts of stuff, all sorts of government institutions and legal issues and stuff going back to year dot. But one of the biggest issues, or one of the real barriers for demand for these sorts of offset projects is bay has been incredibly wary of investing something that's going to come back and bite them somewhere where there's a conflict between local communities or between the offset project and those communities and those sorts of things. And again, it's in the sense of, can we build a structure that can help collate and communicate that information, such as around existing property rights contracts or new conflicts that may emerge through legal systems or governments, and integrate that into the other data that we're collecting about the Red plus project, and update the carbon credit accordingly if those sorts of things occur? And again, it's giving that sort of sense of security to buyers around that sort of system. One of the issues that we touched on very briefly about on this paper is know if we're talking about using these sorts of technologies within local rural communities in Africa and South America to engage in these sorts of stuff, what is the capacity to engage in relevant technologies? Because that's the only way this is going to work and have these advantages that we're discussing. And what we briefly talk about in the paper is some evidence that's emerging from projects in Guyana and Congo using mobile technology for other sorts of things around red plus projects or community mapping, where very remote, very rural communities could obtain the capacity to use devices and use technologies very, very quickly, given the right sort of support. And so I would think, and certainly it's a view of us in the paper, that community capacity is probably less the problem.
00:27:15.142 - 00:28:03.160, Speaker B: It's building the necessary infrastructure and technology to collate all this sort of stuff in remote rural areas, along with that central processing component. So what does this always mean? Where are we going? Well, I think what we're very careful to do, hopefully, in this paper at least, is not make a normative judgment about blockchain for red. There's some other papers floating around that says blockchain for red is bad, it's good or whatever. That's not what we try to do here, because what we see is it is happening, whether you like it or not. There is bunches of companies trialing these sorts of technologies, seeing what works, seeing what doesn't, and doing it. And so it's going to happen for good or for bad. Blockchain and smart contracts and nfts and rest of things.
00:28:03.160 - 00:29:52.554, Speaker B: What we're trying to think about is, okay, so how could we do this as best we can to solve what we think are the underlying issues in red? And the way that we would see the way forward is what we now need to do in terms of our research is basically start to collect data, start to collect experiences and data from these pilot projects as they emerge about how has this helped you increase demand or not? How has this helped you deal with issues of supply or not? How has it helped issues of veracity and verifiability and transaction costs, and how can we shape that better? How can we better use those technologies to help overcome more and more of those barriers? So I think there's the way forward that we would see it is this is now just starting to discuss that space. How much of what we said is actually true happening on the ground? We don't know yet, but I think is a really interesting avenue to explore. And then I think the other thing to start to think about. And again, this is where I think we have to lean on data that's emerging from the field, which is what are the preconditions for the use of blockchain or similar technologies within offset projects, both from a buyer perspective and a seller perspective and intermediate and whoever else may be, and what's needed in terms of capacity underground, what's needed in data collection sources, what's needed in related infrastructure, what's needed in terms of solidity about property rights, what's the minimum set of standards that we can define to say that use of these technologies in this project is going to be beneficial, always going to be more problems than it's worth, and we need to reassess. And I think that's another avenue of research that we haven't got into yet, but I think is really fascinating for the way forward. And so that's where we've got, I think we're at step one of about step 100, but it's a step along the ride. Yeah.
00:29:52.592 - 00:30:37.720, Speaker C: Thanks, Tim, for that really great paper and that great presentations. Really, the paper raises some really fascinating questions about the deforestation reforestation process and how the kind of environment could be better protected using blockchain technology and smart contracts. So I just have a couple of questions for you here that I hope you could answer. And I'd like to start off talking a little bit about nfTs. And in particular, do you think that non fungible tokens or nfts have a specific role in perhaps either preventing deforestation or encouraging reforestation in this program?
00:30:38.890 - 00:31:29.946, Speaker B: I think there's certainly a role. I think the extent to which they're really going to take off, I think we still got to assess. But I think lots of people are trialing it because, and I think there's a couple of reasons why they're trialing it, and I think why they could be really attractive. My understanding of NFTs is limited. I'm not a technology expert by any means, but where I would see the advantages in the NFTs is a being able to capture the unique features of the ecosystem that you're trying to protect and embody that in the token, and whether that is carbon or biodiversity or water, whatever it may be, they're all different from ecosystem to ecosystem. And we've been very bad about capturing that variability in forest offset projects so far. And the more information that's captured, the more accurate is going to be our sense of offsetting that sort of stuff.
00:31:29.946 - 00:32:40.320, Speaker B: So I think the ability to create really unique products relatively simply, I think is really important. The other aspect I could see them playing a real role is that incentivization of buyers to get involved into the marketplace. And I think one thing that's put off, and I don't know, I'm certainly put off, and I'm a sort of expert in the area, is that if I want to go and buy a forest offset project, and for company one on a personal level, you google it and there's a whole bunch of different companies selling you different projects in different areas with very little sense of verification, very little. It's very hard and very opaque for me to verify the activities of those intermediaries. And I'm not saying they're all bad by any means, but there's definitely a level of opaqueness and separation between me and the seller. And anything that we can do that I think can remove that disconnect and allow people to directly engage with communities on the ground, and individuals on the ground, I think can help demand, from a couple of perspectives, a if I know who am I buying it from, I'm much likely to buy it. That's sort of true for many, many products that we engage with today.
00:32:40.320 - 00:34:00.794, Speaker B: And it also allows that sense of story and that sense of resonance to come through. And certainly when I did some different research about what was encouraging companies to engage in purchasing red plus credits for years ago, what the companies want is a story. They want a story about what's happening on the ground that they can sell to their shareholders or the customers, whatever it is. And if NFTs can help create a closer bind between the communities on the ground and the purchasers, and help sense that story transmit, I can only see it as a positive thing for boosting demand. So where I would see this role, I see NFT's role probably less on the sense of verifying that the right things are happening, but more a sense of engaging more people and giving people more confidence to invest in those forest offset projects rather than being wary of, okay, is it going to perform? Who am I paying? Where's my money going to? So I think from that perspective, I think they could have a real role. I think what's going to be interesting to see over the next couple of years, and there's four or five of those companies that I showed up on the, the slides are doing tokenization of different parts of natural assets is what is the appetite out there for demand? For me, it's like many of these things, nfts and art, I don't know. This is, from my layman's perspective, seem to have just gone crazy in the last months.
00:34:00.794 - 00:34:16.510, Speaker B: It seems to be everywhere. And maybe that same thing is going to happen with natural assets. And I think it's really interesting time to assess how much it gets over those demand barriers. And if it doesn't, what else might we can do to it or add to it to help overcome those barriers?
00:34:18.450 - 00:35:23.602, Speaker C: Thank you very much. So related to this idea of data, of kind of the ability to have more data to understand how the market works, I'm really interested in this idea of reducing additionality. As a social scientist, to a large extent, do you think that just for the audience to describe again, what this idea of additionality is, it's basically, as I understand it, the notion that it's hard to measure the effect of any particular carbon reduction program. Right. Whether the amount of carbon is actually offset by the program. And that brings me to this question of causal inference, which is, of course, in your line of work, is something that economists are extremely concerned about. And so I was wondering if you think there's any way that this blockchain technology, or perhaps smart contracts specifically, could aid in measuring the causal effect of carbon reduction programs through perhaps having access to more data or something like that.
00:35:23.602 - 00:35:24.830, Speaker C: Do you have any thoughts?
00:35:24.990 - 00:35:58.240, Speaker B: Well, I think it's such a big issue. I always swing between two pools on this sort of stuff. And on one hand, oh, it's a really big issue. We're going to waste all this money paying people to do stuff they're doing anyway. There's such a waste. And that's what my economist resource management perspective comes in. And then my sort of financial account say, well, if I'm going to spend all this money paying to assess whether it's additional, is it worth it if I'm only a few projects that are not additional, if you see what means, I think there definitely need to be some sort of balance of that.
00:35:58.240 - 00:37:04.430, Speaker B: The analogy I tell my students is, should I pay you to stop smoking? Well, for most people, obviously not. But then if I'm only paying you ten p to stop smoking, and a few people do stop smoking and save their lives, maybe it's worthwhile. It's that sort of, sort of issue. I think that it comes again back to this question of data, and I think that's where, again, maybe we could see blockchain playing a role and the ability to harvest, collate, transmit, process and communicate data. And again, it comes back to this question about prices. I suspect in a lot of cases people chop down the trees for a couple of reasons. A, because I can get away with it, and b, because it's going to make me some money generally, and whether that's the money I need to live or the money I'm making to make a big profit, whatever, there's a whole basket of ways reason the amount of money that people are making out chopping down the trees, and the more money I can make, the more I'm incentivized to chop down the trees.
00:37:04.430 - 00:38:02.786, Speaker B: And that's a function of the prices and costs and my ability to source land and all sorts of stuff of which we know very little or can assess very little on an ongoing basis. And any technology that I think could allow us to bring together things like the price of gold and beef and soya on the ground in rural Brazil, along with the cost of labor and the cost of hiring a guy to chop down the trees and the prices of the local market, and assess all that stuff together in a real time basis, I think can only help assess the additionality of what's going on. And it might be that we do it for an exercise. And actually most of this stuff is additional, and it's fine. We don't need to worry about it, or maybe it's not. And I honestly don't know in between where to go with that sort of stuff. And I think one of the real challenges is that the most additional projects are probably also going to be the ones that's hardest to assess on that borderline of additionality.
00:38:02.786 - 00:38:46.680, Speaker B: We only have to pay them a couple of quid and I'll do it. They're cheap, they're wonderful, but they don't look very additional. If we can use data harvesting technologies, should I say, or data collating and processing technologies to bring together the individual circumstances of projects and help that assessment, I think it can be only the better, which is sort of similar to that idea of permits and leakage to truly assess the performance of these offset projects. Theoretically you need huge amounts of data about all of this stuff from hypothetical scenarios. What's going on now and to date, doing that sort of thing has been beyond us. But hopefully with some of these technologies, I think some of that might be more within bounds going forward.
00:38:48.650 - 00:39:38.590, Speaker C: That makes a lot of sense. So I just have one more question for you regarding the scope of these projects and what blockchain and smart contracts can and cannot be applied to. So one of the things that I found really interesting in the paper was that was a mention that these offset, carbon offset programs function very well, or they're relatively advanced in voluntary markets, but not so much in compliance markets, compliance markets being the government sector and so on. So a question that I had was, what do you think are some of the most significant challenges preventing the adoption of these technologies, such as blockchain and smart contracts and oracles and things like that in compliance markets, in markets where you have kind of governments running these programs?
00:39:38.750 - 00:40:07.054, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. It's a really good question, and I think there's probably a couple of different stages for this. And so I might digress a little bit in order to get to the two stages. Apologies if I do. When the big first compliance markets were set up in the EU, EU was the first people to do this stuff over 1015 years ago. There was a role for offsets. In 2008 to 2012, they ran a phase and lots of offsets could come in to the program.
00:40:07.054 - 00:41:06.122, Speaker B: Offsets of all different ill, not forests, though, actually not much. Forestry offsets was allowed in only european forestry projects, but lots of other offset stuff was coming in. And it was at that time that we had the financial crash in a recession. And basically emissions in Europe nosedive for nothing to do with emissions trading and compliance markets, but because of structural reasons. And so we had all these credits floating around. And so after that, EU said, in order to boost the carbon price, we're going to keep offsets out of the system because you wanted to get the carbon price up high. Even before that, there was a certain reluctance to engage offsets in compliance markets because there was a sense of, especially with things like Rev plus, there's so many projects out there, if we allow them all to have access, there's going to be no need for any domestic firms to do anything along with these questions around additionality and leakage and permits and that sort of stuff.
00:41:06.122 - 00:42:36.074, Speaker B: And so since then, at least from a european perspective, there's been a real reluctance to re engage offsets into the carbon markets. I think in other jurisdictions there has been more keenness, but especially with domestic offsets, and like domestic offsets. So, for example, in the states it might be, well, we'll allow a forestry project in California to enter the californian system, but not one in Brazil entering the California system, because there's a lot of political economy issues about keeping money in countries. On the one hand, I think it would be quite hard for blockchain and smart technologies to overcome that particular barrier for entry into compliance markets. However, I think there is a secondary aspect, which is, along with those sort of price reasons and geopolitical reasons, there is still this big question of veracity and verifiability, and especially more at a compliance level. If I'm a regulator, and I'm saying we're going to monitor emissions out your stack, but you could offset it using this project, the verifiability of that project is likely to be much higher than if it's just some guy buying it off their own back of the voluntary market. So I suspect as and when offset projects are allowed into compliance markets, especially if compliance markets do grow around the world in China and US and other jurisdictions, and I suspect actually offset projects.
00:42:36.074 - 00:43:51.602, Speaker B: If you really were going to hypothetically talk about a large us carbon market, you're probably going to have offset projects from the beginning because it keeps prices quite low, which is what everybody, that's how you buy off industry to get into that sort of stuff. But if that verifiability bar is set quite high, anything that will encourage and ease organizations to meet that verifiability bar, like the use of blockchain that encompasses all the information about that offset project on an ongoing basis over time, and transmits it directly to the buyer and allows automatic updating of that carbon credit in whatever accountancy thing that the carbon market is running, I think can only help and certainly be beneficial. But I would think what would need to happen before you get to that stage is lots of evidence from the voluntary market of performance in offset credits of all different ilks. And I know I've only focused on forest once today, but there's lots of other different sorts of offset projects that potentially could use similar technologies for similar sorts of things. I think they'd want to see an evidence based. It has worked. It has produced demonstratable results of improving verifiability.
00:43:51.602 - 00:44:50.262, Speaker B: Improving verifiability that would then allow offset markets to meet whatever barrier the regulator would put on. So I would see it more as ability to get over regulatory barrier and maybe in time that would also change the perception of offset projects undermining the credibility of compliance markets, which has been a real issue certainly in the EU. But I think that's probably sort of a secondary step to its role in this market after proven its success in the voluntary market. And I think in the absence of a us based national level, federal level emissions training scheme, the voluntary market, if people are going to meet their net zero commitments are going to dwarf compliance markets very soon. And so there will be lots of evidence from that to I think use as a sort of not necessarily to beat the regulator with a stick but to sort of show that this can help in aid in those sorts of projects and those sorts of issues. Great.
00:44:50.316 - 00:44:59.062, Speaker C: Thanks so much, Tim. So that's pretty much all the questions I have for today. Thanks so much for this really fascinating presentation. I really appreciate it and for this great paper.
00:44:59.196 - 00:45:00.570, Speaker B: Thanks Jason. An absolute pleasure.
