00:00:00.250 - 00:00:19.978, Speaker A: Exciting. Thanks for tuning in. We'll get started in just a moment. Looks like more people are going on camera. Love it. All right. Oh, sorry, Heather.
00:00:20.074 - 00:00:42.726, Speaker B: No, I was just going to introduce you, but you're doing a great job. Thank you, everyone, for joining. We have Christine Perry from Scale who's going to tell us how to 100 times what's the title 100 x your DAP with two lines of code and tell us all about all the other exciting stuff that Scale is up to. So without further ado, I will let you take it away. Christine.
00:00:42.918 - 00:01:08.706, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks, Heather. So the Scale Labs team is definitely very excited to be here at this hackathon. It's going to run for a month. So it's going to be a journey, which is very exciting for us because it means we get to see all the cool projects that come about it. As Heather mentioned, I'm Christine Perry, and I lead solution engineering at Scale Labs. So if you have a project and you want to partner with us, if you have a DAP and you want to build on us, and if you want to be a validator, reach out to our team and we're more than happy to help you.
00:01:08.706 - 00:01:51.600, Speaker A: But for this technical workshop, I'm going to break it up into two parts. One, to give like, a small foundation of what the Scale network is. So that way we kind of set the stage there. I won't go into too many details because Jacqueline, our CEO, is going to give a more broader overview of Scale Network tomorrow. And Chatwick, our VP of Product, is also going to give an overview of the Scale Network tomorrow as well. The second part of the presentation is going to be really getting into the technology, going through the Dev docs, actually seeing what you can do with the Scale network and kind of playing with it within Remix truffle and a fun game that I've just started building that's not quite there yet. So you guys get to be with me on that journey too.
00:01:51.600 - 00:02:21.226, Speaker A: So I'm going to share my screen guys and girls and women and everyone. And let's get started. All right, so this part, we already covered the agenda, but just know overview again. I'm going to just do a quick overview of what is scale and then really get into how to use it. And at the end, there's going to be time for Q A. But I love this being interactive, so if you have questions, post it in the chat. Ask Heather, ask myself.
00:02:21.226 - 00:03:06.882, Speaker A: Turn your microphones on. Let's make this as conversational as possible. Now, the Scale Network is pretty interesting because one of the early visions was that we didn't want developers to have to learn new technology or new ways of coding. In fact, the Scale Network is an ethereum native side chain. And so what does that exactly mean? Basically that means that all the tools that you're used to using truffle, Web Three, Ether, JS, Every Wallet, and some sponsors that are also sponsoring this hackathon as well. You can integrate that with scale, but the way that you'll go about doing it, as the title says, is it really is. It's kind of making a small change and sometimes just two lines of code for that change where you get an endpoint.
00:03:06.882 - 00:04:08.940, Speaker A: It looks just like Insura. And because of that, what that means is you're able to swap it out with what you're currently using for Ethereum and run it on scale. Now, I want to back it up just a little bit more to explain how the scale network is set up and how it's set up is that, similar to Ethereum, we also have nodes all around the world. Last October we launched over 150 nodes around the world and what that meant is that these nodes were able to create the scale network and offer you the ability to create something called your scale chain. And I emphasize your scale chain because what's interesting about the scale network is that instead of having one chain to rule them all, instead you have multiple chains. So each DAP developer gets their own containerized environment which means that you don't have to worry about anyone else taking up all the data, all the storage or pretty much just like creating a really slow experience for you because they're using more resources than you are. The only one that you have to worry about on your scale chain is going to be your project and what you're doing there.
00:04:08.940 - 00:05:13.546, Speaker A: Now what's great is that ever so frequently to add more security we rotate out a node that's operating on your scale chain. So while we group together 16 to create your scale chain, over time you may have 70 or 90% of the network eventually working for your scale chain at any given time within your use of the scale network. Now again, just want to highlight that your chain is one of many and one of the things that you'll notice here is that some of the chains overlap with nodes. And the reason why we do that is because within the scale network you have the option to choose whether you want a small, medium or large chain and that determines how many transactions per second you get, how much storage you receive as well. And it means that you can grow with the network as your project grows. So the more users you get, you might need to upgrade but you won't have to manually do anything for that. Within the scale network, you're automatically able to upgrade from a small, medium or large chain by directly hitting the Ethereum network to spin up and change your scale chain ad hoc.
00:05:13.546 - 00:05:52.374, Speaker A: Again, Jack and the Chatwick will go into more about that tomorrow but just wanted to lay the foundation here. Now I do want to talk a little bit about how each node operates because I think this is pretty cool. Again, just like because the way the scale network is built, it is an Ethereum application as well. So we have this series of 36 or 40 smart contracts deployed to Ethereum that make up something called Scale Manager. And Scale Manager is what pretty much just operates and determines how the scale chains work within the network. But within each node they do essentially one of three things. One validated orchestration.
00:05:52.374 - 00:06:55.902, Speaker A: So if you recall back how I told you that the nodes rotate in and out of the scale chains. Well, that's part of that node auditing is just to make sure that things are really secure. Each node kind of creates a report card on every other node within the network to make sure that it's meeting uptime and it's not doing any malicious from the network. And if so, because we have these smart contracts deployed on Ethereum, they can automatically, directly within code either remove the node from the network or slash it and remove the delegation that they have. And then lastly, the scale admin piece is really for DAP developers because everything such as EVM, interchange messaging and file storage, which again I'll get into later in the technical demos is managed here. So I want to talk a little bit more about interchange messaging though because I think this one's going to be really interesting here at this hackathon for DAP developers that want to integrate with this. And the reason being is because a lot of dot developers they've already started building on Ethereum, they might have tokenized their application ERC 20, ERC 721, et cetera, et cetera.
00:06:55.902 - 00:07:58.226, Speaker A: You can use interchange messaging agent to be able to create a bridge between the scale network and Ethereum. And so what ends up happening is you're able to deploy smart contracts to Ethereum, deploy those same ones to the scale chain side. And the setup for the DAP developer, the only thing that he will have to do is link into smart contracts that the scale network has deployed directly onto both Ethereum and the scale chain and register the contracts on both sides. So the setup part is pretty simple, pretty easy. But once you get through the setup part, the usage part becomes really interesting because it means that you can take advantage of the faster transactions and the lower cost, pretty much zero cost. And the scale network, by locking up tokens that you have deployed on Ethereum and the scale network will automatically create clones on your scale chain. Now, what that means is once you have these clones over on the scale network it's always mapping back to what's happening on Ethereum.
00:07:58.226 - 00:08:46.260, Speaker A: But essentially you're able to remove all the microtransactions. So today if you deal with transferring an ERC 721 or ERC 20 token that price could be between $75 or $100 which is kind of insane. And so right now on the scale network. If you were to transfer or manage that token in a clone like environment, what that means is that you remove that gas cost completely and you can do that a million times. It doesn't matter. But at the end, when you decide that you want to free up that token, you can finally exit and reach liquidity by releasing it back to Ethereum and the millionth user later, they're able to have access to that token because we were able to map and maintain who actually owns that token within the scale network. So just a brief overview of what interchange messaging looks like.
00:08:46.260 - 00:09:32.814, Speaker A: Now let's get into the fun parts of actually doing some live demos so you can see how easy it is, how to navigate through our documentation, and then also how to actually use it. And really cool tools that you've probably seen before, such as Remix and Truffle. All right, so if you head over to the scale network documentation, I'm just going to head into the DAP developer section here. And one of the things I want to highlight is if you go to the beginner section, it really just gives you a quick overview of what it looks like to use a scale chain. And give me just a second. So it's really just four basic steps. One, get a scale chain.
00:09:32.814 - 00:10:04.640, Speaker A: Two, prepare your scale chain. And then three, migrate using Truffle or any tool of your choice. And then lastly, send a transaction. So, really simple flow for ETHGlobal. We have a really dedicated page on some really useful information about how to get started and how to use your scale chain that we'll have available for you at a global here. So you can head here, head into the discord and actually reach out to us. We have mentors within that channel to help you get started.
00:10:04.640 - 00:10:54.446, Speaker A: But what I want to start with first is the wallets. Because a lot of times the first questions we get are how do I actually connect the wallet that my end users and I am using that's already connected to Ethereum? And if you come in here, you'll see that we're connected to quite a few of already, just like the top wallets that we see out there. Any wallet that's Ethereum native, though, means that it can automatically work within the scale network. You'll just have to reach out to our team. We can help point you in the right direction, but let's point out one here called MetaMask. I'm assuming most people have heard of MetaMask, but if you want to integrate with MetaMask, one of the changes that they made that I think is really cool is they now allow any L2 solution to be automatically added to their drop down list directly by the DApp developer. And so I'm going to open up my MetaMask here.
00:10:54.446 - 00:11:45.470, Speaker A: So you can see like right now there are all of their test networks and you have this custom RPC way of adding a L2 solution. Now it's done a bit differently. So we have this sandbox here where if you access it, it'll take you to the same code Snippet that you see on the page. But you can actually use this by replacing it with the EF global endpoint that we give you. Replace your chain ID and simply click the button. What that means that it'll do is it'll take that code Snippet that MetaMask graciously opened up for everyone and allow you to automatically change for the user on their behalf directly to the scale network to your endpoint and the proper chain ID. I'm going to go ahead and approve that and go ahead and switch the network.
00:11:45.470 - 00:12:47.282, Speaker A: And what you'll see here is now EF global the endpoint and the access to it within MetaMask now appears here directly for end users to use. So let's go ahead and use that. And again, I just want to emphasize that the only change that we really had to make to code here, this is pretty much just like an excerpt from MetaMask, but we changed two lines of code basically, which is the endpoint, the chain ID, and we're good to go. I want to now go over to the scale chains because we have some really cool Ides here that you can use, such as Remix. If you haven't used Remix before, it's pretty much just like a really easy way to deploy simple smart contracts. And what we've done is we've created a really simple smart contract for DAP developers to use, which is just called hello scale. So when you click on that link, it'll automatically download the smart contract within Remix for you to use.
00:12:47.282 - 00:13:40.942, Speaker A: You can view it to see how it's constructed, you can check to make sure that it's compiling properly in solidity. And then lastly, you can change your environment to, again, the MetaMask implementation that now has the scale network here and deploy it within the scale network. And one of the things that I want to just kind of call out here is that although you will see gas appear, every transaction within the scale network is completely a zero gas transaction. It doesn't mean that gas is not used. It is used, but it has no value. The reason it's used is to prevent anyone from DDoSing your scale chain. Only people that you manually send scale chain ETH to will be able to run transactions on your scale chain.
00:13:40.942 - 00:14:24.386, Speaker A: If they don't have it, the transactions will be denied. And so that's just more just like a DDoS prevention. But for you, it means for your end users, they don't have to worry about buying this ETH in advance and also being weighed down with microtransactions as well. I'm going to go ahead and confirm that and you'll see that this transaction just goes through extremely fast, which is expected on the scale network because one of the things we wanted to make sure happens is that we reach like close to zero, well, subsecond block times. So every transaction is meant to happen immediately. We don't care if you're transferring a token, a Minting, a token, or simply interacting with a heavy computational smart contract. It doesn't matter.
00:14:24.386 - 00:15:16.240, Speaker A: And so let's go ahead and just use this smart contract. And again, it'll use MetaMask, which we're all familiar with. It'll save the transaction there at the bottom and say hello. And as you can see, everything works as you would expect, as if you were in an Ethereum ecosystem. But all of this is running directly on scale. All right, so now that we've used MetaMask, we've used Remix, if I head back to the dev portal and I go back to the Beginner Getting Started guide here, let's go ahead and actually use what's recommended here, which is just using Truffle. And to do that, what I want to show you guys is a game that I've been working on called Scale Match.
00:15:16.240 - 00:15:57.102, Speaker A: I found this online. It's an open source game and I've been tweaking it and playing with it to get it to work within the scale network. And the whole idea behind this game is that you can mint a new NFT every time someone creates a match by clicking on one of these squares. Here, let me show you what the code looks like. Because what I've done is I've taken that Truffle snippet directly from the dev portal and I've added in this new section for scale where all it does is it points to my scale chain endpoint here. Now you're seeing my very insecure private keys. Please don't steal my fake eat.
00:15:57.102 - 00:16:34.220, Speaker A: But essentially the idea here is that you're able to use Truffle, combine it with scale, and deploy directly to a scale chain very simply, as if you're deploying to Ethereum. Again, there's not very many changes here because it's an Ethereum native side chain. So I'm going to go ahead and stop this game. Let's go ahead and redeploy that. And again, all of this information is on our Dev docs portal. So all the different code snippets, all the different ways of knowing how to deploy using Truffle or Remix, you'll be able to find that all there. And some really cool other tools about using our file storage and interchange messaging, too.
00:16:34.220 - 00:17:21.580, Speaker A: All right, now the deployment is going just as fast as I would expect it to go. Basically, again, subsecond block times for deployment. I'm going to take this contract address because I want to make sure that as I'm minting new tokens on the side chain, that it's actually being saved there. So I'm going to go to assets. Let's go ahead and hide this one because this is one of my tests from before hide. And I'm going to add a new token, do a custom token and paste that there. All right, so we have our token contract on the side chain here and then let's go ahead and restart this.
00:17:21.580 - 00:18:21.702, Speaker A: Now, while that's restarting, what I do want to show you here is that the smart contract that was used within this open source project that I found is essentially, basically just like a standard ERC 721 token, which is commonly used for creating NFTs. NFTs have become all the rage lately, so it'd be really cool to see some projects using that. But to show you what this looks like within the game, the way this works is I've changed the game. So that way when you first arrive to the page, it does exactly what MetaMask now allows you to do, which it will allow you to switch the network on the user's behalf. Once I'm there again, I'm back on the scale chain and I can start playing. Now, I won't say that I'm the best at playing the match game, but luckily I got lucky that time and found one super quickly. I'm going to confirm that my tokens automatically mint it there.
00:18:21.702 - 00:19:10.790, Speaker A: And one of the things I really want to drive home here is that with the scale network, you're really able to create a UI that works extremely fast. And what that means is that you don't have to wait 15 a minute, ten minutes before the transaction goes through, before you can show something to the end user. It happens immediately, just as fast as that token showed up on the page. That's as fast as it was actually saved to the blockchain here and that token was minted. Now, I'm not sure if we'll get lucky here and find another one, but essentially that's how the game works. It creates NFTs every time that a match is found using the scale network. Now, what would be really cool at this hackathon to see is that if I go back to our dev docs, we have something called File Storage.
00:19:10.790 - 00:20:08.330, Speaker A: And if you're familiar with IPFS or Filecoin or any other decentralized storage solution, what's really cool about those solutions is that it really allows you to store files in a decentralized manner. Well, with the scale network we have File Storage that allows you to store files directly to the scale network blockchain. And so what that means is that you could store images. All of these images could be stored as, let's see, all of these images could be stored directly to the blockchain within the scale network. Now, if you can do that, imagine what that could mean for your NFT as you're creating it. Instead of having a loosely coupled NFT to asset situation, you could use File Storage, link that to your NFT and have everything being able to be verified directly on the blockchain. So it'd be really cool to see if any projects will integrate that within their solution at this hackathon.
00:20:08.330 - 00:20:55.158, Speaker A: And definitely, if you have any questions, head over to our dev docs, go to our discord, which links to the eGlobal hackathon. Discord channel and we'll be able to help you out right there. All right, so that went by extremely quickly, but we only had 30 minutes together, so I had to cram it all in. But if you have any questions, definitely reach out to us on our Discord channel. We do have prizes available for you that total up to $15,000. Definitely head over to the scale network if Global website and you'll be able to access and request your scale chain right away and start tinkering with it ahead of tomorrow. Again, thanks for having me and listening to the technical workshop.
00:20:55.158 - 00:21:13.120, Speaker A: It looks like there are some posts in the chat, but mostly information. So if you have any questions, I think now would be the time. All right, I'm going to stop sharing my screen and open it up for Q and A to see if there were any questions following all of that.
00:21:14.610 - 00:21:36.598, Speaker B: I've been following the chat on YouTube. There's a lot of scale stance, lots of fans and stance on the YouTube livestream. But if anyone has any questions, please jump in. Now's your chance. There we go.
00:21:36.784 - 00:21:43.120, Speaker C: I assume that there are events being emitted as things are peeling off to and from scale to the chain that we can follow.
00:21:44.610 - 00:22:30.000, Speaker A: So what's interesting about the scale network is that, again, because each chain is unique, you would have to get the endpoint that you want it to follow in order to follow the events that are being emitted from that. In the future, we are working with some really cool partners to actually index all of that data and create a really cool blockchain that will combine all of that information. But that's going to be a V two of the scale network. But in the meantime, as you are building your project, we do have a Block Explorer that's dynamic, meaning that you can enter in your endpoint, see all of your events, see all of your transactions, and get all the data that you need as you're building or tinkering from there. Awesome.
00:22:33.910 - 00:22:42.450, Speaker C: About the file storage, but how much space do you have on your network?
00:22:42.950 - 00:23:56.406, Speaker A: Yeah, so because we have 150 nodes currently, there's a lot of space available for side chains to be created depending on how many small chains, medium chains, or large chains are created. For the largest chain, we have up to two terabytes of data storage, and then we divide that by 32 for the medium chain and 128 for the small chain. So, again, just like depending on the amount of storage you need at any given time, that will determine which scale chain you use. But one of the things that we wanted to make sure to do is to make sure that within the L2 space, that the amount of storage that developers would have access to far exceeds what's currently available on the market today. And so when you use the scale chain, you won't have to worry about figuring out where to store your data, whether it's an Rweave with a decentralized solution or somewhere else because you have a long runway to use the scale network directly with a L2 solution. So very excited about that because this is kind of related. I do want to also mention that the block storage or the block limit is extremely higher than what you would expect with normal networks.
00:23:56.406 - 00:24:15.860, Speaker A: I think it's about 250,000,000. And what that means is that you really don't have to worry about tinkering or changing your code to work within the confines of what currently exists on the blockchain. You can just develop your application and have faster speeds and lower transaction costs. So hope that helps answer the question.
00:24:19.350 - 00:24:20.658, Speaker C: Yes. Thank you.
00:24:20.824 - 00:25:04.762, Speaker A: Awesome. All right, well, maybe you can tell us. Let's see how much faster in terms of block times, is scale. All right, so I think I answered that in my previous question, so I'm not sure if I saw that late, but I'll just reiterate it again. Essentially, block times within scale are less than 3 seconds. And so what that means when you send a transaction to scale, it'll pretty much save to the blockchain immediately. And again, it doesn't matter if you're doing that for a heavy computation smart contract, Minting, NFTs or transferring back and forth to Ethereum on the scale chain side, it happens instantly.
00:25:04.762 - 00:25:49.120, Speaker A: And we do this because if you go on the Dev Docs portal, you'll also see this large section around the technology that goes really in depth about the scale network consensus Protocol. And what's really cool there is they're using something that allows us to send transactions back and forth between the different servers very easily for fast finality when it comes to actually creating proposals, creating those blocks and storing them to the blockchain. And again, just like, definitely go there, see all the content because it's really cool. Interesting. Like how we group together. Math BLS signature Threshold Systems and SGX So a lot of technical terms there, but I swear we definitely just explain it all really well. So.
00:25:54.740 - 00:25:59.060, Speaker B: There'S a question. Do you see this? Yeah. Oh, that's Celine.
00:25:59.640 - 00:26:33.272, Speaker A: All right. Okay. I think we have three minutes. So yeah, I can answer this last question. So maybe you can go through how scale is Ethereum Native and Ethereum orchestrated, which is not the case for most L2 side chain solutions. Happy to go into a little bit more detail about that. Again, the Ethereum Native piece is everything you saw me just do, basically being able to use Truffle, being able to use MetaMask, being able to use Web Three, Ether JS all of those are Ethereum Native tools.
00:26:33.272 - 00:27:26.568, Speaker A: And if any L2 is able to reuse those tools in a seamless way, that's what we considered Ethereum Native and the scale network. Again, that was vision number one, really just making sure that developers didn't have to change their tool set their entire tech stack in order to work with us. They didn't have to change how their smart contracts were written, they could literally pick it up, put it down in the scale network and have everything work as normal. So that's what ethereum Native means. Now, the Ethereum orchestrated piece basically means that, again, Scale is a DAP that runs on Ethereum because we have 36 to 40, I think, between smart contracts running on Ethereum and all of that manages the scale chains, meaning you don't have to contact our team to get a scale chain. You can go directly to the Ethereum network, request your scale chain and simply stake and just keep it going. What that means is you can keep it decentralized.
00:27:26.568 - 00:27:55.204, Speaker A: You don't have to always be the one paying for it. You can open it up to a Dow or any other creative way of making a decentralized side chase solution that's still connected to Ethereum. There's so much more that goes on within those smart contracts, obviously, because there's 40 of them that are out there, but because we're running out of time. Just wanted to highlight the main parts that mattered to the DAP developers here on the call. But yeah, if you have any additional questions, definitely reach out to us on the Discord Channel if global or the scale.
00:27:55.252 - 00:28:09.500, Speaker B: Discord Channel christine, there's just two or three questions coming in from YouTube. If we can spend one or two minutes on them, happy to do it. Okay. What can be built on scale? Which DAP categories?
00:28:09.920 - 00:29:03.608, Speaker A: Which DAP categories? So that is a fun one. When I started at Scale wow coming up on three years now ago, I thought that there was just going to be gaming and DeFi because that's all I heard about. But what I was surprised with was how much else was out there. So we have the Scale Innovative program, which means that we've been working with DAP developers over the course of the past two years to help get feedback, to make sure we're building the right solution. And in doing so, what that meant is that we ended up getting introduced to DAP developers that are building within, of course, DeFi gaming space. The wine industry, the social media, think Facebook for blockchain industry. Let's see, we also have lots of NFT projects being built on the scale network.
00:29:03.608 - 00:29:38.410, Speaker A: Music streaming, enterprise governments. I did not think that governments would be interested in using a sidechain solution, but the fact that it's containerized and you're not sharing space with other networks really drives them to the scale network, which is really interesting. Liquidity solutions, Dows, of course, pretty much anyone that's looking to lower the transaction costs and have faster speeds was able to build on Scale. So I would say that the amount of verticals that we could potentially service with the scale network appears to be endless and it is just growing every day.
00:29:39.340 - 00:29:46.300, Speaker B: Nice. One more is. It applicable only for public or also for private networks.
00:29:47.680 - 00:30:44.280, Speaker A: So because it's Ethereum native, what that means is that you are still going to have a public blockchain. So there was an earlier question of can I access or see events on the blockchain? And the answer is yes. If you have access to the endpoint or to the block of score that we will be building in the next few months, you will be able to publicly see anything that's going on with the scale network. Now, what that does mean though, is that for those looking for more of a private environment, they would have to use other encrypted partners to make it work as well. So there are some out there where they're offering the ability to send data back and forth between the blockchains in an encrypted manner. And so using that plus scale kind of gives you that private environment, but not really because you're still able to access everything that's going on on the blockchain. So it's still not going to be that private environment.
00:30:44.280 - 00:31:00.900, Speaker A: And we didn't strive to be that. The goal was to make sure that developers that are already developed on Ethereum can have a place to go to where, again, it's not an Ethereum killer, but it more supplements or helps advance the project to reach better heights.
00:31:03.000 - 00:31:15.960, Speaker B: If we have time for one last question yes. Blockstar logic asks how does the file storage behave? Egchange. Delete, et cetera.
00:31:17.740 - 00:31:18.650, Speaker A: I'm sorry?
00:31:19.340 - 00:31:26.860, Speaker B: How does the file storage behave? Example, change, delete, et cetera.
00:31:27.200 - 00:32:07.448, Speaker A: Okay, good questions. So if you go onto the documentation, you'll see that we have two ways of interacting with the file storage. One is you can absolutely use the smart contracts that are deployed to the side chain and work with file storage in that way. Because again, all the files are going to be stored via those methods. However, to make it more approachable and user friendly, because scalability problem is also a usability problem as well. And so one of the things that we did was make sure to build a JavaScript library that sits on top. We've had some other developers build Python libraries and look at other libraries too.
00:32:07.448 - 00:32:52.240, Speaker A: But what that means is when you want to interact with it, you can use this NPM package to upload, download or delete your files. And because the question was around, well, how does delete work? I want to dive into that a little bit more. The delete, as you can imagine, with every blockchain, you can't actually delete anything that's stored there, but you can obfuscate it, you can hide it. And the idea behind that was just that. Okay. For DAP developers that want to work with the file storage and list entire directories of what's stored there, kind of like a content management system, it means that they can remove the files that are returned back at that point in time. And so it's more of a helper feature there to quote, unquote, delete, but hide a file that's on the blockchain.
00:32:52.240 - 00:33:32.660, Speaker A: Now, to map this back to one of the requests that I mentioned, where it would be cool to see DAP developers really stretching the limits of NFTs and using scale file storage. What that means is, okay, if you can't really delete that file, it means this loose coupling that currently exists between an NFT and the actual asset that might be stored on dropbox, and anyone can change the link or something like that. If you have it pointing to a link within scale file storage, it's immutable, which means that you can't actually change or modify that asset once it's created. So it means it's actually the NFT is going to stay that NFT forever. So hope that makes sense and definitely happy to elaborate more on that later on discord.
00:33:34.280 - 00:33:54.060, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you so much, Christine. This has been a great workshop. Really informative, getting lots of love on YouTube. And as you mentioned, if anyone has questions for you, they can reach you on Discord, both at your scale discord and on your sponsor channel in the scaling ethereum chat.
00:33:55.680 - 00:33:56.170, Speaker A: Thanks for.
