00:02:45.660 - 00:03:41.168, Speaker A: How's it going? I'm Sam, founder of Fracs Finance. We do stablecoins. So have a pretty philosophical talk on stablecoins for you guys today, and let's get right down to it. So the topic of today's keynote is going to be about why stablecoins are basically taking over Defi and a lot of core protocols, right? And as I'm sure a lot of people in the audience have already heard, two of the very most largest protocols in the entire space are on the cusp of releasing their own stablecoins. So I've been thinking, and I've been philosophizing about what this actually means in our own belief about stablecoins at fracs. And I wanted to discuss to you guys with you the key concepts that I think is extremely important for people to understand stablecoins, how we think about stablecoins at fracs, and where we think the industry is headed. So first things first, I just want to highlight.
00:03:41.168 - 00:04:38.832, Speaker A: Stablecoins are token pegged to some reference price with a commitment, implicit or explicit, that they actually be kept at that price. So obviously there's multiple ways to keep a stablecoin at peg, and also ways to not keep a stablecoin at peg, as a lot of people know. Right, but it can be pegged to anything, usually us dollars. But also, as we'll see, there's Eth pegged stablecoins is how we think about lsds. Second of all, the core concept of this talk that I'm going to try to persuade everyone on in terms of my own beliefs and a decent amount of people on the fracs core team's view is stablecoin maximalism. And as far as I know, this is the first time this actual belief has been explicitly defined and actually talked about is on this stage. So stablecoin maximalism says that most crypto protocols converge to become a stablecoin in the long term, or stablecoins become of central importance to their existence.
00:04:38.832 - 00:05:47.164, Speaker A: So it's actually not saying anything like there will be one stablecoin, everything else will be destroyed. There will be tether or Frax or USDC or something. It actually says that everything slowly converges to some kind of stablecoin. And the last concept is monetary premium. And this is pretty simple, and I think a lot of people will understand this because monetary premium is just demand for an issuer stablecoin to be held and used as money without actually expecting rewards or an interest rate or any kind of actual payment, aka actual demand for your liability, which is extremely important, right? Like, when people use USDC, you don't expect circle to pay you an interest rate, even though you know they are earning treasuries, right? They don't pay it to you, but you use it because USDC is useful. It is actually useful as money. So, now that we have the core three concepts, this is the actual main topic of this conversation, which is given sufficient time and given sufficient size, almost every defi primitive converges on becoming stablecoin like.
00:05:47.164 - 00:06:31.352, Speaker A: And also the second concept here is every stablecoin at scale converges on the same universal structure. So there's many stablecoins. They all have good stability mechanisms, some bad stability mechanisms. But the second concept here is really important is every stablecoin at scale converges on the same structure. So let's take a look at this structure. Let's just start with the one that everyone is familiar with, the classic fiat coin, and the one everyone loves, USDC, right? So the structure of USDC, extremely simple. As from their last attestation in January, they have for about 43 billion USDC, they have about 33.6
00:06:31.352 - 00:07:40.800, Speaker A: billion treasuries in their balance sheet, and they have about, give or take, 9.8 billion cash in their accounts, right? And the way that I like to think about it is there's two parts to this. The risk free yield of a stablecoins balance sheet, and then the swap facility, right? And one caveat though, is that even though I'm using risk free yield in quotes everywhere, nothing obviously is risk free. Any hypothesis is non zero risk. But given that this stablecoin is pegged to the dollar, the closest thing to risk free yield is treasuries and debt of the US government, and actually having the Federal Reserve as a counterparty, economically speaking, we're not talking about regulation laws, we're just talking about economics of keeping a peg. So this structure, in my opinion, is the most scalable and the safest from a peg perspective of a dollar peg stablecoin. So let's look at other stablecoins, or things that I contend are stablecoins, and see if they share the same kind of structure.
00:07:40.800 - 00:08:37.152, Speaker A: Something that everyone is probably familiar with is Frax recently launched Frax Ether, which everyone really calls liquid staking derivative. However, we actually said that Frax ETH is the first Ethpeg stablecoin, at least for Frax Finance's protocol. And so I wanted to go over this, because I think the next frontier in stablecoin design is liquid staking derivatives. There will be a LSD summer there will be more liquid staking projects. But the core concept that I think everyone should take to heart is the structure of a liquid staking derivative or an Ethpec stablecoin. There's a risk free yield, which means in the ethereum ecosystem, the closest thing to the lowest risk is running a validator competently and honestly. Right? There's no other place to get closest thing to risk free yield other than proof of staking.
00:08:37.152 - 00:09:25.568, Speaker A: Right? And there is a swap facility similar to if you're a dollar peg stablecoin, if you have a curve pool. Right? And we know that lido incentivizes this with a lot of LDO tokens every single epoch, right? And so whether you have the swap facility or you pay a lot of money in tokens to rent the swap facility, it's the same underlying structure. Right? And this is obviously done extremely well. Lido is a great protocol. Steeth is the largest EthPeC stablecoin. And one thing I wanted to highlight here is Frax ether is already third or fourth largest liquid staking derivative, or Ethpex stablecoin. I actually think that this is from Coingecko, but they did not include CBE for whatever reason.
00:09:25.568 - 00:10:15.910, Speaker A: So depending on what you think, it could be fourth ranked or third ranked. But one thing that is important here is even though, for example, rocket pool increases in price, it is a stablecoin. There's an implicit view that it tracks eth. You can see the seven day moving average, all of these track eth, right? There's an implicit expectation that these things actually follow the underlying Eth price. Whether there's rebasing mechanism that makes your balance of return exactly the same, and the price of one unit returns to ETH, or you track the actual EtH price entirely, just like wreath. So let's take a look at Frax etH, which is Traxx Finance's Ethpeg stablecoin. So Traxx ether is actually composed of two tokens.
00:10:15.910 - 00:10:59.286, Speaker A: One is the stablecoin that gives you no yield. If you use it, you're using it for some other reason, whether it's to lp in some other place, hold it, use it for something in the future that might be useful to you. Thank you. And there's stake frax ether, which is the risk free yield vault. If you stake frax ether stablecoin in there, you will get the PoS rate. And as you can see, the structure looks fairly similar. There is a Frax eth curve pool that's managed by an Amo smart contract and one thing that I think really highlights the design here is the frax eth supply and the monetary premium that's actually growing for the stablecoin.
00:10:59.286 - 00:11:40.758, Speaker A: If you look on the right, you'll see that the blue is the frax eth supply that's growing that gets staked in the PoS vault. If you look at the gold color up there, it's the frax eth that's lp'd in the curve pool right in the swap facility. If you look at the small amount that's actually growing, that's grayish, that is everywhere else. That frax eth exists in other amms, in other wallets, anywhere else, there's a lot of other places. So we don't actually track it. It's just an everything else slice. And as you can see, the supply of frax eth is obviously growing very, very fast.
00:11:40.758 - 00:12:30.226, Speaker A: But the monetary premium or the thing that people actually do with frax eth is slowly increasing over time. That sandwiched slice at the very top is becoming a larger and larger piece of the proportion of the total supply. And we actually track that. You can go to Frax Eth and actually check what people are doing with the Frax ethpec stablecoin. So here's continuing along the view of stablecoin maximalism, right? Wanted to bring up bridges. Bridges, in my personal opinion, are stablecoin issuers, whether they know it or not. Okay, bridges, the ultimate network effect for bridges is not just a commodity service of passing messages between two different chains.
00:12:30.226 - 00:13:14.030, Speaker A: The most lucrative view of a bridge is a stablecoin issuer. Let's say this is a bridge that actually issues wrap dai, right? Because dai doesn't. For example, it's not issued on Phantom, for example, right? If you have a bridge like multichain that actually takes Mainnet dai and then mints a stablecoin that's fully backed by Dai on Phantom. What are you doing? You're doing something like this. You're issuing a stablecoin. It happens to be called wrap dai because people want to see it being called dai in its name, and they want it to be actually backed by dai and not some algo recursive mechanism. Right, but what you want as a bridge issuer, bridge stablecoin issuer, is for this wrap dye to be in the curve pool on Phantom.
00:13:14.030 - 00:14:07.574, Speaker A: You want people to move around and use this wrap dai for everything on phantom. Right? And my contention and my belief is that given sufficient time, if there's substantial monetary premium and the bridge actually wants to monetize its use of the ability of its monetary premium, it will look for the place that is the closest risk free place to actually hypothesate its held collateral. And so for example, this would be the DSR. As people are familiar with Makerdao, they have a vault that sometimes pays a yield for literally just staking dai. It does nothing with it, right? Makerdo doesn't rehypothe, it just pays interest. Right. That is as close to risk free of any interest rate you can get for dai, right? And my view is if there is a sufficiently Lindy bridge for wrap dai anywhere in the long term, it will look like this.
00:14:07.574 - 00:14:22.390, Speaker A: So we can see how this fares in the future. Or makerdao can just issue native Dai on every chain. This structure won't appear. Right. That's the other view. But if this does, it'll look like this. That's the clip.
00:14:22.390 - 00:14:56.866, Speaker A: And one thing that's been really interesting is while I was making this PowerPoint, I was looking at the bridge TVL rankings on Defi llama. And lo and behold, the top bridge, or at least what DeFi llama classifies as the top bridge, is the thing that looks most like a stablecoin, the thing that has the most monetary premium. DeFi Llama says that WBTC is a bitcoin bridge. That's not up to me. They classified it as that. But I just thought that that was very, very interesting because what's the largest bridge TVL here? The one that has the most monetary premium? Everyone uses WBTC on ETh. Everyone has it in curve pools.
00:14:56.866 - 00:15:31.198, Speaker A: Everyone uses a collateral if they want BTC. It makes sense. It checks out fracs, right? Obviously this is a Frax keynote, so we wanted to talk about fracs. And fracs actually started out as a fractional algorithmic stablecoin, as probably a lot of people know. And we recently, through governance in the community, voted to fully collateralize all of fracs. Fracs was about 93 92% cr. It is going to be 100% in the near future.
00:15:31.198 - 00:16:15.850, Speaker A: And given that we believe this kind of structure is kind of the underlying form of a lot of defi primitives, this is what Frax is going to look like in the long term. And I think everyone can see it. Looks pretty familiar, right? And in fact, our fracs, BP curve pools and other swap facilities are extremely popular on Ethereum. People stake in them, people earn yield in them through CRVCvx and FXS tokens. And it's been very good. There's been a lot of people that have partnered with Frax, BP and curve pools there. One thing that I thought was funny was this headline says that Frax is going to retire its algorithmic backing amid stablecoin regulatory crackdown.
00:16:15.850 - 00:16:47.186, Speaker A: And I just wanted to obviously say that this was not the reason. We obviously wanted to do 100% backing, given that we have a pretty comprehensive worldview of what stablecoins are going to look like, because we think this is the underlying structure, or at least I do, of all d five primitives, given sufficient time. So we don't have any. No rumors, no wells notice nothing. We don't have any issues. It's not because of anything we're scared of. We just think this is the superior structure.
00:16:47.186 - 00:17:32.282, Speaker A: And the other way you could think about it is everything becomes fractional reserve banking given sufficient time. It just hopefully has to be properly safe fractional reserve banking, which is why we have the risk free yield structure instead of extremely risky yield structure with a swap facility. Right. It has to be the least riskiest proposition for the asset that you're pegging to. So one thing I wanted to obviously highlight is, I'm sure a lot of people are thinking about as they're listening to, this is what happens, in this view, to stablecoins that don't converge on the structure. Right. There's a lot of stablecoins that don't do this.
00:17:32.282 - 00:18:04.918, Speaker A: Right. There's many of them smaller market cap. There's many of them being started. And the main premise and the main conclusion that I personally have is that they don't scale. We haven't seen any empirical evidence of stablecoin scaling outside of this underlying structure. What you need is whatever asset you're pegging to, it has to have a two pronged mechanism. The closest thing to the risk free yield that you can monetize, the least riskiest possible thing in the universe, financially, to the asset that you're pegging to.
00:18:04.918 - 00:18:25.254, Speaker A: And then a swap facility, if that's not somehow the underlying structure, it's not going to scale up. And so this is the claim about what happens to coins. There'll be niche stablecoins. People will love them. People will use them. I love many stablecoins. Frax BP has a lot of pairings against a lot of stablecoins.
00:18:25.254 - 00:19:39.826, Speaker A: But if you want tens of billions of supply, and in the next five to ten years, hundreds of billions of supply for your stablecoin, that structure is what needs to be converged to in terms of scaling and safety. So the other question, what happens to protocols that don't become stablecoins and fail to embrace stablecoin maximalism, right? And I just made up stablecoin maximalism, but I'm going to try to make it very persuasive. Right? I think that they'll lose market share to projects and developers that think in stablecoin maximalist terms, maybe there aren't any. And so a lot of bridges will just compete among themselves with fees for swaps, and they'll basically just be swap facilities between chains and passing messages between themselves. But if there is a bridge that embraces stablecoin maximalism, given sufficient time, it should, in theory, outcompete ones that don't embrace stablecoin maximalism. And then the last thing is, I genuinely believe this, regardless of whether anyone thinks stablecoin maximalism is true or not, is monetary premium is the strongest network effect. Not social media network effect, not any other network effect.
00:19:39.826 - 00:20:15.758, Speaker A: Monetary premium is the strongest network effect and the strongest value accrual mechanism. Right? It is the thing that is the most important, the ability to issue a liability that people will use as currency in and of itself without actually expecting an interest rate or reward. And no one can fork that. No one can build that quickly. It's built over years, blood, sweat and tears, right? It is the most important. It's the reason tether is on all centralized exchanges and hundreds of millions, and tether doesn't pay them. It's the reason all of us use USDC, don't expect circle to pay us.
00:20:15.758 - 00:21:21.654, Speaker A: It's the reason people are using fracs and die and have monetary premium and don't expect every single time to hold fracs in their metamask and get rewarded for it, right? And lastly, I just wanted to share that this is kind of the evolution that I think is going to evolve, right? We have the first era where everyone knows things are stablecoins. Second era where there's stablecoins, but they're a little bit harder to see. There's like ve wrapper tokens, amms releasing their own stablecoins lending protocols. And the third era, which we're in right now, which is liquid staking bridges and more, right? We'll see other protocols like derivatives projects, GMX, all of these trying to scale and create large stablecoins, which will be really exciting. And finally, I just want to wrap up and end on this, which is a lot of people tell us that Frax, we're building a lot of different things. We're building Frax lend, we're building an LSD. And I want to highlight that we're extremely, extremely consistent on this worldview.
00:21:21.654 - 00:21:58.198, Speaker A: So this is just a picture of our Twitter, and this is a picture of the first page of our docs. We know that stablecoins are one of the most important infrastructural pieces in crypto, and we build stablecoins. So everything we build is universally for making sure our stablecoins get the most amount of monetary policy and monetary premium and the safest stablecoins at scale across multiple years. Right. We have a vision of actually being hundreds of millions in size and in market cap in the next five to ten years, hopefully. So that's it. Thank you.
00:21:58.198 - 00:22:04.580, Speaker A: Hope you guys found it intellectually interesting and catch me on Twitter telegram. Follow us. Thank you.
