00:00:00.120 - 00:00:41.754, Speaker A: So this whole project stems from the following question is that, how do I go to the previous one? There you go, is that we want a nice category of complete topological modules. And this is connected to some work in condensed mathematics, which I'm not going to talk about today, because we can actually phrase it very separate from that. So, to set candidates, we are going to start with profinet vector spaces, which its objects are infinite products of a field. And then the hump from this infinite product into k, you get that sum. What this means in particular, this equality, is that you should think of that product in sort of topological product, because this point is stuck together. And now any map like that factors refine that subset of I. So it's some sort of like compact product.
00:00:41.754 - 00:01:27.312, Speaker A: And if we want to do geometry on this, well, we do kind of the most reasonable thing, which is we do, the catch with ultrasolid modules is the sifted co completion. Ignore the word sifter, you're freely adding co kernels and sums. And that way we have an abelian category on which we can finally do homological algebra. So, for example, there's a completed tensor product on it, through which, if we take formal power series in x and formal power series in y, we get formal power series on x and y. And notice that this doesn't happen with the usual tensor product of algebras, because you can only take finite sums of elementary tenses. An example is if you take r, a complete local neuro theorem, k algebra with k, then we can write it as this inverse limit. And now the noetherian hypothesis forces each of these quotients to be a finite dimensional vector space.
00:01:27.312 - 00:02:06.524, Speaker A: And in particular, this is a profinet vector space. So the idea is that any such algebra, given it like the topology coming from the maximal ideal, we can consider some kind of ultrasound algebra, and we can generalize this kind of behavior. So, a complete profinet ultrasound k algebra is essentially the same as before. So we're going to ask for something that is complete and local with restigival k. And instead of asking for no ethereum, we ask that the underlying space is just to profiling it back to space. So, for example, the example I mentioned before is any complete local k algebra, where cg field k with the appropriate topology. But then also we can take formal power series in infinitely many variables.
00:02:06.524 - 00:02:34.354, Speaker A: So we allow, for example, an infinite sum of distinct monomials. So that would be such an example. Now, after telling you about all this ultrasound stuff, I'm going to take a little detail and to give our deformation theory, because that's the main application I found out so far. And the idea is, if we take a smooth, proper variety, we want to understand the formations of it. What do we mean by this? So we take a local ardent k algebra, we actually feel k. So what this means is that, in particular, it's a finite dimensional k vector space. So we should think of it as some infinitesimal thickening of k.
00:02:34.354 - 00:03:17.296, Speaker A: So a deformation of x is a variety over spec k, such that when we now recover k points, it's x. So we should think of this as a deformation of x in a way that is consistent with the deformation that is a of k. Okay? And all of this makes much more sense in the language of higher geometry. So it's a world where we replace rings with simplicial, commutative rings, or infinity rings. Choose your favorite. But the idea is some sort of algebra where we can do homotopy theory in a meaningful way, and we can talk about homotopies between maps, and we can generalize this kind of deformation problem. So the idea is that before I give you an artinian ring, and you can return sort of this space of deformations over that artinian ring of your variety.
00:03:17.296 - 00:04:19.090, Speaker A: So more generally, a form of moduli problem would be a functor. And I've intentionally avoided saying what that is, but some artinian algebra, but the right version of into the category of spaces, because then again, we're working in the world of higher geometry. So the space, or rather homotopy type of deformations, might have paths and a path would signify a homotopy between two different deformations. So it is something such that deforming over k, which is the base field, should just give you the point, because there should be no non trivial deformations over the already existing Bayes fields, and it also preserves sets and pullbacks. And it makes sense to think about this in terms of scheme theory, because if you drew this right, the forming over a push out is just the forming over each of the pieces in a way that agrees in the intersection. So that is essentially what we're asking for in here. And the main theorem this paper came out, I think, two weeks ago in the archive, is that a formal moduli problem is co representable by one of these kind of generalizations of these noetherian algebras, if and only if the space of first order deformations.
00:04:19.090 - 00:04:43.174, Speaker A: So deformations over the dual numbers is discrete. In particular, this means that there's no sort of weird homotopy business going on here. So it's just like an honest set of points rather than a homotopy type. And the idea is to keep exploring the future in this. And I currently have in mind applications in Galois theory, deformation theory, and group cohomology, but those are all ongoing projects. Thank you very much.
