00:00:00.600 - 00:00:08.994, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegate drive thru. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today I'm here with Eric Conner to talk about all things Ethereum. Hey, Eric, how you going?
00:00:09.454 - 00:00:13.510, Speaker B: Hey, man. How's it going? It's been a couple of weeks, but good to be back at it.
00:00:13.662 - 00:00:41.274, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, it's been a few weeks. I think we did say that we'll try to keep the two week cadence, but there's going to be rugs here and there. But we're back today and there's actually a lot to talk about. I mean, I'm sure everyone has been seeing the debates on Twitter recently, which kind of is giving me vibes of 2019. Remember in 2019 how there were all these kind of debates between, like, deep Ethereum people and it was because, like, everything else was so quiet and then we had, like, the bull market and everyone just kind of, I guess, got distracted by that. Right?
00:00:42.094 - 00:01:41.324, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny. Like, throw it back, right? Like, I feel like at the bottom of these bears debates come out. I mean, we've, we've had many in the past. I guess, like, the first bear was the, the Dow hack, obviously, now infamous and ETH classic and debating, you know, should we do like a fork and, like, all that stuff? And then, yeah, in 2019, little different debate, more around, like, can the ecosystem funding, right? And, like, kind of out of that git coin was born. Um, and, and, you know, it's funny, as price goes up, everything's healed with that. Like, when it was $80, the EF didn't have much money, and we were kind of like, okay, how are we going to fund everything? And then as price kind of went up, we were okay. But we always seem to, like, run into these, you know, debates and, like, so I guess if we, like you said, like, we're talking Lido and not necessarily specifically Lido, even though they're, like, in the spotlight now, but liquid staking tokens, liquid staking derivatives, whatever you want to call them, I think everyone's kind of settled on liquid staking tokens at this point.
00:01:41.324 - 00:02:04.256, Speaker B: I don't think you or I is necessarily surprised that this debate has come up. And I think we should give a high level overview of what's going on, but also talk about why. And this can be kind of the whole episode, I think. But why Ethereum is at this point. I've seen a lot of replies on Twitter, like, oh, you could have just done, like, dpos or, like, why, why did Ethereum do this?
00:02:04.280 - 00:02:04.416, Speaker A: Right?
00:02:04.440 - 00:02:38.384, Speaker B: There's, there's a lot of reasons, like as a community, I think we knew we would get here. Um, it's not really a surprise. I don't think anyone's surprised that, oh, an LST provider is almost at the 33%, like dangerous threshold. But, um, maybe. Anthony, I'll throw it back to you for a minute because I mean, you, you have your pulse and all this stuff and I know you've talked about it a lot in the past, um, kind of like what is happening? Why is the Ethereum community talking about this at a high level? What are we talking about before we even go into this subject?
00:02:39.004 - 00:03:23.996, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess from the highest level, the ethereum community more broadly believes that no one entity should have too large of a share of the staking market share. That's really the broadest, highest level I can give. In terms of the debate here now, I don't think anyone is particularly trying to pick on Lido. It's just that lido is the one in that position, right? Like if it was decentralized exchange like coinbase or binance, it would be, it would be the same discussion. So it really is just about the, the no one entity controlling to too large of a share of, of the network here. But off of that falls a lot of nuance. You know, people will often just look at like a chart, a pie chart that shows, you know, lido here at 32% coinbase here at, I think it's 14% binance here at blah, blah.
00:03:23.996 - 00:04:00.464, Speaker A: And they'll be like, oh, if they all colluded, you know, they could take over ethereum. But that just kind of misses the entire forest for like the little shrub, right? Not even the trees. It's just the tiniest, the tiniest kind of part there. And people have been doing this for ages, not just with Ethereum proof of stake, but also with things like proof of work, right? Where like on bitcoin today, I believe two of the top mining pools have like 50% of the hash rate and they're actually KYC mining pools as well. But if you say that and say, okay, well, that means that bitcoin can be taken over by two of these mining pools. That misses all the nuance that, that comes with that and how that isn't actually the case. And the same is true for Ethereum.
00:04:00.464 - 00:04:53.790, Speaker A: And where I get particularly frustrated is when people say, oh, well, in these dpos or delegated proof of stake networks, there are distinct entities. Like for example, people will say, well, there's 30 validators that have that kind of threshold and they're independent. It's like, well, just because they've got different names doesn't mean they're independent. I hate when people kind of equate these things and say that, and they do this because it's just like an easy thing to see, right. It's for the everyday casual observer, it's very easy for them to, like, look at this and reason about it rather than talking through the nuance, which I think is what we're going to get into today. But, yeah, that's really kind of the highest level debate there. And I think that on Twitter, the debate has kind of bled into not just kind of, I guess, uh, staking, but also bled into how much should we let Ethereum's values kind of define what we want a theorem to be and how we want ethereum to react to things? And this discussion is definitely, like very deep ethereum stuff.
00:04:53.790 - 00:05:22.126, Speaker A: And I think that for most people, they probably don't have the relevant context to actually get into these debates. And the debates on Twitter, me, are not healthy, because what ends up happening is that everyone just picks their side based on their own preconceived bias, and they don't actually care about the facts and reason anymore. All they care about is their side winning. So, yeah, the debates are tiring. That's why I'm not getting involved in these debates on Twitter. As you said, I talk about this a lot on my show, but that's more of like a one directional kind of approach there. And then I may discuss it with people in the deli Gwei discord channel.
00:05:22.126 - 00:05:28.222, Speaker A: But generally, the debates on Twitter, they're too messy. Like, it's not getting us anywhere, right?
00:05:28.278 - 00:06:07.606, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, you know, social forums always end up in a bit of a disaster. I mean, I think the interesting thing is once Ethereum switch, I guess if we step back a little bit, right, like Ethereum, that you need 32 e staked. You need to run a node if you want to be a solo validate. Well, you don't technically need to, but most solo stakers run their own node, right? So what is the benefit of these lsts, these liquid staking tokens, right? It means that, I mean, there's a couple of things. You don't have to run your own node if you don't want to, you can, and you don't have to have 32 e. Those are like the two biggest pitches, right, of using an LST. So you could have one ETH.
00:06:07.606 - 00:06:43.274, Speaker B: You don't want to run a node, you deposit your ETH, you wrap it, whatever you want to call it, and all of a sudden you're earning interest. And you might do that through Lido rocket pool. And now there's a couple other like Diva and a couple other providers popping up, Coinbase, like you mentioned, a lot of exchanges. There are also a couple other benefits to this, which all of a sudden your token is like wrapped. It's movable. A lot of Defi protocols like Aave or compound have added it as a collateral type, and you can use this in Defi. People would say, okay, well then what's the benefit of being a solo staker? Well, there still are benefits.
00:06:43.274 - 00:07:10.318, Speaker B: A lot of these lsts take fees. I think Lido takes I think five, 7% or something like that. I think rocket pool takes something like twelve. Don't quote me on those, but they're in those ballparks. You don't lose that as a solo staker. As a solo staker, you're not relying on trust, you're not relying on like, like smart contract code issues. You're relying on the protocol, having a code issue, but not like an additive code issue.
00:07:10.366 - 00:07:10.622, Speaker A: Right?
00:07:10.678 - 00:07:48.994, Speaker B: So okay, we go there. Now, why do people care at this point about Lido? Why am I seeing 33%? There are like two big thresholds in Ethereum, proof of stake. One of them is 33%. Like if, and I'm not calling a lido an attacker, but if an attacker got over 33% of staked ETH, they can cause havoc because they can basically prevent the chain from finalizing. And I don't want to go like too deep into the technicalities on this episode. I mean, we could talk about this for hours, and then the other is obviously over 50%. Those create all kinds of other issues.
00:07:48.994 - 00:08:35.140, Speaker B: Lido's at like 32. I think they got as high as 32 and a half. I think it's down to 32.2. So people are starting to say, okay, should we be worried a little bit? Because theoretically this one operator, now they have multiple nodes and there's all this debate around, are they decentralized or not? Like you said, there's a lot of nuance to this discussion. It's not like if Lido just gets 33%, they're going to attack Ethereum, right? But it's more the optics, I think, for the Ethereum community in general, these numbers do matter. And I think as we approach them, we start to ask ourselves one thing I will always apply the Ethereum community with. Is it? We never think we get it perfect, right? We kind of got this stuff out there.
00:08:35.140 - 00:08:47.916, Speaker B: We got proof of stake out there. We've gotten a lot of stuff. I mean, there's been, what, seven or eight hard forks to this point. There's been a lot of vip's that have gone into the protocol. We are never like, okay, that's it. It's done. It's bitcoin now.
00:08:47.916 - 00:09:36.486, Speaker B: We're never going to touch it again. Right? So we're always learning. And I think Lido getting near this first threshold, even though if they cross it, it's not like it's going to end tomorrow. Um, it's just kind of like a wake up call in a bit to, hey, did we. Should we be thinking of something different? Right, and what is something different? I mean, you got to think of ethereum as the base layer, which is just pure Ethereum running code. You've got a social layer, which is people kind of values, and, you know, what do we think as a community? And then you've got, like, the app layer, which is like lido or aave or compound, and kind of what people are running on this ethereum protocol, and they are kind of all in bed together, right? And there's no, like, I don't believe in codas law. They all kind of run together.
00:09:36.486 - 00:10:34.504, Speaker B: And I think we're just kind of waking up as a community, like, hey, is this an issue? Like, not only if Lido gets 33%, what if they get 51%, you know, and what if they move to this fully decentralized governance and someone hijacks that, and now all of a sudden you've got these compounding issues and, you know, again, I don't want to, like, say if we cross this threshold, it's game over. But I do think there are important conversations to have. And at the end of the day, what matters? It's not like we shouldn't rely on Lido, necessarily to self limit themselves at 33%. We should be asking, like, why does Lido have this much market share, right? And I know some people believe in this, like, one staked coin to rule them all. I'm not a huge believer in that, necessarily. Um, but there are benefits, right, to lses as a community. Should we be thinking about enshrining on the protocol level? Should we be thinking about, like, how to discourage this through economic incentives, stuff like that?
00:10:35.484 - 00:11:35.378, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the enshrinement conversation is interesting, and we can probably talk about that in a few minutes. But I wanted to hit on a couple of the points you brought up there. So this 33% threshold, as you said, like if one node operator, I should say, and node operator here, is defined by an operator that can control, that has control over validators right to that 33% threshold, they of course can delay finality on the network. Now, there is so much kind of nuance that falls off of that. And the two main things I wanted to hit on is one, if you do that as a node operator, you essentially get, I guess, like from the, from the view of the protocol, you're essentially offline, which means you're now suffering what's called the inactivity leak. If you're doing it with a lot of other validators at the same time, which would be the case here, because you're doing it with 33% of the network, you suffer what's called the quadratic, quadratic inactivity leak, which means your penalties go way up for being offline. Now, this is in place because it basically means that the beacon chain can heal itself if this attack happens.
00:11:35.378 - 00:12:06.794, Speaker A: And essentially it kicks out these validators in order to bring finality back. And timing on this can take a, take a little while, but that's what the beacon chain has, has built into it to do this. So that attack in particular, I don't really think has any bearing on Ethereum. It wouldn't actually lead to long term damage for Ethereum. It would destroy Lido. If they did this, by the way, or any, any attacker, it would do destroy their business, because immediately everyone will be like, well, you just went against the protocol, you cost me money because you're suffering this inactivity leak. I'm going to not stake with you anymore.
00:12:06.794 - 00:13:02.206, Speaker A: So actually, I think that it's actually bullish for any one entity to attempt that, because they're the losers in that scenario, in my mind, at least. Um, and, and then the second part is that for Lido to actually do this would require all of their node operators to collude. So I think there's like 30 node operators right now which have one point something percent share each. So it actually require all of them to collude right now. And then for them to gain a little bit more market share to get to that 33% threshold for them to do that. Now, you could argue that Lido governance could force them to do this, right? Like the LDO token holders could force the node operators to do this, but there is no mechanism currently in place that I'm aware of that allows governance to actually force the node operators to do this. They, they can do it through social pressure, because they could say, okay, well, here's a proposal to force the node operators to basically go offline, essentially, right, in order to delay finality.
00:13:02.206 - 00:13:52.606, Speaker A: And when you walk through that attack vector, it makes zero sense. One, because it can't actually happen unless the node operators agree to it. In the current stance, maybe in the future, lido changes where governance does have control over this. But from my perspective, they don't have actual direct control. They have maybe social pressure, which is, which is a very different thing, obviously. And then two, like, the end result is that Lido would just screw itself over, basically, because as I said, like this is, this is only punishing lido long term. So that's, I guess, like the main risk at the 33% where it becomes, I guess, more of an attack that maybe isn't something that is penalizing to lido itself, is, as you said, like that 50% threshold, where essentially at that threshold, you start being able to propose, basically you're proposing as node operators, as a network, one of every two blocks.
00:13:52.606 - 00:14:33.038, Speaker A: And when you have that much power, essentially what you can do is you can optimize your proposals for MeV strategies, right? You can start causing reorgs to benefit yourself, stuff like that, right. But that, again, requires all the node operators to collude, right? Or a lot of them to collude to do this. So again, it's a tall ask. And then there's another threshold that is kind of like probably the worst case scenario, which is 66%, if any, I guess, like node opera radar or node operators that collude get to 66%. What they can effectively do is halt the chain, because 66% is the threshold for liveness. If you basically go offline with all your validators, you halt the chain. And it would require basically a socially coordinated fork to get the chain back.
00:14:33.038 - 00:15:14.078, Speaker A: And it would be disastrous, honestly, that would be like a nuke going off for Ethereum. We're nowhere near that today. And I do want to just finish off this by saying, with the Lido market share, people are complaining about it a lot now and are talking about it a lot now in the last few months. If you actually look at the historic market share of Lido relative to other, I guess, participants in the Ethereum staking ecosystem, their market share is the same today than it was in May of 2022 22 last year. So you can actually go, theres a dashboard on do not analytics called the ETH two staking dashboard. You can just google for that, and you can look at their market share in May of 2022, they were at around 32%. Today they are at around 32%.
00:15:14.078 - 00:15:57.230, Speaker A: Yes, Lidos stake has grown, but if you do a relative measure to its market share in measuring it against all the other staking providers, its actually not grown. Its completely in place for almost 18 months now. When I look at it like that, I look at it as a positive, basically, because all these other protocols have come online, because we have competition in the staking marketplace, Lido's growth relative to others has actually stopped. Right? It hasn't gone down necessarily, but it has stopped. Now the challenge is to get it down. Like, can we get Lidos market share down to 20%? Right? Or 22% is the threshold that people look at. And honestly, I think with more competition in the marketplace, we potentially can.
00:15:57.230 - 00:16:53.264, Speaker A: But I think that a lot of these debates and a lot of these kind of, like, social pressures, a lot of the time, they don't really move the needle on things. They're good for awareness. But actually moving the needle requires competition in the staking ecosystem. So that's my kind of view on things there. And then that, I guess, leads us into the other question about kind of enshrinement and this kind of two tiered staking that people may have heard about. But Eric, maybe this was something, this was a conversation we were having, actually in DM's, and then I said to you, hey, let's save this for the podcast where we were basically debating whether it would be worth enshrining lsts in the protocol, which would mean basically getting rid of lsts above the protocol and just having one LST called ESE or something that everyone could mint directly in protocol and burn directly in protocol, rather than having these third parties? Or do we do like a two tiered approach where you still have the third parties, but you have like, I guess, like pseudo delegation within the protocol and stuff like that. So, yeah.
00:16:53.264 - 00:16:58.364, Speaker A: Your view on enshrine, I'd be curious to get on that. Or if you had to reply to anything that I was just saying as well.
00:16:58.794 - 00:17:01.746, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think you said a lot of very interesting stuff.
00:17:01.810 - 00:17:02.106, Speaker A: Right.
00:17:02.170 - 00:17:10.818, Speaker B: And I think so. First of all, I 100% agree with you. I think people like I was saying, you're not going to get that 33% and everything dies tomorrow.
00:17:10.866 - 00:17:11.098, Speaker A: Right?
00:17:11.146 - 00:17:55.056, Speaker B: And to your point, the real death kneel is 66% attacker. If you get there, you're done. And I think there's so much nuance, not only on the 33%, and then it's not just like one lido person is deciding at that point to run, like, what to do, right? Like you said, they have multiple, I think, 30 node operators, something like that. And a lot of them, like trusted entities, they're not going to all just say, hey, look, we got 34%. Let's start colluding, right? I think where people maybe get a little confused with Lido is this like, decentralization plan they have over, like the next one to three years? I mean, they claim they did this vote to self cap, and they're like, oh, no, we voted against it. It was like 99.8% against.
00:17:55.056 - 00:18:42.746, Speaker B: But if you look at it, like, three people basically decide the entire vote. So there's a lot, and they have this plan, which I'll give it to them. I would push back on them and say, hey, why don't you just self limit till you get there? I know why they probably won't do that, but I think from community optics perspective, that would be nice. So there's a lot going on here. Like, Lindy effect is one of them, right? Like, if you are the first and biggest staking provider, so people are trusting essentially their money with you, right? They're saying, I'm going to stick with your provider. Why does Lido have dominance? Because other people have trusted Lido. And we talk about Lindy effect a lot way back in the day with, like, bitcoin ETH and, like, people just, you become to know it, and that's just, that's the lindy effect, right? You're like, oh, my neighbor's doing it, so I'm going to do it.
00:18:42.746 - 00:19:32.354, Speaker B: Whatever I trust they trusted it, so I'm going to trust it. You just become like this name and it becomes a bit unstoppable. And I know I mentioned earlier, like, there are a lot of people, and I believe the Lido team thinks this, there will be one staked ETH to rule them all, essentially. So, like, people think there will just be one staked ETH because of lindy, because of network effects. I'm a little, I don't agree with that because I think if you agree with that, you think you also have to believe there's a fee race to zero. So if you're taking five to 10% of a staking fee, if you think there's going to be 100% winter, people are just going to keep undercutting you, right? So I expect the new thing to be, someone launches and they say, hey, we have a 3% fee. People hop over there because they're getting a higher return, right? So there's going to be a battle there for a while.
00:19:32.354 - 00:20:10.256, Speaker B: I don't think you're ever going to get to, like, 100%, but if you get anywhere near that 50, 66%, it gets cautious. And I think it's not necessarily that Lido is getting a 33%, and we all think they're going to attack. I think it's more for the optics because it's like putting eyes on what could happen. And to be a little self reflective, I've hit on bitcoin for saying, hey, two or three mining pools own the hash power. What if they attack bitcoin? It's the same thing, and bitcoin, or sit back and say, well, they never would. You could switch your hash rate over and there's no reason, it doesn't make economic sense. It's the same thing.
00:20:10.256 - 00:21:18.120, Speaker B: I don't love that we've put ourselves in that similar situation, and I especially don't love that the protocol doesn't really benefit solo stakers. And I. How it's like written, it's very hard to do, um, and. But it's, it's a hard pitch, I'll be honest, this to solo stake, other than, oh, you're just kind of, you're a solo sticker and you're cool, and you're adding decentralization, right? You get like slightly higher yield, and you can run mev boost by yourself, and. But it's a tough pitch, and, like, I know why we designed it this way and why we didn't go deepass, and we wanted hundreds of thousands of validators, and it has worked out great. But I think a little self reflecting around some of these ideals is important. And, like, seeing why so many people are using lsts is an important thing to look on or look at, but to kind of move on into your question enshrinement, right? So right now, all third party operators run liquid staking derivatives.
00:21:18.120 - 00:21:54.900, Speaker B: Like, if you don't want to sell a stake, you take your ETH, you wrap with them, and you just trust these third parties. Now, there is a scenario where the Ethereum community could say, hey, let's just make this part of the protocol. And this was a conversation five years ago. Essentially, instead of just saying, hey, I can only just lock my 32 ETH, and it's part of my validators, and I'm running my node and I can't move it, you could have this. And there's a lot of technicalities here that I don't want to get into. You could essentially, let's say, in a very easy world stake your ETH. But you could also say, hey, I want this to be a wrapped, movable ETH that I want to use in Defi.
00:21:54.900 - 00:22:40.176, Speaker B: And it credits you with, like you said. Yeah, let's call it ETH staked ETH Ese. And you get that and you can move that around and you cut out third parties. Now, like you said, you and I were having this conversation and you had some good points where it's like, okay, well how does this, you still have this problem with node operators, right? A lot of people don't want to run their own nodes. Why won't enshrined stake ETH just run into the same problem that we've seen in lido and exchanges and huge whales that have big infrastructure and they can run their own nodes, why won't they just attract all the ETH? And then we're back to square one. All of a sudden Coinbase has, they're the biggest node runner and they have 66% of the ethnic. That's a very good point.
00:22:40.176 - 00:23:26.026, Speaker B: Um, I think this two tiered staking system, which I'm just kind of like reading and trying to digest over the last week, like wrap my head around, um, is an interesting thought. I also think you could get maybe like a little creative with requiring people to run their own node and they get some benefits. But again, that's a very technical conversation. Um, but I do think, I mean, if Atelic just put out this blog post, very timely, I guess about a week and a half ago about enshrining things in the protocol, and Ethereum has been anti this, not anti, but we just haven't done it yet. Like we haven't enshrined things on a protocol level. We've let the free market kind of just take a stance and I'm not a big fan right now of these takes of that. Ethereum is free market maximalism.
00:23:26.026 - 00:23:50.724, Speaker B: I think Ethereum is decentralized maximalism. And if a free market participant starts threatening it, I think it's up to the base layer, which to me is the base free market. Anybody can submit changes to Ethereum. Its up to that actual free market to respond, right. I dont think the argument of hey, its a free market, you cant possibly come after us on the base layer. I dont find that argument valid at all.
00:23:51.864 - 00:24:37.664, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think theres two things I wanted to touch on there. The first thing was like how you alluded to like its all about the node operators, right? It doesnt matter which way you have staking implemented in your protocol, its all about the distribution of node operators. Because the number of validators on Ethereum doesn't matter, because the number of validators, the reason why we optimize for a lot of validators was because of the original sharding designs and because we've abandoned those. That's actually tech debt now. And there are proposals that are going to get rid of the max effective balance cap, which means that the validator count will actually come down because people will be able to consolidate their validators. So the way this would work is that instead of having, if you have 320 ETH, you have ten validators to run that on. You would just run 220 ETH on one validator and you'd get the, the same rewards, it all worked the same.
00:24:37.664 - 00:25:12.736, Speaker A: You just be able to consolidate. And this is actually needed for a network health perspective as well, because the overhead of having so many validators is really large and we don't even need it anymore because we abandon the old charting designs in favor of the new dank sharding designs. But again, it comes back to the actual full nodes themselves. What's the full node count look like? How many full nodes exist? And obviously validator, you can have a thousand validators running off one full node. That's how it works. As I said, validator count is not representative of anything really the number of full nodes. But then it's all about who's actually running these full nodes.
00:25:12.736 - 00:25:47.192, Speaker A: Who are the node operators? Are they decentralized themselves? Are they distributed across the globe? Are they individuals? Are they companies? Are they bad actors? Are they good actors? Right? Like who is actually running this? It's impossible to ever know who's, who's running all of them. You can obviously make educated guesses based on what we see today. Like obviously lido node operators are running a lot of full nodes. They probably have them for production and for backups and stuff like that. And then you have the centralized exchanges that are running them as well. Not just for stakeholders, but also for processing user deposits and withdrawals on chain and things like that as well. So all of these entities are running them.
00:25:47.192 - 00:26:15.390, Speaker A: But I know for myself that I'm running multiple full nodes at home for my staking setups. I know you're running full nodes. I know lots of individuals that are running them. And then you have to think about, okay, well, what, you split this up. So there are what I like to call economically, kind of like economically important full nodes, right? And these are the ones run by centralized exchanges. These are the ones run by staking service providers, because they're actually taking in stake from other users. And essentially theyre the trusted entity for those users.
00:26:15.390 - 00:26:41.872, Speaker A: So theyre very economically relevant, especially centralized exchanges, because they hold a lot of weight in different things. They hold a lot of user assets. They process a lot of activity on the network. And then you have the more long tail, which is the individuals running the full nodes. These individuals may not be as economically relevant, but theyre very socially relevant. They are the ones on, you know, obviously crypto, Twitter. They are the ones on the, the various kind of like ethereum governance forums.
00:26:41.872 - 00:27:02.328, Speaker A: They're the core devs, the researchers, things like that. They're the people that are actually getting involved in these discussions because you don't see Coinbase as an organization getting involved in ethereum governance. Right. There may be people within Coinbase, for example, like Jesse Polak, the lead at base. He's very, very active there. But coinbase as a whole organization, you know, he's not getting involved. Brian Armstrong's not sitting on core developer calls and stuff like that.
00:27:02.328 - 00:27:41.618, Speaker A: He's not on Twitter debating these things, right? And the same is true for finance with CZ and things like that. But it's all about, it all comes back to the social stuff. That's why I think node operator decentralization and distribution is much more important than anything else. And this goes back to what we were talking about with enshrinement. And my argument to you was that if we had an enshrined ETH at the base layer where everyone had equal access to the same LST, basically as we said it was eseth, everyone can mint and burn it the same way. There is no advantage. There is no, um, kind of, I guess like uh, incentive for anyone to align themselves with any, any one kind of, uh, I guess, entity tapping into this.
00:27:41.618 - 00:28:05.146, Speaker A: We're just all aligned with this one thing. Well, then it becomes a kind of thing of. Well, in that world, it's obvious to me that centralized exchanges would dominate because they've got the easiest onboarding process, uh, out of anything. Even Lido is. Is harder than centralized exchanges because to get with involved with Lido, there's a few more clicks to it. Whereas with a centralized exchange on Coinbase, it's literally like two clicks, last time I checked. To stake your 8th, right.
00:28:05.146 - 00:28:45.570, Speaker A: It's very, very simple. And also Coinbase is a very trusted entity, especially people who are using fiat on an off ramp and stuff like that. Right? Lido doesn't have as much lyndia, something like Coinbase and doesn't have much brand awareness. Same with binance, same with things like other exchanges. So if they've got access to the exact same LST that everyone else does, it kind of like points to me that the stake would just completely centralize around these entities because you would have no one promoting other projects because there would be no incentive to do so. Like a lot of people could promote Lido because they're holding the LDO token, right? A lot of people promote rocket pool because they're holding the RPL token. And they also align with the values of these different projects.
00:28:45.570 - 00:29:06.560, Speaker A: But if you just have one LST to rule them all, basically enshrined in protocol, there is none of that. There is none of that social kind of layer pressure. There is none of that. None of those incentives. The incentives really are just a race to the bottom on fees, as you mentioned, right, where these exchanges just keep undercutting each other. They can basically set fees to 0% just to get market share and then jack the fees up once they've got the market share. This is a common tactic.
00:29:06.560 - 00:29:45.698, Speaker A: This is not anything new, right? This is used in every industry, basically, where it becomes a race to the bottom. And then once you've got people locked in, you jack the fee up. Because if you're an exchange and you lock people in at 0%, and then you just say, okay, well, we're raising it to 5%, no one's going to care. Most people aren't going to care enough to change who they're staking with. So I think that an enshrined, like a purely enshrined staking token LST wouldn't actually solve that issue, because the core issue is node operator centralization and how we get around that. And an enshrined LST, in my mind, wouldn't fix that. Now, as you mentioned, there's also this concept of two tiered staking, which, I mean, there's a post here, I've got it up on my screen here.
00:29:45.698 - 00:30:56.268, Speaker A: As you said, it's still relatively new, and this pro is only 24 days old. But basically it positions this change to Ethereum staking, where essentially you have two tiers of staking. You have something called operator bonds, which is, from my understanding, the current way staking works, where you basically have to go through the entry and execute, and there's capital on the line, and then you have like a delegated stake, where essentially this delegated stake could be moved around like it is in a delegated proof of stake system. And then you and the users who want to delegate their stake don't have to go through the execute to remove their stake and can do it without the permission of the actual node operator. This to me is probably the best middle ground kind of solution here, because you still get the competition at the node operator level. You still have node operators that have to have to put this bond up right, essentially to become and stay node operators and to participate as one. And then you also give the users the option of still delegating their stake, right, the same way they do today, but in a much more trust minimized way and in a much more fluid way, where essentially you don't lock them into that kind of deposit and entry queue and they can just move their stake if they feel like that their stake is at risk.
00:30:56.268 - 00:31:16.860, Speaker A: Or maybe they just want to change providers and it basically lowers the barrier to those switching costs, because switching costs are always really high for these sorts of things. So it lowers that. That's my understanding of it. But the post itself, if people want to google it, is just too t at staking. You can go check that out. But that's my general view on enshrinement there. But this is a lot of open research stuff going on right now.
00:31:16.860 - 00:31:41.708, Speaker A: It's probably not going to come to the protocol anytime soon. But as I was saying before, I really don't. I really think the risk of Lido at 33% is completely overstated at this point in time. I think that long term, obviously we want to deal with this and we want to make sure that they don't grow more than what they have, which I think has actually been happening, as I said, for the last 18 or so months. But we want to encourage competition as well. And that's what I've been focusing on. That's why I don't get involved with these debates.
00:31:41.708 - 00:32:42.142, Speaker A: I've just been focusing on promoting the competition, telling people, hey, don't stake with Lido, they've already got enough stake. You can go with other providers and go with who you trust. Obviously even going with a centralized exchange is better than going with Lido at this point because they've got less market share here. And the final thing I'll say before I hand it back was that the kind of like, like social signaling around that 22% self limiting thing to me has done more damage than good at this point in time. And I know this may be unpopular with people, and I have friends, like good friends that have been advocating for this, but the reason why I think it's done more damage than good is because Lido is not going to self limit to 22%. They're already over that threshold, by the way. But also if they voted to self limit, that means the LDO token is going down because it basically means that Lido says, oh, we're going to remove our market share voluntarily, right, in order to, I guess, align with this 22%, which means that the growth is capped and the growth is actually negative now for Lido, which means the LDO token is going to get reevaluated.
00:32:42.142 - 00:33:38.824, Speaker A: So no rational LDO token holder who wants their token price to go up is going to agree to that. And as you said, it was dominated by three people anyway, who are obviously large LDO holders, but also have a lot of stake, delegate or a lot of LDO delegated to them. And also the other protocols that have aligned with this, they're nowhere near 22% and there probably isn't a reality where they ever, ever get to 22%, right, easy to virtual virtue, signal this and say, oh yeah, we'll self limit at 22% when they know themselves that they're never getting there, right? So I think that, as I said, it's probably done more damage than good because it's made a bit of a joke of the Ethereum, kind of like social layout, platform of things, and it's very easy for people to make fun of. But yeah, my whole kind of thing is let's just encourage competition, right? Let's make people aware of the issue and get them to switch from Lido to something else or get them to not stick with Lido to something else. But the self limiting stuff, it's just not going to work for the reasons I just outlined.
00:33:39.884 - 00:34:04.830, Speaker B: Yeah, I lost some pack here. I'm going to go with the recent comment here around the lido token. So obviously agree. I don't think that any rational company would self limit when it comes to revenue. Now my pushback on that would be no lido token holder is getting any revenue share. They're getting a false promise of, of governance. And I get it.
00:34:04.830 - 00:35:17.904, Speaker B: Valuation of the token. I agree with you, yes, self limiting would be silly from their perspective, but there are now social signals which maybe, optic wise, don't look so good to them. It's not like Lido token holders getting a share of revenue from the state that's happening on the network, right? Which by the way, I'm shocked that no one's doing that. Why is no one saying, hey, as a token holder of my LST, we're going to haircut just like a little bit off of our stickers yield. And instead of just taking 10% to ourselves, we're going to give like one or 2% back to token. This goes back to uniswap and all these defi companies, right? Like companies, whatever you want to call them, protocols. But why is no one thinking of this stuff? Now? Maybe that's a great vampire attack conversation that we'll save for another day, but I think I want to hit on the social layer, right? Because I think this whole conversation depends on understanding what Ethereum social layer means, right? And like when you say you're not scared and the debates aren't worth it when we're just over this 33% number, to an extent, I agree.
00:35:17.904 - 00:36:40.496, Speaker B: I think being loud in debates, and we've, both of you and I have done this over the years in Ethereum, just being loud on Twitter, that's where the Ethereum community is, is valuable because it's, it wakes people up. And in a way, you have to just be obnoxiously loud about some subjects so that people keep seeing it, right? Especially in a bear market when, like, not many people are around. But like, what is the social layer of Ethereum? And it's what you were, you summarized well earlier. If you go over to 33%, those 40 lido node operators are not going to instantly collude to, like, take down Ethereum, right? And that, that's a social layer aspect of lido itself. The social layer of Ethereum itself is, are the people kind of between the protocol, the app layer, the node runners, there's this gray line of where people are. And I think just kind of signaling this debate kind of activates that social layer to an extent. And that social layer is that last line of defense where even if a bad actor were to get 66 plus percent of Ethereum stake as an Ethereum community, we could just all get together on Twitter, as ridiculous as it sounds on forums, on discord, and say, hey, f, this guy, let's fork him out.
00:36:40.496 - 00:37:34.248, Speaker B: This isn't Ethereum as we know it. We're going to fork and we're going over here and this new 32% community that we have, this is Ethereum, right? And if the apps, and if the devs, and if the social layer follows you to that side, that attacker just burnt a ton of money. And I think this is that nuance that you keep hitting back on when it comes to this, is if Lido got 40%, 50%, 60%, it looks very bad optically, and it creates a lot of debates that I think we should be having. But it also is not like tomorrow. Even if they were to attack, it would cause a lot of drama and probably a dip in ETH price. In the short term, the social aid would get together and say, screw Lido, we're forking them out, we're launching new nodes, and we're going over here and now this is Ethereum. And look, we learned that lesson, right? So I think people forget, and I hate this.
00:37:34.248 - 00:38:12.920, Speaker B: I'm seeing like CodiS log in on Twitter. And I just hate it growing to my gears. I just hate it so much because it's not, it so much of blockchain, it's social layer and even bitcoins, monetary policy is social consensus, right? Like everything is. Anybody tomorrow could say, hey, there's a big problem in bitcoin. We need to add inflation. Boom, done. Like, nothing is actually code as law, right? And in a way, this like Lidar debate has been a flashback to the ETH classic debate now, because you got this like code is law side, which is like free market, hey, actors can do anything.
00:38:12.920 - 00:39:25.242, Speaker B: And then you've got this like other side that's saying, well, there's a social layer. And, you know, this might not happen as you think, but it's, I'll be honest, in a way, it's been a bit like re energizing to finally like, have something to talk about as a community and not just talk about charts and price and things like that. Um, and I think one of the really important points is we've thought like validators being out there. You know, we didn't go with deposits, which is great, but at the same time, at the end of the day, it's the node runners, like you were saying, like, and ETH one knows we're always trying to encourage people to run it. ETH two knows where, once again, trying and encourage people to run it. And maybe should we be looking at that? And I don't have the technical or the like, expertise or I haven't thought about the economics behind it, but like, is there a way to properly encourage people to run nodes? And I know there have been thoughts in the past around this, um, but we always come back to this, right? Like, who's actually running the nodes? And in you and I in DM's, you had a good point, like, to the protocol. A node run by Coinbase and node run by myself is no different.
00:39:25.242 - 00:40:09.382, Speaker B: But like, maybe is this an area where we should be like, researching a little bit and trying to economically incentivize good actors and spread. But it's tough, right? I actually don't know. I'm just kind of thinking out loud here, but I feel like that's an area of research. And I never, by the way, want to ever doubt, like, to your point, enshrining on the surface seems like maybe it would just centralize, but then all of a sudden you're like, oh, there's two tiers taking sounds kind of cool. Like, I will never doubt the Ethereum research community. And I think these debates in general are just good to have because we're kind of like all of a sudden everyone's brains activated again. We're not looking at charts, we're not looking at like going down over the last two years, like we're having these thoughts again.
00:40:09.382 - 00:40:12.314, Speaker B: And I think that's always beneficial in this community.
00:40:13.714 - 00:41:17.244, Speaker A: Yeah, I think on the topic of how to encourage more full nodes and stuff like that, I think all of that has to be done extra protocol. And what I mean by that is that from what I can tell and all of the research that I've done myself, it is actually impossible to have the protocol be able to distinguish between, as you said, Coinbase running a full node and yourself running a full node. For the simple fact is the protocol only sees a validator, only sees a full node. It does not see you does not see Coinbase, and it cannot see that without an external data source, which just adds centralization vectors. For example, you could have a oracle feeding in data saying that, okay, well, this is Coinbase's node and this is Eric's node, but then you're trusting the oracle, right? You're not trusting Ethereum's kind of, I guess, system anymore. You're trusting this external dependency, which is fine for things like price oracles, especially when they're constructed in such a way with like Chainlink, for example. But, but it doesn't work for the actual consensus of the chain and for things like full nodes.
00:41:17.244 - 00:42:30.108, Speaker A: The other solution, which isn't a solution at all, and obviously I would never advocate for this, would be to do KYC, and the protocol would only allow KYC things in, but then you still have a dependency on a third party because who controls that, right? And all of this just comes back to the topic of like civil resistance and being able to kind of put identities to on chain actors, which is, is, in my mind, basically impossible to do at the protocol layer. So, okay, if it's impossible to do at the protocol layer, how do we do this extra protocol? Well, there are a few different ways we can do this in terms of encouraging more full nodes and more distribution of full nodes. There are various projects in the works right now, something called project Solo staker, which essentially they just send people hardware and they can run the full node in this little box in their house, and they basically do it for free. And then there are other things like DVT or distributed validator technology, which essentially splits up a validator into various different parts. And, you know, I'm in a cluster right now, an early cluster with Oval as part of their alpha testing, where essentially there's four of us running in this cluster, and we're all running the validator software and the full node software on our own hardware. And the 32 ETH is split amongst four of us. It's actually kind of Oval's 32 th.
00:42:30.108 - 00:43:09.792, Speaker A: It's not ours right now. But the way this would work is that everyone, all four people, would bring their, their eight ETH, they would pull it together, they would have the 32 ETH, and then they would all run the software in the full nodes, which does, on net, increase number of full nodes in the world and actually increases the. Potentially increases the distribution as well. And I, code named, I don't know if I know, I don't think I came up with this term. I think it was David Hoffman or Ryan Sean Adams. They come up with the term of squad staking, which essentially you get your squad together and you stake together, but it's not just in terms of kind of pulling your ETH together and staking all on one node. You're actually running the validator software, the node software yourself, which is, as I've been saying, is what we want to encourage, right, with the node.
00:43:09.792 - 00:43:37.600, Speaker A: We want to encourage more node operators, more full nodes, more distribution of node operators. So from all my. Yeah, as I said, from all my research, the extra protocol stuff is the only real way to do it. In protocol, it's basically impossible, because even as you were alluding to before, you know, you said, well, why can't we, I guess, like, reward solo stakers more than pooled stakers? Well, because, as I was saying, as we both said to the protocol, Coinbase is a solo staker. Because Coinbase's validators are the same as. As. As my validators, right.
00:43:37.600 - 00:44:24.312, Speaker A: The exact same thing. And the protocol doesn't not. Does not know and will not know how to differentiate between the two in order to reward solo stakers more than, um, more than Coinbase. Now, where this two tiered staking thing comes in and where it's beneficial for uh, I guess like for um, for solo stakers, is that they can essentially allow um, you know, stake delegation, stuff like that to them, which essentially means that they could uh, earn increased rewards from fees and stuff like that. So essentially you become like, I mean, everyone becomes like a lido, for example, right, where you essentially, you get a delegated stake to you, um, while still having that node operator bond on. So you can still do all the slashing and stuff like that, and have distribution of stake and, and all that goes into that. So that, that's my kind of general view on, on that one there and why I think, yeah, it's unfortunately not, not possible.
00:44:24.312 - 00:44:50.006, Speaker A: And keep in mind, this is applies to every single blockchain, right? This is not an ethereum specific problem. This is a problem for every single blockchain. Doesn't matter if it's proof of stake or proof of work. It's always about the distribution of stake or hash rate and the distribution of the actual node operators, which the node operators are actually the most important part. It doesn't matter about stake or hash rate. I believe the node operators are definitely the most important part. And as you were saying, with the social layer, at the end of the day, the social layer is like the bedrock.
00:44:50.006 - 00:45:22.852, Speaker A: The node operators exist on top of that. But at the end of the day, if enough of the community got together and agreed on a change to the protocol, the change goes through. And this even happens to the holy 21 million bitcoin cap. If enough of the bitcoin community got together and said, hey, we actually want to increase the cap, we want to add inflation to bitcoin, it's no longer going to be 21 million, that would happen. And there would obviously be a fork, minority fork where the community that didnt want, that would go on. But if the majority believes that this is now bitcoin, that becomes bitcoin. The same is true for ethereum, same is true for any public blockchain out there, Preston.
00:45:22.868 - 00:46:06.860, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, the interesting thing, I guess going back on that, say we shrine, it had this two tier staking. Anybody can become like an LST. Basically. The interesting thing is anybody can just spin that up at that point. Right now, to become a lido is very complex, but to become a notable operator, enshrined on the protocol, you just set your fee, you set your uptime, and people can. Now, again, this is probably a race to the bottom, because if youre the best fee and blah, blah, blah, but I still think maybe you could put some in protocol incentives in at that point or disincentives for centralization around stake. Probably getting a little technical here.
00:46:06.860 - 00:47:02.362, Speaker B: Now one thing I want to hit on and I dont think enough people are talking about it is recently at least in the US and I think in a few other countries it was deemed that. So as a staker you stake your 32 ETH and every like couple days you get withdrawals that come in and hit your account and you bring in your ETH withdrawals. In the US that's deemed a taxable event. So even if you don't sell that ETH and you just sit on it, you have to pay tax on what ETH was at that point for how much you brought in. Um the liquid staking providers are offering different ways to get, not get around that but like that aren't taxable events. So like wrap stake ETH which is light os thing. Instead of every day you claiming and getting ETH, the value of that token you're holding just goes up right and that's not taxable until you sell that.
00:47:02.362 - 00:47:48.820, Speaker B: That's a huge advantage. Like personally I've thought about just, just stopping solo staking going to that because I have to pay tax. Even if I dont want to sell my ETH coming in as a staker at this price I have to pay tax on it. So in a way im forced to sell at least 30% of my eat that comes in right and I dont want to id rather just accumulate it. Whereas if I wasnt a solo staker and I went to lido on a use rub stake ETH I dont have to touch it, I just let it accumulate and I dont pay tax on it it. So I think, and I have a hunch that that's bigger than people think. Like I think most people using Lido these days, maybe, maybe not most, but a good portion are realizing this and that's one of the reasons.
00:47:48.820 - 00:48:37.352, Speaker B: And maybe just something as simple as like tackling these smaller things like that on the Ethereum protocol side. And I know like that's a us centric view but I think, I don't know how Australia does it, I don't know how Europe's handling it but I would imagine that's like somewhat of a common viewpoint and I don't know how many, what percent of e stakers are, you know in the US. I would assume a pretty good portion of it. But I think these small things of like more asking, not asking Lido to self limit and asking Lido to do these things but asking ourselves as a community, like, why are people using lsts? Right? And I think it's beyond just running a node and stuff like this. And all of that can get easier. I mean, I've been one of the biggest pessimists at the actual staking process as a solo staker. Like it.
00:48:37.352 - 00:49:03.964, Speaker B: It's almost a joke, like, you know, trying to launch your own. So now dap node, I use Dap node now and I can't speak highly enough about them. Like my life's way easier of getting in and out of staking, but the actual like launchpad from ethereum and like, it's a pain. So there's a lot to learn as a community of why lsts are taking over. And I think that needs to be part of the conversation as well.
00:49:03.984 - 00:49:37.290, Speaker A: Well, yeah, I think I can give just a few of my reasons here. Maybe we can wrap it up since we've been going for quite a while on, on this topic, that we could go for hours and hours, we didn't even touch on things like Mev and stuff like that, that uh, that comes into it. But essentially the reason I think Lido grew to what it is today. And as I mentioned before, Lido's growth relative to other services has actually stopped for the last kind of like almost 18 months. But the reason why. I think there was a few reasons why I think Lido got to where it was was one and the biggest reason. First mover, right? It was the first LST out there.
00:49:37.290 - 00:50:11.094, Speaker A: It was probably, it came before binance staking. I think it even came before Coinbase staking, right? So it was like the first kind of place where you could stake without running your own kind of validators, right? One of the. One of the first. And it gave you the LST, which is obviously being really important for people who want the ability to quickly exit if they want to sell their estate into the market or if they want to use it in Defi, things like that. Right? So that's the biggest advantage they had. Second advantage they had, which I think is under talked about or under discussed, is that they launched long before withdrawals went live. So what this meant was that Lido state could only go up.
00:50:11.094 - 00:50:52.544, Speaker A: Only the only way you could exit was selling steth on secondary markets. You could not exit by going to the beacon chain and saying, hey, I want my ETH back because withdrawals weren't enabled. And the reason why I think this is a big part of it is because think about all the stake that actually exited during the crash. After the bull market. And the quintessential example of this is three ac, they had a lot of steth, right? A lot of it. And instead of going to the beacon chain and withdrawing the ETH directly, they just puked it all on the secondary market, right, because they were basically needing the money, because they were basically blowing themselves up. But what this did, and it's not just them, it's a lot of different players.
00:50:52.544 - 00:51:22.472, Speaker A: But what this did was it didn't actually affect lightroom's market share at all, because by the time withdrawals came to the Ethereum mainnet, the ste price was back at fair value. So it had actually gone down, I think, at most 10%. So it was at a 10% discount to what it's supposed to be on secondary markets. Now, if withdrawals was enabled, what do you think was going to happen there? People would buy Steth and then go straight to the beacon chain and say, hey, give me one ETH for my 0.9 steth. And then that's a free. That's free money, right? It's free, Ethan.
00:51:22.472 - 00:51:41.552, Speaker A: But you couldn't do that at the time. So Lido's market share in terms of validator count didn't go down at all because of that. And by the time withdrawals were enabled, it was back at fair value. So there was no arbitrage to be had there. So a lot of lido stake is actually grandfathered in because of that. So they, they. Those are the two main reasons they grew so much.
00:51:41.552 - 00:51:57.694, Speaker A: Now, the third reason, obviously, is because they made it really easy for people to stake. Right. It's a very easy process. Um, but that is kind of falls off of the other. Other two, or falls off of the first thing about how they were a first mover as well, because it's just as easy to stake with other services, too. I mean, as I said, it's easier with Coinbase, for example. Right.
00:51:57.694 - 00:52:23.202, Speaker A: But I think that the second point about how a lot of stake is grandfathered in is very under discussed. And we actually have. And obviously, Lido has been growing on a kind of like, real basis where they. The amount of ETH stake with them has been going up, but on a relative basis, people have been staking with other services as well. Right. And there's so many other services now. It's not just lsts, it's also these institutional services as well, that are getting stake in from these institutional players.
00:52:23.202 - 00:52:42.522, Speaker A: Um, and they're. These are the entities that people don't even know about. So that's my kind of view on why Lido grew so much to this point and why they've kept the growth is because honestly they have a good product. Like I'm not going to deny that at all. They've got a, they've got an awesome product, but at the same time their product is not a moat, right. Their product is not something that they can. That is, that is very defensible.
00:52:42.522 - 00:53:08.186, Speaker A: I think what's defensible is Ste Lindy, right. It's liquidity effect. It's um, it's I guess like integrations within Defi, it's marketing, it's branding. But its actual kind of product itself is very commoditized. Like anyone can run a node, right, anyone can be a node operator. Its not a difficult thing to do at scale. It becomes a bit more difficult right but the thing is that even for individuals they could probably do this at scale too if they wanted to.
00:53:08.186 - 00:53:36.306, Speaker A: So its not that difficult. So thats why I say that their mode is not actually the product, its everything else that comes off of that. And thats what the other services need to compete on, right. And its compete on marketing and branding and liquidity and business development, stuff like that. And were seeing that play out now out over the last kind of, especially this year, post withdrawals, we've seen it play out in a really big way and that's my general view on how Lido got to where it is today. We'll see what it looks like in the future. And it's a slow moving ship, right.
00:53:36.306 - 00:54:20.590, Speaker A: To turn this thing is like turning a massive cruise liner. It's not going to be a fast process, it's not like turning a bike. So it's going to be a thing that plays out over many years. We may get, or may not get various different protocol upgrades that address these things, like the two tiered staking stuff and other such things like that, like the max effective balance increase, which I think should help a lot as well because another big thing that we haven't mentioned is also the fact that these LS tears can compound their stake, whereas solar stakers can't compound their stake unless they are making 32 ETH like a day or something. To make 32 ETH a date from being a solid state it would require a lot of ETH. So with the max effective balance increase, you essentially compound your stake automatically and there's no need to wait for 32 ETH. So all of your rewards can get compounded.
00:54:20.590 - 00:54:46.916, Speaker A: And it could probably be done in a way that is tax optimized. Too, where you actually don't get taxed because technically you're not taking possession of the ETH. Right. It's getting just restaked with what you already have. So from that perspective, I'm in massive favor of that max effective balance increase to help solo stakers, because that's one thing that actually does help solo stakers. And also for a network health perspective, as I mentioned before, we don't need the number of validators that we have today. We can actually reduce that substantially.
00:54:46.916 - 00:54:50.968, Speaker A: Um, yeah, those, those are my kind of final thoughts. I don't know if you had final thoughts on all of that.
00:54:51.096 - 00:55:24.976, Speaker B: Yeah, I will just wrap up by saying I agree with you that, Max, effective balance change has to happen, because as someone that runs multiple validators, it's, it's ridiculous that I have to wait to get another 32 e to like. And to your point, like, that is a huge benefit. Like, that is one reason I've thought about withdrawing and going to liquid staking. I mean, these are all kind of compounding things. And if you can do that in a tax advantage way with that change, I mean, it's huge. I mean, this has been a good discussion. I mean, I think, I feel like everybody in the theory should listen to this.
00:55:24.976 - 00:55:45.814, Speaker B: I'm, like, biased, but I feel like we kind of covered everything in an hour episode, which is hard to do, but it's important to, like, be loud about it so that people, like, say, hey, this is what's going on. But at the same time, like, Twitter's problem is no one goes and educates themselves. Right? So it's going to talk about it all on cover. It all are.
00:55:46.514 - 00:56:21.454, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. And as we said at the start, like, there's a lot of nuance to these discussions that people miss because you can't get nuance on crypto Twitter. And even if you do, you're probably not going to understand it because it's like a one way thing. You're not actually discussing this with, with the people that are saying these things and, and you, and there's a lot of bias, there's a lot of tribalism. It's, it's just not, not a great way to discuss these things. But I'm of the firm belief that, like, 99% of the stuff that goes on on Twitter is, like, irrelevant or completely irrelevant to, to reality. And people should maybe not over index on what they see on Twitter because that doesn't really reflect reality that much, in my opinion.
00:56:21.454 - 00:56:45.450, Speaker A: All right, well, yeah, I guess we'll end it there. So thanks, Eric, for the discussion. I hope people have enjoyed this. We'll hopefully be back in another couple of weeks if we don't rug again, but we'll always be back. We do, we do enjoy having these discussions. But yeah, it's been a good discussion today about a topic that I think has just dominated crypto, Twitter, at least over the last couple of weeks. And I hope people learned a lot from it and learned that there is a lot of nuance to these discussions.
00:56:45.450 - 00:56:48.674, Speaker A: So, yeah, just keeping that in mind when reading all these sorts of things.
