00:00:00.280 - 00:00:29.330, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 18 November 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, a couple of big announcements out of consensus over the last 24 hours. So, first one is that they have closed a $200 million raise at a $3.2 billion valuation. Now, this raise had participation from a bunch of big name VC's and others, including HSBC, Coinbase Ventures and Marshal waste here.
00:00:29.330 - 00:01:16.110, Speaker A: So in addition to this, I think consensus wants to hire another 400 employees to continue operations in Asia. And yeah, I mean, all of you know consensus, right? They are a long time ethereum, kind of like core, I guess. It's not kind of like a part of the, as I was explaining yesterday, kind of consensus was spun out when Joe Lubin kind of like left the Ethereum foundation or I don't even know if he was ever part of it. He basically just like, he was a co founder of Ethereum, but he kind of like left to start consensus. And consensus has been responsible for, you know, many of the most popular apps that we all apps and kind of like services that we all use, like Metamask, of course, and truffle suite for developers and all those sorts of things like that. So, yeah, great to see this raise come in for them. I didn't think the valuation was a little bit low considering the products that consensus has under them, especially metamask.
00:01:16.110 - 00:01:39.138, Speaker A: Metamask alone should be worth this. And I'll explain why in a sec. But then you have infura, you have truffle suite, you have like, I mean, there's so many projects that consensus has under their, under their kind of like wing. They have tokens in all different types of projects. So it definitely did come in a kind of like a lower valuation than I would have thought. But, you know, it is what it is. Who knows? You know, who knows? Even metamask is gonna, is gonna tokenize anytime soon.
00:01:39.138 - 00:02:12.274, Speaker A: I'm still suspecting they will. And it's gonna be funny to see the metamask token be worth more than consensus itself. Cause I think it will be like, for example, I mean, if Ans can be worth, what is it right now? $5 billion fully diluted valuation? Metamask, easy, right? Metamask is something that everyone uses and everyone uses very regularly. It's got probably, you know, out of just like, not even just within Ethereum, but with crypto more broadly, it is probably the most well known product, like, on chain product in existence right now. Everyone's used it. Everyone, you know, will continue to use it. I mean, I use it all the time, and it's been kind of like a handy tool for years in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:02:12.274 - 00:02:43.238, Speaker A: But, yeah, I guess, like, on that note as well, when it comes to metamask, is the second massive announcement. I guess, like, out of consensus is that Metamask now has 21 million monthly active users. That's crazy, right? This is amazing. I mean, you know, as I've explained before, metamask isn't just kind of like an Ethereum wallet. You can add any EVM compatible network to your metamask RPC, so you can add, like, arbitrary optimism. And of course, it's all those EVM side chains, like BSC, you have phantom avalanche, all these other ones. Obviously, the Polygon Pos chain has been very popular.
00:02:43.238 - 00:03:34.028, Speaker A: So you take all that together, and that's what you get, because there really isn't any other wallet, I guess, like desktop browser wallets right now that kind of match up to metamask in terms of, like, brand awareness, in terms of functionality and utility. And I know metamask is missing a lot of features that everyone would want, but it doesn't matter what people want right now. And I was actually, I made a comment about this in the daily grade Discord channel. I think the kind of, like, people saying, oh, we need better ux to onboard people is kind of, like, completely overblown. Because if you are offering to give people money through incentive programs, they're going to jump through so many hoops, it's not even funny. Like, they're going to jump through every hoop imaginable if they, if they see easy money and, and kind of, like, they need to jump through these, these hoops to get it, such as, like, liquidity mining, yield farming, especially on the cheaper chains, like, obviously not on Ethereum layer one, but on these kind of, like, cheaper chains or the l two s. Um, these people are going to jump through the hoops to get to that.
00:03:34.028 - 00:04:23.900, Speaker A: And I, I think that obviously, for mass, mass adoption, we do need to simplify the UX a lot more. But at the same time, I don't know, I'm just not convinced that crypto needs to dumb down the interfaces so much. Right. I don't think we have to get to the point where essentially, it's become, like, so dumbed down where, I mean, I don't know if any of you guys have ever watched the movie idiocracy, right? I actually watched it for the first time a few months ago, and the user interfaces that people use within, wherever they are, within society have been dumbed down so much that basically it's just like the action of, like, putting a, I guess, like a block into a hole, and that's like the user interface. And there's kind of like a big button on the screen that says yes or no, right? There's no complexity there. I actually think that's detrimental to the user experience. I think that you shouldn't assume the users are, like, really, really dumb.
00:04:23.900 - 00:05:00.268, Speaker A: But I understand why web two companies have done this. They want to make sure that they can make the process as dead simple as possible. But in doing that, I think you lose a lot of the magic of what makes a lot of these things cool and a lot of the innovation that you can do here and a lot of the kind of, like, people that you can actually on board given the right incentives, because obviously, in the web two world, there's no money making incentives, although very little money making incentives as opposed. And it's more about, like, social incentives as opposed to crypto, where it's both. It's social and financial. And financial is obviously very powerful here. So if you have, like, a yield farm, or if someone hears about a token they want to buy on a specific kind of, like, chain, they're going to jump through the hoops to get there.
00:05:00.268 - 00:05:22.618, Speaker A: Like, think about all the people that would have installed metamask just to buy the shib token when it was pumping, because Shib wasn't available on Coinbase originally, and it wasn't available on, like, you know, many centralized exchanges. You have to buy it through. Through a Dex. And then what about all those other kind of, like, meme coins that were on BSC? BSc was popular for that sort of stuff. People jumped through these hoops because there was money to be made. So do not underestimate the power of incentives. I always tell that to people.
00:05:22.618 - 00:05:41.170, Speaker A: It's like the reason why. I mean, I was looking at the other day, I was looking. I was kind of like. I had a suspicion. I'm like, okay, you know, the avalanche sea chain, which is an EVM side chain, has gotten a lot of attention lately because it had cheap fees, which it doesn't anymore. Funny enough, it actually had got. Got, like, so much usage that the fees have gone up, which is inevitable for any chain, by the way.
00:05:41.170 - 00:06:11.046, Speaker A: It's just the reason why the fees are low on a lot of these chains is because they don't have enough usage to fill up the blocks yet. But when they do, the fees obviously kind of go higher. And that's why I talk about the modular blockchain design and all that good stuff there. But to get back on topic, I went to defi Llama's website and they tracked the TVL of different chains. If you look at every single chain that has done massive incentive programs such as, you know, the avalanche sea chain Phantom, you had the polygon Pos chain earlier in the year. You can see the uptick very clearly. And it's the same for ethereum layer one.
00:06:11.046 - 00:06:31.108, Speaker A: But it just goes back, further back to defi summer. As soon as the incentives kick in, as soon as there's kind of like yield farming to be had, where you can farm tokens and sell them off and make. Make, you know, relatively easy money. The TVL skyrockets. And the thing is, is that like, you know, depending on how long the yield farm kind of like lasts, it could be. It's a lot of mercenary capital. It'll come and go, but.
00:06:31.108 - 00:06:55.416, Speaker A: But it actually works to bootstrap a new ecosystem. That's why I was talking yesterday about Lidocoan's proposal to get uniswap liquidity mining on L2s. It's just a really nice growth growth hack, essentially. And it works very, very well if done correctly. I mean, there's a plenty of instances where it's worked very poorly. But I think that people really do underestimate, still underestimate how powerful these liquidity incentives are. And that's why I'm not surprised to see metamask growth just continue to skyrocket.
00:06:55.416 - 00:07:21.588, Speaker A: Because, as I said, they're the most popular desktop browser wallet. They're the only real one that people can use and kind of like easily change chains and easily kind of manage their assets. I know the UX is like really alien, but I'm sorry. As I said before, I don't think we need to dumb things down to the point where it's like so, so dumb. Like, and they can like appeal to ever just yet we don't. We're not even there yet. Like, if we're not at the point where we can mass, mass on board everyone yet.
00:07:21.588 - 00:07:47.300, Speaker A: No, no Chinese. Nothing in the ecosystem is not just because of the UX, but also because of the scalability. I've said before, and I'll say it again, eventually the fees are going to have to be zero. Now, by zero, I mean zero for the end user. There's still going to be fees on, on these things. And still going to be fees paid to layer one ethereum through the L2s. But long term, if you want mass adoption for any chain, I'm sorry, but like, even $0.01
00:07:47.300 - 00:08:11.622, Speaker A: fees is probably not going to cut it, because it depends on the actions people are doing. If people want to use the chain, you know, lots and lots for the day, then, then it stacks up really quickly. Maybe $0.01, you know, fees do cut it if it's baked into the actual products. But. But I think it's gonna be a race to the bottom on fees. And what will end up happening is that there will be fees, but the apps will pay for it out of their kind of like profitability that they've gotten from kind of like running the roll up, for example, like a DydX.
00:08:11.622 - 00:08:39.006, Speaker A: They're paying the layer one ethereum fees by using the trading fees that they're taking to do that. So I'm expecting to see a lot of that, but, yeah, a little bit of a tangent there, but I thought it was relevant to the discussion of metamask users absolutely blowing up. And you know what? If metamask was gonna do a token, now would be the perfect time to do it because they have so many users, there's so much hype. The market is okay. Like, it's not like bullish or bearish right now. It's just like, let's go sideways for a bit, which is actually fine. So I think if they were gonna do a token, they would do it now.
00:08:39.006 - 00:09:14.814, Speaker A: And unfortunately, I've thought about it for a very long time. The only way they could do an airdrop for metamask users would be through the swap feature, and that would actually not be a great distribution. I think it would punish a lot of the older users because the older users and the Ethereum Ogs, we don't use the swap feature because it has a 0.8% fee on top of the fee that the Amm already charges. So we just go direct. And, you know, funny enough, that might actually be detrimental to us if we don't get the, you know, as many tokens as other people, which is fine, whatever. I mean, a lot of us have been spoiled with airdrops lately, but I'm very curious to see about the timing here, especially because consensus just raised a new round.
00:09:14.814 - 00:09:53.448, Speaker A: It's going to be interesting to see if metamask does their token soon. I'm expecting it sooner rather than later, but at the same time, I think that they're still trying to figure out a way to distribute it as fairly as possible. That's, I guess, the last thing I saw about it. So Trent van Epps highlighted a Reddit comment from Froggy, frogstar or swagnames prime on, on Reddit today. So you can go to Reddit here and there's this kind of like really, really popular post on Reddit from, I don't know, some random user here and it's titled ETH is bad. And I, and I'm tired of pretending it's not. And I mean, this whole post wall of text is really like hilariously bad.
00:09:53.448 - 00:10:30.048, Speaker A: If you read this, as someone who's been here for a while, you know immediately why. But unfortunately, the cryptocurrency subreddit is not those kinds of people. Most of them are newer people. So they're going to read this and they're automatically going to think it's true because we live in the age of post truth and no one actually facts checks anything, which is super annoying. As an educator, it's the most annoying thing ever. But sphagnum is prime jumped in here and basically debunked every single point with links to sources and kind of like, you know, further explanation about every single point here. So if you did come across this post or if you saw someone link it to you or if you just want to kind of like, see what it looks like to systematically destroy Fud.
00:10:30.048 - 00:10:56.756, Speaker A: This is amazing because I used to do this a lot as well on, on Twitter, especially not, not really on Reddit, on Twitter. And ether was born out of this sort of stuff. So it's really great to see other people like sphagnum. Sphagnum is prime here taking on board kind of like the taking, I guess, like the torch, right? And carrying it at Ford and debunking this. Because if he didn't do it, who else, who else would have done it in this post? And, you know, he's pro. I mean, the original post got almost 10,000 upvotes. His post got almost 5000.
00:10:56.756 - 00:11:23.006, Speaker A: But unfortunately, the way the Internet works, we all know the parent post is going to see the most amount of views by audits of magnitude and the comments are not going to see as many views. But still, it's worthwhile doing this. I think the ethereum community is extremely lucky to have people like sphagnum is in it to basically debunk all of this fight. I'm not even gonna go through it. You can read through it yourself, but it is some of the worst fight I've ever seen. In terms of like how stupid it is, it's full of conspiracy theories. It seems like this person is an XRP bag holder.
00:11:23.006 - 00:12:01.544, Speaker A: Just kind of like salty about the fact that XRP was kind of like, I think was officially classified as a security, but like the SEC went after ripple and stuff like that. But also, you know, talking about how like, you know, obviously the, you know, the kind of like proof of stake and how that's more centralized in the group of work and stuff like that. Funny enough, I don't think that they mention anything about gas fees in here, which is probably strategic on their part because everyone talks about high gas fees these days and there's just really no point bringing it up anymore. But yeah, give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Just wanted to highlight that there for you. So Polygon has announced that they're donating $1 million to Gitcoin to help fund open source projects.
00:12:01.544 - 00:12:22.804, Speaker A: Man, this is amazing. Like the next Gitcoin grants round, which is December something matching round is going to be huge. Absolutely massive. It's going to be bigger than the last round, which is already big. We have millions of dollars coming in for public goods. I went over it yesterday how the Ethereum foundation donated $500,000 to get coin and they're going to be doing a different round. I think it's going to be separate to the normal git coin grants matching round.
00:12:22.804 - 00:12:50.284, Speaker A: But I mean, it's just amazing to see the amount of money pouring into public goods. We've had obviously Ethereum foundation do it. We've had a polygon do it. We've had optimism do it where they're basically saying all their profit from their L2 sequencer is going towards public goods, which got paid out recently. We have the EF ecosystem support program generally. So many initiatives out there, I'm not going to go through them all. And there's, and there's kind of like more being spun up in the background I think as well that are going to be coming out soon.
00:12:50.284 - 00:13:17.682, Speaker A: There's some stuff that I'm going to be doing soon for public goods. It's just a little bit an alpha leak there that's coming out soon. But I mean, I don't know. I see nothing negative about this sort of stuff. I see it basically as the community or the wider kind of like crypto ecosystem giving back to the infrastructure that we all take for granted, really. I mean, a lot of the stuff that we use is free. I mean, and a lot of the stuff that we use is maintained by just like a very core group of people who are definitely not paid enough.
00:13:17.682 - 00:13:44.096, Speaker A: Like Ethereum core developers, for example, they should be paid way more than they are. But the problem is, is that when you see kind of like core developers of maybe other chains, they have like stock options or kind of like token options that they, that they vest out to them. Now, Ethereum can't do that because Ethereum already did its ICO in 2014. It's already issued tokens. The token price has already gone up a lot since then. And the Ethereum foundation can't print more ETH. They can just pay out bonuses and ETH, of course, and all that sort of stuff.
00:13:44.096 - 00:14:25.796, Speaker A: But still, the upside is probably less than going and kind of like joining some random team and if the token pumps, you get more. But at the same time, as I've explained before, a lot of, especially Ethereum core developers, they're not just in it for the money, right? I mean, yes, money's important, but they're in it for the mission and they've really bought into doing this stuff. They want to change the world. I mean, the amount of Ethereum core developers that are super excited about the merge right now, you can't do the merge on other chains. You can't work on sharding on most other chains. You can't, you know, work with like such a strong community and all that sort of stuff, right? You can't buy that. But at the same time, we do want to get as much money to them as possible just to make sure that they feel valued, not because maybe they need it or they want to go buy a lambo or something.
00:14:25.796 - 00:15:18.634, Speaker A: It's never about that when it comes to money, at least from my point of view, what it's about is simply valuing these people as they should be valued because that, I'm a firm believer in that the world should, you know, it doesn't, most of the time it doesn't work like this, unfortunately. But I'm a firm believer in kind of like, I guess like tuning, fine tuning the world so that the, we can kind of like give back to the, to people who put in a lot of value that, you know, almost the same amount as they put in, essentially. So if these core developers are maintaining a $500 billion Ethereum network and they're kind of like building critical kind of upgrades that are actually going to increase the price of ETH over time, then one, they should be given ETH, right? And they should be given it in various ways. It could be vested over time. There's a few initiatives going on for that, but generally they should be given ETH as a bonus, especially from their employer and things like that, if that's possible. But two, the community should just shower them with money because we want them to feel as valued as possible. We want them to stay within the ecosystem.
00:15:18.634 - 00:16:22.906, Speaker A: We don't want to lose them to kind of like other teams. And the thing is that in an industry like this, where not only is industry struggling to find enough people to hire for all the different kind of like project teams, but the core developers, I mean the core developer role is not a role that just anyone can do. It requires a very, very specialized kind of set of skills and set of knowledge. It requires people to kind of like want to work as a core developer. I mean that's, it's, it's a high stress kind of environment as well. But the payoff is really more of a social payoff than a monetary payoff, at least for Ethereum, and more of a kind of like payoff of, yes, you are kind of like changing the world with this technology, but at the same time, that doesn't mean that we should just stand by and say, okay, well, yes, these people are probably, you know, paid a lot as a salary, as, on a salary basis, but they should share in the upside of ETH as well. If their contributions to the Ethereum network caused the ETH price to go up right over the long term, of course, then they should be getting ETH for their, for their work and they should be able to get it and it should be vested and they should be able to hold it and they should be able to kind of like ride up that wave just like all of us have written it up.
00:16:22.906 - 00:17:14.462, Speaker A: If we bought ETH early on, I mean, I wrote it up, I tried to give back as much as possible. But to be honest, I think the core developers have done much more than I have for, for the Ethereum ecosystem in terms of like making sure that the upgrades are going through, making sure things like 1559 happen, making sure that the Ethereum network doesn't blow itself up. I mean, those things, it's a thankless job. People just do not talk about it enough. And I think that they're just like the, the unsung heroes of Ethereum, so very much in favor of, I guess, like any teams and any projects donating as much money as possible to public goods, whether that be core development or something else, just anything that classified as public, classifies as public goods and that helps the wider crypto and Ethereum ecosystems. So Starkware has announced that Starknet Alpha Four is now out, which, and this release is going to be the one that will be deployed to Mainnet. So you can read more details about it here on their blog post.
00:17:14.462 - 00:17:41.397, Speaker A: But basically what's new is token bridges, block hashes and a few more features as you can read about in here. So this is more I guess like developer oriented and the updates not very detailed beyond that. But of course, of course you can check out kind of like code examples and stuff on their website. But essentially, as I said, this is the main net release candidate. Now I've said before that I think that Stocknet Alpha is going to be late November. I didn't think it was going to be early or mid November. We're at 18 November now.
00:17:41.397 - 00:18:09.654, Speaker A: So either next week or the week after, we should see it on main net. Now, I do want to caution people here that just because the Stocknet Alpha is going to mainnet doesn't mean that suddenly everyone is going to have their apps on there and everything's going to be dandy and everything's going to, you know, have like a massive kind of network effect and growth. It's going to take time. I think it's actually going to take more than a few months. I mean, roll ups, optimistic roll ups have already taken longer than a few months. It's been since August. With arbitrary, I mean, arbitrary and optimism are obviously growing, but it's just like a slow burn.
00:18:09.654 - 00:18:43.074, Speaker A: It's not like a. Until they do tokens, of course, because then it can go crazy. But it's not like, you know, stock that's going to get to mainnet and then everyone's going to suddenly build on that. Everyone's going to move there and everything's going to be dandy and Stockinette's going to have like, you know, billions of billions of TVL. It's not going to happen like that. But the thing is, there are apps that are already kind of like running on stockways technology that can connect into Stocknet, not in the initial release, but, you know, later on down the line, such as immutable X and DyDx and Sora and all the other kind of things building on starkware technology diversify, of course. So, so yeah, super exciting to see that.
00:18:43.074 - 00:19:11.318, Speaker A: And I can't wait to see this on Mainnet. So as I've been speaking a lot about Uniswap's new 0.01% fee tier for stablecoin swaps, and I guess I'm talking about it again today because Hayden Adams from Uniswap put out an update saying, since I guess, like the last update, the 0.01% fee tier. Tier was turned on. Unisov v three has gone from 10% of one inches, USDC to USDT volume to 96%. That is crazy.
00:19:11.318 - 00:19:28.786, Speaker A: Look at this chart. The purple kind of bar here is uniswap v three. You can see just a few days ago where before the 0.01% fee was switched on. I think that's November 13. Maybe it was basically maybe 10% as. Oh, yeah, it's about 10% as.
00:19:28.786 - 00:19:52.170, Speaker A: As Hayden said here. Then increased, increased again, slightly decreased, and then, boom, massive increase. And, you know, I think, like, the best comparison would obviously be curve here. And you can see curve is basically this. What is this? This kind of like blue, purple? I mean, it looks like the same color. It's kind of hard to distinguish between. Between these things, but I guess that's curve v one.
00:19:52.170 - 00:20:22.152, Speaker A: Where's curve v two? Maybe I'm blind right now, but, I mean, the curve is not really going to be much there, right. I think when you, when you kind of look at it like that, it basically means that maybe there's more information here. Yeah, you can see here, curve v one is 3.5%. What about curve v two? Yeah, I don't know. I'm going to have to look at that more closely. But it's safe to say that uniswap is extremely competitive now, especially because, as I've explained before, stable coin swaps are a race to the bottom in terms of fees. Guys like, I strongly believe that there is no reason why it isn't going to be like that.
00:20:22.152 - 00:21:06.862, Speaker A: So, I mean, uniswap doing this is going to force curve to react to this and it's also going to force them to kind of, like, not just react, but also try and try and innovate beyond fees, too. Because, as you know, fees, I mean, race to the bottom. It basically means that uniswap and curve may actually just have the same fees. And then from then on, it becomes a matter of, like, integrations and marketing and brand awareness, business development, all that sort of stuff. And I think Uniswap has a better lead there than curve just because it's much more well known. So we'll have to see. Not to say I'm bearish on curve or anything like that, it's a great team, great product, but at the same time, I don't know, guys like, I don't see where curves moat is if their fees are higher than uniswap, because uniswap basically already has a massive moat that lowered the fees for stable coin swaps.
00:21:06.862 - 00:21:36.936, Speaker A: So we'll have to see. I mean, curve obviously has like pools that aren't just two assets. They have like triples and, and bigger pools than that and they have some other pools out there. So they're not like kind of like out of the, out of the race or anything, but they're going to have to react to this for sure, I believe. So Nifty island is teasing a bunch of new NFTs that they're going to be doing as a pre launch gift to their community. So these are called the Legendary Pistols, which is a kind of like a series of nfTs. I think there's 10,000 pistols metaverse ready and primed for in game utility.
00:21:36.936 - 00:22:14.508, Speaker A: All but ten will be given away as a gift to the community and then ten, I assume, is going to be kind of like sold off here. So this is amazing. I mean as a early nifty island community member and as a palm holder and as a blade holder as well, apparently I'll be getting airdropped, one of these bad boys. So I'm very much looking forward to that. But again, this goes back to what I was saying yesterday about permanence. Normally when you get airdropped an item in a, in a video game, as I explained yesterday, it's like centralized so there's no permanence there. But with this total permanence I have total control over it because it's an NFT, you know, the JPEG itself of course, like depends where that's stored, but that can be easily stored on RWE or ipfs or anything like that.
00:22:14.508 - 00:22:43.864, Speaker A: And I can store it locally myself as well. But I mean that just brings total permanence to it. So I'm very, very excited for this. I might bid on one of the, one of the ten, we'll see how I go there. But I'm very much looking forward to this. I'm very much looking forward to Nifty islands, kind of like race as well because they, they said here that this is the final kind of like gift and final NFT drop and it'll be the last drop before, sorry, the last drop before Nifty Islands beta launch. So looks like their beta launch is happening, the raffles happening on the 1 December.
00:22:43.864 - 00:23:20.434, Speaker A: So it looks like they're, it's kind of like a series of raffles here, but basically looks like their beta might be happening in December or January. So very much looking forward to playing around with Nifty island in beta. Speaking of NFTs, Seb from Zappa kind of like showcased a little teaser here about Zappa's new NFT integration. Obviously it has been lacking lately. I mean, it's not, obviously not like the central place people go to, but I think they're trying to really rectify that. They, you know, you can see here they've got like trending collections, top sales. You can see top collection, top collections with like, I guess like volume, floor price, all that good stuff there activity.
00:23:20.434 - 00:23:48.440, Speaker A: I mean, yeah, it seems like they're making it a much more social experience and trying to go toe to toe with kind of other NFT interfaces, which there aren't actually many. I personally use opensea to look at my nfts right now. Zappa has this issue where it'll show you a price of the NFT that is like totally incorrect. And when I look at it, I'm just like, hmm, yes, that's not correct. My random NFT is not worth a million dollars. And I don't know where that kind of like price comes from. But yeah, I'm assuming they're going to fix that with this.
00:23:48.440 - 00:24:18.176, Speaker A: So really cool to see this little sneak peek here of their new NFT interface. Diversify is launching a new reward slash liquidity mining program on December 1. You'll be able to liquidity provide in 16 new incentive pools and earn DVF tokens. So you can read this blog post for more details about this. But you know, diversify, for those who don't know, is a L2 exchange. They're built using StarQuest technology. They're a validium technically, but they're built using star Quest technology and they have an AMM and they also have a club as well.
00:24:18.176 - 00:24:43.786, Speaker A: So I think this is going to lead to some really awesome growth for them. I know that loop ring as a kind of like exchange, L2 exchanges. Also done liquidity mining in the past and it really does work to bootstrap the growth, as I've explained before. So very much looking forward to this. If you want to get involved, definitely check out the blog post for more details here. All right, now I'm going to talk a bit about this because someone mentioned it in the Discord channel and I've been seeing people talk about this and haven't covered it yet. Constitution, Dow.
00:24:43.786 - 00:25:14.282, Speaker A: All right, I'm sure you've all heard about it by now, but for those of you who haven't, what ConstitutionDao is doing is that they're raising a bunch of money to buy a copy of the US kind of like constitution from Sotheby's, which is, which is the auction house, of course, which is happening, I think, today, the auction. So, so far they have raised over $40 million in ETH to buy this thing. Crazy. I mean, this thing is actually really rare. It's one of 13 original copies of the US constitution. So obviously it is a big deal. But I think beyond that, there's a deeper meaning here.
00:25:14.282 - 00:25:51.386, Speaker A: There's a deeper kind of thing that we can look into here that I wrote about in the newsletter, and that's essentially this. Dao was formed in the last few days and managed to raise over $40 million from anyone in the world. This is the true power of Daos. Not only are Daos good for amazing social coordination, global social coordination, but they are good for global financial capital formation. Because when you think about it, let's take doing a kind of like fundraise or a dao, kind of like a crowd raise, like Constitutiondao. Let's take an example of doing it in Ethereum versus doing it in traditional finance. Well, I just explained to you what it looks like in Ethereum land, right.
00:25:51.386 - 00:26:11.716, Speaker A: It's very, very easy to do. Um, and it can be done really quickly in traditional finance. You know what would happen with this? It would get censored. The centralized payment processes would basically shut them down before they even got off the ground. They'd be like, you're running in it because people. Because also because people are getting a token for doing this to govern the constitution, Dao. But essentially the centralized payment processes will be like, well, this is too risky.
00:26:11.716 - 00:26:26.490, Speaker A: You're running an unregistered security offerings. We're shutting you down and reporting you to the SEC. See you later. And they freeze the funds. Right. Um, and then you have to go through this long and arduous process to get your funds back, and nothing gets off the ground. Now, let's assume for a moment they don't censor this and they don't stop it from happening.
00:26:26.490 - 00:27:04.118, Speaker A: There are other crown of crowd funds that have been fine in the past, like Kickstarter, of course, and, and Indiegogo, and all that sort of stuff. And they've worked quite well for a long time. Quite well. I would say like 90% of the stuff funded on there, maybe more than that, just ends up going to zero and doesn't actually do anything. Kind of like icos. But essentially what Constitutiondao allows, it allows for on Ethereum is uncensorable, decentralized global capital formation with social coordination on top of it, with a dao on top of it, with a token to manage that Dao, and being able to bid on a real world item by doing this. Now, of course, there's trust here.
00:27:04.118 - 00:27:24.004, Speaker A: The multi sig that holds these funds is consisting of 13 people there. I think all of them are known, or at least most of them are known. So if there was a rug that happened, you could probably go after them. But, you know, there's still a risk there. It is a, you know, 13 multi sig hold. I don't know what it is. I don't know if it's a ten of 13 or something like that, or maybe a seven of 13, but there are currently 13 multi sig, kind of.
00:27:24.004 - 00:27:43.232, Speaker A: It's a 13 multi SiG right now. Um, so from that point of view, yes, there is still risk there. It's like get rugged by the multi Sig holders instead of getting rugged by PayPal. Right. For example. But in saying that it is still much better than the existing system, like a thousand times better. And the fact that they were able to raise for something brand new, by the way, this is not something that kind of, like, was already well known.
00:27:43.232 - 00:28:11.168, Speaker A: This just came out of nowhere and people, like, talked about it. It was all organic marketing all over Twitter. There's no kind of like insiders, there's no pre sale, there's nothing. There's no tokens being given to people to promote this. It really is like a totally fair launch where you just throw in money once. If they do win the kind of like, constitution, they will issue the token, which I think the token might be called people or something like that. I saw people sending me people tokens to my Cecil ETH address because they're trying to scam people, of course.
00:28:11.168 - 00:28:42.550, Speaker A: So I'm just assuming that it's going to be called people. But there is not a token right now. So please don't go looking for token to ape into. It doesn't exist right now. But, you know, if they do kind of like win it, they're going to issue the token and then the DAo will be able to kind of manage various aspects of it, like where this will be displayed, kind of like, I think there's a few more details on the website, but basically the main one they were focusing on is like, you know, where it's going to be displayed? Kind of like who's going to steward it? Who's going to, you know, the multi seq holders, all that sort of stuff there. So that's super exciting. That's something that you can't do at all in traditional finance.
00:28:42.550 - 00:29:04.092, Speaker A: Even if you aren't censored. You, you really not, you can't practically do that. You can't form a DAO, like a worldwide dao that anyone can participate in. You can't issue a token. I mean, you can do, I mean, the thing is, you can actually do this in like the real world, for example. But it is so impractical, it doesn't make any sense to do it because you need legal paperwork, you need lawyers to look at it. For it to be legally bonding, you need to be able to track everything.
00:29:04.092 - 00:29:34.206, Speaker A: It's just a crazy amount of complexity and a crazy amount of overhead and like, so much cost involved. Whereas on Ethereum, you issue an ERC 20 token, the token is governed by the smart contract, the DAO is governed by the smart contract, which is governed by the token holders. And you are all well and good. You know, the NFt is owned by the dow, sorry, not the NFt. The constitution is owned by the DAO. The physical object still requires, you know, stewardship still requires kind of like securing and all that sort of stuff there. But the kind of like, NFT is, you know, belonging to the down and things like that.
00:29:34.206 - 00:29:58.832, Speaker A: So, yeah, my opinion on this is like, it's super cool idea. I really like what they're doing. I know that there's been a bit of skepticism about this. People are like, you know, I don't understand what this is like. Why are people throwing so much money at this? And I would really say that the excitement comes from people being able to show off the power of Ethereum as a social and financial capital, kind of like a coordination mechanism. And also, it's just something to get involved with as community members of Ethereum. It's just something to have fun with.
00:29:58.832 - 00:30:26.048, Speaker A: It's something to make memes about. Like this is meme Wag BTC, or hashtag WaG BTC, which stands for we are gonna buy the constitution. That's genius. Because obviously you'd have BTC in there, right? So nod to BTC as well. And, you know, you got like this parchment. Parchment which is kind of taken from Olympus Dao, which is like three three, which is basically saying that we should all work together to do something because it's in everyone's best interest to do that. So, yeah, I mean, I just thought this was very fascinating.
00:30:26.048 - 00:30:45.216, Speaker A: I know I hadn't covered it yet. But I was actually waiting until it was kind of like confirmed, confirmed that it was legit. I didn't want to talk about it if it turned out to be a scam. It seems legit, but as I said, the multi seq is 13 holders right now, so they could rug if they wanted to. But I don't think that's going to happen from what I've seen. But don't quote me on that. If it does happen, please don't, you know, don't quote me on that.
00:30:45.216 - 00:31:08.216, Speaker A: But if you want to put money into, this is your choice. I haven't personally done so, but yeah, just be aware of that and also be aware of any scam tokens. Guys, there's no token for this project yet. Please do not buy it. I'm getting spammed every day with people meta shib all these tokens, like get it? Stop. You know, I have notifications on for my sassle ETH address from ether scan. I should turn those off because it's just getting annoying now.
00:31:08.216 - 00:31:27.822, Speaker A: But anyway, nrant there got a couple of other things to get through before I end this for today. Just a quick one here. Adidas is issuing a poap. So for those of you who don't know, I mean, poop. I mean, I'm, I'm not even gonna gonna say that everyone should know pop by now. It's basically a way to collect unique nfts, unique badges as like. And pop stands for proof of attendance protocol.
00:31:27.822 - 00:31:58.078, Speaker A: And basically these like, unique rare things that you can only get for attending like an online event or attending a special kind of launch or attending an offline event or something like that. So adidas have actually created one. And you can see it's basically the adidas logo here with kind of like a 2021 background, kind of like cascading there. This is awesome. I mean, I love the fact that these traditional brands are getting more and more involved with crypto, and I love the fact that they're getting more and more involved with Ethereum. Kind of like native darling projects like pop. Because at the end of the day, it's all about the culture and community.
00:31:58.078 - 00:32:20.334, Speaker A: And it seems adidas gets that, which I really, really love. So yeah, really cool to see that. And the final thing here was just a shout out that the ethereum.org team is hiring a product designer. So if you want to own the full design lifecycle of your web of ethereum.org web products and collaborate closely with their small team and engineering. Small product and engineering teams then apply to this role you can go to the website here.
00:32:20.334 - 00:32:36.114, Speaker A: It's a link. It links directly to product designer@ethereum.org. You can apply to for the job. Click the button here and it'll show like all the skills that you need and everything. And here's kind of like the estimated salary as well. Ninety five k to one hundred thirty five k us dollars, of course. And I think this is, yeah, remote as well.
00:32:36.114 - 00:32:54.824, Speaker A: So, you know, I can't think of like a more awesome job. I mean, obviously there's a lot of awesome jobs out there, but this is definitely one that I would, would be very interested in if I was a product designer because the ethereum.org website has come such a long way. Such an amazing website. I mean, just looking at it in front of me, look at all this art. I love this stuff so much. It looks so cool.
00:32:54.824 - 00:33:08.544, Speaker A: And you get to be involved in this. So definitely go check this out. I will link it in the YouTube description, but I'm going to end it there. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:33:08.544 - 00:33:09.064, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
