00:00:00.200 - 00:00:24.414, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the data Grey refuel where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's a signer. And today, the 12 March 2023. Alright everyone, let's get back into it. After two weeks of absence here, apologies for not doing a refuel on Wednesday or Thursday last week, as I said that I would before I went to Denver. Unfortunately I got very sick. I got COVID about a few days into being in Denver.
00:00:24.414 - 00:00:48.150, Speaker A: Not surprising considering how many people that I kind of interacted with and shook hands with. I mean, yeah, not surprised at all that I got sick. I'm still still sick right now, still have COVID. My voice, you can probably hear it in my voice right now, is not the greatest and I'm having coughing fits every now and again. But I figured I need to do this. It's going to be a long, long episode. I budgeting for 2 hours right now, but I can easily see it going longer than that.
00:00:48.150 - 00:01:19.266, Speaker A: The tabs you see on my screen is one of four different chrome windows with similar amounts of tabs. So there is a lot to get through, of course, and I'm going to be going through them basically from when the news happened. Usually I and when I do the refuel each day, I'll bunch up the news into their own categories. Like there'll be a L2 category defi category. Everything is basically uncategorized. It's just going to be happening as it happened over the last two weeks. So I will repeat myself a few times because there'll be news that came out and there'll be follow ups to that news that came out a few days later and all that stuff there.
00:01:19.266 - 00:02:03.624, Speaker A: But anyway, first of all, what I'm going to start with is my ETH Denver recap going to spend a bit of time on this because there's a lot to talk through, going to try and keep it, keep it kind of short ish because I don't want to kind of bore you guys for too long about it. But I think that there is a lot to talk about when it comes to what I experienced at East Denver and how I think it affects the industry going forward. Alright, so first off, let's start with the Daily Gray meetup. So obviously, as a lot of you know, there was a daily gray meetup that happened in Denver organized by a community member in the Discord Channel, outsider analytics, that big. Thanks to him for organizing it and it was a huge success. We had, I think over 100 people there were people coming in going during the night. It was hosted from 06:00 p.m.
00:02:03.624 - 00:02:25.736, Speaker A: To 10:00 p.m. On the 2 March, the Thursday night there. It was amazing to meet all of you, honestly, it was the highlight of my trip by far. To meet, to put kind of like faces to the discord names and to meet a lot of you that I had no idea were even out there. And you said that you'd been watching my show from day one, which is just crazy to me. So it was really humbling. It was really awesome to meet everyone.
00:02:25.736 - 00:02:44.960, Speaker A: So thank you to everyone who came out to that there. We all had lots of fun. We all had lots of great discussions. I also met a lot of you at the conferences, at the conference as well. So many people. I mean, I would had to have at least kind of met and shook like over 500 people's hands, like at least. And the crazy thing is the numbers at East Denver were so much more than that.
00:02:44.960 - 00:03:07.164, Speaker A: So there were just so many people. But, you know, I was walking through the main venue and every, you know, 5 meters, I got stopped and someone said hey and talked to me and I loved it. Honestly. Absolutely loved it. Some people ask me, doesn't it get annoying that I get stopped all the time? It's like, no. I mean, honestly, I don't care to be like a celebrity, but. But I love when people come up to me and say hey, and basically thank me for my work and say that they follow me and watch my stuff every day.
00:03:07.164 - 00:03:24.708, Speaker A: It just warms my heart, honestly. It's what I, why I do what I do. The Deli gwei is a public good, right? It's free. It's just out there for people to get enjoyment out of, get value out of. And when people give me the direct feedback saying that they get a lot of value out of it, they love the show. That means the world to me, of course. So, yeah, that was the meetup there.
00:03:24.708 - 00:03:45.670, Speaker A: Now moving on to, I guess, the general conference. It was massive. This was the biggest ETH conference by far, like in history. So to give you some context here, last year at eight ETH Denver. So ETH Denver 2022. In February at the old sports Castle venue, I confirmed that the numbers were around ten to 15,000. Right.
00:03:45.670 - 00:04:10.262, Speaker A: And obviously that will what, that was way too many people for the little venue, which is called the sports Castle, that, that the Ethnber had been hosted on, hosted in historically. But that's how many people were there. And that was, I guess, like just coming out of the bull market. So there was still obviously a lot of tourists around. But yeah, that was, that was a lot of people back then. And then my last ether was 2020, before COVID happened. So that was also at the sports castle.
00:04:10.262 - 00:04:41.990, Speaker A: But I would have to say there was maybe 2000 people in total there. So obviously the community has grown very big since then and obviously grew through the bull market and everything like that. And 8th, Denver has basically become the Ethereum community's burning man, so to speak. It's where everyone goes to. Obviously, being based in the US, it draws a lot more people than other conferences based elsewhere because the US obviously is a very, very big hub for crypto people. But now we come to eat demo 2023. How many people? You know, you probably heard numbers being thrown around.
00:04:41.990 - 00:05:24.486, Speaker A: I was able to confirm with relative, I guess, like accuracy on the numbers that were, that were there at Ethan, but at the main venue it was around 25,000 people all up, which is insane. That's so insane, guys, for a few different reasons. One, as I said, biggest ETH conference ever by far, biggest than last year's ETH Denver, which was, as I said, ten to 15,000 people there wasn't able to get exact numbers on that. But you know, I kind of like collaborated those numbers with, corroborated, I should say, those numbers with a few different people. So ten to 15,000 there and 25,000 this year. Now, obviously this year there was a completely different venue. It was no longer the sports castle.
00:05:24.486 - 00:05:51.796, Speaker A: It was something called the National Western Complex, which is basically a stadium. They do a lot of other events. They're not obviously just crypto events, but it was an absolutely massive kind of venue. It easily housed those 25,000 people. The line, I think that the biggest line that I was in was really just a registration line on the first day, and that only took about an hour, and I'm pretty sure I went in peak time. So that was the longest line that you would have seen there. It was much better run this, this time around.
00:05:51.796 - 00:06:11.244, Speaker A: There wasn't lines to get in, you could just walk in, everything was fine. There was no Wi Fi. I think that was the biggest issue people had. And getting any kind of cell reception in the actual venue was impossible because there were so many people in there. It was. The cell tower obviously got overloaded, but yeah, 25,000 people there. Now, obviously, given how many people were there.
00:06:11.244 - 00:06:44.370, Speaker A: People. How many people are at the venue? Everyone was making comments like, look how many people were here in a bear market. And I kept hearing that over and over again and I'm like, you know what, I have a kind of running thesis here. And hopefully this running thesis doesn't crash the price of east to zero because it's going to be a kind of a little bit of a bullish case right now for Ethereum. So I get that people will obviously comment and say, you know, this is a bear, it's a bear market. Look how many people here, I imagine how many people are going to be around in a bull market. But honestly, I think at this point, Ethereum as an ecosystem has transcended bull or bear markets.
00:06:44.370 - 00:07:37.204, Speaker A: Now, I'm going to back this up with a few kind of like facts and anecdotes here, of course. But I think the biggest kind of supportive, I guess, evidence for this argument is just the sheer amount of people that were there. And honestly, if there were, if it was a bull market, I think that we probably get similar numbers of people because as I said, I think we've transcended the bull and bear markets because Ethereum as an ecosystem is much more than the price of ETH or much more than the price of assets. Yes, a lot of speculative activity drives a lot of the stuff that goes on in the Ethereum ecosystem. And yes, the more money there is, the more stuff gets funded and teams get funded and stuff gets built and all that good stuff there. But I think that given that a lot of the conversations that I had at ETH Denver, I mean, I would say 95 plus percent of them did not talk about the price even once. I think that Ethereum as a community, as an ecosystem has transcended those bull and bear markets.
00:07:37.204 - 00:08:11.254, Speaker A: And that to me is the most bullish thing that can happen. I've long wanted the Ethereum community to transcend these, these stupid little cycles that we have, these market cycles that we have because we shouldn't be defined by these arbitrary market cycles where obviously we have a lot of new people coming during a bull market. The then a lot of new people, a lot of people go out during a bear market and we're just stuck sitting here waiting until the next bull market comes around in order to get some adoption. I don't think that's the case for Ethereum anymore. And there's a bunch of other supporting evidence here. Obviously, a lot of the stuff in the Ethereum ecosystem is still growing really nicely. Layer twos are growing amazingly.
00:08:11.254 - 00:08:34.560, Speaker A: Gas fees are still quite high. I mean, we've been above the ultrasound barrier for a while now, and obviously we're in deflationary ETH territory right now. That's the, the best way to measure on chain activity. And I've said this for a while because it's, it's, it's hard to, to fake, if not impossible to fake because it's so expensive to fake. You would have to have a lot of money, uh, in order to fake that activity. Uh, but yeah, as I said, L2s are growing. Defi stuff still growing.
00:08:34.560 - 00:08:51.276, Speaker A: Uh, the, the amount of developers building on top of Ethereum is still growing. So I don't look at it as a, it's a bear market. Look how people are here. Or it's a bull market. Look how many people are here. I look at it as Ethereum exists in bull or bear market, doesn't matter what the market is doing. And it keeps growing no matter what.
00:08:51.276 - 00:09:29.100, Speaker A: And it grow, and it's growing at such a rapid pace right now, I think that it's, it's basically reached escape velocity. I thought this a while ago, that if you think community had reached escape velocity, but I think that now it truly has, and it's undeniable at this point. So that's, that's my little theory there. I think it holds true. I think it will continue to hold true for years to come. I really do think Ethereum is in the best place it's ever been in right now, and continue, continues to just get stronger and stronger and stronger for a bunch of, you know, reasons that I've outlined on the refuel over the, over the previous months, and obviously, as I'll outline going forward. But that's, that's the kind of like meta take for me from ETH Denver, next take.
00:09:29.100 - 00:09:57.744, Speaker A: There were a lot of sponsorship boots, and I guess that was what paid for Ethan. But because it definitely cost a lot of money to throw this, throw this kind of event. And it was a huge venue, right. Just hiring at the venue alone would have cost a lot. But yeah, there were a lot of booths. There were a lot of booths from, I guess, like alternative l one s. And it did make the conference feel, I guess, corporate at times, where it lost that kind of, I guess you could say cypherpunk kind of hacker vibe to it.
00:09:57.744 - 00:10:19.084, Speaker A: There was that at kind of the side events. And also if you went to the hacker house itself and you were hacking along and building things, you would still get that. But as for the main venue, it definitely felt very corporatized. Well, maybe not very corporatized, but it's getting there. And I can imagine, uh, the next year's, one will probably feel even more corporate. That's just a natural consequence of an ecosystem growing. I think.
00:10:19.084 - 00:10:48.112, Speaker A: Obviously, there's a lot of money to be, or potential money to be made in crypto in the ethereum ecosystem, and that's going to attract a lot of different types of, uh, groups and people. But the booths paid for the conference. If it wasn't for the booths, it wasn't for all the sponsors and all the sponsorships, it would have cost a lot to attend this conference, given just how expensive it is to throw something like this, uh, from, you know, every different kind of, uh, angle here. So that was my, uh, you know, other takeaway there is. If you were at the conference, you'll know what I'm talking about. There were just booths absolutely everywhere. It was crazy.
00:10:48.112 - 00:11:19.108, Speaker A: I mean, there had to be hundreds of booths, and there were booths of different, varying site, varying sizes. What I found hilarious was that I believe the biggest booth was Hedera hashgraph. So their booth was not just a little, you know, not just a booth, it was a whole kind of display. And it was front and center. So I guess that was like prime real estate at the, at the, um, the venue there. And they paid a lot to be there, which I just found hilarious because they're an alt l one that I actually read yesterday, that they kind of paused their chain because of some exploit. So obviously not decentralized.
00:11:19.108 - 00:11:46.676, Speaker A: Obviously just another l one, and a sea of l one's there. But hey, they paid for the conference, so kudos to them for that. But it wasn't just them. There was Polkadot, there was Nia, there was BNB chain, there was a bunch of others out there. There were so many booths, right? And so many of these kind of competitors coming there because they know that's where the community is, that's where the developer developers are. But for me, it's funny because it just reinforces Ethereum as the hub, right, as the, the kind of center of this entire ecosystem. So I don't mind them being there.
00:11:46.676 - 00:12:04.492, Speaker A: I've learned to love it at this point, right. Especially because they're paying to be there. They're not there, you know, for free. They're actually paying a lot of money. And I'm, I'm sure Hedera paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for that display that they had. So thank you for that. Thank you for, I guess, reinforcing Ethereum's network effects and the Ethereum community there.
00:12:04.492 - 00:12:40.098, Speaker A: So that's, that's the other thing there. Now, my, I guess like my main takeaway from the conference itself from. After talking to so many different people, after meeting so many different people, after seeing what people are excited about, the main takeaway I have is that Ethereum, still at its core, has a really, really strong builder culture. There are so many people that, as I said, they don't care about the price of ETH, they don't care about the price of the tokens. What they want to do is build better systems. And I think that there's a few different examples about this. One of the most popular booths at the, at the, at 8th, Denver, was the rocker pool booth.
00:12:40.098 - 00:13:01.826, Speaker A: Now, I walked past multiple times. It was actually rather difficult to find the rocker pool booth. Maybe that was just me, but it definitely wasn't front and center. You had to actually go out of your way to find it. And the navigation, I guess, was a bit all over the place because of the fact that it was such a big venue. But every single time I walked past the rocker pool booth, every single time I went there, it was packed, guys. It was absolutely packed.
00:13:01.826 - 00:13:31.912, Speaker A: There was so many people there. So many people talking about Ethereum staking, so many people talking about kind of the, you know, the, the Atlas upgrade coming to make it easier people just to stake with just eight ETH instead of 16 e for mini pools, they had a really cool display where you could basically get on a bike and power a kind of a little Proteus device. And I've talked about these Proteus devices before. They're made up of rock. Five b boards. You could power that, and they could stake there. So you could watch it kind of attest the blocks and all that really cool stuff happening there.
00:13:31.912 - 00:14:11.926, Speaker A: So that is a huge takeaway for me, because what that signals to me is that the people that at Ethan were, a lot of people at Ethan, Val, were very interested in learning about the things that were actually adding value to the Ethereum ecosystem as a whole, and adding value to Ethereum's decentralization, to Ethereum's community and all that stuff there. So that was definitely a huge thing for me. And there were also other staking booths there as well, like stakewise was there, which is, which is really great. And I talked to those guys. They're doing a lot of great work there. Um, but, uh, and there's, there were so many other booths. I talked to so many people, like, I can't name all of them, but, uh, that was, that was a huge takeaway for me just how busy this booth was and just how I guess, uh, jam packed with Alpha.
00:14:11.926 - 00:14:35.956, Speaker A: A lot of the conversations I had with people were and how excited people were. Like, the energy was just absolutely insane, guys, like, I couldn't believe it myself, like walking in there and this is why I got so sick and so run down. Uh, because the energy of everyone was just off the charts. Like, no one was there that I talked to that I met who was just like, oh yeah, cool, whatever. It's a, it's a bear, Mark. You know, when you, when do you think it's going to go back up again? Oh, this is so depressing. None, there was none of that.
00:14:35.956 - 00:15:25.434, Speaker A: Not one of that. There was just people doing and talking about cool things, being so energized by the, the community, so energized by the conference itself and getting so much value and excitement out of it. So that was, I guess, probably my main takeaway from, from the whole thing there. Now, of course I could talk about this forever, but I'm at 15 minutes here and I didn't want to spend too, too long recapping here, but I had honestly the best time of my life at East Denver. It's probably up there with, with the most fun I've ever had in, in my entire life, honestly. And I know that's a big call to make considering that there's a lot of other things that happen in life, but honestly, Ethereum and, and the Ethereum community is my life. This is basically, I guess, the majority of what I do in life and what I, and what I get enjoyment out of and just being amongst the community, being amongst everything happening and talking to so many people.
00:15:25.434 - 00:15:37.046, Speaker A: Just had the time of my life. Even though I got sick. I actually got really sick on the Saturday. I got a fever. I was at the venue and I was talking to people and I was just shaking. I'm like, oh, this is bad. But like I love talking to people.
00:15:37.046 - 00:15:57.832, Speaker A: I love being there so bad that I just wanted to stay there even though I was so sick and just needed to get back to the hotel room. And I made it to like four, I guess. 04:30 p.m. I went to the Ethereum attestation service happy hour and I was talking to them there and I'm like, look guys, I'm so sorry. I'd love to stick around. Uh, I'm having so much fun, but I really need to get back to the hotel room. And I trekked back to the hotel room.
00:15:57.832 - 00:16:24.766, Speaker A: Took me about an hour to get back and I just slept for, for a long time. And I stayed in my hotel on Sunday and then on Monday I kind of flew back. I didn't actually know I had COVID until I got back because getting a COVID test was basically impossible in Denver. I couldn't find any, anywhere for some reason. Um, but yeah, I honestly, I was just having so much fun that I kind of got annoyed that I got sick, but not surprised at all. And it wasn't just me, obviously, a lot, a lot of people got sick. But yeah, I just had a really, really bad fever and it was.
00:16:24.766 - 00:16:45.998, Speaker A: It was not fun, that's for sure. But anyway, gonna leave that one at that. I have so much more to get through. As I said, this is probably gonna go over the 2 hours that I budgeted for originally, but let's get into the news over the last two weeks, starting from Monday, I guess. I can't remember the exact date on Monday. I think it was maybe the 27th. Yeah, it was the 27th of Feb till today.
00:16:45.998 - 00:17:25.168, Speaker A: Let's get into it. So, first up, we have a thread from Jordy Bailina here talking about how the scalability of a ZK rollout is not limited by the prover. Now, this threads a great read. I'll link in the YouTube description below for you guys to read it. But this actually was spurred on by a few days prior, Anatoly, from the Solana ecosystem, of course, was fighting l two, specifically Zkl two s, and he really didn't have any idea what he was talking about. And the grand irony of this as well was that while Anatolia was saying this, Solana went offline again, or had, like, I guess, a 95 plus percent degradation in performance or something. I don't know.
00:17:25.168 - 00:17:55.676, Speaker A: I wasn't following it too closely, so I thought that was hilarious at the time. But Jordy Balena, as you guys know, works at Polygon on the ZKVM team. He's been the leader Polygon Hermes for quite a while. He is basically one of the forerunners of ZKVM and ZK tech in general. So when he puts a tweet thread out, you listen, you know, you read it. So, as I said, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to read it. But I would say that don't actually listen to any of these kind of people like Anatoly talking about ZK l two s, because for them, so.
00:17:55.676 - 00:18:36.952, Speaker A: So it's all a game of, I guess, kind of, um, incentives here. So Anatoly does not have an incentive to make zks look good, because ZKL two is obsolete. Solana. So for him, it's like, oh, crap, where can I poke holes in this thing? Like, even if he knows what he's saying isn't exactly totally accurate, for him, it's like an existential thing. Solana, he's in a really bad place right now, as you guys know, and I don't think it's going to be able to get it, get themselves out of it. And ZK ZK stuff and l two s in general are in a really, really great place. So obviously he doesn't have a motivation to talk about ZKL two s as if there's something revolutionary or if there's something positive, whereas obviously, you know, Jordy does, because he's working on them.
00:18:36.952 - 00:18:59.126, Speaker A: But there wasn't just him that was talking about this sorts of stuff. A lot of the other ZKVM and ZK researchers basically said, you know, Anatolia doesn't know what he's talking about. And yes, so I'd listen to these people rather than people from competing ecosystems, that's for sure. But anyway, wanted to just highlight that. You can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Moving on.
00:18:59.126 - 00:19:11.696, Speaker A: Now, I did say that a lot of this news is going to be out of order. There isn't going to. It's not going to be categorized. So I'm going to be jumping between different categories here. But I guess that keeps it fresh. But anyway, we have an all new frame. V zero six is out.
00:19:11.696 - 00:19:42.672, Speaker A: So if you're a frame user, as your kind of main desktop wallet user here, well, this update is for you. You can download it today at frame sh. So this has all the functionality you know and love from frame canary. It's now available to everyone in this version. It includes omni chain routing, which removes the concept of being on chain, which is something, I guess, pretty cool. And you can read about it on the blog here as well if you want to. So I'm not sure how many of you guys use frame as your day to day wallet, but yeah, if you do, this is an update for you.
00:19:42.672 - 00:20:18.644, Speaker A: So go check that out there. All right, so this is old news now, I guess, but this is something that I think that I want to talk about because there was some kind of, like, headbutting going on in the Daily Guide Discord channel when I spoke about this. So this, as I said, this happened a couple of weeks ago now, but basically there was a reverse exploit that happened on the Oasis platform where essentially the wormhole team. So if. Okay, I should give some extra context here. So the wormhole bridge was hacked quite a while ago for a massive amount of money. I think it was 20, 50 million or $300 million quite a while ago.
00:20:18.644 - 00:21:26.336, Speaker A: And then recently, why this has come up again was that there was a court order issued to the team behind the Oasis app, which is an app that sits on top of Makerdao. They have their own smart contracts that allow you to take out CDP's. Well, there was a court order issued to them that basically said to them they needed to use an exploit in order to get the funds back from the wormhole hacker who had used Oasis to, I believe, open a CDP or something like that, or do something with it. I can't remember exactly what they did with it, but essentially this exploit was, was used, the funds were taken, and everyone was just like, holy crap, like, Maker Dao isn't decentralized. Like, what is this? Are you just basically stealing the funds here? And I basically clarified this on, on discord and on Twitter, I basically said, well, technically, and this is where I guess people butt heads with me, technically, maker is still decentralized. It was oasis that was built on top of maker that had this centralization vector in, or had this exploit vector in it that was used by the Oasis team in order to, I guess, get this money back for, from the wormhole exploit. Now, this is no longer possible.
00:21:26.336 - 00:22:13.168, Speaker A: I should clarify that they actually kind of patch this and fix this so this can't be done again. But obviously it kind of opens up a lot of questions about what is actually decentralized in this ecosystem and what is centralized. So I should kind of state that. While I believe that being technically correct and technically accurate is always very, very important and what I always argue for, I do think that the Oasis team is obviously very close to maker. Whenever you go to open a cdp, maker actually directs you to Oasis to open one and to use their smart contracts to do this. So while they were technically separate, they could be argued to be functionally the same thing. Now, I personally don't believe that they should be argued to be the, you know, functionally the same thing, but there is an argument to be made there.
00:22:13.168 - 00:22:46.784, Speaker A: So in saying that, I, I believe that while I guess, like the smart contracts were, were separate, Makerdao's decentralization wasn't compromised here. It was the Oasis contracts themselves. I think a lot of users weren't actually aware of the fact that they were separate and they just assumed that Oasis was maker. You know, they assumed they were the same thing. And honestly, they can't be blamed for that, considering how close the relationship is. I mean, Oasis actually spun out of maker, that the team members on Oasis, a lot of them worked at Maker. A lot of maker people kind of invested in Oasis as well.
00:22:46.784 - 00:23:21.056, Speaker A: So it's not like they were totally separate entities with a firewall, you know, a massive kind of like, wall between them. There was a lot of commingling here, but I think from, from being a kind of technically accurate perspective, I think people need to understand that the mega contracts themselves weren't exploited. They're still decentralized. It was the Oasis smart contracts built on top of it that were kind of exploited here, that the exploit is impossible anymore. They, they fixed it, but that's what happened. So, yeah, where you fall on the, how close these things are is a different debate. But I think just being technically accurate here, that's exactly what happened.
00:23:21.056 - 00:24:03.914, Speaker A: So, as I said, I know this is old news, but I still think it's important to kind of COVID it and for you guys to understand exactly what happened here. All right, so next up, we have a new newsletter from Amagan.com ETH here, who works in comms at gnosis. So basically this is called the Rhino Review, which is an Ethereum staking journal that you can subscribe to on Substack. And there are two editions so far, I believe, that basically cover everything happening in the Ethereum staking ecosystem. Now, this is quickly become one of my favorite newsletters in the ecosystem right now, simply because there's so much happening in Ethereum staking. And it's obviously very hard for me to, to keep track of it and to keep, keep track of exactly what's going on.
00:24:03.914 - 00:24:25.258, Speaker A: Well, this rhino review is a perfect tool for doing that. So I just wanted to shout, give a shout out here. If you want to subscribe, you can. It is a bi weekly Ethereum staking newsletter. So you'll be getting it every two weeks, I believe, so you can subscribe to it. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But yeah, there's just so much happening in Ethereum staking lane guys, I mean, we have Shanghai coming very, very soon.
00:24:25.258 - 00:25:07.692, Speaker A: I mean, what, probably like a month or so out now and it's gonna just explode. I mean, I spoke to, this is something I should have said before when I was talking about Ethan von. So I spoke to a lot of people about Ethereum staking, and I can confirm that there are hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of ETH sitting on the sidelines waiting for Shanghai to go live for them to stake. So if you think that there's going to be a net outflow of stake once Shanghai goes live, I think that you should reevaluate that thesis. If you think that the ETH price is going to crash after it, I think you should reevaluate that thesis. There is going to be so much new ETH staked. There is going to be such a de risking of ethereum staking.
00:25:07.692 - 00:25:37.934, Speaker A: There's going to be such a change in narrative and such a, I guess like disruption of that narrative of oh, everything's going to dump, you know, post Shanghai because it's just not the case. And I've talked about this plenty of times on the refuel before, but that's a bit of alpha for you guys. I got Alpha that there is a lot of e sitting on the sidelines that is going to be staked post Shanghai simply because obviously it's de risked withdrawals are there. You can kind of sell your rewards if you want to earn passive income off of that. So yeah, keep, you know, watch out for that. Watch this space for that. That's for sure.
00:25:37.934 - 00:26:17.548, Speaker A: All right, so some connects network growth statistics here from Arjun who said since going live on February 2, connects Network has grown close to nine times on every core metric. TVL is up from $2 million to $18 million, weekly volume from 500,000 to 5.5 million, weekly transactions from 650 to almost 5000. And they're only just getting started. So this was the metrics from February 2 to February 28. And this is only natural that they're growing here, I think because L2s are growing and obviously people want to move between L2s. It's becoming a bit of a kind of thing that I've had to do every time using an l two these days, which is totally fine now that there's bridging.
00:26:17.548 - 00:26:43.206, Speaker A: I basically would just bridge from l two to l two. I'll use various bridging protocols to do this and various bridging protocol aggregators to do to do this. But no surprise that connects is growing here, given how fast the l two s are growing, how many people are using them, and how much growth I guess the liquidity on these bridges is having as well. So you can bridge more. A lot of the whales can bridge as well. So there's no kind of issue with liquidity there. So congrats to Connext on the growth.
00:26:43.206 - 00:27:22.604, Speaker A: I'd love to see some fresh stats at the end of the march month here. All right, next up here we have the Ethereum attestation service, which is now live across multiple evms. So they are live on arbitrum and optimism and other evms, which I guess like they said would follow soon after. But this was a couple of weeks ago, so they are live on a bunch of these other chains and they're also live on Ethereum mainnet. Now I did mention Ethereum attestation service before I met the, the founders and some of the team. And I also kind of talked to them at that happy hour there. This is one project that I'm happy to put so much of my weight behind because they're a public good, and I've spoken about that before, how they're trying to be a public good.
00:27:22.604 - 00:27:57.456, Speaker A: They're not trying to essentially kind of monetize the actual protocol itself. I don't think they're going to have a token or anything like that. So they're trying to be an actual public good. And you guys know I'm a public goods maximalist and I love all this sorts of stuff, but exactly what they are, if you don't know, it's basically a way to kind of attest to different things. Now you may have seen that optimism had their own version of this, and you may have seen a bunch of other things around the centralized identity and voting and all that good stuff there. But what a theorem attestation service is trying to be, is trying to be a standard for a testing on EVM chains. And we don't have something like this yet.
00:27:57.456 - 00:28:41.524, Speaker A: As I said, optimism was trying to work on it. But I believe they're actually going to be using eas now instead of their own solution, which is good because we want a standard for this stuff, especially if it's a public good. I'm, I'm all for there being kind of a monopoly in a standard if it's a public good. Now for example, the ERC 20 standard I would consider a public good because there's no ERC 20 token, right? There's no governance token, I guess, tied to the ERC 20 standard, right? It's just a standard. It's just a public good that anyone can use and it's a monopoly basically. There are other token standards and I'm not talking about NFT token standard, I'm talking about just normal token standards, but they aren't used because they're not needed, right. There is no one profiting off of the ERC 20 token standard unless they make their own token, right, using that standard.
00:28:41.524 - 00:29:15.460, Speaker A: So the terminology may be a little bit confusing here, but I'm fine with there being monopolies within standards as long as they're public goods, as long as there's not one party kind of unilaterally profiting from it. And that's why I think the EAS should be the standard for attestation. Because of public good, because it's been built from the ground up. It's actually a really, really cool service. You can go to EAS scan.org to actually see what's happening here and see how it's all working. And they've put a lot of love into this thing and then they know exactly what, what they're doing here and they're going to be working with, as I said, like optimism and a bunch of other teams that want.
00:29:15.460 - 00:29:47.664, Speaker A: That have been trying to do this. So yeah, very, very cool to see them live across various EVM chains here. And this is one project that I think is worth paying attention to. All right, so scroll announced that they said here on a tweet. For nearly two years we've built our ZKVM in the open alongside the privacy and scaling explorations group at the Ethereum foundation and other contributors. And today we're taking the next step to girly, the final stage before Mainnet. So they're basically live on the girly testnet here and it's 100% permission less for people to develop on.
00:29:47.664 - 00:30:09.384, Speaker A: So a lot of movement happening in the ZKVM space. As you guys know, all of them are going live. Polygon ZkVM going live this month on the 27 March. I would say that scroll ZkVM not far behind. ZK sinks. ZKVM is very, very close now, I believe maybe three weeks out or something like that. Consensus is ZKVM is going live soon.
00:30:09.384 - 00:30:30.322, Speaker A: Tycho as well. I'm gonna talk about their roadmap a bit later in the episode. I've got that loaded up for you guys. So yeah, it really is an arms race now on the ZkVM front here. And honestly, like, I forgot to mention this before. I went to ZK day, which was a side event. It was the first event that I went to on the Tuesday when I at Denver.
00:30:30.322 - 00:30:58.210, Speaker A: There were so many people there. Guys, the ZK stuff has become this massive hype kind of narrative that, I don't know, I kind of get a little bit bearish when I see that on a lot of the newer projects. Because if you look at the newer projects, a lot of them are I guess like opportunistic. So I'm sticking to the older projects here that have been around for a while and scroll is definitely one of them. But there's not just scroll, there's obviously polygon and all the ZK stuff that they're doing. Ck sync, Tyco as well. Been around for a while.
00:30:58.210 - 00:31:12.934, Speaker A: ZK sorry, loop ring veterans working on that as well. So. So yeah. But anyway, scrolls girly test net is now live. Pure developer or a user. You want to go test it out, you can. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:31:12.934 - 00:32:02.100, Speaker A: All right, so there was some new research around Aetherium's core consensus protocol a couple of weeks ago. So this came from Luca Zanoli, who is a consensus research Zanolini, who is a consensus researcher at the Ethereum foundation. So he starts off the thread by saying the implemented consensus protocol of Ethereum, Gaspar, has a hybrid design. It combines a protocol that allows dynamic participation among validators called LMD Ghost, and a finality gadget called Casper. So the reason why we want to improve this, or at least the main bulk of this work here, is so that we can have single slot finality. Now, I've talked about this before about how the Ethereum protocol right now has a finality of two epochs, which is around 13 minutes. If we were able to change this and have single slot finality, it means we would have finality in 12 seconds.
00:32:02.100 - 00:32:38.442, Speaker A: That is an absolutely insane improvement. Right? It brings a lot of benefits with it, and it's something that a lot of people are working towards right now. It's obviously something that is going to take a little while to come to main, that it requires a lot of testing. It is definitely, you know, anytime you're kind of changing the core consensus mechanism of a chain, it requires a lot of testing, a lot of, a lot of research, a lot of kind of, I guess, battle testing to make sure that nothing breaks under certain conditions. But this is the latest research out of here. So this isn't just Luca publishing this. There are a few other people working on this as well.
00:32:38.442 - 00:33:34.650, Speaker A: But there are obviously two authors of this, of this paper called a simple single slot finality protocol for Ethereum. So you definitely check this out. It is definitely quite technical. It's getting into the weeds, and there's a lot of kind of stuff here that you may not know what it looks like, but yeah, the gist of it is that single slot finality, which would be a massive improvement over what we currently have within Ethereum. All right, so a new project called Node sets has been announced and the revealed, they've revealed their technical details of what they're calling, or temporarily calling Project hyperdrive. So basically what this is, it's a, they're calling it an l two for rocket pool, designed to massively boost the most decentralized liquid staking protocol. So it's basically a, I guess, interface that sits on top of rotocol and sits on top of rocket pool in order to make it so that more rocket pool mini, cool mini pools can be spun up and obviously increase the, the adoption of rocker pool here.
00:33:34.650 - 00:34:31.974, Speaker A: So you can see the nice little graphic here of how this actually works, how there's a bunch of how Project Overdrive, project Hyperdrive sits amongst the rocker pool community or rocketball ecosystem here and how this will work. So it is fully detailed in the blog post here. I'm not going to go through it now, but you should definitely check this out. I'm all for getting as many people as, or as I guess, like as many projects as possible, building on top of other core protocols and kind of funneling in users to them and making sure that the adoption, all these protocols happens, especially post Shanghai, because as you guys may have seen, Lido is back above 30%, I believe, of, of total kind of staked ETH that's due to a large deposit of 300,000 ETH from Justin sun. So I don't know how sticky that deposit is. But yeah, making it more attractive to stake with alternative solutions is definitely the main focus, I think, of the Ethereum staking community post, especially post Shanghai. And I've talked about that great reshuffling before.
00:34:31.974 - 00:34:58.794, Speaker A: And as I said, as I've said in the past, it's not something that's going to happen by itself. We need to kind of will it into existence. And projects like nodeset are definitely what node set. Project hyperdrive are definitely the things that we need to get us there. So yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the EF ecosystem support program has a new grants round live, which is for account obstruction.
00:34:58.794 - 00:35:40.134, Speaker A: So this is something that I actually should have talked about when I was talking about ETH Denver. But account abstraction has become this big thing that finally has a lot of people, or I guess like a lot of teams working on it together and trying to create a standard for account abstraction together. And I'm great, and it's great to see that the Ethereum foundation support program here is opening up a grants round for this. So this round has started on February 27 and will be running until March 31 here. So if this is something you're interested in, you can definitely go check this out. But as I said, it finally feels like we're getting a lot of activity around account abstraction. It finally feels like a lot of the wallets are coming together to agree on a standard here and to build towards account abstraction.
00:35:40.134 - 00:36:29.104, Speaker A: There has been two main blockers to getting mass adoption of account abstraction wallets instead of just normal wallets. One of them was cost. It obviously costs a lot more to spin up these wallets because they're smart contract wallets essentially, and obviously on layer one that is prohibitively expensive. So that's why we're going to be building them out on L2 and building up these wallets on L2 and two. There wasn't really a standard that everyone agreed upon until recently. There was a wallet con at East Denver on, I believe, the Wednesday where a lot of teams got together, a lot of people got together and are really excited about the future of wallets and making it so that we can actually have account abstraction wallets instead of relying on the wallets that we use today, which are very, very basic. Honestly, account abstraction wallets, uh, really do open up and really are a zero to one innovation for kind of wallet innovation.
00:36:29.104 - 00:37:07.618, Speaker A: So for example, with account account obstruction wallets, you can have things like true TWF a, you can have social recovery, which, which falls into that. You can have spending limits, you can have whitelisted addresses all built into your wallet. So no need to rely on third party services all built into your wallet, which is obviously extremely exciting, extremely bullish. And as I said, I think account abstraction is finally having its time in the sun in 2023 here. But you can go check out the grant round for yourself if that's something that you're interested in. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Chappella, or the I guess, Shanghai Capella update went live on Sapolia on February 28 and it was successfully activated here.
00:37:07.618 - 00:37:46.102, Speaker A: And there was also announcement that girlie is happening, I believe, on the 15 March, and then the mainnet will obviously follow shortly after that. So we're just running through the motions now, guys, with this update or upgrade, I guess I should say, for withdrawals on Mainnet, which should happen, I guess, within the month. Yeah, so not much more to talk about there, just that Sepolia went live without a hitch, I believe. Girly going live soon and then yeah, and then Mainnet. Alright, so there's some new research out of Labras here. So they're calling this the comprehensive guide to scaling Ethereum and roll ups. This is the ultimate resource to understand why altoos are needed and how they work.
00:37:46.102 - 00:38:21.610, Speaker A: So this is quite a lengthy research article, but if you're interested in L2s roll ups, how they work, how they're going to be the next big thing or other next big thing for Ethereum and why. This is definitely a research post that you should go check out. This is great kind of reading here. It's not too long, but it's definitely going to give you a great overview of how this all works. So big shout out to labrous for putting this together and you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the new, I guess, product out of the defi llama ecosystem here.
00:38:21.610 - 00:38:54.830, Speaker A: So they've released something called llama Zip, which is a uniswap v three router specifically optimized for optimism, achieving huge gas reductions versus every other aggregator in the screenshot, seven times eight, 7.8 times cheaper than one inch. So to use it, just swap on optimism at swap dot d phi llama.com. And this is a threat on how they achieved it here. This is really cool. This is what I've talked about before about how there can be a lot of optimizations had at L2 that you couldn't necessarily get at layer one in order to bring gas fees down on L2. A lot more.
00:38:54.830 - 00:39:27.838, Speaker A: A lot, I guess, like more than you could on layer one here. So kudos to the llama team for getting this out there. As I said, like it's at swap dot de filama.com to use llama zip. So this should be the aggregator that you're using on L2s in order to, I guess, like on optimism for now, in order to save the most that you can on gas fees. Because obviously the gas fees, even though they're much cheaper at L2, they can still add up depending on how many swaps you do. And obviously post ERP 4844, this is just going to get even more cheaper as these things inherit those gas savings that will be giving to the L2.
00:39:27.838 - 00:39:59.090, Speaker A: So I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. All right, so we have some news about Devcon seven. So the biggest news I think is that it's being moved to 2024. There is not going to be a devcon in 2023. And that is going to be hosted in Southeast Asia. Now, reading the blog post and reading between the lines, they really want to have it in a place that brings the most impact to the most amount of people, which means that I doubt that it's going to be in Singapore since Singapore is very expensive.
00:39:59.090 - 00:40:28.128, Speaker A: It's. That's not going to bring the most impact to the most amount of people. So that only, I think, leaves a few different countries or a few different places in Southeast Asia. I think the front runners would be a Vietnam and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia there. Those would be my bets. Honestly, I know there already is an ETH Vietnam, so maybe Vietnam is more of a chance than Malaysia. But I'm super excited about this because Southeast Asia is much closer to me than most other places in the world.
00:40:28.128 - 00:40:44.976, Speaker A: So I definitely would love to get out there. I didn't go to Devcon in Bogota last year, in part due to the. The travel distance. Honestly, it would have taken me over 30 hours to get there. And also the altitude. That's another reason why I got sick in Denver. I didn't have a good night's sleep in Denver at all.
00:40:44.976 - 00:41:00.720, Speaker A: The altitude, the high altitude living just wrecked me. In Melbourne, the altitude is basically zero. So I've lived in Melbourne my entire life. I'm used to. To zero altitude. Then I went to Denver and it just kind of all hit me at once. And Bogota, I believe, is almost two times the altitude of, of Denver.
00:41:00.720 - 00:41:30.978, Speaker A: So yeah, that would, that would probably wreck me. But yeah, I'm excited for Southeast Asia here for Defcon seven, there is no confirmed location yet, of course, but. But yeah, it's happening in 2024. And they also teased in the blog post that there's going to be a. Another dev connect by the end of this year. I believe it'll probably happen in October or November. Not sure on the location at all, but reading between the, I guess, lines, I saw some update about the ETH global events happening in, you know, happening this year.
00:41:30.978 - 00:41:55.628, Speaker A: And there's one happening in November in Istanbul. So I guess if there's an ETH global event in Istanbul in November, maybe dev Connect will be hosted there if they want to. I mean, Devconnect has only been one that's been hosted in Amsterdam. Some people said that they might host it might keep the european kind of theme. So I don't know. I don't know. But yeah, I don't really have any good insight there.
00:41:55.628 - 00:42:38.024, Speaker A: But definitely for Defcon seven, I would say that it's going to be Vietnam or Malaysia, definitely not Singapore. But I don't know if I'll make it out to Defconnect. Just depends where it is, of course, but definitely going to try and make it out to Defcon in Southeast Asia. Here, you can read the blog post for full details on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Coinbase announced that they have a new kind of initiative called Crypto 435, which is their campaign to grow the crypto advocacy community and share tools and resources to make your voice heard. So I guess if you're in the US, you can become an advocate for this by going to the blog post and signing up here so you can put in your details and kind of join this initiative.
00:42:38.024 - 00:43:11.388, Speaker A: I think this is a great initiative. I think that crypto needs to be more visible in the political arena. We need to make sure that the politicians and the policymakers understand our side of the story, so to speak, and our arguments, rather than living in a vacuum, because we see what's, what's been happening with all the regulatory stuff. The SEC is just basically gone rogue. There's a bunch of other kind of regulatory bodies that are just doing stuff that is not healthy to crypto. So I'm glad, I'm glad that Coinbase, you know, obviously the biggest exchange in the US, is leading this initiative here. So if this is something that you're interested in, you can become an advocate.
00:43:11.388 - 00:43:44.624, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so rocket rescue node is now available for rocket pool node operators on Mainnet. So I've talked about what the rocket pool rescue node is before about how you can basically use this as a backup node in case your nodes go offline here you can request access. But yeah, this is finally live on Mainet. So if you're a rocker pool minipool operator, this will probably be something that's interesting to you. It's at rescue node.com or, and I'll link this in the YouTube description below as well for you to check out.
00:43:44.624 - 00:44:19.116, Speaker A: But yeah, this is really cool. I think this is great. I think this is a great little tool for Minipool operators and definitely something that you should check out. All right, so announcement out of the immutable ecosystem. So they announced the immutable Unity SDK, which is going to enable game developers to build web3 games directly in the Unity engine, which is one of the biggest, if not the biggest game creation engines in the, I guess, a gaming ecosystem here. And as Robbie Ferguson says here, this is an enormous step for immutable, but also for the entire industry. More than 50% of all games are built with Unity.
00:44:19.116 - 00:45:04.494, Speaker A: So yeah, Unity is the biggest, I guess right now, biggest game engine in the gaming ecosystem here. So great to see immutable, the immutable Unity SDK being spun up. It means that game developers will be able to integrate immutable into their games here and build really cool experiences. And this is another thing that was actually very prevalent at Ethanvar that I hadn't seen at any other ETH conference. There was a huge gaming section, a lot of crypto blockchain games there, a lot of arcade games just get amongst it. But there, that was something that I hadn't seen at previous ETH conferences that I believe is going to be a thing going forward because crypto gaming nfts obviously is a huge thing within the ecosystem and I think it's only going to get bigger over time. So it was pretty cool to see that and pretty cool to see that immutable obviously is at the forefront here with this unity SDK.
00:45:04.494 - 00:45:43.484, Speaker A: All right, last up, we have an announcement from Slingshot that the Slingshot wallet has officially launched. You can download the mobile wallet app today and say goodbye to C five forever. It is now available publicly on both iOS and Android. And you can just type in Slingshot wallet on the various App Stores there for you to go download that, which is very, very cool to see. So yeah, go do that. If you haven't yet, go check that out and I'll link, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so as well. All right, next up we have a new product called Jumper, which is a crypto's everything exchange, or at least that's what they're calling it.
00:45:43.484 - 00:46:10.670, Speaker A: So this is built on top of the Li fi protocol or the leafy protocol, which is a aggregator for bridges. So it's basically an interface on top of that. And yeah, this is really cool. Honestly. I used this yesterday, I believe, to go from arbitrary Mainnet to Ethereum mainnet, and it worked really well. So you can swap any token on it. It currently is supported by or maintains over 15 plus bridges, routes through over 30 decentralized exchanges, and supports over 20 chains.
00:46:10.670 - 00:46:57.534, Speaker A: So yeah, I definitely recommend going and checking this out for yourself and using it if this is something that you will get use out of. And I remember I mentioned before how because the l two s are growing so much and because there's so many l two s now and there's so much activity happening on all of them bridging between them is definitely becoming more popular, and it's definitely something that I can see a lot of people using. So I'm glad that we have something like jumper where it doesn't just rely on that one bridge, it actually just aggregates all the bridges so you that you can get the best kind of price, the best liquidity, and be able to bridge between whatever chain you want to bridge through. Now, it's not just l two chains. I believe this also supports different l one s. It's probably all evm at this point, because most of the l two S and l one s inside chains are EVM compatible. But yeah, I thought this was really cool that this went live.
00:46:57.534 - 00:47:42.320, Speaker A: And it's built on top of Li Fi, which is the protocol powering jumper here. All right, so speaking of decentralized exchange infrastructure, Zero X has announced something called the Xerox transaction relay API, which is powering crypto trades on Robinhood's wallet app. So Robinhood users can now trade crypto with no network fees on the Polygon PoS chain. And you can learn more and join the waitlist for early access to the transaction relay API on Xerox's blog here. This is pretty cool. I mean, Robinhood is obviously the Normie trading platform for not just crypto, but for stocks as well and as few other products on there. So it's great to see that Zero X integrating with them and allowing people to trade trade assets on the Polygon Pos chain.
00:47:42.320 - 00:48:25.034, Speaker A: So people to trade on chain in a scalable way. And these people may not have used anything on chain before because as I said, they're Robin Hood users which, which cater to more, I guess, the noobs rather than the advanced users here. But great to see Zero X has put the, put this kind of API out there and is powering this here under the hood. And also great to see polygon getting more adoption here. So definitely go check this out. If you haven't yet, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I should have mentioned this before when I was talking about the immutable Unity SDK, but look, Metamask has actually launched their own SDK in the Unity asset store, which will allow devs to connect their games to the Metamask wallet, enabling users to interact with web3 enabled features within the game itself.
00:48:25.034 - 00:48:54.050, Speaker A: And they said here, get ready for a whole new level of gameplay. This is really cool because as I said before, there was a big gaming presence at East Denver. Gaming is going to be a huge thing. I think within the crypto space, there are actually a bunch of cool games that I saw at ETH Denver. Not sure exactly how crypto and blockchain fits into them, but the games themselves are definitely getting better. The games themselves definitely looking a lot more fun, looking a lot more polished, and especially if they're going to be built in the Unity engine, they're going to look like Triple A level game. They're going to look like professional games.
00:48:54.050 - 00:49:35.578, Speaker A: Now, as I said, depending on how crypto is integrated with them, I guess like is another discussion for another time. But the games themselves are looking better, which I'm very positive on. And the fact that the games themselves can actually integrate with, immutable and integrate with Metamask is very positive because it allows them to build these crypto things natively into their games. And maybe we're going to get a better outcome than what we've had in the past, which is basically crypto being attached to these games and turning these games into Ponzi, essentially. I want to see more than that. I want to see true ownership of assets. I want to see in game economies built around these assets that don't look like Ponzi's, that are actually built to basically benefit the game rather than take away from the game itself.
00:49:35.578 - 00:50:09.086, Speaker A: But we'll have to see how that, that shakes out there. As I said, a discussion for a different time, but cool to see more of these things being supported. More and more of these things being supported in the Unity store. All right, so Megalabs has an announcement where they said after a few months of intense work, we are pleased to present our latest project to support the Ethereum ecosystem. Eats here a live visualization tool with latest, with the latest on chain statistics. So you can check this out@ethiopia.com. So basically what this does is it gives you a nice overview of what's happening on the Ethereum network here.
00:50:09.086 - 00:51:03.490, Speaker A: So you can see that the different epochs and the different kind of slots in them, and you can see a visualization of what's happening on the network itself. So basically this is the, each epoch being calculated right now that the two most previous ones, then you can see here the, the old one. So the target, so missing target to manifestations, the source, the head and the total active validators for that epoch there, which is very, very cool. So it's just another way to visualize these things and you can kind of hover over the different things and it gives you an explanation of what's happening. You can click into the different slots to see what's, what's happening in, you know, in them, see all the data and all the, I guess, what should I say, the, get the details around it, of course. And you can link to beacon chain here to see the proposed index, all that good stuff there. So just another site to keep track of everything that's happening on the Ethereum network protocol layer here.
00:51:03.490 - 00:51:44.812, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out for yourselves. All right, so the protocol guild has completed their latest quarterly update with three of four planned for the pilot. So seven new members with seven departing equals 128 members. Still, protocol Guild actively self curates its beneficiary set to ensure its high signal reflection of the reality on, of the, on the ground. So the membership is, is basically here. So what they do is they, they review the membership every quarter to make sure that they're paying out to the right people and organizations and they aren't paying out to people who no longer doing work on the core protocol themselves. So you can see here that this list was updated on the 27th of Feb.
00:51:44.812 - 00:52:28.092, Speaker A: And you can see all the members and who they're associated with. So obviously there are members from the Ethereum foundation, there's, there's members from the different teams at the Ethereum foundation, from lighthouse loads, all the, all the core clients, all the different researchers and all their addresses and how they're weighted here as well. So you can read about the weighting and how this is worked out on this page as well. But great to see that the different members are still kind of being compensated here and members are being rotated out when they're no longer in need of the compensation for the work that they're doing. Because at the end of the day, the worst that could happen is if the protocol guild got stale and they had members on there that weren't, that were no longer doing work but still getting paid. That, that wouldn't really make much sense. It would make the whole thing less fair for everyone.
00:52:28.092 - 00:52:57.616, Speaker A: It would lead to people being kind of maybe, I guess, upset about it and lead to some unintended negative consequences from that. So great to see that they've updated the member list. Yeah, it remains the same at 128, but there were seven new members and seven existing that were taken off here. So yeah, you can check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so a announcement of the polygon ecosystem. So David Schwartz here announced the release of the open source Polygon ID identity infrastructure.
00:52:57.616 - 00:53:52.068, Speaker A: So this is the first decentralized identity platform using zero knowledge to issues credentials on chain, making it secure and privacy preserving to power identity in web3. This is another big kind of business unit for Polygon, the Polygon ID effort here. They're basically bringing in all their ZK efforts and all their ZK products into this and making sure that we can build, or they can build a proper decentralized identity solution that can play nicely across not just their own ZKVM, but other kind of EVM or ZKVM chains out there. And I've talked about a lot about decentralized identity in the past and especially over the last few months on the refuel, it's definitely becoming more and more of a thing because I mean, as the ecosystem grows, we need a way to identify people and we need a way to identify them and that they're real people in a privacy preserving way. And one way of doing that is with attestations. I spoke about the Ethereum attestation service before. Another way is doing it with ZK technology.
00:53:52.068 - 00:54:30.534, Speaker A: Polygon Id Cismo. I've talked about before how you can get those ZK badges that basically prove that you own something without revealing the address that you own it on. And yeah, I mean, there are so many cool things happening in the ZK privacy space. Obviously ZK gets talked about a lot for the scalability that it brings, but the privacy space is making waves. Aztec protocol Polygon id Cismo there's a lot more kind of stuff being worked on and a lot more stuff to come. But yeah, really cool to see this out of the polygon ecosystem. You can check out David Schwartz's thread on this with links to different various resources, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:54:30.534 - 00:55:01.260, Speaker A: All right, so Poap has introduced poop checkout, which is a new tool for communities to create culture and support causes they care about by means. In po ops, poup checkout gives creators tools to engage their audience through moments and shape culture. So this is another, I guess, kind of tool for people to use in order to use pop or integrate pop with their different events and different things that they do. So it's basically an infrastructure thing for them. And you can read the full details about this in the YouTube description below. But I thought this is really cool. I love using pop.
00:55:01.260 - 00:55:30.864, Speaker A: Honestly, I got a lot of pops when I was in eat Denver. We had, I had my own power for the deli Gwei meetup, which I put onto one of those, you may have seen them before. They're called the iyk, little devices. They're circular and you tap them and they've got NFC in them and then you can get the pop. It was actually a really seamless and smooth experience loading my pop onto that once I had it designed. So the pop was actually designed by the popeathon community, which is great. I actually love the designs that people submitted and I picked one of them and it came out really, really cool.
00:55:30.864 - 00:56:07.896, Speaker A: And then I basically loaded it up on that little device and people could tap the, tap it at the event and get the power. So, yeah, more of these tools that make it easier for people to use, power up themselves, integrate it with the, their existing kind of events or existing stuff that they're building is a welcome thing for sure. And that's exactly what pop checkout is doing here. So if you're interested in learning more about that, you can check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so this got a lot of, I guess, attention when it was announced at Ethan bar. So ERC 4337 has been deployed on Mainnet.
00:56:07.896 - 00:56:55.382, Speaker A: So this is basically a token standard, or maybe I shouldn't say token standard, a standard that has been deployed on Mainnet, that had a security audit done by open Zeppelin builders and, sorry, bundlers and paymasters by a lot of these different entities here and 300,000 in grants by the Ethereum foundation. So as I said when I was talking about the East Denver recap, account abstraction and things like ERC 4337 are getting a lot of attention right now. They're getting a lot of different teams putting their weight behind them. It's a standard that people want to use to build smart contract or account abstraction wallets here. So it's great to see this live on, on Mainnet. And there was a bit of misreporting about this where people said that it was activated on the Ethereum network and they were framing it as if it was an EIP that went live in some sort of hard fork. That isn't the case at all.
00:56:55.382 - 00:57:15.314, Speaker A: This is an ERC, which is something that anyone can deploy onto Mainnet. It is a standard, it is a set of smart contracts. It does not require a hard fork. It is not an EIP. They are two different things. But still very cool to see this live on Mainnet here. So if you haven't checked this out for yourself, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:57:15.314 - 00:57:58.098, Speaker A: All right, so stakewise has announced the launch of Atlantic, which is a closed testnet for Stakewise v three. The goal of the Atlantic Testnet is to stretch the core stakewise v three architecture to its capacity and identify the most serious issues and bugs before public testing. So you guys will know that I've talked about stakewise v three a lot recently. It is a major upgrade to the stakewise protocol. It is going to enable a lot of people to do a lot of really cool things with staking. So, for example, I'll be able to set up a stakewise v three vault under the daily Gwei brand where people could basically stake with me. I'll run the nodes and the validators on my own hardware here, but you could send your ETH to the vault that I have and do it in a non custodial way.
00:57:58.098 - 00:58:40.820, Speaker A: You get an LSD token out of it, but instead of running, you know, you won't have to run the, the pools yourself, or, sorry, I should say the nodes and the validators yourself. You're basically outsourcing that task to me. I never have any custody or claim on your funds, but I run the infrastructure in order for you to get exposure to staked ETH in a non custodial, decentralized way, which is something that I'm really, really excited about. I'm honestly going to do this. Once I have, once this goes live and once I'm comfortable with it, I'm going to set up my own daily gray pool that you guys can contribute to. And what I'm going to do as well is instead of taking rewards for myself, like an operator reward, whether that be like 1015 percent or whatever it is, I'm going to take that and donate it to the protocol guild. You guys know I love doing stuff like that.
00:58:40.820 - 00:59:06.256, Speaker A: That's what I'm going to do. So you could stake with, with the daily Stakewise v three vault, and any rewards that I get from that or any kind of like, fear that I take from that will be going towards the protocol guild. So we donated to the protocol guild there. So you'll be able to support public goods while not while staking with with me and while staking with other people, obviously, it pulls it all together. And I'll run the nodes and validators for you. I have a lot of experience doing doing this. I have all the necessary infrastructure.
00:59:06.256 - 00:59:30.946, Speaker A: I have the backup power supplies. I have the backup Internet connections. And I obviously have a lot of experience because of my solar staking that I'm doing. And I'm obviously an ODA member now with my rocket pool node marketplace mini pools as well. So you could trust that I know what I'm doing when I'm running these sorts of stuff, but there's no obligation there. I'll have more details about that when the time comes. But this is just the closed testnet that's live right now for stakewise v three which is code named Atlantic and you can learn more about it.
00:59:30.946 - 00:59:49.514, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below. But as I said, it is a closed testnet. It is not open to everyone. I'm sure they'll do an open one later on when the time comes. All right, so as I mentioned before, the girly testnet is getting upgrade to Chappella. This is actually happening on the 14 March at 10:00 p.m.. UTC.
00:59:49.514 - 01:00:26.044, Speaker A: I've mentioned the 15th before, so it's happening very very soon at epoch 162,304. So as I said before, we're just running through the motions now guys, with this sort of stuff. This will happen on the girly testnet and then Mainnet will happen early to mid April, I believe. I do, I remember I did say it would happen probably most likely in late March. But I think given that people, a lot of people were at ETH Denver and given that we want to be sure that obviously this goes, goes through all well and good. Yeah, it's going to be happening early April, early to mid April here on, on Mainet. So yeah, just running through the motions, happening quite soon here.
01:00:26.044 - 01:00:54.116, Speaker A: Alright, so I think one of the biggest announcements out of east Denver was that Uniswap has introduced their own wallet here. So they're calling this a completely self custodial, open source mobile app from the most trusted naming Defi, now available as a limited early release through Apple test flight. I actually got access to this because there was a QR code that you could scan at the Uniswap booth at ethanvar. It is pretty slick. It reminds me a lot of rainbow wallet. Honestly, it's not in a smart contract wallet. It's not like argent or anything like that.
01:00:54.116 - 01:01:46.428, Speaker A: It's just a basic wallet so far and a lot of people are asking the question, why is Uniswap doing a wallet? And this is the first question I had as well. I'm like, we have so many wallets right now, why is Uniswap making their own wallet? Well, from what I could gather and for people that I've spoken to, the reason was because a lot of people use Uniswap and a lot of people contact Uniswap with issues, and a lot of those issues usually have to do with wallets, especially metamask. So Uniswap basically said, well, if we can just create a better wallet that we can guide, that we can kind of tell users to use, and they have issues, issues with other wallets that we can control end to end, then that's a positive for Uniswap users. And also, obviously, Uniswap will be able to take a cut off the top if they, if they have a swap feature inside the uniswap wallet. So they could take a little bit of a fee, and that's a revenue driver for them. So, yeah, it became a no brainer for them to develop something like this. Now, whether this is going to be successful or not is up to the market.
01:01:46.428 - 01:02:23.338, Speaker A: I think it's going to be successful because Uniswap has such a strong brand, and then they can just, anyone who has issues with other wallets, they can basically say, hey, come use Uniswap wallet, you know, here you go. You can import your, your seed phrase into it and then you can just use it and everything's the same. And a lot of people who obviously are using Uniswap and newer people as well, so they aren't married to the wallet that they have. There's no network effect around that. It's just the first one that they saw in the first one that they used. So, yeah, I definitely, to definitely resonate with the, I guess, reasoning behind this. I do wish that it was a smart contract wallet, but I think that the smart contract wallets and account obstruction wallets still aren't there yet.
01:02:23.338 - 01:02:41.826, Speaker A: And maybe Uniswap will convert that wallet or at least give you users the option to convert their wallet to that eventually. But we'll see. We'll see how that shakes out. But, yeah, let's say this is a limited release right now. I believe that it's very hard to get access to this because test flight is limited to 10,000 people. And I think that everyone already. Sorry.
01:02:41.826 - 01:03:07.146, Speaker A: I think that there's already 10,000 people that using it, it is kind of being held up to be released on the iOS App Store as well because Apple is not, has not approved the app to be released just yet. Not sure if this is going to come to Android. Maybe it will, but I guess, like, it's up to them to release it on Android when the, when the time is right. But yeah, right now you probably can't get access to it. But as I said, I have gotten access to it. I used it. I use it just to watch my sassle ETH wallet.
01:03:07.146 - 01:03:43.934, Speaker A: I didn't import any other wallets into it, but as I said, it seems very similar to Rainbow Wallet in how it displays things. It's got an NFT section and it displays nfts very similar to Rainbow Wallet. But yeah, I think this is going to be something that's successful for Uniswap given that their brand and the user base is so big already and they can funnel users into it. So. So yeah, but anyway, you can check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, next up we have a thread here from swag to mess who says our alpha testnet just launched and yet scrolls amazing developer community has already managed to build five fun apps for you to try out right now.
01:03:43.934 - 01:04:10.608, Speaker A: Here's what you can do on the scrolls Alpha testnet. So I did mention scrolls girly testnet launched before. Before, just, just before in the episode. So yeah, if you're looking for things to do well, he's afraid from Swagdemus to show you what to do on there and the apps that are on there and the things that people have already built. This was put out on March 4, so I'm sure there's a lot more stuff on there as well. Swagtimus is a great follow for all things scroll and all things just three m generally. So I should, I definitely suggest giving him a follow up to here.
01:04:10.608 - 01:04:32.088, Speaker A: But yeah, this is just stuff for you to do. I've yet to play around with the test net because I obviously was traveling and I haven't gotten around to it yet. I'm definitely going to do it probably after I finish recording here. Scroll is just kicking goals with what they're doing with their ZKVM stuff. And, and yeah, so definitely go check out this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so the Atlas release.
01:04:32.088 - 01:05:16.790, Speaker A: So Rockerpool Atlas released that I spoke about just before. So they put out an update around this, basically a long blog post, one of those great rocket pool blog post explaining everything that's happening in the Atlas upgrade here. And the alpha from that blog post is that they're targeting a mainnet Atlas released for the end of March, early April. So this will be going live in time for the staked ETH withdrawals on Mainnet. And with the Atlas release obviously comes withdrawals for Rocketpool node operators at least. I'm pretty sure it does. From, from what I read, if I remember correctly here, as well as the ability to migrate 16 ETH mini pools to eight ETH mini pools as a current node operator, but also just spin up your own mini pool only using eight ETH plus 10% of that as RPL tokens as well.
01:05:16.790 - 01:06:00.284, Speaker A: So this is one of rocket pools biggest upgrades in history. It is coming very soon, as I said, end of March, early April. So I am super excited about this. I'm super excited to convert my mini pools into eight ETH mini pools and issue and get some more re three out there and get some more scalability of the rocket pool protocol because as I said before, guys like we need to, I guess diversify ETH staking out more lighter is over 30%. Again, we need to get that down. We have a perfect opportunity with staked ETH withdrawals going live to funnel people into decentralized solutions like rocket pool, like solo staking, like stakewise v three instead of going to these centralized solutions. I really don't have, like, as you guys know, like I don't hate lido like a lot of other people do.
01:06:00.284 - 01:07:09.324, Speaker A: I think that, that lido is just a consequence of us not building good enough tools for us to, to make it easier for people to, to stake in a decentralized way instead of a centralized way. So they are basically just a final boss for us. Maybe not a final boss, but like a big boss for us to beat, for us to get their market share down to at least under 20%. I know it seems like a tall order, but we can get there. Guys, with all the stuff coming online within the Ethereum staking ecosystem, not just the rocket pool Atlas upgrade, but things being built on rock on top of rocket pool like node set, solar staking getting easier stakewise v three like swell network, other staking ecosystems coming online and more. I guess solo stake is coming online as well because I'm sure there's, there's a, there's a decent chunk of people who have since staking their ETH, they've stacked, or maybe this, maybe they staked it with, with one of these, one of these centralized providers, whether they be centralized exchanges or lido, and they don't want to cash out of the LSD because they feel like, okay, well there's no point taking even a slight discount because I'll just wait and then I'll redeem it from the beacon chain and then with the extra eat that I've stacked, I'll become a solo staker or I'll stick with rocket pool, or I'll stick with this stake with that. Because Rocketpool hasn't actually been on mainnet very long, guys.
01:07:09.324 - 01:07:37.304, Speaker A: Like it's, it actually came much later in the Ethereum staking lifecycle than a lot of the other solutions did. But now that they're live, now they're improving all the time. With the Atlas upgrade going live, I'm sure we're going to see rocket pool rocket up in, in adoption post Shanghai. And I'm definitely going to be one of the people that keep encouraging people to stake with Rockerpool or stake, you know, as a solo staker, don't go with Lido. They've already got enough market share. As I said, I don't hate Lido. I don't think they're the evil actors or anything like that, but they're over 30%.
01:07:37.304 - 01:08:14.072, Speaker A: They definitely have enough market share. Let's encourage people to stake with other services here, which is exactly what I'm going to be doing. But anyway, if you want to read the full breakdown of Atlas for yourself, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so there was a book that was available at, I guess, ETH Denver, if you were able to find one, called stuff that crypto ogs know. This book was put together by Kevin Owocki and some of the Gitcoin team. And I had a passage in there that I basically put together for, for Kevin. He asked me to write something about, you know, what, what does a crypto OG know? Obviously I am a crypto OG these days, I guess, by definition.
01:08:14.072 - 01:08:55.736, Speaker A: But the book itself was really great. So if you were able to get your hands on it, it was great. I don't know if there's an ebook, maybe there is an ebook out there, but the book itself talks a lot about not just, it doesn't just have kind of like passages from different people, but it talks a lot about that, what a crypto OG knows from variety of different, different angles here. But I guess just to read out what I put in there, it's not too long, but something that I think a lot of you can resonate with. This is what I wrote in the stuff, that crypto ogs notebook. I said, and I quote, I first got into the crypto industry in 2013 when it was very nascent and bitcoin was the only real game in town. I was young and relatively strapped for cash at the time, around 21 years of age, with not more than a couple thousand dollars to my name.
01:08:55.736 - 01:09:27.972, Speaker A: But I decided to put around half of my money into BTC. Of course, I then proceeded to make the mistake that most first cyclers make. I tried to trade my way to more BTC and in the process lost around 90% of what I originally put in. Due to this, and due to the crash of BTC after Mt. Gox collapsed, I decided to cut my losses and exit the crypto industry altogether in early to mid 2014. It wasn't until early 2017 that I discovered Ethereum and became absolutely obsessed with it for two reasons. Proof of stake was incredibly fascinating to me, and the ability to actually build novel, decentralized applications spoke to the technologists within me.
01:09:27.972 - 01:10:16.222, Speaker A: But those three years that I wasn't around for cost me dearly. Since I missed out on things like the Ethereum ICO and missed out on being part of the earliest days of the Ethereum experiment, something that I still regret to this day, even in the face of. Of all the success that I've had, the biggest takeaway from my journey in crypto so far has been that sticking around in a bear market is the single best thing that you can do. All the opportunities lie in the bear market because all the quote, unquote tourists of the bull market have disappeared and what's left are the real builders producing real value. With this comes the opportunity to invest both time and capital into things being built, which can pay off greatly once the tourists return. My own experience here is a testament to this, since sticking around in the 2018 2019 bear market was the single best decision of my entire life. Though in saying that, the only reason I was able to make the decision to stick around was because I learned from my mistakes in 2014 and was determined to not repeat them.
01:10:16.222 - 01:10:33.438, Speaker A: So, yeah, I guess the gist of this, guys, is that learn from the ogs, right? Learn from my mistakes. Stick around in the bear markets. Stick around in ethereum. Build, build things. If you're a builder, if you're an educator, educate. If you are an investor, investor, it doesn't matter. Just do things.
01:10:33.438 - 01:10:50.198, Speaker A: Guys like, don't leave. That's my, that's what I beg of a lot of people that they're into crypto. I'm like, don't leave. You're gonna regret it. I know you're gonna regret it, especially if you're interested in the, in the technology side of things. You're not just interested in the money side of things, you're definitely gonna regret it from a number of different factors there. But, yeah, I hope that speaks to, to you guys.
01:10:50.198 - 01:11:16.036, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description for you if you want to read it as well. But yeah, I'm not sure if the, the actual book is available as an ebook. I'll have to to find out about that. But yeah, it was available physically at ETH Denver. Alright, next up we have an update from git coin. So they've put out a tweet here where they said gitcoin is evolving. We are proud to launch our new micro site, a hub for all things related to public goods funding, explore the future of gitcoin.
01:11:16.036 - 01:11:39.036, Speaker A: So yeah, the new site is live at Gitcoin Co. It is quite smooth. It's a lot better than the old sim and the old site was a bit clunky. It didn't really get the message across of what kitcoin is trying to do, whereas this one is definitely totally different. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. As I said at Gitcoin Co, there are different sections here so that obviously scroll down throughout the page. You can check out the grant stack, you know how it all works.
01:11:39.036 - 01:12:09.778, Speaker A: You can join, you can sign up down the bottom, I think it is. Yeah, sign up for info here and everything in between. And there's also a bunch of links down the bottom as well. So really cool to see that Gitcoin got an overhaul here. And there's also a little thread talking about bit what their new microsite has made it simple. So it's made it simple to run a grants program, apply to be a grantee, donate to your favorite projects and build on Gitcoins new protocols. So what Gitcoin is actually going for here is basically being rebuilt and reimagined as a protocol first, rather than some kind of like centralized.org
01:12:09.778 - 01:12:33.894, Speaker A: that was controlling everything. So being out, you know, spinning up as a protocol first, I think makes a lot of sense because it means that other people can build on top of it. It becomes more of a credibly neutral kind of public good itself. Right, because Gitcoin as a platform itself enables a lot of public goods funding, but it needs to be a public good itself if it wants to scale that out. So very, very cool to see this. As I said, you can check it out for yourself at Gitcoin Co. And I'll link the thread as well in the YouTube description below.
01:12:33.894 - 01:13:26.804, Speaker A: All right, so a pretty big announcement that happened during ETH Denver was that Amin here, who Amin Soleimani, who's been around for quite a while in the ethereum ecosystem, has announced the launch of something called privacy pools, which he's billing as a fix to Tornado cash. So basically a privacy pools is essentially a fork, I believe, of tornado cash, or at least very similar design to tornado cash here. That basically allows you to prove to regulators that you aren't enabling kind of, I guess, like terrorism financing and things like that. And the way it achieves this is by being able to exclude those people from, I guess, like your anonymity set or those groups from your non amidity set. And so the demo is here in this tweet@privacypools.com. Is where the service lives. So basically users have the option to help regulators isolate illicit funds without revealing their entire transaction history.
01:13:26.804 - 01:14:10.716, Speaker A: And amine in the demo explains how this works and how you can actually isolate the funds and so you're not using them when you're mixing. And you also got a way to kind of prove that cryptographically to regulators as well. So this is very, very cool, I think. I mean, I like the feature of being able to exclude certain deposits from your anonymity set so that you're not enabling any kind of like terrorism financing and things like that, though I do think it might be a bit of a slippery slope. And the reason why I say this and what I mean by this is that basically by excluding, I guess, for example, let's say it's North Korea or something, right? The addresses have been identified as North Korea and they're part of the anonymity set here. By, by excluding them, you're essential. I mean, and it doesn't have to be North Korea.
01:14:10.716 - 01:15:02.766, Speaker A: It could be anyone. But by excluding a party that has been designated as, I guess, like something that's been sanctioned or an illegal entity or whatever it is by the US government, what you're essentially doing is outsourcing your, I guess, who, who you're willing to do business with to the US government, I guess. And as a us citizen, you have to abide by that. Legally, there is no way around that. But the slippery slope that I'm talking about here is it is where does it stop? Right? Like, so for example, if you're in some kind of jurisdiction where they have for some reason deemed a group that is, I don't know. I said progressive group that wouldn't be deemed as an illegal group or as a terrorist group in any other jurisdiction, but they are because maybe you have an oppressive government and you have to basically abide by those rules. Essentially, you're cutting off a group that needs access to this sorts of stuff to fight back against oppressive regimes.
01:15:02.766 - 01:15:45.698, Speaker A: And things like that. So it does become a slippery slope, I think, as you kind of go down that reasoning there. But in saying that, I still think this tool is obviously very cool and I still think this is an evolution of tornado cash because it gives users a choice. It doesn't force users to be in the same pool as these, these actors that they don't want to be in the pool with so they can exclude them themselves. So if you go to privacy pools.com, you can actually check this out, check this out for yourself and play around with it on your own. As far as I know, and this isn't legal advice or anything like that, but as far as I know, because this is a new set of contracts and these contracts haven't been sanctioned by OFAC as a us person or a us citizen, you wouldn't be in violation of any existing kind of sanctions or laws here.
01:15:45.698 - 01:16:07.114, Speaker A: But as I said, that is not legal advice. I would recommend checking with your own lawyer or with your own kind of legal advice before interacting with this yourself. But that's my understanding of how these things work. And I believe amine it lives in the US. He does, he has, he has a, he has property in the US. So he's definitely considered a us citizen and he was comfortable using this. And I'm sure he has lawyers that he's spoken to about this.
01:16:07.114 - 01:16:45.766, Speaker A: But again, if you're concerned, and you should, you know, if you're worried about things and you want to get your own clarity, it's, it's more than prudent to do that yourself. But yeah, cool to say another similar privacy tool, live on optimism. It's not actually live on a three or mainet, it's live on optimism here. And as far as I know, optimism hasn't blacklisted this or anything like that, hasn't censored this, which they could, obviously, because optimism runs the only sequencer on the optimistic ethereum network. So they could easily blacklist this themselves. And this wouldn't, you know, it definitely wouldn't be able to be used and I'm sure they would if it was actually sanctioned. Like if OFAC came out and said that they were sanctioning the set of contracts that power privacy pools here.
01:16:45.766 - 01:17:24.834, Speaker A: While optimism would instantly, like, I'm not even like this is 100% certainty I'd put money on this that would instantly censor these sets of contracts because they have to, like, there is no way around it for them when running a centralized sequence. Sequencer runs this risk here. And that's why obviously, we want to decentralize sequences because it's better for censorship, resistance, and things like that. But right now, as far as I know, this is still live and working, so you can go check it out for yourself@privacypools.com. Dot as I said, like, from my understanding, there is nothing illegal about interacting with this because OFAC has not sanctioned these contracts and there is no law against it. But that's my understanding of it. I would suggest getting your own kind of legal advice on this, especially if you're a us person.
01:17:24.834 - 01:17:48.172, Speaker A: All right, so moving on here, we have a tweet from Matt Feinstone, which I thought was a really, really great tweet. So he said, people often say stuff like, I'm a decentralization Mac. I'd leave a theory if it no longer offered the strongest x guarantees. And then Matt says, I mostly disagree with this. I love a theorem. It's people, history, projects and projects. If there was another game in town, I'd fight for a theorem to improve.
01:17:48.172 - 01:18:07.518, Speaker A: Sure, if every person, entity involved lost their soul, capitulate. Capitulated, and left, a theorem would cease to be a theorem. But if, if it's just some work that needs to be done, we'd be able to course correct. That is the culture. And I strongly agree with this. And, you know, people will call me an ETH maxi all the time, and I'm used to it by now. I don't, I don't care.
01:18:07.518 - 01:19:09.640, Speaker A: People call me yet, but yeah, I'm in this camp that Matt is in. Like, just because there is something that happens within the Ethereum, I guess, like ecosystem, and Ethereum no longer offers something that it offered before, doesn't mean that I'm going to abandon aetherium and go somewhere else. I'm going to work on a theory. I'm going to work to rectify this issue on Ethereum. And I think the, the clearest example of this is what happened with the OFAC sanctions on tornado cash, which led to censorship on the Ethereum network via the mev boost relays. Now, if I had looked at that when it first happened and saw that 90% or 80%, I think it peaked out of all blocks were being, you know, of all blocks were censoring tornado cash transactions. If I looked at that and said, oh, well, Ethereum failed, you know, we, we failed at censorship, resistance, I'm going to move on now, well, that would have been stupid, because as you guys know, we've actually gotten that number down to under 40% now, and we have a much more diverse relay infrastructure now, and we have a much stronger and more sensitive, resistant, resistant Ethereum now because of those sanctions.
01:19:09.640 - 01:19:40.120, Speaker A: So that's what Matty's talking about here. That does. Just because something happens in Ethereum that compromises on the guarantees that the Ethereum network offers, or maybe some kind of like ideals or values that the Ethereum community has, doesn't mean that it's going to always be like that. The Ethereum superpower is being adaptable to these sorts of stuff. Ethereum superpower is having a community that comes together and works on and fixes these issues. And I've always said this about Ethereum for as long as I can remember, and that's what keeps me in Ethereum rather than other ecosystems. I'm not just going to jump ship because something bad happens.
01:19:40.120 - 01:20:10.434, Speaker A: There has been plenty of things that have happened in the Ethereum ecosystem that I thought were bad or I thought that could be potentially existential for Ethereum. But then take a step back and I think about it. I'm like, you know what? The Ethereum community is strong enough to get past this. And I think that the OFAC sanctions was the biggest test that the Ethereum ecosystem has ever had. And we passed that test, in my opinion, with flying colors. We did so, so well, and we continue to improve here. And there is so much happening behind the scenes and so much research and development happening that, you know, I think is amazing.
01:20:10.434 - 01:20:36.474, Speaker A: And, and all the people that kind of were talking about how all the blocks were going to get censored, it was going to be 100% censorship on Ethereum. They're all dead silent now. None of them talk about the fact that it's under 40% of all blocks that have censored that are being censored right now for tornado cash transactions, obviously, and the fact that that's been coming down steadily over time. I remember I called the top on this a little while ago. I said, you know, I believe 80% is the top. I believe it's going to be down only from here. And it has been.
01:20:36.474 - 01:21:00.092, Speaker A: And we really hasn't even scratched the surface of the improvements that we can bring here. There's still plenty of opportunity for more of these non censoring relays to come online. There's still plenty of research to be done and development to be done with things like similar to what happened with flashbots coming out with Minbid. Right. There is still lots of research and development happening on PBS, even though that's a little while away. I spoke to people at Ethan for about this. And there's a lot of research and development happening with PBS right now.
01:21:00.092 - 01:21:48.826, Speaker A: It's a wide open design space, and there's a lot of interesting and hard problems being worked on right now, and that alone will help a lot. And I think that the MEV space itself and the MEV boost ecosystem with the relays and everything, people really want to figure out the best way to do this, because it doesn't just affect l one etherium, it affects all l ones generally, but it affects l two s as well. Like mev at l two s is the next frontier for Mev. And I think a lot of the research and development being done there is going to inform a lot about l one. And obviously the goal is to remove as much toxic, toxic MeV as possible and to decentralize and democratize the extraction of Mev that can't be removed. And I think that we have so many smart people working on it, so many people that considering it, consider it to be such a tough problem that if they can solve it, that's going to be a huge win for them personally. Right.
01:21:48.826 - 01:22:22.420, Speaker A: Imagine being the person or the group that solved MEV once and for all, basically, right? Solved all the negative externalities that happen with meV. That is a huge claim to fame, and that is something that I think a lot of people will be very proud of if they were able to do it. So, yeah, that, that's all happening in the background there. But, but, yeah, that's just the perfect example of what Matt is talking about here, where a theory, the ethereum ecosystem in the ethereum community is so resilient that we can get past anything. I truly do believe that. I truly believe that there is nothing that can kill Ethereum at this point in time. I think that the Ethereum network itself is extremely resilient.
01:22:22.420 - 01:22:57.022, Speaker A: I think that the Ethereum community is extremely resilient. And just because I think that nothing can kill a theorem doesn't mean that I'm going to rest on my laurels and say, oh, well, you know, ethereum is, is bulletproof, it's fine. No, I mean, as I think that nothing can kill a theory, I'm. Because anytime that something attempts a kill shot on Ethereum, it may damage a theorem and may severely damage it in some way or another. But the Ethereum community's ability to take that and run with it and fix it, and not just rest in our laurels and not just lie down and let them kill us, so to speak, I think is a theorem superpower. So yeah, great tweet from Matt here that got my brain thinking, is spinning a lot. And Matt really deeply cares about a theorem.
01:22:57.022 - 01:23:10.124, Speaker A: I mean, I spoke to him a bunch at Heath. Denver hung around with him. He's such a great guy. He's working on Tyco now. You guys will know him from loop, ring and GameStop. He used to work out. He definitely is the one of the quintessential etherians in the ecosystem.
01:23:10.124 - 01:23:34.784, Speaker A: And. And, yeah, so again, thanks to him for putting this tweet out. Got my brain spinning. All right, so another thread that got my brain absolutely spinning was this from Rezu. And this is a thread that's about, I guess, like ten days old now. And you may have kind of read it already, but this thread talks about how Rezu believes that Coinbase is going. Is going to make USDC transfers free on their base.
01:23:34.784 - 01:24:16.208, Speaker A: L two. Now think about the implications of that for a sec. Technically, I mean, it's kind of hard to do this in such a way that works without gas subsidies. So, for example, the way this would be done, from my understanding, is that there would just be subsidies. So transferring USDC on chain wouldn't actually be free, because if you made it free, then it would just spam the chain and there is a potential for DDoS attacks and things like that, but it would be free from the end users perspective, where they basically got a rebate and the rebate would work. Technically, I'm not exactly sure how it would work, but essentially what it would mean is that you would pay a fee and then you'd get that back. Because at the end of the day, the only organization running a sequence site is Coinbase.
01:24:16.208 - 01:24:53.356, Speaker A: So you're paying the fee to Coinbase themselves. Right. And then Coinbase would just reimburse that and they will just eat the cost. And the reason why they would do this, well, there's lots of reasons, right? The fact that they could instantly make base a free payments layout for USDC for everyone, would be an absolutely massive kind of adoption driver because people would go there, they'd flock there, and they'd use it as payments infrastructure. You wouldn't use any of the other chains because it would be more expensive, because it's not free. Even if it's only one cent, two cents, whatever it is, to send it around, it would still be more expensive. And I know USDC has been a bit of drama around a bit of drama around it over the last 48 hours.
01:24:53.356 - 01:25:34.656, Speaker A: I'm going to talk about that at the end, because, as I said, I'm going through these updates as they came out. This is from March 3. But yeah, I'm not ignoring the elephant in the room here about USDC. I'm just going to talk about that a bit later. But anyway, this I think would be just a huge adoption driver for base and obviously stable coins, especially USDC is so deeply integrated within DeFi that it would be a huge drops in driver, not just for payments on base as l two, but the defi ecosystem that that's on there. I truly do believe that once base goes live on, Mainnet is going to quickly become the biggest l two and is going to bring in a lot of new users on chain that weren't brought in before. So this is definitely something that I can see happening.
01:25:34.656 - 01:26:27.918, Speaker A: It hasn't been confirmed or anything. This was just Raizou kind of speculating. But I think it would be a massive missed opportunity for Coinbase not to do this, even if it's only temporary, because obviously the costs can add up. Because even though I guess like it's, it's quote unquote free for Coinbase to do this, it's not because they're still processing the transactions themselves and they're still using some compute power on their sequencer to do so. But, you know, they're already doing that for all the whole network anyway, so it wouldn't be, it wouldn't cost them that much to do this and they would actually get back the value in base getting, I guess, adoption from this bit from USDC transfers being free, then the money that they'll pay out in kind of subsidies here. So I can see this happening. As I said, just speculation right now, but definitely an opportunity that I believe Coinbase would seize in a heartbeat because it would allow them to, as I said, get adoption on base very, very quickly and allow them to basically dominate the payments and be very good for USDC adoption as well.
01:26:27.918 - 01:26:43.886, Speaker A: So, yeah, remains to be seen if they'll do this or not. But I. My money's on. Yes, I think they will do this. I think this is a genius idea. And yeah, kudos to Razu for putting out this thread. All right, so speaking of payments infrastructure, Ryan Berkman had a great thread about CBDC.
01:26:43.886 - 01:27:16.620, Speaker A: So he said saying all cbdcs are created equally is as stupid as saying all stable coins are created equally. Australia's new CBDC pilot is on an ETH L two, not a private government run l one. This is great. It recognizes the value of our l one and enables future permissionless bridging use like USDC. So cbdcs obviously get a pretty bad rap, and I think for good reasons. A lot of cbdcs definitely look very dystopian, look very, very controlling. It looks like something that you would see in a movie about how the government controls all of your finances.
01:27:16.620 - 01:28:05.634, Speaker A: But as Ryan says, yeah, not all of them are created equally. There are going to be cbdcs that look very dystopian. Maybe the ones are kind of like in China, as Ryan says here, you know, it's a private system run totally by the governments, and then there are going to be many different shades of gray of cbdcs. And then there are going to be totally, kind of like USDC style cbdcs, which basically act like USDC in that it's open to everyone, there's no KYC required to use them and it's interoperable with, with Defi. And there's no kind of like whitelist or blacklist or anything like, oh, well, I mean, there is a blacklist, definitely, because USDC has a blacklisting function, but there's no kind of whitelisting function where you have to be approved to use it sort of thing. So I definitely think that, that Ryan's hitting the nail on the head here with this. And if you think that all cbdcs are going to be the same, yeah, I don't think you're paying attention, that's for sure.
01:28:05.634 - 01:28:33.856, Speaker A: But anyway, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out for yourself. All right, moving on. So a kraken is apparently launching a bank. So they've said here that Kraken bank is not yet open, but on its way. The offering will initially be available to existing Kraken clients in the USA with potential potential international expansion in the future. And you can subscribe for updates@kraken.com. Bank so you can see this is the landing page they've got here about this.
01:28:33.856 - 01:29:02.254, Speaker A: And they're calling it one of a safe and sound kind of bank. The designed for crypto. So it's going to be based in Wyoming. And they say here the Wyoming SPDI framework allows Kraken bank to prioritize asset custody and safekeeping, data protection, security standards and stringent regulatory oversight. SPDI banks are required to maintain full reserves, which means your money won't be lent out without your permission. And then they continue by saying a better bridge. Kraken's mission is to promote the adoption of digital assets for financial freedom.
01:29:02.254 - 01:29:46.416, Speaker A: Kraken bank will further that mission, providing a more seamless integration between crypto and the traditional finance system. This means a better client experience. So this is, this is pretty cool. It's pretty cool because it allows, as they mentioned here, Kraken to be more interoperable between the traditional finance system and the crypto system, allows them to own basically the end to end experience there, which, which means that the, the fiat deposits and withdrawals can be a lot faster. They can have full visibility over this and allow people to, to kind of like get in and out in a much more effective and efficient way here. They're not going to have to rely on a third party for their banking infrastructure. They're going to be able to control it all, all themselves and be able to control the inflows and outflows themselves, which is very cool.
01:29:46.416 - 01:30:35.074, Speaker A: And just generally, I think this is a good idea for all exchanges to do, honestly. I mean, Kraken obviously being one of the biggest in the US is promising, but I'm sure Coinbase is looking into stuff like this as well, because imagine Coinbase being able to essentially have their own bank and then have USDC, or at least the assets back in USDC custodied in, in there, and allow them to do things that they're already doing, like buying treasuries and being able to diversify them across not just their own bank, but like other, other banks as well. And as I said, I'm going to talk about USDC in a bit because that's been a talk of the town over the last 48 hours. But yeah, I just wanted to put this on your radar. As I said, you can sign up for updates here@kraken.com. Bank the top you can see here, and I'll link this in the YouTube description as well for you to check out. All right, so a fresh, massive raise from scroll.
01:30:35.074 - 01:31:26.214, Speaker A: So Scroll announced that they have raised $50 million in a new funding round at a $1.8 billion valuation. Now, I should disclose here that I am an investor in scroll, not this round, their previous round here, but this is a pretty big raise in, I guess, like a bear market, right? And as I mentioned at the beginning of the, of the refuel of this episode, I think Ethereum as an ecosystem has transcended bull and bear markets because you don't see these valuations in, you know, those quote unquote normal bear markets. But it makes sense. I think, as I've said before, the winning l two s are going to easily be worth north of $10 billion. I believe optimism is already there even though the op token, its distribution right now is quite, quite bad, I guess because it's only like five or 6% circulating and most of the tokens aren't circulating. But polygon that, you know, matic is worth around $10 billion.
01:31:26.214 - 01:31:46.762, Speaker A: I believe arbitrary is last funding around what is a billion dollar valuation scroll at 1.8 billion. There's a bunch of others out there as well, you know. Starkware I believe was over a billion too. So the l two s themselves, yeah, anywhere from 510, 15 billion I think is going to be what they're all kind of maybe going to settle around and. Yeah, it just depends where they go from there. Depends on their token distribution.
01:31:46.762 - 01:32:29.040, Speaker A: Looks like it depends how much adoption they get. Obviously, as you guys know, I don't believe that all of the l two s, they generalize l two s are going to succeed and have like massive market share long term. There will be some very big winners. But, but yeah, anyway, so, so this round had participation from a bunch of different investors here. As I said, $50 million raised. The investors include Polychain Capital, Sequoia China Bank Capital, Crypto, more capital Management, variet fund variant Fund, Newman Capital, iOS G Ventures, quimming Venture Partners and a bunch of others here as well. So they're, the last funding round that scroll did was their $33 million series A round, I believe, because I believe this is a series B round here and that's the one that I was in.
01:32:29.040 - 01:33:07.804, Speaker A: I just disclosure there. And they've raised $83 million to date. So congrats to them on this big raise. I think it's going to obviously give them a lot of Runway to keep executing on their goals. And I mentioned on this episode that scrolls girly test and that is live main, that hopefully sooner rather than later here. All right, so there was a bit of just chatter a few days ago about this new kind of thing called role kit, which was a, I guess like a framework for sovereign roll ups on bitcoin. Now I've talked about sovereign roll ups before and about how there's a bunch of projects working on this, such as sovereign and Celestia.
01:33:07.804 - 01:33:43.104, Speaker A: And I believe fuel labs is doing a bunch of stuff here, but I think there's a lot of confusion. So this thread from Sriram who, who's one of the founders of Eigen layer does a really great job of breaking this down. So I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below. But the TRDR here is that a sovereign roll up is very different to a, I guess like normal roll up. So I'll explain the reason why. So, and in the context of bitcoin. So what can this do? Well, basically, with taproot, bitcoin allows for data to be stored now on chain for a certain amount of time.
01:33:43.104 - 01:34:27.502, Speaker A: So it's basically like rough equivalent of ERP 4844 on ethereum with taproot on bitcoin. Now this has led to things like ordinals or nfts on bitcoin. And now, because it's just an arbitrary data field, you can also do sovereign roll ups on bitcoin. Now is this going to be anything of a big deal on its current form? I don't actually think so, because you're very much limited by bitcoins throughput. So you have like ten minute block times and four megabyte block size, which doesn't give you much throughput at all. But essentially how it would work is that it would work similar to a reverse validium type construction where you would store the data on chain. So you would store the data on bitcoin and then you would have a proof kind of off chain.
01:34:27.502 - 01:35:36.612, Speaker A: But you don't really have a proof off chain because it's kind of, it doesn't really make much sense to do that because of the fact that is that having the proof off chain basically just means that you're creating a new, I guess you're not creating a new l one, but you're creating a new kind of security set outside of bitcoin. So without confusing the issue too much here, what you're doing with this is that basically you're putting the data on bitcoin, which doesn't give you any of bitcoin security or decentralization guarantees over anything except the data. Now if you wanted to create, and if you create the, the roll up off chain itself, which, which, which it is off chain, you're only storing the data on chain. Essentially what happens is that the security, because you can't put a, you can't use validity proofs or fraud proofs on bitcoin. On layer one, the security assumption is the weakest link, which is the new kind of like off chain security that you have, which is essentially going to be a multi seq. So basically when it comes to roll ups, if you, if a roll up wants to inherit the security of a base layer, the bridge has to be. So the bridge where the assets are stored has to be on layer one, ethereum.
01:35:36.612 - 01:36:08.908, Speaker A: And it has to have a validity proof or a fraud proof mechanism. So for example, optimism and arbitrum, they have their bridge on layer one ethereum. They store both their data and their proof on there. And that way they inherit Ethereum's decentralization and security because you are able to use the fraud proof on, on layer one ethereum, and you don't have to rely on anything, anything else. It's all on chain or the data and the proof is on chain. You don't have to rely on any kind of like off chain stuff. Don't have to rely on Oracle or multisig, an off chain multi sig.
01:36:08.908 - 01:36:41.374, Speaker A: I mean, obviously right now, arbitrary own optimisms, fraud proofs are behind a multi sig, but that's a different kind of thing going on there. So, so, yeah, that, that's basically what this is. So DLDR is that this is technically correct, calling it a sovereign roll up, because a roll up just refers to rolling up the data and putting it on chain. But it is not equivalent to a roll up that we know, whether it be an optimistic or zk roll up, because it doesn't. It only stores its data on chain. It cannot have bitcoin, cannot prove the validity of the bridge. It cannot have fraud proofs or validity proofs.
01:36:41.374 - 01:37:02.422, Speaker A: And that means that the bridge has to be, or the funds have to essentially be stored off bitcoin so it doesn't inherit bitcoin security here. Hopefully, that is a good explanation. It can be confusing. So, as I said, like, this thread from Sriram was the best that I read on the topic. So you can go check it out. But that's basically what it is. Is this going to be anything important or cool? I don't think so.
01:37:02.422 - 01:37:29.122, Speaker A: I think the throughput limitations alone is going to basically make this something that's not attractive for people to develop on. And the costs will actually go up pretty quickly because there's not that much space. As I said, four megabytes every ten minutes. This isn't four megabytes every 12 seconds like in Ethereum. This is for. Well, okay, Ethereum block times at 12 seconds, but it's not four megabytes per block, but this is four megabytes every ten minutes. And I think Sriram actually did the math here on what that throughput would actually look like.
01:37:29.122 - 01:37:50.240, Speaker A: And I believe that it's something like something 30 kb or something, or something very, very small. So definitely not anything that's going to be a big deal. I think it's. I guess it's kind of cool that you can do this, but. Yeah, I just. I don't think that it's going to be that much of a deal for bitcoin because bitcoin has a data availability layer is not very good. And here's the tweet.
01:37:50.240 - 01:38:13.816, Speaker A: Yeah. So the only way to bet to get full bitcoin security requires writing all data to bitcoin. And the block limit is four megabytes slash ten minutes. So the data rate is 53 kb/second or kilobits per second, which is not great. It is very, very limited in throughput here, and it is no way competing with Ethereum. It really is just competing with itself. And I honestly don't think that it's that big of a deal.
01:38:13.816 - 01:39:11.744, Speaker A: But, but it's guess fun that people can do this right now and it's just another data availability layer that people could take advantage of if they wanted to. All right, so something that was announced here by Venkatesh Rao and Tim Bico put out a thread about this as well. So Venkatesh today announced, or I guess not today, a few days ago, announced something called the Summer of Protocols program, along with a draft of the pilot study that led to it, uh, which is called the unreasonable reasonable sufficiency of protocols, which I've been working on with a bunch of collaborators for the last three months. And then Tim has a thread where he says, after sitting on this for months, I'm thrilled we're finally announcing summeroffprotocols.com, comma, an 18 week program led by the one and only Venkateshire with the goal of improving protocol literacy or how to, to even think about protocols and their thorny questions. So if this is something that you may be interested in or sounds interesting to you, you can definitely go apply here. It is quite deep in the weeds.
01:39:11.744 - 01:39:43.628, Speaker A: It's basically all about protocols generally and how protocols work, how they can be improved, what value they, they bring to the world, and all that good stuff there. So if you're interested in that, you can go check this out and read more about it. I will link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have a new roadmap page on the ethereum.org website here, which basically covers everything that Vitalik has put out in his flow charts or roadmap flowcharts that I've covered before. So this is great. Is that ethereum.org
01:39:43.628 - 01:40:23.826, Speaker A: en roadmap? And you can actually see all, you know, different sections on the roadmap here. So if you want to learn about how we can reduce fees within Ethereum on the roadmap and just scaling Ethereum in general. Well, this page is for you, and it's done in kind of like a plain english summary way where you can click through and obviously learn more, learn more about Ethereum security, better user experiences, future proofing, how how the roadmap is defined, and all the good stuff there. So just another banger page here from the ethereum.org team to learn about all things Ethereum. And of course, the Ethereum roadmap is probably, if not the most important thing to learn about because it is not set in stone. But a lot of these things are definitely being worked on right now in parallel.
01:40:23.826 - 01:40:57.762, Speaker A: I've talked about all of them before, like the merge, the surge, the scourge, the verge, the purge and the splurge. There's a lot of work being done on the surge right now with erp 4844 and related upgrades. The scourge, you know, a lot of the things around Mev and pbs and stuff like that, the verge with vocal trees definitely being worked on, the purge and the splurge. There are some things happening there, but they are probably, I mean, as I've said before, this isn't a sequential thing. Everything's being worked on in parallel. But this purge and the splurge is definitely further out than any of the other stuff on this list right now. But yeah, it's all being worked on in parallel, as you can see.
01:40:57.762 - 01:41:40.280, Speaker A: But if you want to learn more about each of these things, you can go to the new ethereum.org roadmap section, which I will link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so another update out of the Defi llama ecosystem. They have launched a new DeFi llama browser extension that enhances etherscan with wallet tags, improves token pricing when browsing addresses, and protects you from scam. You can get this on the Chrome web store here. I do have this installed. It's pretty cool to see the different tags on Etherscan and stuff like that, and seeing all of the cool little features here like phishing link warnings and what else did they say here? Improvements in token pricing and things like that.
01:41:40.280 - 01:42:26.966, Speaker A: Actually, you can see in the thread what this actually what this looks like. So on Etherscan, you can see that there's a lot of different tags here that Defy llama has just basically injected there for you to check out. You can see that thousands of tokens are not priced on the standard ether scan, but now with Defy llama you can see. So you can see here on the left, without Defy llama, the extension on the right with Defy llama extension. Another feature is a small llama icon to show you if the URL you are visiting is trustworthy or is a scam site. I think that's probably going to be one of the biggest things for people is that little that you can see here, llama here that shows that which sites are scams, which sites are real. I think that's going to be a very big deal for a lot of people, especially the new, the noobs in this ecosystem that can rather easily get unfortunately caught up in these scams.
01:42:26.966 - 01:42:40.382, Speaker A: So yeah, you can go check out this extension for yourself. It's here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, of course, for you to do so. But yeah, as I said, I installed this. It's very cool. I like everything that it's but it's doing. I like to eat the scan features for sure.
01:42:40.382 - 01:43:26.276, Speaker A: And just another great product out of the Defi llama ecosystem here. All right, so another announcement out of Coinbase. So they've introduced something called wallet as a service, which they're saying it makes makes it easier for any company or brand to seamlessly onboard their users to web3, even if they have never used cryptocurrency before. Wallet as a service is a scalable and secure set of wallet infrastructure APIs, enabling companies to create and deploy fully customizable on chain wallets. Users can create, access and restore their wallets with authentication as simple as a username and password without needing to worry about a seed phrase. The wallets are deployed using wallet as a service. Use advanced multi party computation for added security, helping keep user assets safe by securely dividing, encrypting and distributing keys among multiple parties.
01:43:26.276 - 01:44:25.108, Speaker A: There's a bunch of companies already building with wallet as a service to onboard users to web3 experiences across gaming, token gated events and digital marketplaces. So just another big kind of like w or win here from Coinbase, another product that I think a lot of people are going to get a lot of value out of. Obviously developers are going to be able to integrate this into their own products and services in order for users to get value out of it. And I think the cool part is MPC because what NPC allows for is essentially self custody, where you have one of the keys and then maybe the service has one of the keys and then Coinbase has one of the keys and you could have this kind of recovery or this I guess, social recovery being done here without any one party having full custody over your funds, which I think is very, very cool. Now, of course, if you lose your keys, it could still be restored if it's a. If it's a two of three here. But if you lose your keys and, say, for example, Coinbase lost your keys, which would be very unlikely, but if they did, then the funds would be frozen rather than, I guess, like, I guess stolen.
01:44:25.108 - 01:44:59.378, Speaker A: So I think it's a happy middle ground where essentially you have this kind of fallback with these other entities that could basically, you know, sign things for you and bear and not take custody of your funds. And, you know, it could even just require your signature as well, which I think would be very, very cool. So. So, yeah, great, great job here from Coinbase releasing this for developers. I think they're going to get a lot of value out of it. All right, so a tweet here from Terrence sharing the latest research drop from Arbitrum. So a proposal to reduce the challenge window for the optimistic roll up protocol.
01:44:59.378 - 01:45:48.470, Speaker A: So I've said before how the challenge window right now on arbitrum and optimism is seven days, but there's no reason that this can't be reduced by a significant amount. So in this research post put together by Ed Felton and a bunch of comments from people here, which you can check out for yourself, they've been able to get this seven day window down to, I believe. Yeah. So 2 hours and 18 minutes, which is absolutely awesome. And honestly, the fact that they can get this down so much speaks to the fact that the seven days, I think, was ultra conservative to begin with. It definitely was something that was kind of thought of, let's just do seven days because it's super conservative. It gives us enough time to spot fraud if we need it, but we can bring it down in the, you know, we can bring it down in the future to some kind of like, much, much less of, I guess, like not, not seven days.
01:45:48.470 - 01:46:34.496, Speaker A: Right. Much less, much less time required to, to kind of have the challenge window here. Now, this isn't live on arbitrary or anything just yet, but if it does go live, you know, 2 hours and 18 minutes, it means that if you're happy waiting 2 hours and 18 minutes to get your funds out, you don't have to go through a breach or a third party bridge. You can go through the official arbitram bridge, wait 2 hours and 18 minutes or whatever the time ends up being, and get your funds out without paying an additional fee. And by going through the true canonical bridge itself, which obviously, I think is very, very cool, especially in times of where you want to do like a emergency exit from, from the l two. For whatever reason, instead of having to wait seven days, you could potentially only have to wait around two and a half hours, which is obviously very, very impressive. So you can go check out this research piece for yourself.
01:46:34.496 - 01:47:28.020, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so index co op launched a great new product which actually speaks very, speaks to me very, very nicely here. So they've called, they've introduced something called the Gitcoin staked ETH Index, which allows you to diversify your portfolio, decentralize the network and fund what matters. So what is this? Well, GTC ETH, which is the token ticket here, creates a sustainable source of funding for public goods via ETH staking rewards. Assuming a constant ETH price of 1700, a tvl of $1 million will generate $17,500 of annual funding for Gitcoin grants, earning GTC ETH a top ten spot in Gitcoin fund in Gitcoins funders leaderboard. So essentially what, what's happening under the hood is that GTCETH is made up of three different liquid staking tokens, Reth, Steth and Se two. It uses the same methodology as dseth, which I've spoken, spoken about before.
01:47:28.020 - 01:48:17.394, Speaker A: But the, I think the rewards or portion of the rewards goes towards funding public goods. And that's why it speaks to me on such a deep level is because I was thinking about doing something like this when I mentioned before with stakewise v three vaults, essentially redirecting a portion of the rewards or the fee that I would take from the daily wave pool that I would do and donating it at donating it to public goods. So very cool to see this new product from Index Cop, which of course you can go check out for yourself and buy. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so a tweet here from Mario Havel, who I actually met in Denver and he showed me this in person. So this is a device that he built. And you can see on my screen the picture here that generates randomness from cats and you can use it to contribute to the KZG ceremony.
01:48:17.394 - 01:48:59.440, Speaker A: So you could grab one of these devices from Mario at ETH Denver, but I'm sure most of you didn't grab one, but I wanted to highlight this anyway. So he's calling this proof of cat. So essentially what it allows you to do is it gives you, it gives, allows you to give like a cat this little ball for them to play with, and then it's got a little board attached to it that generates randomness based on the cat's movements. And then you can actually submit this randomness to the KZG ceremony. So you can see here that Mario describes this by saying catropy implements proof of cat and enables secure cat random number generator. It comes in a softball of various colors, gray, blue or pink, your own, which enables generating randomness using movement. You can just, you can just play with it and secure Ethereum.
01:48:59.440 - 01:49:19.706, Speaker A: And the KZG ceremony, I believe, is still ongoing. Let's, let's bring this up here on my other tab, if I bring it up. Yeah, so, yeah, it is still ongoing for another 36 hours, it seems like, and there have been 73,000 total contributions. This is insane. This is crazy. I did say that I expected up to 100,000. We're almost there.
01:49:19.706 - 01:49:44.646, Speaker A: I don't know if we're gonna get there. Maybe we get to 80,000, but that's a very, very good turnout. But yeah, if you were lucky enough to get one of these devices from Mario, you were able to get to do kind of a proof of cat here for randomness, which I thought was very interesting. So that's why I wanted to highlight that there for you guys. But you can check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, and if you haven't been able to submit to the KCG ceremony, you have another 36 hours to do so. Or actually just under 36 hours to do so here.
01:49:44.646 - 01:50:18.962, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out, of course. All right, last up here we have an update from Ingonyama. They've introduced something called icicle, which is an open source GPU library for accelerating zero knowledge proofs. Now, there's a blog post and a repo here, and they've actually introduced or have shown an example rust application called Fast Dank sharding. So you can check that out as well. And obviously it's in the blog post as well, and exactly what this is. But there's also a thread here with a funny little gif and, you know, explaining exactly what it is.
01:50:18.962 - 01:50:49.164, Speaker A: But the blog post does a better job here. Just wanted to highlight this for you guys. As hardware I accelerated zero knowledge proof proving is definitely going to be a huge thing going forward, especially as zks get more and more sophisticated and ZK's become more and more of a thing within the Ethereum ecosystem. So just something for you to check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, moving on to an announcement out of the ETH global ecosystem. So they've introduced something called pragma.
01:50:49.164 - 01:51:40.094, Speaker A: So basically what pragma is, is a one day or, yeah, one day single track in person summit hosted by ETH Global with a focus on intimacy. Pragma serves as a hub for high quality talks and a forum, and as a form of discussion for builders and leaders from the Ethereum ecosystem and beyond. Ethereum builders may recognize the name as all blockchain programs start with a pragmatic and starting with Tokyo, all ETH Global hackathons will as well. Pragma is not just the start of a builder's journey, but also a call towards pragmatism. Our hope is that Pragma will serve as the backbone of our pragmatic effort to bring Ethereum and web3 to wider audiences and move the needle for the ecosystem. So essentially what it is, is, as I said, like a one day event just before each of the ETH global hackathons, in order to, I guess, set the tone and set the stage for what the hackathons is about, have deeper conversations before the builders get going. So I think this is really cool.
01:51:40.094 - 01:52:25.398, Speaker A: 8th global obviously one of the leaders, if not the leaders of hackathons in the crypto ecosystem here, kind of creating another initiative that I think is going to bring a lot of value to a lot of people within the Ethereum ecosystem. So you can go check out the blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so there is a new testnet now live called caustin, which is a verkle testnet. So this time with proofs in blocks that conform to the new consensus spec. And you can find the tooling and links here at this, this link, which I'll link in the YouTube description below if you want to be part of this. And I did mention before about how there's a lot of effort still going into verkle trees and being built out, which we expect to be live on Mainnet, hopefully sometime next year.
01:52:25.398 - 01:52:51.074, Speaker A: It's definitely the next big thing after ERP 48 44, I believe. And it's coming along nicely. And as you can see, parathos behind this testnet, he's one of the people that, that are running and leading it here. So yeah, and parathos, for those of you who don't remember, was the, the guy that was doing all the shadow forks and still does. He does a lot of the, the testing for Ethereum infrastructure here. So yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
01:52:51.074 - 01:53:26.654, Speaker A: All right, so I've spoken a lot about Mev boost picks in the past and highlighted Tony's work a lot on the refuel. So he announced that the data behind Mevboost Pix website is now open source and available almost in real time. The first published table contains info on every slot since the merge, mevboost and the mapped block builders, validators and relays. More tables to come. This is a pretty big deal. I mean, you can get the raw data now. Like if you go to MevBoost Pix and you see the data that's on the website here, you can actually view the raw data for yourself and view the source on GitHub and download it all.
01:53:26.654 - 01:53:59.762, Speaker A: So you can see that the ETH data is available right now, you can download it for yourself and then you. And then coming soon is a bunch of other data that that Tony has been tracking. And then you can go on the GitHub as well and check, check out everything for yourself. So great to see that this has been open sourced and it's available for everyone to kind of verify themselves and do their own kind of, I guess you could say deep dive on it. And as you guys know, the mev boost pics website is probably. No, no, it is the best website for keeping up with all things meV. Whether it's keeping up with relays, builders, validators, anything in between.
01:53:59.762 - 01:54:32.390, Speaker A: This is definitely the site that you should, you should be bookmarking and visiting if you're at all interested in meV. And now you can do your own deep dive using the raw data and viewing the source on GitHub, which I'll of course link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. So I mentioned earlier how Taiko had shared their roadmap. So this roadmap is the core milestones on their way to Taiko Mainnet. And they say here theorems commitment to roll ups is strong. Incredible roll ups commitment to a theorem ought to be the same. And then they've put some highlights in this thread as well as a blog post.
01:54:32.390 - 01:55:22.616, Speaker A: But the meat of the roadmap is in this image here, as you can see on my screen. So essentially the roadmap is divid up into five different sections with different dates. So the alpha one testnet has been live since December, so then you can see what was included in that. In March. The alpha two testnet is going live. I don't know if this is live just yet, but yeah, it's going live this month in Q two, Q three of this year, there's going to be more alpha test nets, and you can see all the things that included underneath there in Q three, Q four, there's going to be several beta test nets. And then in early 2024, they're expecting Mainnet to go live with all of the features listed underneath, such as permissionless proposers, permissionless provers, permissionless regular l two nodes, full EVM circuits, complete fees and rewards design, the infinite Garden of dapps, and being live on the Ethereum mainnet.
01:55:22.616 - 01:56:16.316, Speaker A: So yeah, they're basically only live on a private l one right now. And then the rest of their testnets will be going live on Sepolia with their main nets. So with their mainnet obviously being live on Ethereum mainnet early next year. But yeah, I'll link this blog post in this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But great to see Tycho put their public roadmap out there so that we can all follow along with their progress and development of getting to a fully decentralized and permissionless main net in early 2024. All right, so, God, I hate that I'm always having to like, have this discussion here, but there was, I guess, like a few days ago, the New York attained attorney general's office filed a lawsuit against the crypto exchange Ku coin, and they alleged that it, they sold securities such as ETH, Luna and UST. So basically, the New York attorney general's office is calling ethos security here.
01:56:16.316 - 01:56:50.408, Speaker A: Now, obviously, this set people off into like a spin and like, oh my God eats labeled a security, blah blah. No, that's not how it works. And Jake Shewinski actually had a great tweet here where he said, no, ETH isn't a security just because someone makes an unfounded allegation. Even if that someone is an enforcement agency, in court agencies are like any other plaintiff. They can write whatever they want in a complaint. It may get some press, but it doesn't change a thing. So just because they say it's a security, even if Gary Gensler was to say that ETH is a security or that he believes ETH is a security, the american government is not a dictatorship there.
01:56:50.408 - 01:57:19.030, Speaker A: Gary Gensler is not the God king of America. He can't just declare whatever he wants. He has to go through the process, right? The due process. So if he wanted to label either security, if anyone wanted to label Ethan, security as a security, they would have to prove it in court, honestly. And to prove it in court, it would be extremely hard. Right. And even if they were able to get a settlement and say not just for either, for anything where the party says, okay, well, yeah, this was a security at the time that we sold it in ICO, but it's not a security anymore.
01:57:19.030 - 01:57:38.198, Speaker A: There's not going to be many kind of like teams, especially the big teams that have issued tokens that are going to be willfully admitting that their thing is currently a security. Right. Especially when it comes to ETH, where you can't actually go after anyone. There's no one to go. You can't go after the Ethereum foundation. The Ethereum foundation is not going to be a defender in a case here. There's no other entity to go off.
01:57:38.198 - 01:58:18.496, Speaker A: There's no centralized entity to go after if you were trying to get ETH label to security. So, as I said, like, and as Jake says here, just because someone says or alleges that ethos is a security doesn't make it so. And honestly, I don't know if my tweets here, but I basically tweeted out as well by saying that the dumbest stuff that I see on crypto Twitter is all the people saying that ETH is a security. Whenever some agency kind of files a report where they say or they allege that Ethos is a security, that's not how it works at all. And I strongly believe that ETH is never going to be labeled a security. It is a commodity money, and it's going to remain that way. And I obviously believe that the SEC right now is a rogue agency.
01:58:18.496 - 01:58:40.408, Speaker A: And I don't like Gary Ganz's approach to things, but I, you know, not even he has the power to unilaterally decide that any crypto asset is a security, especially not one like ETH. So, yeah, I wouldn't worry about this sorts of stuff, guys. I would ignore it. Honestly, a lot of the ETH haters, especially the bitcoin maximalists, always use this to say, look, ETH is a security. No, it's not. Until. I mean, until.
01:58:40.408 - 01:58:59.368, Speaker A: And it's probably, as I said, I don't believe this is gonna happen. But the only way, as I said, it is gonna be labeled as security is if it is actually proven in court that it is a security, which it is not. It definitely isn't. I don't believe it is. There's a lot of people out there who don't believe it is. And make an argument for it. And then people that are saying that it's a security are the ones that don't like Ethereum.
01:58:59.368 - 01:59:30.724, Speaker A: And that's just silly, right? That's not the way to do things. It's not. Not the people to listen to. But yeah, it just pops up every now and again and it gets me really frustrated because Ethereum is not a security, and just because some agency says that it is or the alleges that it is, doesn't make it so, as Jake has said here. All right, so element finance has brought out something that they're calling the council kit. So this is version 0.0.1 of the council kit, which is an SDK for launching, building and maintaining daos and their governance systems on demand.
01:59:30.724 - 02:00:22.810, Speaker A: It is fully documented with video and code tutorials and a customizable themable UI. So you can go to council Dot, element Dot fi to check this out for yourself and get started with it. There's, there's a whole section here for getting started with it. Now, Dows is one thing that I think is still going to take a while to kind of get to the point where we want them to get to, but there are a lot of things happening on this front, not just with the Dow, I guess, infrastructure itself, but also the things that feed into it, such as decentralized identity, different token distributions, different experiments around token holder governance and stuff like that. It's all fitting into each other and it's all being worked on, I think, in parallel. But yeah, you guys know my general opinion on governance within crypto. I do believe that decentralized governance at scale is very, very hard to do, if not impossible to do, especially when it comes to on chain governance.
02:00:22.810 - 02:01:11.698, Speaker A: I personally prefer the model of having like a council where you have like a bunch of, of people and organizations working together. You know, the founding team can be in there, and then there's other organizations working together to basically govern the protocol, so to speak. I think maybe the closest example of this is the rocker pool, Odell, where, you know, the core team, the core rocker pool team has a few odour nodes. There's the rocket scientist, which is another team that build and builds with rocket pool. There are various community members. There are people that build on the Ethereum core protocol, like Lighthouse, for example, or Sigma Prime, I should say, for example. And then you have core community members like myself and super fears and a bunch of other people there that are kind of like governing the protocol as much as it can be governed, so to speak, with the Odao stuff, I think that's the better model than basically having it so that everyone has a voice, so to speak.
02:01:11.698 - 02:01:58.470, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, not everyone's voice is equal when it comes to protocols. Like for example, if I went into a community where I have absolutely no idea what's going on, I don't even know how the protocol works. Why should my voice be worth the same as someone who spends every day in that ecosystem? Right? Like, that doesn't make any sense at all. So, yeah, I think that the most successful, probably governance, or I guess like governance architectures and the most successful protocols that integrate governance are the ones that use a council model. I believe that that's, that's truly going to be the way it is, especially for the foreseeable future. And tools like what element finances brought out here will help a lot with that, I believe, as well. All right, so Coinbase has introduced a web3 discovery, I guess like website called coinbase.com
02:01:58.470 - 02:02:27.734, Speaker A: web3. I believe I talked about this, I think maybe a couple months ago where they first brought this out or first talked about this. But basically it's a way to explore the best dapps that web3 has to offer. As they say here, they're all ranked and everything and you can sort by different categories. This is definitely a really nice tool for noobs that don't really know where to start. You know, if you don't know where to start with kind of collecting and swapping and earning and all that sorts of stuff, you can, you can just click here and get started straight away. It also lists what networks these things are on.
02:02:27.734 - 02:02:55.422, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I believe I did highlight this a couple months ago, but I believe that this is now live for anyone to kind of play around with. And it's much more fleshed out as well. And you've also got the different kind of rankings here as well. I don't know what these rankings are based on and it's probably based on rating and the amount of people that use the actual service here. But yeah, this is really cool. Another banger product from Coinbase that they've brought out here, which you can check out, of course. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, or you can go to coinbase.com
02:02:55.422 - 02:03:50.410, Speaker A: web3. All right, so a new research post from Justin Drake here called based roll ups. So basically the gist and the TLDR of based roll ups is that Justin says here we highlight a special subset of roll ups we call based or l one sequence the sequencing of such roll ups based sequencing is maximally simple and inherent l one's liveness and decentralization. Moreover, based roll ups are particularly economically aligned with their base l one. So this is very similar to, I think, enshrined roll ups, which is a roll up concept that's been around for a while. Tazos is actually experimenting a lot with this, but the definition, the strict definition of what this is is that a roll up is said to be based or l one sequenced when its sequencing is driven by the base l one. More concretely, a base roll up is one where the next l one proposer may, in collaboration with l one, searches and builders, permissionlessly include the next roll up block as part of the next l one blog.
02:03:50.410 - 02:04:23.072, Speaker A: So it's basically having a tight coupling between the roll up itself and l one itself. And then Justin lists out the advantages and disadvantages of this model. So the biggest disadvantage of this model is that there's no mev income for the roll up itself. It foregoes the mev to the l one validator, so to speak. And then there's constrained sequencing here as well. But those are base, basically the only two disadvantages that Justin has come up with. But there's a bunch of other advantages here, which is the same advantages you get from being on l one, such as liveness, decentralization and simplicity.
02:04:23.072 - 02:04:57.432, Speaker A: So I recommend giving this post a read. There's a bunch of replies here as well, talking about this. It's very interesting, I think, and I think that the more experimentation we do with roll ups, the better we're going to get. The better roll ups we're going to get, because I think sequencing is definitely a big deal. Like how do you decentralize a sequencer? What do you do with MeV with the sequences? How do you get the same guarantees you get as l one? Well based roll ups, or based or l one sequence roll ups are probably one of the pods that we can use to get there. But as I said, this is just a research post right now. Hasn't been developed or integrated or anything like that.
02:04:57.432 - 02:05:24.052, Speaker A: But when Justin Drake puts out something, I listen, that's for sure. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so this is a really cool update from bankless. So they're calling this bankless 2.0, which is now live. So this is a brand new bankless website, which is actually a really, really awesome website. This is not just your run of the mill kind of like shitty website that's just been put together or thrown together.
02:05:24.052 - 02:05:41.614, Speaker A: This is really, really awesome. It's very smooth, it's very responsive. You can actually log in with your kind of a theorem address here. I've logged in with Sassle dot Ethan. You can see it says here, GM Sassel Zero X. It's got. And you can actually subscribe and become like what's called a citizen or a paid member.
02:05:41.614 - 02:05:55.026, Speaker A: And then you get access to all these exclusive things. You've got all the content down here, all the bankless content. They just put their ETH Denver experience up. So maybe that's something you want to go check out after this refill episode. Different tools. Yeah, I mean, I really love this website. It's great.
02:05:55.026 - 02:06:16.226, Speaker A: I highly recommend giving it going to check it out. As I said, it's at bankless.com and it really captures, I guess, the community feel and the community aspect of what bankless is building here. Because bankless is not just a podcast, it's an ecosystem. They're doing so many really cool things. I'm sure you guys saw that they're doing a venture fund now as well, so they're doing a lot, that's for sure. And you.
02:06:16.226 - 02:07:01.488, Speaker A: Yeah, this is just a way for them to highlight everything that they're doing. So you can go check out bankless's new website@bankless.com. All right, so Terrence from the pro labs team, or the, I guess like the Albatrum team, now put together a tweet thread where he said this is low key, the most interesting and important pr for the Ethereum protocol right now, which is called allow the execution layer to suggest local execution. So this is supposed to help with censorship resistance on Ethereum. And as Terrence says here, we want minimal censorship, resist censorship as possible from the builders and relayers. And we have obviously solutions for that. But there's also this solution here in this pr, which as I said, Terrence details a little bit in this thread, but also in the pr, there's a bit of a description about what this does.
02:07:01.488 - 02:07:29.610, Speaker A: So as I said earlier, we're still working on ways to mitigate censorship on Ethereum. That is a result of things like Mev and Mev Boost. And this is just another one of those things that I figured I would highlight for you guys. And yeah, as I said, will link it in the YouTube description below for you to learn more about. But yeah, I've got a few more updates to get through before I end today's mega episode. I'm getting pretty tired now, so I'm going to try and get through the last two things here. So just another update from Tony from the MEV boost pigs website.
02:07:29.610 - 02:08:03.876, Speaker A: Just saying that we already set a new record and MEV boost payments per day even larger than during the FTX fiasco. Proposes earnings skyrocketed and this was due to all of the volatility, volatility around USDC over the last 48 hours, which is going to be the last thing I talk about in just a sec. But unfortunately my validators didn't propose a block during this, which kind of annoyed me because I was like, oh my God, there is so much kind of mev being extracted right now. There are so many high proposal payments being paid out right now. I really hope that I propose a block. And of course I didn't. So maybe I'll propose a block today when gas is a lot lower.
02:08:03.876 - 02:09:17.338, Speaker A: Gas was actually above 300 and above 200 gray for a little while there because there was so much mev stuff happening due to the USDC deep, which I guess is the perfect segue into the USDC deep, which is the biggest news story, I think, over the last poor for a while now, actually. So to give you a big, a bit of a TLDR of what's happened here, USDC de pegged from its usual dollar to under $0.90 because of a bunch of silly reasons. And I think that to give some context here, I have to go back to Friday, which is when the, you've probably heard of it by now. The Silicon Valley bank, one of the largest banks in the US, was shut down and taken over by FDIC, which is an organization in the US that ensures bank deposits, but also handles unwinding banks deposits and getting them back to, or getting them in the hand, getting them into the hands of depositors in a timely fashion here. So essentially, the reason why USDC got caught up in all of this is because the USD, or at least the assets, not just the cash assets, but also the treasury bonds and things like that, are custody with various us banks. And one of those banks was Silicon Valley bank.
02:09:17.338 - 02:09:41.170, Speaker A: So there was $3.3 billion worth of assets that are currently stuck on Silicon Valley bank that are backing up USDC. Now, people took this to mean that those $3.3 billion worth of assets are gone. That is not what it is at all. The amount of assets that will be returned to circle here, and of that $3.3 billion is probably almost 100% of that.
02:09:41.170 - 02:10:07.574, Speaker A: Now, even if you take like the, one of the worst case scenarios where it's only 90%. That means that 10% of the assets will not be returned, which means that 10% of $3.3 billion is $330 million. So at worst, $330 million. There'll be a $330 million hole in the assets backing up USDC, which represents less than 1% of the assets backing USDC. Which means that logically, USDC should be trading at $0.99, not under ninety cents.
02:10:07.574 - 02:10:54.282, Speaker A: And even that 330 million million dollars hole would be easily filled by circle themselves, who earned much more money than that of interest payments alone off of their treasury holdings, or the yield payments, I should say, off their treasury holdings. So the real hole is $0. So the reason why USDC de pegged so much was because of fear and panic and traders making taking advantage of it. Ryan, people not knowing what was going on. There's a lot of people comparing USDC to, to us t and to terror, which is just a stupid comparison. But people do this stuff during times of fear and uncertainty, right? And also Coinbase disabled direct redemptions of US DC for. For USD, because banks are closed and they on the weekend and they wouldn't be able to process all the withdrawals.
02:10:54.282 - 02:11:24.786, Speaker A: So they basically just paused it. Which means that the only way that USDC could actually go back up is if people buy US DC on the open market. They can't arbitrage the. I guess like they can't buy USDC for ninety cents and then redeem it for real USD and arbitrage that ten cent price movement, because the redemption function is closed. So that's why USDC is not trading at a dollar right now. Come Monday morning, I strongly believe that USDC is going straight back to a dollar. The redemptions will be open, the redemptions will be fine.
02:11:24.786 - 02:12:07.500, Speaker A: Circle will get most of the money back and from the Silicon Valley bank, and then they're going to plug whatever holder is with their own money and everything's going to be fine. I don't believe that for a second that there is any risk that USDC is going to be. The assets backing USDC are going to be completely gone or insolvent, and that USDC is going to zero. I don't believe that at all. I understand people's fear and uncertainty, but I also think that if you use your brain a little bit and you actually look at everything that goes into this and all the facts around it, you would realize that this is a very temporary thing and it's going to get resolved very quickly. And if you're a savvy investor, or I guess like someone who likes taking a bit of risk, you can take advantage of this, which is what I did. I started buying USDC under ninety five cents.
02:12:07.500 - 02:12:31.118, Speaker A: I bought a bit under ninety cents. I haven't sold it yet. I'm going to wait until Monday, I'm going to wait until it goes back to $1, and then I'm going to sell it and I'm going to make an instant five to 10% profit. And I'm going to roll that into ETH and happy days for me. So, yeah, if you, if you have an appetite for that, I believe USDC is still trading at about $0.95. But as I said, like, just understand that it's not like 100% risk free. There is always a risk with everything that you do when it comes to speculative activities.
02:12:31.118 - 02:13:07.338, Speaker A: But to me, I looked at it and I'm just like, people are crazy right now. There's no way that USDC, he's insolvent, there's no way that it's going under. It's totally fine. And I still believe that. So that's the TLDR of what happened there. But really, the real story had nothing to do with crypto. It had everything to do with Silicon Valley bank and how it's a big bank for tech cos and crypto cos and how they had a bank run, essentially, and they weren't able to meet their obligations because of the fact that if you know how fractional reserve banking works, no bank in the US holds most of their customer assets in cash.
02:13:07.338 - 02:13:37.410, Speaker A: They actually buy treasuries or buy treasury bonds and things like that, all lend out the assets. And I think they're only legally required to hold 10% as cash. And post pandemic, I believe it got changed to 0%. I don't know if that's been changed back yet. But, yeah, you may be naive to think that banks hold it, and every single bank in the US, every single one, is subject to a bank run. They do not have the liquidity. And that's the thing I think a lot of people missed, is that this is not a solvency issue for Silicon Valley bank.
02:13:37.410 - 02:14:32.924, Speaker A: This is a liquidity issue where they just do not have the liquidity on hand straight away to process all withdrawals, but they can if they sell off their assets and get the cash equivalents for it. Now, of course, there is going to be a bit of a loss here, because these treasuries that they bought when. When yields were lower, there's kind of, I guess a mismatch here because obviously the rates went up, the interest rates went up, and there is a mismatch here where they're holding these kind of underwater assets and they may take a five to 10% hit, but that is, from what I've seen, the biggest hit that they will take from these, from these things. So as I said, if you say that circle will get back 90% of their assets from Silicon Valley bank, there is a 10% hole of $330 million. They can easily cover that themselves. So in reality, there is not a hole at all in USDC. And the backing of USDC and USCC should logically be trading at $1, which I believe it will on Monday or early next week when this all gets.
02:14:32.924 - 02:14:53.950, Speaker A: When this all gets kind of like ironed out and Silicon Valley bank is probably just going to get absorbed by another bank anyway. That's how these things work. Hopefully that explains it for you guys. But on that note, I think I'm going to end it there on this mega episode. So thank you all for sticking with me and listening and watching. Hopefully I can be back to our regularly scheduled programming tomorrow on Monday. I think I'm all good now.
02:14:53.950 - 02:15:11.814, Speaker A: I've still got COVID, but as I said, the coughing fits seem to have stopped and my energy levels are returning. But yeah, hope you enjoyed that episode and I'll catch you all tomorrow. But yeah, subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel as I said, I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
