00:00:02.330 - 00:00:51.510, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap Capital Crypto Lawmakers and Presidential hopefuls Weigh in this week apart from the new DeFi bill we just discussed, the US. Political landscape buzzed with crypto related discussions. During an event at the Atlantic Council. Senior house Republican French Hill and Democrat Jim Heims, both members of the financial services Committee, emphasized the need for comprehensive, stablecoin legislation. Hinting at a potential bipartisan agreement, Hill stated, quote we do want to facilitate a state pathway, but we don't want any race to the bottom, suggesting that stablecoins could fall under Federal Reserve review. During the episode, Bill Hughes clearly said that the crypto community should focus on the stablecoin bill as well as the market structure one.
00:00:51.510 - 00:01:56.526, Speaker A: Meanwhile, presidential candidates have been vocal about their crypto stances. Democratic hopeful Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Proposed exempting bitcoin from capital gains tax and backing the dollar with hard assets like gold, silver, platinum and bitcoin. On the other hand, Republican candidate and current Florida Governor Ron DeSantis pledged that if he is elected, he would ban central bank digital currencies, citing concerns over, quote, government sanctioned surveillance. SEC and Ripple Clash Gensler Disappointed Ripple CEO Optimistic SEC Chair Gary Gensler said he was, quote, disappointed over the recent court ruling that declared that sales of XRP on public exchanges were not securities transactions, but that institutional sales in which the buyer and Ripple Labs had established a legal relationship were securities transactions. Gensler, speaking at a National Press Club event, emphasized the SEC's commitment to bringing non compliant firms into compliance and protecting investors.
00:01:56.526 - 00:02:37.962, Speaker A: Meanwhile, Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse expressed optimism, stating that the ruling clarified XRP's status and that an SEC appeal would further solidify the judge's decision. The ruling has sparked debate in Washington with some U. S. Lawmakers advocating for clearer congressional oversight of crypto. The full court process over XRP could take years. According to recent Unchained guest Lewis Cohen, SEC clock ticks for Spot Bitcoin ETFs six applications under review. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the SEC began the formal review process for six Spot Bitcoin ETF applications, including those from industry giants BlackRock and Bitwise.
00:02:37.962 - 00:03:38.254, Speaker A: The review process, which officially starts when applications are published in the Federal Register, sets an initial deadline of 45 days, extendable to 240 days. The SEC's acceptance of these applications marks a significant step in the agency's decision making process. However, there's no guarantee of approval as the SEC has previously rejected numerous spot bitcoin ETF applications, citing investor protection and anti fraud standards. Despite this, the involvement of BlackRock has sparked optimism among crypto investors. An SEC approval of these applications could open the floodgates for institutional investments in Bitcoin, marking the end of a long wait by crypto investors. Finance Lays off 1000 Employees Wall Street Journal Binance, the world's largest crypto exchange, recently made significant cost cutting moves. According to the Wall Street Journal, the company laid off over 1000 employees worldwide, a major reduction from its previous workforce.
00:03:38.254 - 00:04:32.302, Speaker A: Of around 8000. Binance CEO Chengpeng Zhao said that the numbers were, quote, way off and that the company is still hiring. Additionally, Binance has reportedly scaled back employee benefits due to a decline in profits. The company is said to have stopped reimbursing certain expenses, including mobile phone usage, fitness and remote work costs. Crypto media giant CoinDesk is on track for a $125,000,000 acquisition an investor group headed by Matthew Rosak of Tally Capital and Peter Vesnis of Capital Six is on the verge of finalizing a $125,000,000 deal to acquire crypto news outlet CoinDesk. According to the Wall Street Journal, the purchase will allow the parent company Digital Currency Group to maintain some ownership in the media publication. This move comes after DCG, which has faced financial difficulties and legal challenges, explored various options for a sale.
00:04:32.302 - 00:05:45.222, Speaker A: CoinDesk's current management is set to remain post acquisition. BlockFi ignored warnings Creditors say BlockFi, the bankrupt crypto firm, is under fire as creditors allege that the lender's, CEO Zach Prince, ignored warnings about the shaky financials of FTX and Elementa Research and continued to increase lending to both entities. The report reveals that Blockfly had access to the same balance sheet that later triggered FTX's collapse. And despite knowing that Alameda's assets relied heavily on FTT, BlockFi continued lending, leading to losses of over $1 billion. The report also highlights three major failed investments that led to staggering losses for BlockFi the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, or GBTC, Three Arrows Capital and Alameda and FTX. These allegations suggest that mismanagement and excessive risk taking were significant factors in the company's downfall, whose leadership hasn't suffered as many accusations as most of the other collapsed crypto companies. Coinbase CEO advocates for Crypto Legislation amid SEC scrutiny According to Bloomberg, Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong is set to meet with the New Democrat Coalition, a group of over 100 House Democrats committed to pro economic growth and innovation.
00:05:45.222 - 00:06:44.734, Speaker A: They intend to address issues ranging from taxes to national security to privacy to climate. This comes as Coinbase faces lawsuits from the SEC for allegedly failing to register their operations with the agency. Despite the legal challenges, Armstrong remains a vocal critic of the SEC's stance on cryptocurrency and has been pushing for clearer rules around digital assets. Meanwhile, Coinbase has paused its retail staking service in four states due to regulatory requirements. Ex Alameda CEO's diaries reveal struggles the New York Times obtained access to the diaries of Caroline Ellison, former Alameda research CEO and ex girlfriend of Sam Binkman Fried, in which he chronicled her discomfort with her position and her personal relationship with Binkman Fried. She doubted her ability to lead at Alameda, listing leadership and decisiveness as areas in which she felt she floundered. Additionally, Bankman Fried's rising fame and their romantic past caused her angst as she stated, quote, having to be around you all the time, hearing people talk about how great you are all the time.
00:06:44.734 - 00:07:45.330, Speaker A: As their fraudulent operations crumbled, Ellison expressed relief, writing to SPF quote I just had an increasing dread of this day that was weighing on me. Now that it's actually happening, it just feels great to get it over with. Despite the crucial role she played, she received significantly lower compensation $6 million compared to other executives, such as the hundreds of millions of dollars that went to Gary Wang and the Shot Singh, and the billions that went to Bankman Freed. TerraForm Labs seeks FTX data for SEC case defense TerraForm Labs is seeking court approval to subpoena transaction details from the defunct cryptocurrency exchange FTX for its legal defense against an SEC lawsuit. The company facing accusations from the SEC of misleading investors with its algorithmic stablecoin terra USD, which collapsed, claims a coordinated short attack precipitated the currency's downfall. The lawyers insist that the records from FTX are essential for performing analysis to refute the SEC's claims. The hearing on the motion is scheduled for August 2.
00:07:45.330 - 00:08:48.674, Speaker A: Celsius allocates $24 million to fees from GK Eight sale Bankrupt crypto lender Celsius proposed a $25 million settlement from the proceeds of the GK Eight sale to its Series B holders. A hefty $24 million of this sum is earmarked for legal expenses, with a remaining $1 million to be distributed amongst the group. The self custody platform GK Eight was sold to Galaxy Digital as part of Celsius's bankruptcy proceedings at a price significantly less than the $115,000,000 Celsius originally paid. The proposal has sparked controversy among Series B shareholders, with some arguing that the $24 million does not fully cover their illegal expenses. Meanwhile, former Celsius CEO Alex Machinsky faces charges related to a multibillion dollar fraud and market manipulation scheme. Arkham's Intel Exchange debuts with a bounty hunt for crypto mysteries Arkham Intelligence's native token ArkM made a splashy debut on binance launchpad, trading at $0.75 after an initial sale of $0.05.
00:08:48.674 - 00:09:49.446, Speaker A: However, the launch of a related offering, Arkham Intel Exchange, stirred controversy. The platform offers bounties for crypto sleuths to solve high profile cases, including the $450,000,000 FTX heist, which will be rewarded with nearly $70,000 in ArkM Tokens. Critics have labeled the program a quote docs to earn scheme, although Arkham CEO Miguel Morel believes the platform serves an entirely different purpose. As he explained in an episode of Unchained Premium last week, despite the controversy, the platform has seen significant activity, with over 47,000 addresses claiming 23.7 million tokens worth over $15 million. Uniswap founder Hayden Adams unveils Uniswap X Uniswap launched a new open source protocol, Uniswap X. Aiming to aggregate liquidity across decentralized exchange pools, the protocol introduces an ecosystem of fillers who compete to fill swaps at the best prices, offering users gas free execution and protection against maximal extractable value.
00:09:49.446 - 00:10:24.754, Speaker A: Uniswap founder Hayden Adams emphasized that users will maintain self custody of their funds throughout the swaps, and the protocol will be immutable. Meanwhile, major DeFi lending and borrowing platform Aave deployed its decentralized stablecoin Gho on the ethereum mainnet. This follows several DeFi giants which recently entered the stablecoin space, including curve and FRAX finance. Time for fun bits, as Judge Torres ruled that selling XRP on exchanges did not violate securities laws. Which means what, exactly? Here. Unchained's. Jenny hogan, explain.
00:10:24.952 - 00:10:56.922, Speaker B: Crypto secured an early legal victory when a judge ruled on Thursday that selling XRP on public exchanges was not a violation of security laws. Which is to say, for the hardcore crypto bros. XRP is now legal and therefore lame. XRP is a bridge currency, which means it's used to move money across borders, which makes it only the second sketchiest kind of bridge, but many are calling it a partial victory. XRP both is a security and it isn't. It's like Schrodinger's ponzi scheme. Sorry, sorry, Schrodinger's cryptocurrency, I always get them confused.
00:10:56.922 - 00:11:22.342, Speaker B: Partial victory or not, the crypto industry is rejoicing, which makes sense. They'll take any excuse to party. For example, NFT Miami, NFT Los Angeles, NFT New York City, NFT wherever you are, as long as you're on Ketamine. But who knows whether or not this decision will apply to other cryptocurrencies, since they're all different. For example, some are down 30% since 2021, some are down 60% since 2021, some are only down 29% since 2021. They're all different.
00:11:22.476 - 00:11:43.210, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Bill, the SEC's options, post XRP ruling and current crypto bills, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Zach Stewart, Juana Ranovich, Sam Sriram, Jenny Hogan, Landra, Camino Hama, Jimdar Shashank and Margaret Courier. Thanks for listening.
