00:00:00.170 - 00:00:29.080, Speaker A: Our next talk is from Camila Russo, whose talk is titled D Five 20 community Owned and Meme Based. Camila is a journalist and an author. She's the founder of The Defiant, a great source that I read all the time, and the author of The Infinity Machine, which is the first book about the history of Ethereum. So we'll welcome Camila up to the stage, and I'll let you take over here in a second. Awesome.
00:00:29.770 - 00:00:30.520, Speaker B: Hello.
00:00:31.130 - 00:00:42.810, Speaker A: Hey. And before we get started, Camila, I want to make sure I can extract this promise from you in the sequel to Infinite Machine. Will Ethanline be featured? Maybe in an early chapter?
00:00:43.150 - 00:00:50.554, Speaker B: Oh, my God. I mean, I will do anything to get a sequel out there, and that's a really small price to pay.
00:00:50.592 - 00:00:56.800, Speaker A: I would love that. All right, I will look forward to it. I'll pre order it as soon as I can, and I'll let you take it from here.
00:00:57.330 - 00:01:38.730, Speaker B: Thank you. All right. Hi, everyone. I'm Camila yeah, the founder of The Defiant, a content platform focusing on decentralized finance and author of The Infinite Machine, the book on the history of Ethereum that's right behind me. Hopefully everyone has been able to check it out. And, yeah, I will be talking about DFI or the shift that happened in DFI this year, sharing my presentation. All right, so D five 2.0,
00:01:38.730 - 00:02:29.420, Speaker B: community owned and meme based. Okay. There was a major shift in DeFi this year. And excuse my dog Kanga, she likes to participate. So I'm sure you all have seen the explosion that has happened in DeFi in 2020, but it's been more than just reckless speculation buying DeFi tokens. There's been a more foundational shift in decentralized finance, and I will try to make sense of it in this presentation. So there are a few things that are going out of fashion and a few things that are going in.
00:02:29.420 - 00:03:54.310, Speaker B: Things that used to be kind of the standard and pretty well accepted, like having a known team with a track record building in crypto or in the Ethereum community are not as important as they once were. Having security audits and extensive testing, while before it wasn't done 100% of the time, it was kind of a requirement or really kind of appreciated when they were done, especially by kind of the big projects in this space. Before, having venture capital funding was becoming really commonplace, especially after ICOs kind of ended because of the regulatory clampdown. So VCs kind of came in to replace them. Also, tokenless projects were held in really high regard because I think it was like because of the ICO hungover, people didn't trust tokens as much anymore. So projects like Unisop, which launched without a token, were seen as, okay, these guys are in it for the right reasons. Like, they're not in it to sell a token and then cash out and make a quick buck.
00:03:54.310 - 00:04:40.694, Speaker B: Really, before, it was more common to have concentrated ownership. Because of these reasons that I said before, VC funding was more common. An established team working on a project. For a long time, these things led to allocations for teams, foundations, VCs. So concentrated ownership was also more common in pre 2020. And then initial exchange offerings and centralized exchange listings were also more common. In the second half of 2020, these things started to change.
00:04:40.694 - 00:05:18.354, Speaker B: So instead of a known team, we had more and more anonymous founders and team members. A great example of course, is Sushi swap with nomi chef. He or she is a character from a game. Nobody knows who they are. And that was completely fine. And people poured hundreds of millions of dollars into the project without knowing who the founder was. Now it's fine to launch a project, it's never fine.
00:05:18.354 - 00:06:39.082, Speaker B: But I guess the token holders and the community aren't afraid of getting behind projects that haven't been through audits and security tests. And this kind of testing production, meme has really taken a hold of the DeFi space well before there were VC rounds. Now it's no presale. And then a big theme obviously is token incentive. So token rewards for putting liquidity in projects, and this is obviously known as yield farming, which has become hugely popular in DFI and driven a lot of the value that's come into the space this year, 100% community owned tokens versus concentrated ownership in teams and investors. And instead of initial exchange offerings, there are initial decks offerings where DFI projects list their tokens directly on decentralized exchanges like unisop and balancer. And then the final, last important element that is in in d five 2.0
00:06:39.082 - 00:07:32.190, Speaker B: is social virality or memes. And we get a lot of kind of projects that are basically an emoji finance and that will attract tons of money. So here are examples of kind of what was more common in the past. These were DeFi giants pre 2020. I lost the unisop logo there, but unisop used to have no token. They had centralized government, they raised millions of dollars from VCs and the team are known and had a track record of building in the space in MakerDAO. While governance is decentralized, maker foundation did control key pieces of governance.
00:07:32.190 - 00:08:32.058, Speaker B: The foundation and VCs own a huge chunk of the maker token. They've raised many millions of dollars from VCs and again, they're a known team and track record. So with this year, I think these two projects are a great way to show how this paradigm has changed. So with the previous examples, uniswap and maker, those kind of foundational projects in DeFi, they've also changed this year. Unisop now has a token and maker is further decentralizing governance. They want to dissolve the foundation at some point, but these projects really kind of have changed the narrative and changed the paradigm. Urine finance was the first project in DeFi to launch 100% community owned token.
00:08:32.058 - 00:09:33.140, Speaker B: That means that at launch there was no investor and no kind of entity or team that had a pre allocation of the token. And it became 100% owned by users of the platform. And this really kind of inspired the community and kind of raised the bar so that all of the D Five projects that launched after this, I guess, had to consider whether their token would be 100% community owned. And it has become something that the DeFi community and investors and traders are coming to expect. If it's not 100% community owned, at least there has to be a small percentage allocated to previous investors and the team. For both, there was decentralized governance from the start. Token incentives became key.
00:09:33.140 - 00:10:35.510, Speaker B: With Yarn, users were incentivized with tokens for putting liquidity in the protocol and in wi fi liquidity pools. And with Yam Finance, this was taken to the extreme because the UI was basically made to yield farm. It remains to be seen what token holders will do with the Yam treasury and maybe the team will serve another purpose. But it started out as a project that was basically made to yield farm. Andre Kranje of Urine Finance basically invented this test and prod meme. And Yam Finance also launched without an audit. The big kind of change that Yam Finance made in DeFi was that it was the first of these meme focused coins.
00:10:35.510 - 00:11:39.402, Speaker B: Like suddenly after the Yam Finance launched, this kind of sweet potato emoji was everywhere on Twitter. And it just kind of made it clear how important it is to have this kind of virality in a project, something that's really easy to communicate, to copy and paste. Everyone has an emoji at their fingertips, basically. So these two projects set kind of like a template for what DeFi would look like for the rest of the year. I mean, they came out between August, July and August. And from then on we've seen a real kind of explosion with similar projects launching. So to backtrack a little bit on how we got here, ICOs were the first DeFi use case and there we saw kind of the extreme at the extremes that people can go with.
00:11:39.402 - 00:13:00.914, Speaker B: Speculation MakerDAO launched, kind of starting as the first kind of founding project for DFI 2018, compound and synthetics launched and DFI continued to grow in 2019. The space kind of lost that fear of decentralized autonomous organizations that Ethereum community had since the Dow hack in 2019, with Molok Dow and other Dows that came after it, that kind of fear and stigma was shed. And then this year, I think synthetics had token rewards earlier. But compound token rewards with its comp token really supercharged token rewards. Because of how quickly the comp token surged and because of the way that the rewards were structured, people saw huge returns in a really short amount of time. And so because of that success and the liquidity that it drew, every other project wanted to create something similar. So with that, the next big milestone, as I said, was WiFi.
00:13:00.914 - 00:15:12.218, Speaker B: Then came yam, and then came all the explosion of DeFi forts and yield farming and meme coins and all of that. So that's pretty much how we get pasta tokens, hot dog tokens, kimchi sushi, sashimi and cream, a fork of compound swerve, a fork of curve, and all this explosion with really kind of, I'd say irresponsible UIs claiming a million percent yields and people just diving in. I also wanted to point out other fundraising alternatives are gaining traction. And it's not all about these kind of crazy token projects with foreign nonprofit, dows grants, with gitcoin, and this really cool experiment with fairlaunch capital, which is kind of a no strings attached kind of loan for our project to fund and be able to have an audit at launch. So after all this kind of crazy explosion of innovation of 100% community owned tokens, no presale, no audits, and decentralized governance at the start, what are kind of the takeaways? Obviously, I think it's important to highlight the risks that have come from this huge kind of yield farming mania. I think for now, one of the important dangers is having misaligned incentives. And so a good example of what could happen with this was with SushiSwap, with the founder, chef nomi kind of running off with sushi tokens.
00:15:12.218 - 00:16:48.430, Speaker B: He did return them. But it tells you what can happen when you're not incentivizing founders and teams to stick around and build for the long term. An obvious risk when you have this sort of speculation and anonymous founders and launching with no audits is that you're going to get scams and hackers attracted to these projects. I guess a very recent one, which just shows you how crazy the space has become, is the example of eminence, where it's a project that the yearn founder andre grande was working on, and it hadn't even been announced or released, but somebody saw this twitter profile. Andre had retweeted a tweet from the eminence twitter, and just with that, the hacker kind of found the contract for the project after people had already minted eminence coins. And again, this was a project that wasn't announced, and somebody like the hacker found it and stole the money. So it's this level of craziness that people are just willing to throw their money and crypto at whatever comes out with kind of yield farming and meme coins, and especially if there's like a celebrity DeFi founder like Andrea attached.
00:16:48.430 - 00:18:32.586, Speaker B: Another danger of decentralized governance is governance capture, which I think decentralized governance will be better than the way things work. There's one company making the decisions for the protocol, but there's still the risk that one person or a small group of people can buy up all the tokens and just vote in a way that favors them. It's really hard to kind of prevent that. And then, like we saw with ICOs, when there's a bunch of money coming in. When there's scams and hacks, when people are losing money, their service regulators will come in and put a stop to all this craziness. But for every risk, there's a way to see that as an opportunity. So where there is a risk of having misaligned incentives and founders running with the money or simply not delivering, there's also the opportunity of coming up with better architecture for these DeFi protocols, figuring out a way of maybe having a vesting schedule for founders, having some kind of salary, having a percentage of coins minted go to people working on the project.
00:18:32.586 - 00:20:27.802, Speaker B: There are different models for this, but I'm sure that after what we've seen so far, people will start to make these changes so that building in the space becomes more sustainable. With the scams and hats, I think it becomes more and more urgent to make sure that audits are affordable. So whenever you speak with these founders that launch without audits, the first thing they'll say is, of course, I don't want to put my users in danger, but I don't have that money to spend on audits, so what am I supposed to do? Stop building, stop innovating? And I don't think anyone wants that in the space. So there's a big chance of having white hat hackers having grants, having some maybe, I don't know, some genius developer take advantage of this lack of auditors and just offer their services a little bit cheaper than kind of the big security firms and also market based protection. So something like Nexus Mutual or options contracts with Open, all of these should become more widespread and stronger. And then with governance capture, I guess obviously the opportunity with decentralized governance is having greater democratization of decision making of the protocols. And there are different kind of measures that you can take to make sure that your project doesn't get owned by whales.
00:20:27.802 - 00:22:18.502, Speaker B: And then, and I think a good example of this is what happened with BitMEX yesterday. There's a risk of regulatory scrutiny, but because of that, I think the pressure is on to make sure that DeFi is actually decentralized, so that there's actually a regulatory shield for DeFi projects. The more that DeFi lives up to what it's supposed to be, which is owned by its users and noncustodials, so that protocols aren't actually touching users money, they're not touching users data, and they're controlled by their users, the lower the risk that it can become censored and taken down like what's happened to BitMEX. So I think all this craziness, it's bound to bring, yes, scams, hacks, but it's also bringing a lot of innovation capital attention to the space. So I'm sure DeFi will come out stronger from this craziness and we will look back and say and take away really great lessons from this that will will make the replacement of traditional finance a lot faster. That was DeFi 2.0. Yeah.
00:22:18.502 - 00:22:26.780, Speaker B: Please subscribe to the defiant and follow on Twitter and yeah, I don't know if there's any questions or if there's time for questions.
00:22:27.150 - 00:23:09.418, Speaker A: Great. Yeah, we actually do have a couple of questions if you've got a few minutes. Stick around. Great. So one question, and full disclosure is the question from me, but one kind of thing you mentioned a couple of times is anonymity of founders and both the benefits and risks of that and one thing that people in the Ethereum space have been working on for a while are credible, decentralized reputation systems. And I wonder if you could comment on how or whether good reputation systems could help alleviate some of the problems you discuss and how those two areas of applications might evolve alongside one another.
00:23:09.584 - 00:24:09.820, Speaker B: I think that's a great point because it also kind of touches on the regulatory risk, right? So you want to be able to trust the people behind the protocol that you're putting your money in, but at the same time, founders want to protect themselves from potential regulatory scrutiny. So how to kind of balance those two things? And I think a great way to do that would be to have some sort of reputation system where you don't have to know the person's name, but you can have some sort of on chain record where you can have some score or some trustless way of verifying that. Okay, this person has been building in this space for a long time. They've been paying their CDPs, they have a good track record with their trades or whatever it is that you'd want to check.
00:24:13.730 - 00:24:30.100, Speaker A: So a question from the chat. So it's obviously been an interesting and sometimes crazy year for not only the world but for DeFi too. And I wonder what events in Ethereum Marine DeFi specifically surprised you. The.
00:24:32.790 - 00:25:15.650, Speaker B: Mean, I think this yield farming craziness, I never saw it coming. I think kind of a good sign of that was that I remember the day that the compound released its token and we all knew about this in kind of the Defiance Contributor chat and I assigned kind of topics to write and I had assigned the compound comp token as a really small blurb. Like, I didn't see that it would make huge news. I was like, okay, so they're releasing their token. It's a governance token. It doesn't do much. It's not supposed to be traded right away.
00:25:15.650 - 00:26:23.830, Speaker B: So I don't know, I really didn't think it would be a big deal. But obviously the thing kind of exploded and went up like ten times, I guess, in value in one day and drew in tons of liquidity. So yeah, I definitely didn't see a yield farming craziness coming. It just showed how powerful token incentives are. And I think, like I said, that's an opportunity to be harnessed and I don't think DeFi is using them in the right way right now. I think a lot of the rewards are placed in such way that it's very short term rewards and aren't kind of built to incentivize a more sustainable and long term building of the product. But I think that to start to change and I think it's a good lesson to learn that, wow, these things really drive a lot of activity and liquidity.
00:26:24.570 - 00:26:34.902, Speaker A: Got it. Great. Well, thank you so much, camila, for joining us. That's all the time we've got. We're going to call up our next speakers, but really appreciate you taking the time. Everybody check out the defiant. Go read camila's book.
00:26:34.956 - 00:26:36.422, Speaker B: It's great. Thanks so much.
00:26:36.476 - 00:26:36.980, Speaker A: Thanks very much.
