00:00:00.490 - 00:00:42.422, Speaker A: In a week where regulatory scrutiny takes center stage. From SEC Chair Gary Gensler facing congressional heat, to binance exiting Russia, there were plenty of interesting developments that you need to hear to stay up to date with the crypto industry this week. I'm Michael Del Castillo, a Knight Badget Fellow at Columbia University. And this is your weekly Crypto recap. This week, SEC Chair Gary Gensler found himself under scrutiny from us. Lawmakers. A bipartisan group of congressmen sent Gensler a public letter urging him to approve spot bitcoin ETFs that would let institutions invest in securities directly tied to the price of bitcoin, calling the SEC's current stance, quote, inconsistent and discriminatory.
00:00:42.422 - 00:01:51.150, Speaker A: In their letter, the representatives cited a recent court victory by Grayscale in which A-U-S. Court of Appeals judge ruled that the SEC's decision to reject the Grayscale Bitcoin ETF application was, quote, arbitrary and capricious end quote. Stating that the SEC's posture is, quote, untenable moving forward, end quote. On Wednesday, Gensler fielded a hotbed of questions from the house Financial Services Committee, as reported by the bloc. Lawmakers grilled the SEC chair on various aspects of crypto regulation, including the status of bitcoin as a security and the potential for spot bitcoin ETFs. As has come to be expected in crypto hearings, the conversation touched on such unusual topics as whether or not Pokemon cards could be securities. More to the point, though, Gensler faced accusations of lacking transparency and in a taunting play on the practice of so called regulation by enforcement, where a regulator prioritizes persecution over clarity was accused by Representative Emmer of adopting a, quote, regulation by harassment, end quote approach.
00:01:51.150 - 00:02:33.482, Speaker A: Adding to the regulatory uncertainty. Also on Wednesday, the SEC announced delays in decisions on Arc 21 shares Ethereum and Bitcoin ETFs and Goldbug banned x ethereum ETF The new deadlines are set for late December at the earliest. In signs of a possible power struggle over the right to regulate bitcoin, Gensler, the top U. S. Securities regulator, repeated his past assertion that bitcoin isn't a security. However, Gensler stopped short of identifying the asset as a commodity, which could be seen as admitting another regulator, the US. Commodities and Futures Trading Commission, might actually have more authority here than he'd like to admit.
00:02:33.482 - 00:03:52.454, Speaker A: The SEC chair's comments and the agency's delays have heightened tensions that the crypto industry seeks clearer regulatory guidelines showcasing the stark difference in approach taken by other jurisdictions. A representative of Hong Kong's securities and Future Commission said in a speech Tuesday that they're preparing to release near term guidance authorizing the use of blockchain to create tokenized versions of good old fashioned traditional investment products. In a complex legal tangle, Doe Kwan, the former CEO of defunct TerraForm Labs, is evading the SEC's legal pursuit. In February, the SEC sued Quan for allegedly misleading investors in TerraForm Lab's, Terra USD stablecoin scheme that resulted in a $60 billion collapse when its underlying luna asset lost nearly all its value. But before the SEC could arrest Doe Kwan Montenegro, authorities snatched him for using forged passports and sentenced him to a four month prison term. While Kwan serves his sentence, the SEC hopes to have the former CEO questions on their behalf while reserving the right to extradite him and dispose him themselves. As his lawyers put it in the statement, the SEC, quote, seeks to have its cake and eat it too.
00:03:52.454 - 00:04:44.882, Speaker A: After Binance briefly halted support for deposits from visa and mastercard issues in Russia, the world's largest crypto exchange says it is exiting the Russian market altogether. The firm's chief compliance officer, Noah Perlman, raised eyebrows, though, when he said in a statement that Binance would sell its entire Russia based operations to a little known firm named Comx. Though the statement describes Comx as, quote, venture backed, its backers remain as of yet unknown, fueling speculation. This could be another case similar to Binance US, which was purportedly also separate from Binance. Changpeng Zhao or CZ. Binance's CEO, denied ownership ties to Comx. Writing on social media, quote, I'm not their UBO or ultimate beneficial owner, nor do I own stock shares, end quote.
00:04:44.882 - 00:05:45.046, Speaker A: He added that some former Binance staff may work for Comx in the future. The lack of transparency around the deal continues to fuel skepticism and questions on social media. The new leadership in charge of beleaguered crypto exchange, FTX, has filed yet another lawsuit, this time against former employees of the exchange's Hong Kong affiliate Salameda, seeking to recover an estimated $157.3 million. And yes, that's Salameda, if that rings a bell. The suit alleges that in the days leading up to FTX's filing of Chapter Eleven bankruptcy protection in November 2022, the employees, including two brothers and their mom, quote, leveraged their connections at FTX Group personnel to ensure that they would be authorized over other customers, end quote. FTX's lawyers claim in the suit that more than $123,000,000 was withdrawn on or after November 7, just before the exchange suspended withdrawals.
00:05:45.046 - 00:07:06.834, Speaker A: This week, creditors of the embattled crypto lending platform Celsius Network overwhelmingly approved a $2 billion restructuring plan that's, despite reservations from US. Trustee William Harrington, over 98% of creditors back the plan, which promises to return at least 67% of assets to investors and offers stakes in a new entity provisionally named Nuco, this entity aims to broaden Celsius's existing Bitcoin mining ventures and explore new business avenues. The plan's final approval hinges on a bankruptcy court hearing set for October 2. In a parallel development, Block Phi, another of the crypto companies structured similarly to Celsius that collapsed last year, received court approval for its liquidation plan. New York based Blockfly's unsecured creditors could receive between 35% and 63% of what they are owned. Gemini, the cryptocurrency exchange founded by Tyler and Cameron Winklevost, has publicly refuted a New York Post article alleging that last August the twins withdrew $282,000,000 from crypto lender Genesis for personal or corporate use. In a social media response, Gemini labeled the story as, quote, misleading and pure fantasy end quote.
00:07:06.834 - 00:07:41.466, Speaker A: Claiming that the funds were actually withdrawn to increase liquidity reserves for their earn users. The public claim comes amid an ongoing legal dispute between Gemini and Genesis, with the former accusing the latter of, quote, fraud against creditors, end quote. While the $282,000,000 may seem like a lot, the lawsuit aims to recover around $1.1 billion of assets allegedly stuck on Genesis. J. P. Morgan, Chase's British subsidiary, on Tuesday sent an email to its clients prohibiting them from all crypto transactions starting October 16.
00:07:41.466 - 00:08:29.546, Speaker A: That's according to an Associated Press report this week. Citing an increase in cryptorelated scams, the email said the bank would decline transactions related to crypto assets made by debit card, credit card or bank transfer. In a statement, the bank spokesperson said, quote We've seen an increase in the number of crypto scams targeting UK consumers, so we have taken the decision to prevent the purchase of crypto assets, end quote. The move has drawn widespread criticism from much of the crypto community. Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong called Chase UK's decision, quote, totally inappropriate. End quote. In a social media post, Armstrong questioned how the bank's stance aligns with the UK government's claim last April that it wanted to become a global crypto asset technology hub.
00:08:29.546 - 00:09:36.142, Speaker A: Not one to mince words, Armstrong wrote that, quote, UK crypto holders should close their Chase accounts if this is how they're going to be treated, end quote. To be clear, nothing we're reporting here or anywhere should be construed as financial advice. In a shocking turn of events, Decentralized wallet service provider Mixon Network claimed more than $200 million in crypto assets have been stolen. The alleged theft targeted Mixon's cloud service database last Saturday, according to a social media post. In a live stream on Twitch on Monday, the platform's founder, Feng Zhao Dong, said that only half the assets in question could be accounted for at the time. In a bid to recover the stolen funds, Mix in Network offered that the alleged thief could keep $20 million of the funds as a, quote, bug bunty reward so long, that is, as the alleged thieves returned the other assets owned by users. Seemingly a generous effort, though it might not be the most intellectually honest strategy to call funds someone has already stolen a form of bounty.
00:09:36.142 - 00:10:38.354, Speaker A: Presumably the implication is the Mix and Execs won't try to recover the stolen $20 million if the backers return everything else. The platform later updated that the losses were, quote, not as significant as estimated end quote but did not provide specific figures. Mixon's native token Xin saw an 8.6% drop in value following the news, but has already seen signs of recovery at the time of this recording. This latest incident of poorly secured decentralized exchange being robbed or tricked into giving away its funds has once again raised more general questions about the security of decentralized platforms, though not just decentralized platforms. In related news, tron creator and advisor to the Seychelles based crypto exchange HTX, formerly known as Huobi Global, wrote in a social media post that the exchange was hacked, resulting in a loss of 5000 e, or roughly $7.9 million, at today's price.
00:10:38.354 - 00:11:19.942, Speaker A: Marathon Digital Holdings, a publicly traded bitcoin miner valued at $1.5 billion, confirmed the mining of an invalid block, a very rare case for the bitcoin blockchain. On Wednesday, the company wrote, quote, the error was the result of an unanticipated bug that came from one of our experiments, end quote. The experiment aimed to explore transaction ordering, but it backfired, they say, causing the invalid block. Since shares in the company dropped nearly 10% on Wednesday, they've nearly fully recovered trading at $8.68 per share at the time of recording. It's certainly been a tough month for crypto news, and this week was no different.
00:11:19.942 - 00:12:00.610, Speaker A: Though to wrap things up on a more positive note, crypto exchange Kraken is reportedly planning to diversify its offerings by adding traditional US. Listed stocks to its trading platform. According to anonymous sources, the service, managed by a new division called Kraken securities, aims to launch next year in both the US. And the UK. While Kraken seems to have secured the necessary authorization in the UK, it says it is still awaiting approval from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, in the US. This move could position Kraken as a direct competitor to licensed broker dealer Robinhood, which also offers both crypto and stock trading. And that's all.
00:12:00.610 - 00:12:32.214, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. Looking forward to chatting next week. Unchained knows it's very hard to keep up with the latest news in the crypto ecosystem. That's why they have a daily and weekly newsletter to keep you covered. Sign up for free and receive the latest updates right in your inbox, Monday through Friday. Check out the show notes and subscribe to their substac. Today unchained is produced by Laura Shin with the help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aranovich, Megan Gavis, Ginny Hogan Shawshank and Margaret Curio.
00:12:32.214 - 00:12:38.030, Speaker A: This weekly recap was written by Juan Aranovich and edited by myself, Michael Del Castillo.
00:12:41.090 - 00:12:56.230, Speaker B: Unchained is now a part of the CoinDesk Podcast Network for the latest in digital assets. Check out markets daily seven days a week with new host Noel Atchison. Follow the CoinDesk Podcast Network for some of the best show and crypto.
