00:00:04.740 - 00:01:01.960, Speaker A: Hello and welcome to a new installment of Startnet bytesized, this time from the comforts of quarantine at home. In this installment we want to discuss key component of interacting with startnet contracts by way of account contracts. Account contracts are the new way in which a user can interact with their system. And unlike Ethereum which distinguishes externally owned accounts, and contracts, in starknet accounts are simply another form of contract to deploy within it. A user can define their desired logic, most notably the signature verification scheme that determines who can issue transactions from this account. So a user can have a very simple open account that allows anyone to issue transactions from it. You can have a standard ECDSA signature scheme or a multiparty signature where three users can own an account and only two signatures are necessary to issue transactions.
00:01:01.960 - 00:01:40.710, Speaker A: First things first, we need to make sure that our starnet network is set up correctly. Simply use export startnet network and make sure it is set to the AlphaGo early testnet. Next up we need to choose our wallet provider. This is going to be integral henceforth for our interactions with contracts in the starknet system. Simply use export Starknet wallet to choose your desired account. In this case we use an open Zeppelin account. Lastly, in order to create an account, we use starknet deploy account.
00:01:40.710 - 00:02:32.120, Speaker A: To use this command directly as is, we will create something that's called a default account. It's the account that all your following transactions will default to from now on. But we can also use the flag account in order to create an account with a custom name. In this case I'll just create account under my name. I had a typo here so type this again and if all works correctly we should receive our contract address and the transaction hash as a result. Great, so now that's out of the way can simply give an example of a contract interaction. This is a previously deployed account which we will cover later on in the series.
00:02:32.120 - 00:02:55.950, Speaker A: But if I send this transaction now, it will go through my default account which was previously deployed and successfully sent. So this is a very versatile concept. It allows you a lot of customization for the signature verification scheme you desire for your purposes. And that's it for this video. Hope you found this helpful and we'll see you in the next one month.
