00:00:00.520 - 00:00:07.326, Speaker A: What's up, everyone? Taiki here. And welcome to episode 14 of the Crypto Market Wizards podcast. Today I have here with me Alex. Good. How are you doing today?
00:00:07.398 - 00:00:08.854, Speaker B: What's up? Doing well, thanks.
00:00:08.942 - 00:00:13.854, Speaker A: Yeah. So for those that don't know who you are, can you just give us a brief intro of your background and how you got into crypto?
00:00:13.982 - 00:01:33.572, Speaker B: Yeah, so I started out in a tradfi background. I graduated Warden did CityFX, worked at Palantir, applying big data to trading, took a big data driven process over to Ballyazny. So of realized that big data didnt have as much edge as I hoped and the data sources werent that great and really started focusing on using advertising in order to quantify demand for products and ended up actually creating an advertising company that was pretty successful. Called Perpetua is acquired by Essential in 2021 and reacquired recently by Omnicom for $900 million. And so basically, the problem was that there are some cracks in the picture of just looking at the performance of crocs advertisements and to trade croc stock, which is something wed be doing, for example, or trading Twitter stock based on how well twitters ad platform works, which, by the way, is really, really bad, I realize there are all these data errors. You're like, okay, what is Tesla? What is, what is bitcoin? There are these total data anomalies where people are clicking on these ads like crazy and you're like, there are these what I call punch bowls that are parties that appear. And a lot of them had to do with financial speculation.
00:01:33.572 - 00:01:57.636, Speaker B: So meme stocks. And so around 2019, this sort of really hit me. And I started trading my own money kind of on a full time basis. And how would I get into crypto? Crypto is the most memetic asset class you've had guests on before. I think like Kat, whos talked about how crypto coins are sort of like balogensia. I totally agree. Its totally quantifiable.
00:01:57.636 - 00:02:30.850, Speaker B: And all the same exact processes that you have in e commerce where youre checking out, you click seven times and then you come back and you go back to your binance account, you add it to your card and you check out its the exact same in crypto as is in e commerce. And really thats how I got involved in crypto. And ive stayed interested in crypto because the sort of backdrop of a society that's entirely attention based, in my opinion, rigged by kind of fiscal and monetary authorities, makes it an interesting asset class to overlay with that attention dynamic. And I'll cut there.
00:02:31.710 - 00:02:49.110, Speaker A: Nice. Nice. And is it true that because of your, I guess, or ad marketing background, you sometimes run Google Ads to determine which coins have the most amount of attention? And if you see like an inflow of, I guess, clicks, you're like, okay, I'm going to long this coin. Is that something that you incorporate to your trading style?
00:02:49.530 - 00:03:20.860, Speaker B: Absolutely. A lot of different ads, everything from content farms to option calculators, are part of the process. It's obviously proprietary. Some of you might have remembered I actually launched my own options calculator on Twitter at one point. Shut that experiment down, but we'll be relaunching similar experiments. Yeah, data collection is a huge part of the process. When you're dealing with assets that don't trade on valuation, you need to be very privy to the amount of engagement they're generating and the strength of that engagement.
00:03:20.860 - 00:03:38.760, Speaker B: And Google's definitely part of that. Google is, I think, the best ad platform, the only one that really converts for low intention keywords. I think it's definitely a core part of my process in warranty for the foreseeable future.
00:03:39.180 - 00:03:48.436, Speaker A: Nice. Do you have an example of a trade that you took, let's say, in the past couple of months? Where, can you just give us an example of a trade AI crypto?
00:03:48.468 - 00:04:48.204, Speaker B: I guess, if we're to zone into that. Worldcoin had fantastic advertising performance, and the reason was because Sam Altman indexes so strongly on the AI keyword. So AI typically is dominated in terms of investor interests by companies like Nvidia. And as we all know, sometimes Nvidia and Tesla at times trade more than the entire S and P 500 ETF. And so generally, the AI narrative in markets, and especially from attention perspective, is in the stock market. And what happened after Sam Altman's drama with OpenAI was that Sam Altman became a sort of main character in terms of the zeitgeist of AI, even more so than he was before. And so if a user saw a worldcoin advertisement after that saga and they saw that Sam Altman was associated, they would immediately convert.
00:04:48.204 - 00:05:41.260, Speaker B: And Worldcoin has echoed the same thing, right, in terms of their team talking about, wow, there's suddenly all this crazy interest. And you see any interview with the world code founder and he's always mentioning Sam Altman, right? Because even though Sam is tangentially engaged in Worldcoin, it does not matter. Sam is driving all the clicks for that protocol. And in the specific case of Worldcoin, it had a very high buying intention associated with it. We've seen that in the last. There was an initial run up when it ran up to 475, and then after the sorade sort of AI launch, obviously, we've gotten parabolic. I think it has nothing to do with Worldcoin and everything to do with Nvidia earnings and just the amount of sheer traffic related to artificial intelligence and people just imagining and starting to learn about their story.
00:05:41.260 - 00:06:29.628, Speaker B: And the other thing that's happening in terms of worldcoin and other things is that people are really starting to search for AGI. Right. So before there's been a regime shift, I think in the last three to four weeks, it started with a sort of viral article where somebody was talking about the end of the world on YouTube, and people really started searching for AGI before it was muted. And Ilia kind of gave a TED talk about AGI, and that started the trend. But it really accelerated in the past two or three weeks, and people are starting to focus on AGI, not just AI, but actual AGI, which is a big difference in terms of the data tracking. It's very loud and clear. Before two weeks ago, you would get two clicks a day on AGI related terms.
00:06:29.628 - 00:06:48.868, Speaker B: Now I can get as many as I want for sixty cents a click, which, by the way, is extremely cheap. If you're advertising the S and P 500 competing with Blackrock, it's like three, $4 a click. So we're talking massive interest, high mid teens, click through rates, stuff like that. So AGI interest is off the charts. Yeah.
00:06:48.884 - 00:07:39.688, Speaker A: That's interesting because. Yeah, you mentioned the interview I did with a cat or CL, where he mentioned that social media is the fundamentals, especially in crypto, because we can't really value these things directly. So we just try to front run where attention flows. And if you can combine that with, I guess, Google Ads and tracking, wherever I mind space is going, then I think the intersection between crypto and crypto and AI is pretty interesting. So we were chatting a little bit earlier last night around how you build conviction in a trade. It seems like you're very data oriented, and the data and the general market trend is driving you towards, I guess, crypto stocks and also AI coins in crypto. Can you just tell us how you built conviction in these trades, what your processes are and what you see right now?
00:07:39.824 - 00:08:23.978, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So I think, zooming out, I wrote a piece about the markets generally being rigged, and we haven't really talked about that in terms of the data tracking. But data tracking is what I view as a necessary element to essentially figure out how a rigging is manifesting in market access. When I say something is rigged, it means that some actor, whether it's a government or someone pumping a token, or whether it's a company executing a share buyback or it's OPEC, changing the price of oil. Someone has decided that a price needs to move a certain way. They decide that oil can't drop below this price. They decide that carbon credits need to be a certain price.
00:08:23.978 - 00:09:30.054, Speaker B: They decide that the interest rate of Japan needs to be at zero. It doesn't matter if nobody wants to hold the debt, we'll buy as much as we possibly can, right? So there's someone doing a non fundamental action, and that always creates excess. So before putting on any sort of data tracking, before running an advertising campaign, before creating any sort of analysis, I always look for somebody who has put their thumb on the skin. In the case of AI, it was the Chips act and basically every nation state heavily ensuring that their chip supply chains were going to receive unlimited government funding even though the equity valuations were through the roof, right? So it can be fiscal. Most of the time it's monetary, right? So most of the time it's like, okay, we're going to just block overnight repo. We're going to make it free to do stuff overnight. And you're like, okay, well, you know, guess who that really benefits? It's like people who put out overnight press releases and who are pumping their stock, right? So all the kind of overnight stock press release pumpers are going to benefit from fed repo action.
00:09:30.054 - 00:10:12.498, Speaker B: So you're like, all right, I've got a rigged market. I now have a thesis about the type of people who are going to participate in a rigged market. And then, okay, well, that's going to generate retail interest if their stock starts pumping or if there are some parabolic moves in the carbon credit sector. If the EU is basically making it free for companies to basically make money out of thin air with carbon credits, as long as there's a free lunch, there's a party. That's my basic heuristic. And if there's a party, I have to measure the party and build a process to measure the party. And then I keep trading the party systematically to make sure that my process is correct.
00:10:12.498 - 00:10:38.510, Speaker B: And I have a lot of quant strategies running that quant p and l I kind of will use to speculate that the party will continue. So I have a quantitative process. I have a qualitative process. The quantitative process starts with a qualitative evaluation of wheres the market being rigged? What is the quote unquote sure thing? Where is the party? And then how do I bet on the party continuing in the best possible risk reward way?
00:10:39.370 - 00:11:10.394, Speaker A: Got it. So I guess your setup for a trade is understanding that the markets are rigged in some way. And then you mentioned the punch bowl earlier where, you know, there's this element happening in this market environment where something is being rigged, where is attention going to shift as a result of the rigged markets? And how can I back up that thing with data to give me more conviction and then running quantitative strategies or adding size? Is that kind of how you think about your trades?
00:11:10.562 - 00:12:06.040, Speaker B: Absolutely. And, you know, typically, I'll pair rigged assets with assets that aren't being rigged, that are correlated. So a lot of the AI coins correlate with AI coins are an interesting example because part of the statistical anomaly on worldcoin I sort of found out was actually a market maker deal that theyd done, and it resulted in price action, which looked extremely anomalous. That was actually, according to some people, very bearish. But I had a way of participating in the world coin upside that was quantitatively robust even before the big move. But I made decent profits doing that. And then once I have profits like that, then I will use that as a stop loss to put a more qualitative bet like, okay, I actually think this is going to go.
00:12:06.040 - 00:12:37.016, Speaker B: So I think that's the general process. And with some rigging, there was some stuff going on, for example, in 2021 where youre like, I dont know whos rigging this stock and I dont participate in that. So a lot of the bill Hwang stuff, Viacom, this stock is rigged. I know this stock is rigged. It has all kinds of quantitative patterns. It has totally insane volume. Its totally abnormal.
00:12:37.016 - 00:13:13.760, Speaker B: Its doing the same thing every day. But I'm like, what central bank? Who wants to make Viacom go to the moon? I don't know. And I won't participate in something like that. Maybe I should, but I just don't because I want to identify someone with strong hands, like OPEC, the European Central bank, the Chips act, the Biden administration, Sam Altman, someone who is talking about raising trillions of dollars. I want to have really strong hands behind a market being rigged for me to start wasting money on advertising to take a position.
00:13:14.500 - 00:13:35.956, Speaker A: Interesting. So do you have any other examples of rigged markets in crypto? Because, I mean, obviously AI, that can be one, but crypto is a very, no, I mean, in some ways it's very transparent, but in other ways it's not transparent with insiders and whatnot. Uh, are there other instances of crypto where, okay, like this thing is rigged.
00:13:36.028 - 00:14:39.164, Speaker B: Tron is uh, you know, basically. So it's, it's, it's interesting when you like study incentives, right? So you look at a protocol like TRoN. Their goal of engaging in that market, same thing with binance, their goal of engaging in that market is to increase the price of TrON, increase the price of BNB because they're aligned with the holders of the token. If you look at the uH, XRP for example, is the opposite. Their goal, the ripple foundation's objective is to maximize shareholder value for Ripple Corporation, not XRP token holders. So in a way if you were to point towards the canonical kind of rigged cross in crypto it's TRX versus XRP, right. Because Tron is a small illiquid cartel that exhibits price manipulation patterns, that has huge financial backing via tether and the fees that tether emits in subsidizing the tron blockchain.
00:14:39.164 - 00:15:55.034, Speaker B: And then similarly XRP has this massive foundation sale. And one thing that's been very clear if you study the history of XRP is it's actually quite bullish when the foundation or the executives of the company are blocked from selling by the SEC. This resulted in some of the largest exp because you remove a steady drip of downwards price action executed by the XRP foundation. So if you're like what's a quant strategy in crypto which is two rigged markets which correlate with each other but are going in opposite directions, which is obviously very interesting, TRX versus XRP would be the canonical tree. Now the problem is its very rare that theres a punch hole in TRX or XRP, right? So its not that interesting from a market phenomenon. The way that you really make money in these sort of rigged markets is if you identify that a market is being successfully rigged, it has upwards price action and theyre about to do something big thats relevant to an existing market narrative. Right now thats not the case in TRX.
00:15:55.034 - 00:16:18.040, Speaker B: So yes theres a quant strategy. Yes a market is being rigged. But is it interesting? XRP to me is interesting because I need something to hedge my longs and I have relatively high conviction that its going to continue to drift downwards because of the foundation sales. Is it interesting from a long perspective or where you're going to put a qualitative size? Not really.
00:16:19.100 - 00:16:51.766, Speaker A: Got it. And you had this tweet back in last December and props to you, you've been blow posting AI coins for the past, let's say, couple months, and you're putting in size in a cosh render file. Coin shorting XRP. How do you think about the AI sector? Because in crypto, I'm going to share this tab on coingecko. This doesn't contain world coin, so it's not perfect. And this is the circulating market cap, so it doesn't contain FTV. But let's just say that the current market cap of AI coins circulating is 20 billion.
00:16:51.766 - 00:17:03.290, Speaker A: How high do you think this can go? If you think that Nvidia can keep pumping, SMCI can keep pumping in the stock market, how big do you think this, let's say, super bubble can get?
00:17:05.520 - 00:17:46.546, Speaker B: Sure. So big picture, I think crypto can be a $6 trillion minimum asset class. And the thought process is there is it could get roughly half the size of gold based on the overall macro situation and also just the structural intention factor. Going back to the earlier analysis about intention, every asset manager has a strong incentive to include a crypto product in their offerings because it drives so much attention to their other products. Like Larry Fink said that the highest web traffic that, you know, ishares has ever seen is due to a bitcoin product. Right? And that's fantastic. Free marketing.
00:17:46.546 - 00:18:36.616, Speaker B: Uh, so everyone is going to be marketing this asset class. And then you have the other thing on the flip side of Russia using gold as its primary funding mechanism for the war on Ukraine, which is just this huge elephant in the room that a lot of people don't talk about because everyone wants to kind of promote the gold narrative. But gold is the settlement currency for a lot of arms deals between Russia, Belarus and China. Right? And so you have this $13 trillion asset, which is on the wrong side of regulation and what you would maybe even call terrorist financing. And then you have crypto, which is actually, like, pretty censorable, ironically, because tether will freeze wallets. And everyone knows, like, there is chain analysis. So the us government's like, wow, like, you know, I can have a store of value asset that takes away money from Vladimir Putin.
00:18:36.616 - 00:19:03.326, Speaker B: Of course you're going to have regulatory benefits there. Right? And so while we have that in place, it's. It's very easy to see crypto to continue to eat gold's market share, especially once you get into the AI driven economy. So if you look at Nvidia, for example, I don't even know what the market cap is today. I think it's 2 trillion. Yeah. Where do I think AI can go.
00:19:03.326 - 00:19:36.932, Speaker B: I wrote before that. I think the top FTV for an AI based coin is probably capped at OpenAI's valuation of about 100 billion and the overall kind of AI crypto overlay. The thing is, you're not going to have all AI coins. A lot of the AI value is going to accrue to l one s. Worldcoin, for example, is using Ethereum. And if we have a. Elon Musk kind of uses this analogy of memory.
00:19:36.932 - 00:20:52.330, Speaker B: Human memory is now 99% digital because of the amount of pictures that we have and videos that we have. We don't actually remember most things of society using our brainstor. The question is, what percentage of total transactions in the world end up being between AI's and other AI's? The answer is probably. If you believe Nvidia is market capitalization, it's probably extremely high, probably above 50%, and we're nowhere near that right now. And when you listen to Nvidia's earnings call, they're talking about sovereign AI probably 20 times, and they're saying, okay, every country needs to get their own Nvidia chips, which of course, they would love that, right? If everyone had to completely rebuild everybody else's data center. That's just vastly inefficient and vastly bullish for Nvidia stock and terrible for everybody because it costs everyone an arm and a leg to buy these $20,000 machines to run LLM computes in Saudi Arabia or in France or whatever. If you think about what the crypto AI overlay is, it's like, okay, well, forget that.
00:20:52.330 - 00:21:43.856, Speaker B: We're going to have one open source system. We're going to have decentralized protocols that users or business users don't need to go through sovereign firewalls in order to access models. And all of the criticisms that people have about crypto UX aren't going to matter, right? Because people are like, oh, crypto blockchain products are too hard to use and I can't use a Solana phone. And like, the UX doesn't work. It's like AI's will not care, right? They will not care at all about the UX of crypto, and they'll have no problem bridging between chains and transacting with one another. So basically, if you kind of model out like, okay, where are we going? It's like a bunch of AI's transacting with other AI's. Another criticism of crypto that Elon made, for example, was that the meaning of currency is that you need to be able to direct effort with currency in bitcoin.
00:21:43.856 - 00:22:17.070, Speaker B: You cant really pay a lot of people in bitcoin to do stuff functionally. You cant really do it. You have to convert it back into fiat or maybe use stable coins or whatever. But the friction between paying an AI for compute and cryptocurrencies, because a lot of chains are already secured by like GPU's is very low, right. So crypto is actually pretty optimally suited for you to pay. You can do this on Tao, you can do this on render. There are already crypto protocols where you can basically pay for work using crypto.
00:22:17.070 - 00:22:48.900, Speaker B: And other machines are going to be paying other machines for work modeling render compute. And they're not going to want to exist in national firewalls because national firewalls have high friction. So to answer your question, I think that structural underpinning is going to drive a large wave of appreciation in the AI crypto asset class. And if I had to give you a number, I would say that AI cryptocurrencies in aggregate, including l one s, which are used for AI cryptocurrency, probably end up 2 trillion.
00:22:50.720 - 00:23:06.514, Speaker A: Well, 2 trillion. So if you think crypto can hit, let's say six to 10 trillion in market cap collectively, then you think 20% to 33% of the total crypto market cap will be comprised of AI related coins.
00:23:06.642 - 00:23:32.496, Speaker B: Yeah. And that said, I think Solana and Ethereum are going to be heavily driven by AI use cases. I don't think any of these organizations are going to be caught flat footed by this. Filecoin is already pivoting their entire narrative towards AI. Ethereum is obviously aware of it, telex writing about it. The Solana foundation obviously understands it. Render is one of their top tokens.
00:23:32.496 - 00:24:05.160, Speaker B: They're constantly talking about AI, doing AI partnerships. So it's not like this is this mystery. Everyone knows AI is coming and every major l one protocol is going to be trying to optimize their blockchain for LLM based use cases and make it as efficient and friendly as possible for this building ecosystem. So is it going to be all new coins? Like? No, I dont think so. Right. I think I wrote a piece on Tao, which has been spectacularly wrong.
00:24:07.100 - 00:24:17.400, Speaker A: Do you want to talk about this? I tried reading this actually, and its like a 63 minutes read. And then two minutes in Im like, okay, my iq is too low for this. Like what did you get wrong here?
00:24:18.140 - 00:25:44.856, Speaker B: Actually exactly the right amount to make money on Tao because the price has roughly doubled since then. Thankfully, some of my other longs have done just as well. But the question with Tao is they're like, okay, this is this AI native l one, is this going to have the right set of parameters to usefully run a lot of AI jobs? Right? Like, is this just structurally superior in some fundamental way to another chain? And the really interesting thing that Tao does is it has kind of this like iterative reward base subnet training model. So if you kind of look at the AI stack in crypto, there's a lot of coins like Akash, where you're like licensing compute, or coins like Filecoin, where you're licensing storage. Or coins like Worldcoin, where you're basically dealing with the deepfake problem, where you have AI is generating limitless human ids. The really ambitious vision for artificial intelligence in crypto is like, okay, we're going to have another model, right? Forget Mistral or the closed source open AI. We're going to have this like iteratively dynamically trained economic artificial intelligence, which probably reaches feature parity with chat GPT and that everyone's going to use because it's just better.
00:25:44.856 - 00:26:08.954, Speaker B: Because we have this like magical economic system that trains the model better. And you're like, that would be sweet. That would be the best. And you're like, so you learn about tower and you're like, wow, this, if this is true, like, holy shit, like this thing is going to be like a trillion dollars. You're like, wow, the assertions you're making are correct. This is going to be worth a trillion dollars. I better check to see if most of these assertions are true.
00:26:08.954 - 00:26:51.830, Speaker B: And I just don't want to disparage any project. And I think it's still very early on the Tau subnets. I think there's some really interesting stuff going on in terms of model training. Noose especially is nous research is, is they're on together AI, and you can use the NIST models on together AI, and they're also very active on Taoist. You see a lot of viral stuff about people making like 50,000 a day licensing models on Tau subnets. I just personally didn't see, at least in the current situation, a line of sight for that model to get trained iteratively in a believable way, which would be better than some of the existing open source models. That's the summary of the article.
00:26:51.830 - 00:26:56.770, Speaker B: I don't really want to get into all the minutiae because if you couldn't read it, you certainly don't want to listen to it.
00:26:58.550 - 00:27:31.078, Speaker A: Yeah, that's funny, because I guess you did the deep research on whether this thing makes sense, and then I guess you sold your bags. And then I feel like this is also kind of related to the bell curve meme in crypto, where you also wrote this thing about the left curve where maybe it's mid curve to. You try to be right curve by understanding tau, but by trying to be right curve, you end up being in the mid curve. But the correct decision was just be left curve and say, okay, tau is the AI coin. Time to go Max long.
00:27:31.174 - 00:28:13.886, Speaker B: I mean the left curve path, if I had to summarize it, was just saying, look, $13 trillion believable market cap gold doesnt connect to the Internet of the artificial intelligence. You have to be long AI coins in the background of the left curve path. I have a lot of data tracking being like, you have to be long AI coins. The question is, do you want to be long if you want to be left curve? Do you want to be long Sam Altmans AI coin or do you want to be long the tau? Right. I would argue that Sam Altman is being long. The Sam Altman AI coin that Sam Altman is only tangentially associated with is far more left curve, especially at current FTV, than being long Tao. And obviously its worked fantastically well.
00:28:13.886 - 00:29:52.740, Speaker B: So I'm not really sure if I don't like the left curve and mid curve and right curve dynamic. I think that it oversimplified. This is quoting something that Peter Thiel said that I think is really kind of true is by the time that, especially in small cap or venture investing, by the time that a trend arrives, it's kind of too late. And I think that you want to optimize your process on something that you can define. And in my case, it's like, okay, there are structural forces in society and governments putting down multibillion dollar investments, and even Sam Alvin talking about trillions of dollars in investments, 7 trillion. There are things at play that are generating massive price action drivers. And the question to me is, can I connect that price action driver with a short term data driven process to evaluate a price action move? And can I get comfortable enough if I take a large position in something qualitatively that I'm going to add to this thing if it drops? I do do some fundamental analysis, especially because at that time, when I started looking into Tao, I had made a decent amount of money already trading a lot of these AI rigged market dynamics.
00:29:52.740 - 00:30:51.792, Speaker B: There's decent amount of trailing quantp and l such that the position size is material enough where I'm actually understand this. At the end of the day, I just had more confidence in worldcoin, right? They were far more aligned with the election dynamics. They were articulating that thesis very, very clearly. They were clearly the criticisms of Worldcoin, which is that Olaf and others basically said they have shit token dynamics and they're diluting shareholders with these ridiculous orb giveaways. I'm like, okay, yes, but that's because they want to get a massive install base before the 2024 election, which is really easy to underwrite because you're like, okay, Sam Altman is going to be under massive scrutiny, massive criticism in the 2024 election. He's going to pump world coin. He's like, he is going to tell people that, by the way, there is a solution to the problem which AI has generated.
00:30:51.792 - 00:31:31.646, Speaker B: I have funded that solution. I have been investing in that solution since 2018. I've seen where we're going and I have backed this project. Right? He's going to say that like, I have a high level of confidence that this is true because, you know, the CEO of Worldcoin would not be doing interviews talking about election security. They wouldn't be doing this proof of personhood passport. I just saw a roadmap where I'm like, all right, I'm going to get paid on this thesis because Sam Altman is going to bring this up as his election security with Tau. I'm like, okay, you could see a world where this doesn't go anywhere.
00:31:31.646 - 00:32:24.060, Speaker B: The new subnet isn't particularly useful. People test the tau GPT equivalent are like, this is shit. And then the coin sells off a lot because it's not particularly liquid, it's not really listed on many exchanges, and I don't have a celebrity backer to guarantee that I'm going to keep getting clicks. So going back in time? Yes, I missed a large rally in Tao. Going back in time, would I make the same decision? Absolutely. I would have 100% made the same decision. That said, going forward, im trying to be a lot smarter about measuring some of these communities that are forming around coins, measuring some of the tau subnets noose, which generates a ton of engagement and has very high advertising performance, by the way.
00:32:24.060 - 00:33:10.970, Speaker B: So if I'm going to change my mind on tau, it's going to be from a perspective of like, okay, I can see that some of these subnet models are actually impressive and they're generating substantial engagement such that I can put them in the AI basket. I'm sorry that's sort of a long answer to the question. But I. I think with qualitative trading you have to have a reason to be in something such that if it drops a substantial amount, as worldcoin did, by the way, worldcoin hit a two handle while I was holding it, so that was very unpleasant. And the question was, I burned half of my AI p and l on this thing. Do I keep holding it? I think building conviction in that respect means willingness to hold this thing through a drawdown.
00:33:12.150 - 00:33:45.350, Speaker A: Yeah, I think, you know, a lot of people in crypto and I guess markets in general, and you encounter this in poker too, is they're results oriented. You know, like if I buy something and it goes up, then that was a good trade. If I buy something it goes down. That was a bad trade. But you have to focus on the process because you have to have a repeatable, you know, or I guess you have to be able to define your edge. How would you define your edge? Is it the more quality like you know, the quantitative data stuff or I guess your entire world views around where the world is going that other people just don't seem to really fully understand?
00:33:47.330 - 00:34:32.401, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean I think my edge is that I am only focused on areas of excess. A lot of people will focus on one sector, they'll focus on the energy sector, learn everything about it. Sometimes they'll make money, sometimes they won't have. My edge is that I am just razor focused on wherever theres a punch bowl, wherever there is a rigged market, Im there. And I have better data tracking than anybody trading that market. And that edge comes from building an advertising company and knowing how to run scaled digital marketing campaigns. I just think thats a repeatable process, it's quantitatively driven.
00:34:32.401 - 00:35:40.346, Speaker B: And I think maybe one way to put this is that in new markets, especially rampant new markets, a lot of quant strategies take months to accumulate data, right? That's too slow. With a solid digital strategy accumulating data, you can get sometimes 2000 clicks in a day. 2000 clicks is enough to make a statement about the engagement of an asset class within a 24 hours timeframe, which if you're trading a 70 or 80 volts asset like crypto, in order to preserve capital you need to have that fidelity of data. So yeah, I would say that yeah, there is a process. I tried to really borrow heavily in terms of understanding even where my process came from. I didn't want to just make it up from scratch. I studied a lot of the writing of George Soros to inform the overall view of how to do this.
00:35:40.346 - 00:36:22.080, Speaker B: And I think I'd point to this book, Soros on Soros. I sort of, everyones tweeting stuff about study this, study that. And so I had to do my study tweet. And this is what I actually mean. I think Soros is just a fantastic resource for investors. But I used to go to these ridiculous meetings for the New York Objectivist Society and theres this guy there, Victor Niederhofer, whos Soros is quant and he should be one of the wealthiest people ever, right? Soros is probably generated in present value terms like 100 billion at P and L. This is stupid amount.
00:36:22.080 - 00:37:52.274, Speaker B: Niederhofer lost all his money, right? And Soros actually warned Niederhofer multiple times throughout his career to just cut your risk. And Soros actually explains in this book, Sorous on souris, how he views quantity strategies. He says, look, a lot of the times the market is in sort of an equilibrium position, and statistical strategies, trading TRX versus XRP for early example, if things are in an equilibrium condition, that sort of thing works great. The role of qualitative trading, the interface with quantitative trading, is to say we have left an equilibrium condition and your equilibrium trading strategy is no longer safe. And the way that you get ruined or wrecked, I guess, in the crypto parlance in trading, is that you continue to apply a equilibrium quantitative process in a market that has reached a far from equilibrium state. And that is the underlying thesis of my trading strategy. Because at some basic level, if you are doing a bunch of equilibrium strategies and you're living in a far from equilibrium society, which I think we are, then the likelihood of you getting wiped out completely, total loss of capital, is relatively high.
00:37:52.274 - 00:38:39.330, Speaker B: Right? And so my thought process is like, how can id risk trading a lot of really, really risky things and build a process that aligns with something which has worked for somebody else historically, who I have a high degree of confidence in his qualitative judgment. When I say something like, study soros, it's study the way that he managed risk across portfolio managers. Study the way that he studied the interplay between equilibrium and disequilibrium conditions, and also study the way that he, um, you know, focuses on bubbles. Right? That, like that, that is really why he's a great trader, is because he would get involved in markets when they are in far from equilibrium conditions. That's how he made all his money.
00:38:40.390 - 00:39:14.030, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think his most famous quote is, you know, when I see a bubble forming, you know, I rush in to buy adding fuel to the fire. And I guess in crypto this is also the case because like you mentioned, crypto is very inefficient. It's getting more efficient over time. But I still think that there's not enough money in the space to efficiently price things ahead of time and whatnot. We talked a lot about what you learned from Zoros and whatnot. But what other qualities do you see in successful traders, investors that you try to also learn from?
00:39:14.930 - 00:39:39.060, Speaker B: Yeah, I have a kind of dual heuristic for this. I call it process and subprocess. I know a ton of successful investors. Some of them do not do what I do at all. And obviously there are a lot of ways to make money in markets, which is why markets are great. But almost every successful investor I know has two things. They have a process, which is their day to day, okay, I'm doing work on a name.
00:39:39.060 - 00:40:28.760, Speaker B: I'm filling out an Excel spreadsheet. I'm doing data tracking. I'm collecting this information. It's all the tasks and the mundane stuff that goes into trading. And then there's a sub process. And the sub process is like taking a step back from my process. How do I know if my process is appropriate? And what conditions would I actually cut or decrease capital in my process? So an example would be that somebody who's heavily reliant on channel checks for their long short equity process, if they were trading during COVID they might be extremely overweight.
00:40:28.760 - 00:41:18.912, Speaker B: Their strategy, because their channel checks would be extremely informative versus a normal equilibrium condition. Youre like, all right, I dont know if this cruise line is going to go or nothing. If you're talking to a cruise consultant, the value of that knowledge in 2019 is probably relatively low. The value of that knowledge in 2020 is extremely high. Right? So kind of, you know, if you look at card counting with Ed Thorpe, knowing when you have a hot hand, it's something Stan Druckenmiller talks about. Stan just outright says the job of a trader is to assess when you have a hot hand and essentially you have a process, you follow that process. You're not going to reinvent your process, but you need to understand when that process needs to be sized up and when it needs to be sized down and what the parameters are that go into that.
00:41:18.912 - 00:41:35.380, Speaker B: And so I think that's the thing all great investors have in common. Those processes and those sub processes are vastly different. But I think those are the underlying things that you could probably evaluate and say, okay, if people have these two things and they're really good. They're going to be a solid investor.
00:41:36.160 - 00:42:24.510, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there was a quote by light crypto who is one of the, you know, biggest, the most well known traders in this space. And I think he mentioned something along the lines of, you know, a lot of people in crypto, they buy something and they, after they buy, they like look for reasons to be bullish, whereas what people should be doing is, you know, if you do buy something in like the scientific method, we look for reasons to nullify the hypothesis. Right. And like I think most people just look for reasons to be bullish after they buy something, whereas successful traders and investors constantly look for reasons why they're wrong. And if they can't find a reason that they're wrong then they can't just keep adding. Do you kind of empathize with that kind of view? What are some other common mistakes I guess you see people in crypto make?
00:42:25.770 - 00:43:35.650, Speaker B: So, yeah, first of all I totally emphasize that view. I think markets are a dialectic process where you're constantly receiving feedback both from your p and lithe as well as qualitative things in the market. You should always have a hypothesis about why something is going to work. And I think as an aside, I think the reason why LLMs are interesting as a new sort of quant strategy or AI is interesting as applied to trading is it's the first dialectic technology. Historically all this qualitative trading is very much word of mouth. It's like I create a hypothesis and then there's a dialectic and I look at for the verification of that dialectic in order to add to my position that was very human oriented and now that's becoming machine oriented, which is a really big change and it adds to a lot of scale potentially to trading p and l. But in terms of where people really screw up, I guess if that's your question, yeah, you know it's actually like people screw up position sizing.
00:43:35.650 - 00:44:45.764, Speaker B: I think that's just the really 101 thing in terms of people will become overconfident in their positions, have a huge position in something and they think they have a stop loss and then they hold it until it goes to zero. And the way that you get into that situation is not having a parameter around losses. With Worldcoin, just as an example, I should assume that on any given day I could lose 70% of my capital on that position just given its historical variance and some of the variants of associated coins. So my position size, assuming that im not willing to have more than a 15% drawdown in a day. It should not be, I shouldnt have a 20% position in worldcoin. It sounds like there are a lot of people, and social media amplifies their stories, where they have 150% position in something that works out. Thats how you blow up.
00:44:45.764 - 00:45:34.280, Speaker B: You dont hear the stories of all these other, you know, traders who did blow up. And I think that's the really harmful thing, I think, in social media, is that there are stories of people who made this killing. And then the stories you don't hear, all the people who blew up. And if you look at aggregate statistics, for example, and like, you know, taiwanese day trading data or funding data or options data, they're always the same story. You know, the average retail account loses 90% of their account within 90 days, 90 by 90. And it's this really sad phenomenon where people basically oversize positions. They treat markets as a casino, when in reality, markets are a mechanical way to extract edge from other participants, and you have to treat them that way.
00:45:34.280 - 00:46:17.140, Speaker B: You have to be impassive. And I think the way that you, the way that you get wrecked is you fail to size according to your edge and according to an idea of historical variance. I think, for example, going back to the Soros example, people are like, oh, yeah, I remember Soros. He broke the bank of England. And youre like, okay, well, what was his position sizing on that day? Youre like, okay, well, he actually had 80% of the fund in GBPUsD. If you look at that position, that's got, like a third of the risk of the s and P 500. It's a very small position on a nav weighted basis.
00:46:17.140 - 00:46:45.890, Speaker B: Now, granted, he was running so much capital that he made a billion dollars in a day. But you look at the position, it's all like a ten to one bet on sterling. Whereas, if you read education of a speculator with Niederhofer, he's like, I'm 30 to one leverage short dollar yen, and you're like, okay, well, you look at Niederhoffer's history, and it's like, oh, well, guess what? You had a 99.7% drawdown. Like, I wonder how that happened. I wonder if it had something to do with 30 to one leveraged position, right? So I think position sizing. Position sizing.
00:46:45.890 - 00:47:10.992, Speaker B: Position sizing is the name of the game. And this is very misleading, because a lot of people will have a venture approach to position sizing. So they'll say, okay, my position is ten x. Okay, well, cool. Now, it's 100% of your portfolio. So are you comfortable with an 80% drawdown? Because that's realistic for something that has gone ten x. And a lot of people are.
00:47:10.992 - 00:47:31.950, Speaker B: A lot of people they are not. And I think you saw that with the Luna crash. A lot of people thought they could handle an 80% drawdown. But if you've never been rich before, you can't, and they get wrecked and they go to zero. And so I think that is really the thing to hammer home, is that you need evaluation of how much money you could lose at any given time.
00:47:33.410 - 00:48:05.344, Speaker A: Yeah. And like, I guess going back to the last market top, you know, if you ask anyone in crypto at the time, uh, if you ask them, hey, like, if we saw a big drawdown in crypto and we enter a bear market, would you be around? And everyone's like, oh, yeah, of course. I'm gonna accumulate all the coins. I'm gonna diamond hands. And then I. When it actually happened, just like, they're just gone, you know, they're just like, they just think it's a scam and they're all the way gone. And I even interviewed Suzu recently, yesterday for another podcast I do called steady lads.
00:48:05.344 - 00:48:31.540, Speaker A: And I asked him, like, what were your lessons blowing up? And he said that, well, we were just doing what we were doing that got us there in the first place. So they were just taking on all this risk. They had this hot hand. They felt like gods. And then what got them there essentially led them to just blow up. And I guess he was like, oh, yeah, this time we're going to do things differently. And he's trying to learn from his mistakes.
00:48:31.540 - 00:48:39.300, Speaker A: Do you have any trading rules that you live by outside of position sizing?
00:48:39.720 - 00:49:20.028, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I borrowed this idea from Michael Platt, who's a really successful portfolio manager. He runs bluecrest, which is a family office. And I have a lot of different types of strategies. We got into one of them, which is betting on punch bowls specifically because crypto relevant. But every strategy that I have has to be producing by itself or I cut the strategy. So I almost view strategies like portfolio managers, and they have to produce at a certain level, and that level has to correlate to their historical profitability.
00:49:20.028 - 00:50:08.118, Speaker B: So if I have a strategy that put up a 2.5 sharp and it's generating a zero sharp, that strategy is going to get cut. And so the way that I trade is, I am very strict about cutting strategies that don't work, and I have parameters for doing that. Uh, and I think if you live by that rule. You don't bag hold strategies like a lot of people bag hold securities, but bag holding strategies can be almost as bad. Uh, where you're like, okay, I trend trade crypto, or, you know, I, I do unlocks, you know, I short unlocks, like strategies like that, they can blow up. I think there are a lot of people who made a lot of money in the bear market who are doing long short crypto strategies who made money every month.
00:50:08.118 - 00:50:31.990, Speaker B: Now they're not making money and they keep doing the same thing. And they don't have the meta going back to the earlier point of subprocess. They don't have a sub process to shut their processes down or to pivot their processes. That's a rule that I live by, is every process I have has to produce or it's gone and has to produce in line with historical results.
00:50:32.770 - 00:51:12.140, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess it's related to just not having an ego. It's like in a bear market, just head to strategies, makes all the money, and then you think you're a hotshot because you're making money in a bear market, but everyone else is back holding bitcoin or something. But as soon as the markets change, you can't just rely on task data because something in the market has changed. Like how do you personally not get too egotistical or too confident? How do you tone yourself back? Whenever you think that for now your AI trades are working perfectly? How do you tone down your ego?
00:51:13.160 - 00:51:53.442, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, there are two mechanisms. One is that I only bet trailing P and L, which has been generated on a quantitative strategy, on a qualitative strategy. So lets say I made 17% on the AI sector and betting that its being rigged by the government, right? In China, in the US, I make that money, I deploy that money to AI coins. And then at that point I have a stop loss. That quant p and L serves as a stop loss. If I fuck that, if I'm sorry, if I mess that up, if I.
00:51:53.466 - 00:51:55.146, Speaker A: Drop that, you can say whatever you want.
00:51:55.218 - 00:52:30.386, Speaker B: Okay? All right, cool. Yeah. If I drop that p and L, then I am not allowed to bet on that trend anymore. No more world coin analysis, right? No more qualitative bets on that trend because you lost your credibility, you lost your right to bet on that punch. So that's number one. Number two is that I use LLMs a lot now. So over the last year I've incorporated a lot of artificial intelligence language models in the process and they're critiques that essentially these things are the most verbose things in the world.
00:52:30.386 - 00:53:28.640, Speaker B: They're literally language models. They talk and talk and talk. And so x post, if the quality of the output is bad, and I can look at a situation where like, you know, I have trade journals, I have all my trading data, and I have LLM output, increasingly managing risk, especially for example in us equities for earnings. If I'm looking at output and the output is the opposite of what happened, or if it's hallucinating, or if the quality of the underlying data is bad, I will cut strategies. Another example would be there are some big changes that happened in Google Search in the past couple of years. It caused really big changes in click through rates. It was how they managed display select advertisements, essentially third party website ad placements.
00:53:28.640 - 00:54:07.700, Speaker B: And suddenly there was a regime shift in my data and I was taking positions and losing money on things because of this platform shift. And when I dig into something like that and when I say, okay, you know what, the reason why this strategy is losing money is because there's a degradation in the output, then I will really, really cut. And it doesn't matter if I'm losing a lot of money, right? Like the first example is a p based stop loss based on the credibility of a rigged market. The second is like quality of the signal. If I'm losing money for any reason and it's due to signal quality degradation, I will cut the strategy until such time as I'm confident the signal quality is back up.
00:54:09.120 - 00:54:19.700, Speaker A: Got it. This conversation was very interesting. And the final question I have for you is if you could go back in time and give advice to your younger self, what would it be?
00:54:21.560 - 00:55:06.556, Speaker B: Yeah, so this is an interesting one. Back when I left Palantir to actually run my friend's dad's money and I had a lot of really cool strategies. I had a lot of these ideas already in place and I made a bunch. And then I had a big drawdown. And instead of trusting or evaluating the process, I was like, I need to learn more about equities. I need to learn more about, I need to be an institutional guy, I need to go to a hedge fund and build my ego back up. After this drawdown, I think we live in a society where a lot of advice is to generalize, build your credibility, pound your chest, be like, im a hedge fund bro, et cetera, et cetera.
00:55:06.556 - 00:55:56.012, Speaker B: When in reality what I needed to do was I needed to look at my positions and say, okay, I was running a seven by seven portfolio and I had a 20% concentrated short position and basically the equivalent of a shitcoin, and it pumped and I should have expected that statistically, and I didnt. So really the solution wasnt to go to a hedge fund or make yourself feel better or get approval from authority. The advice id give to my younger self is when you encounter setbacks, understand exactly why you encounter that setback, dig into it, learn from it, and keep going. Don't give up. Be detail focused. Don't suddenly zoom out, focus on the macro and ask for somebody else's validation. Like take the pain and keep doing it.
00:55:56.012 - 00:56:16.300, Speaker B: Because in hindsight, if I kept doing that, I would have made more money than starting a company, more money than working at a hedge fund, all these things, because that strategy has performed fantastically in hindsight. So I think that is what I say is just don't give up because you need to trust in process, not trust in yourself.
00:56:17.520 - 00:56:45.226, Speaker A: Right, right, sorry. I will ask one more question because I forgot to ask this. And first of all, thank you for your time. So I have my audience. We're retail traders in crypto. We're trying to make it. What advice would you have for them to, I guess make it the cycle? I mean, it's a broad question and it's a lot, but in your own words, like how would you, what kind of advice would you give to aspiring traders and investors?
00:56:45.418 - 00:58:15.858, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think obviously I'm biased. I think the opportunity set is in AI crypto, and so therefore there are substantial, you know, going back to my time at Dalaizny, the reason I got so focused on advertising data was because I realized there are portfolio managers with $200 million positions in Facebook who'd never run an ad. We're in the same position with AI crypto, where people have $100 million positions in AI coins who haven't ever used the network, who haven't ever bought a gpu or done a training job on tower or all these things. And there are a lot of opportunities on these networks especially, and going to be increasingly so, where you can get token allocations by being an early miner on the network, providing compute to the network, going through the trouble of setting up a run pod and getting involved in a pre mine. So I think that would be my advice is be technical, learn about the AI space. And when there are new AI coins that launch, try to get network rewards early on and understand the coin before it even hits an exchange, because you're going to have such a big edge understanding the space, because most of the good coins, in my opinion, haven't even launched yet. I don't think a year from now we're going to be saying like, oh, what's your opinion on Tau versus render? I literally think that is not going to be a conversation that anybody has, right? I think a year from now it's going to be a very different conversation.
00:58:15.858 - 00:58:50.408, Speaker B: And if you pay attention and you do the work and you're technical and you build expertise in AI, specifically with a crypto overlap, rather than trying to be a generalist and chasing every single narrative, being like, oh, Eigen lair is going to pump, eat, like this week. Like, cut that shit out and focus on AI coins, right? Focus on getting your gpu set up. Focus on setting up run pod. And just don't miss this narrative. Because it's not just a narrative. This is literally like a multi trillion dollar company. It's a total transition for our society economically.
00:58:50.408 - 00:58:58.760, Speaker B: And crypto actually provides a great use case for artificial intelligence that we're going to see in the next year. So if you're going to make it, focus on that.
00:59:00.460 - 00:59:31.018, Speaker A: Nice, nice. And even if it's not AI coins, it's, I guess the things you were talking about is doing stuff that other people don't want to do, right? Because, I mean, I kind of specialize in airdrop farming recently, and I'm literally just spending countless hours clicking buttons and whatnot. And, I mean, no one wants to do that. I don't want to do that. You know, like, I, I'm tired. Like, you know, I'm gonna get, like, my wrist hurts at the end of the day, but I'm doing it because I, because, like, no one else is doing it. I'm like, okay, if no one's doing it, I'll fucking do it.
00:59:31.018 - 00:59:44.790, Speaker A: You know, my edges, like, my wrist, my diamond fingers. All right, thank you, Alex. This is a great conversation. Do you have any final words of wisdom for audience today?
00:59:45.160 - 00:59:48.808, Speaker B: No, that should be good. Yeah. Thanks for having me on.
00:59:48.944 - 00:59:51.760, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you, Alex. And I'll see you guys later. Bye.
