00:00:01.120 - 00:00:38.842, Speaker A: So again, thank you very much. Let me just introduce briefly myself. I'm an economics professor at the University of Siena, Italy, and I've been doing work on the economics of cryptocurrencies and blockchains for a few years now. What I'm going to present today, briefly, I'm not going to present. Everything I've done is work which I have been doing for two blockchains. One is neo and the other one is vechain. And both of them are two token blockchains.
00:00:38.842 - 00:02:00.794, Speaker A: So I was actually interested in these projects because the two tokens, blockchains, I haven't seen discussed in the literature, especially from an economic point of view. And so it was very interesting for me to, to enter the story. It doesn't go, I'm trying with this. Okay, so what I'm going to discuss with you, what I'm going to share with you, is some of the work that I have done. And let me say that the presentation will actually be split into two parts. The first part is more related to the work that I've done for Neo, and the second part will be more related to the work that I've done for Vechain. Both of them are very similar, but I've done different work for them.
00:02:00.794 - 00:03:15.872, Speaker A: So the first part is. Let me scroll. Where is the scroller? Here we are. Oh, just press. So, I think the starting point, at least for me, of interest, was the following. When Ethereum introduced gas, which is a fictitious unit of measure, of course, measurement to measure computational and storage costs, et cetera, to my understanding, the main goal for that was to sterilize, was to isolate the cost, which are measured in this fictitious unit, from market volatility. So the main goal for introducing gas was to separate the measurement of computational storage costs from the market volatility, which, on the other hand, affects the main domestic token.
00:03:15.872 - 00:04:54.584, Speaker A: Okay? So transaction fees on Ethereum are paid on the basis of a unit price, which is two components price made by a base fee in a tip after the reform, and multiplied by the number of needed gas units, etcetera. So that's the starting point. Okay? The second gas is like a fictitious second token in Ethereum, which again, was introduced for this very main reason, namely to try to stabilize the computational cost, to isolate computational costs from market fluctuations. Now, the interest, at least for me, on these two blockchains is that both of them have two tokens, and both tokens are actually listed on the exchangeable on the market. Okay? So if the two tokens for these blockchains and other blockchains were inspired by, by the Ethereum example, isolation from the market of transaction fees, payments for this kind of blockchains, and perhaps other blockchains. This doesn't work anymore because both blockchains, both tokens in both blockchains are actually traded on the market. And so they're both exposed to market volatility.
00:04:54.584 - 00:06:08.602, Speaker A: Now the question is a very basic question, and the economics I'm going to discuss to some extent is basic economics. So the question is, what are the economic characteristics of these two blockchain, two token blockchains, where both tokens are actually traded in the market. So the question is, do they actually exhibit specific features or they are very much akin to one token platforms. Let's see. Now the first part, if I can go along, okay, so the first part is work which I've done for, for Nio. They actually asked me to sort of try to find a way to have some sense of what is the economic value of the platform if you have two tokens which are quoted on the market. So this paper has been already published.
00:06:08.602 - 00:07:26.508, Speaker A: I'm going to draw a few stuff from it to, to share how I actually reasoned on that. And the idea I had in mind was something like having a dashboard, where by looking at the indicators that I'm discussing, to have a sense of what the economic value of such a blockchain is, you have a dashboard in front and you kind of react to how the indicators move around, changing perhaps the token supply or similar kind of measures. So that's the kind of philosophy I had in mind. And so to my mind they came up very basic questions. So the first question is, what is the absolute desirability of these two tokens? Let me also say that the two tokens actually implement different functions. So the main native token is the one that is actually used for governance and for transactions. The other one is introduced to pay for transaction phase.
00:07:26.508 - 00:08:35.868, Speaker A: So in the same way as Gaz was introduced by Ethereum, as a matter of fact, the second token for Nio is called, indeed gas, okay, doesn't have a different name, whereas in the other blockchain it has a different name. So when I started to think about it, I thought about two things. First is some kind of absolute desirability of the two tokens. How attractive is one token in a kind of absolute manner? And then relative desirability, which I'm going to discuss more extensively later on. As for absolute desirability, what we normally take is market price. But of course, quantities as well, exchange quantities can actually play a role. But what is, I think the very new component of this story is the relative desirability.
00:08:35.868 - 00:09:44.104, Speaker A: How is one token desirable as compared to the other by the market or whatever? So what it came to mind is to construct indicators, which I call, what is the point anyway? Which I call phi. I don't mind it just to point, oh, it's not working. So. So the first formula is just a general formula for an indicator, which depends on the two prices. So PNC and PGC are the two tokens, which in Nio are called n and g. N stands for Nio, the main domestic token, and g stands for gas, which is the second token. They're both traded in the market, so they have a market price prevalent in a market price in terms of a currency, whatever the currency is, could be fiat, could be crypto, whatever.
00:09:44.104 - 00:11:12.724, Speaker A: So the idea was to construct indicators, and here I have two desirable properties, if you want. The first is that to measure desirability, if relative desirability, if the two prices are the same, then you would want this indicator to be equal to one. So equally desirable in some sense, and we'll see y equal to one, and in a couple of slides. And currency independence of the indicator means that whichever is the currency that I referred to, the c currency, the indicator should take the same value. Okay, so basically, if we take property two, we can actually reformulate property two in the following way. By multiplying both arguments of the function f by p one over pgc, you get that thing. Now, how is demand in this property of being independent of the currency reference currency? Well, I think it's very realistic.
00:11:12.724 - 00:12:19.788, Speaker A: I mean, arbitrage activities are actually inducing their kind of independence across different currencies to which the two tokens can be traded on. So basically, if this currency independence holds, the indicator, whatever that is, is going to be expressed only as a function of the price ratio. So in front of this dashboard, you would react as the. If you see your indicator is actually changing value, you would react depending on the price ratio. And of course, there could be an infinite, virtually infinite number of indicators that will satisfy both properties, which are in some sense natural. And these are just two examples. But in some sense, the very natural indicator, in my view, to take would be the price index itself.
00:12:19.788 - 00:13:12.222, Speaker A: So to take the identity function, sorry, the price index, the price ratio, and I call the price ratio. I use the symbol e for exchange rate, because the price ratio is not a proper price in some sense, because in exchange notes, there are no markets where you can trade directly. One token for the other, at LeASt until I wrote the paper. So there is no direct market for one token versus the other token in exchange nodes. So you've got to tRiangulate. And so that's basically an exchange rate. It's not a direct price on a market.
00:13:12.222 - 00:14:31.752, Speaker A: That would be the most natural, perhaps index of relative desirability. If it goes up and DOWN, you can take policy measures to. Okay, I'm trying to go to be quick, just spend a few words on the fact that this is actually going to take more space in the paper that prices don't say everything. I think quantities also are very important, in particular quantity traded in the token currency market, NC or GC markets, as compared to the number of circulating tokens. So NCT stands for the number of circulating tokens, n of type n at time t, and GCT stands for the number circulating gas token at time t. These are also very important because how many tokens are traded as compared to the total number of tokens circulating. I think it's a very important measure on how desirable could be a very important indicator.
00:14:31.752 - 00:15:49.096, Speaker A: How desirable is one token with respect to the other. And as a matter of fact, what I've done in the paper, I'm not going to show that I actually took these indicators, which I call PI, which are constructed as ratios of these relative quantities traded in the market to combine with price indicators and construct global indicators, taking prices and quantities to have an idea what is the value of the blockchain at that very moment. And let me tell you that if you use this kind of compound indicators, quantities component can actually compensate for price components in terms of attractiveness. Now let me jump onto the second part. This was done just as a small piece of a report of a paper, which is now under revision, which I've done for Vechain. And now here I focused on a different topic. They were asking me in an explicit way whether there is anything specific of two tokens.
00:15:49.096 - 00:16:44.118, Speaker A: Okay, now what I found is something not very fancy, but certainly intrinsic to two tokens economy. I call the multiplier effect, and perhaps speculative flows related to the existence of the two traded two tokens. Now, multiplier is not a new term in economics. We have multipliers for many things, and here quite nicely, actually appears again. So the two tokens here are called v, that's the main token, and e is the correspondence of gas, which is used to pay transaction fees. So let me tell you what is multiplier effect which is there. I mean, it's not contestable in some sense.
00:16:44.118 - 00:17:31.186, Speaker A: It's a fact is consists of. So suppose you have a certain amount of v tokens, hv zero at block zero. Okay? So h stands for holdings of v tokens at block zero. And now, this blockchain, but also neo, are structured in such a way that if you hold a certain amount of the native token, you're gonna get for free. This second token, e tokens in a percentage, which is using the notation the small v. So hv zero times small v is the number of e tokens that you get for free. For free.
00:17:31.186 - 00:18:47.150, Speaker A: That's the key point for free, by holding hv zero v tokens. Now, if you can exchange the two tokens, and so if you can exchange e against anything on the exchange market, you can actually, if you want, buy back v tokens. So, and if the Q is actually the exchange rate at which v tokens exchange with e tokens on the market, what you're going to have, just to cut a long story short, is that if you buy back V tokens, you're going to have hv zero plus hv zero times v divided by Q v tokens in your wallet. So you started with hv zero. And because e tokens are free, and because e tokens are exchangeable, you're going to get more now. And so if you do it twice, you get that. And if you do it b times, where b is any generic numbers, you get that.
00:18:47.150 - 00:19:38.588, Speaker A: After B blocks, you're going to have that sum of v tokens. Okay, so basically, you started off with the sum at time zero or at block zero, and you get at block B many more tokens, depending upon how big is the. Here's the multiplier effect. You can multiply your v tokens by exchanging the ones, the second token, which you get for free, back and forth, and you get potentially many more tokens. How many more depends on the ratio v over Q, of course. And here's the end. I think I was right on time, and, yeah, I'll stop it here.
00:19:38.588 - 00:19:50.824, Speaker A: There is a lot of more work to be done here. I've done some which I didn't show, but there is much more. And so thank you very much for your attention.
00:19:52.404 - 00:20:00.940, Speaker B: Thank you. Professor Dimitri. Hello. There we are. Thank you very much, Professor Dmitry. Thank you very much. We have a very short little window for Q and a very limited.
00:20:00.940 - 00:20:07.086, Speaker B: Nice and quick. Perfect already. Good. Run. Run. I like this. He's stressed now.
00:20:07.086 - 00:20:11.234, Speaker B: Go on, run. There we go. Run, run, run. There we go. Lovely.
00:20:17.574 - 00:21:00.198, Speaker C: Thank you very much for this interesting analysis. I was thinking about something else a bit, only about one token, but also here with Vechain, one token that has two different functionalities. So it's, for example, a governance token, but it's also traded. So people may hold it for different motives, either for participating in the governance protocol, in votings, or maybe for capital gains that they hope. So what is your, or what are your thoughts about this? Did you also do some research on the implication of these tokens that have several functionalities on the economic value? Have you thought about this or did you do any?
00:21:00.286 - 00:22:06.974, Speaker A: I haven't seen anything. Certainly the story that I told, namely exchanging the other token to get, can be seen as similar to a situation where you only have one token and if you keep it in your wallet for some time, you get additional tokens for free. So in that sense you also increase in. But I think the interesting part of the two token story is that if you don't quote in the market your second token, then it's fine. But if you do, you're going to give for free additional wealth, which was not, I think, the original goal of Ethereum in my understanding, when they started to think about introducing a different measure for computing. Okay, so the one token, no, I haven't seen, there couldn't be many, very many differences, but I will have to, I will have to investigate to be more precise on that.
00:22:07.514 - 00:22:08.414, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:22:08.914 - 00:22:11.634, Speaker B: Lovely. Thank you very much. And thank you again for Doctor Dimitri.
