00:00:00.090 - 00:00:20.480, Speaker A: So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Stani to come and share some thoughts on Aave. Welcome Stani. Hey everyone. Hey Karthik. Hey Ashley. Yeah. So today we're going to talk a bit about Aave and also permissions building.
00:00:20.480 - 00:01:43.440, Speaker A: We'll share my screen. It's super, super cool to be here now, being very supportive for the It global community and also the whole Ethereum community. And as some of you all know, Ave and Ave used to be called Eatlend, short for Ethereum lending and was kind of like born and raised in the Ethereum ecosystem. And one of the things I personally noticed is back in the days when we started to build in 2016, there wasn't much developer tools available. The ecosystem wasn't this big as it is today, not just D Five, but in general the whole on chain ecosystem. So definitely the whole community has come up very far and I'm happy to see different kinds of hack ideas you guys had in the discord. Yeah, I'm looking forward for now we'll give a quick introduction into Ave and what we are doing.
00:01:43.440 - 00:03:06.918, Speaker A: So in general, Ave protocol is a decentralized money market protocol, which basically means that it consists of different kinds of reserves or actually money markets. And within those money markets you have reserves. For example, you have Dai Reserve, USDC Reserve, USDT Reserve, for example, stablecoin Reserve or other currencies as well that are listed there. And each reserve is a function of a pulled reserve in the sense that when you deposit into these reserves, your funds are basically mixed with other depositors. And as a money market protocol, you basically deposit to Ave to earn interest, to earn yield for your stable coins or other assets. And when you deposit into Ave, let's say Dai, what happens is that actually a credit line is granted to you. So you can actually borrow against what you deposit into Aave or you can let someone else to borrow and delegate that credit line.
00:03:06.918 - 00:04:21.760, Speaker A: And that's the kind of like a main functionality what we have. It's basically a base layer protocol in the DeFi ecosystem. Lending and borrowing is interesting in the sense that it provides the very basis yields for these cryptographic assets that are on Ethereum network. So that is why today we're going to discuss about how people are using Ave and why it's so popular and basically what makes it so popular and why we see a lot of kind of like integrations or Aave is part of this so called money Lego blocks. We started back in this year with the protocol in 2020 January and completely from scratch with the liquidity. The liquidity has grown quite substantially. So in DFI, those who are less familiar, there is a metric called Total Value Locked, which represents the value that the smart contracts of a protocol has.
00:04:21.760 - 00:05:45.638, Speaker A: And interesting part here is that as a metric, it's not the best metric to measure any kind of a success because it just tells what is the quantity of funds that the smart contracts are trusted, but it doesn't measure the success of the protocol, the integrations or any kind of volumes and so forth. So it's basically derives from the idea that putting funds into smart contracts is always a risk. So you're risking funds in that sense and that is why it has been seen that the more people are putting funds, the more people trust the protocol. It's not the most convenient metric, but it is what it is today in DeFi. So the mining market consists of different reserves and different yields and those yields are derived from the interest rate curves based on the utilizations. So the more funds are deposited into Ave, it basically means that there's more funds to borrow and the interest rate goes down. And when there is more demand for, let's say different stablecoins, for example, we see more demand on Ave or less supply in Aave sorry, in Dai.
00:05:45.638 - 00:07:19.530, Speaker A: And that means that the interest rate in Dai is basically higher. And those interest rate curves that we have as a basis in the protocol, those things can be changed by the governance, for example to optimize the yield curves. And that is one of the most fascinating things and maybe less kind of like a research area in decentralized lending on how those kind of different curves could be optimized and alternative curves could be created and quite an interesting hack idea and also a research topic out there. And as Ave is a protocol, it also means that new money markets can create it from this protocol. And we created during this year uniswap version one as kind of like a proof of concept money market to allow uniswap liquidity providers to collateralize their LP shares in Aave and borrow funds against them so they're unlocking liquidity. And we got a lot of positive experience from creating this new money market. And with our upcoming version two, we will deploy the support for latest release of the uniswap diversion two and also a bunch of other very interesting derivative money markets.
00:07:19.530 - 00:09:00.438, Speaker A: What makes Ave quite special is that we rely heavily on interest bearing tokens. This basically means when you deposit into the average protocol, let's say you deposit die, you get in return adai which is an interest bearing token that represents your deposit into Ave and also any interest you're earning. So it's kind of like a receipt that you get after putting your funds into a locker. And what makes a tokens very interesting, and especially recently we have seen a lot of kind of other projects trying to also kind of take inspiration from the a tokens is that those balances of the A tokens are increasing algorithmically. It basically means that when you earn interest in the Ave protocol, your a token balance grows wherever you're storing, it can be in custody, it can be in your MetaMask, in your ledger, that balance is growing there as long as the provider, the wallet that you're using fetches the balances from the blockchain. And these are actually programmed to increase every second in that sense. And why it's so interesting is that you actually don't need to go back to Ave to claim that interest that you earn, but it's actually credited directly to your wallet.
00:09:00.438 - 00:11:10.514, Speaker A: And I could imagine that in the future you could do all kinds of similar tricks, algorithmic balance increase tricks when it comes to payments. If you're actually hacking something in this hackathon, you could actually think about using something similar as a tokens with the changing balances. Especially it's cool because you save gas cost directly and of course it's USD nominated, which means that since eight tokens is an interest bearing token, you don't actually need to deposit to abba to get a tokens, but you could actually just buy a tokens from somewhere and you actually have the exposure. If you buy a tokens from Unisop or Balancer, basically you're getting exposure into Permissionless Savings account. And this is very cool because it creates a very easy way to integrate Ave. So you don't need to actually even use the simple deposit functionality or repay because you could just exchange a tokens from one place to another and use something like automated market making protocols. The important part about Atokens is that the part of being a Permission Savings Account is that it actually helps people in the sense that if you come from a region, I mean, this is a very global hackathon, right? So if you come from a region where the local currency has a lot of inflation and basically there's no legitimate good access into USD nominated savings accounts in your banking infrastructure, this actually solves a critical problem in that sense because you actually have a savings account and actually no one can come in between.
00:11:10.514 - 00:12:01.860, Speaker A: You basically hold your right to that. So you're not trusting banks in that sense and anything else in between. And this is like over a long term period is quite powerful. And of course the thing is that the balance continues to increase even if you send that a token to someone else. So essentially what it means that you actually have a payment currency that is actually all the time increasing in the balance. I mean, what could be any better than paying someone with a currency that increases in value compared to a currency that has inflation and decreases in value. And this just shows what kind of innovation you could achieve in decentralized finance with the technology.
00:12:01.860 - 00:12:57.498, Speaker A: And then we have an interesting feature that got a lot of traction in the protocol, which is called flash loans. So in essence, what you could do, and you could use this in a project that you are building now if you need some kind of liquidity or upfront capital. So how does it work? You basically borrow from Ave 100% under collateralized loans. So usually when you borrow in DFI it's over collateralized. So you put a collateral which is more value and then you borrow something else that you actually need. So you're using your collateral there as a deposit here. With flash loans you basically borrow without a collateral and you can borrow maximum amount of liquidity that there is in Aave.
00:12:57.498 - 00:14:26.174, Speaker A: Currently it's roughly over fluctuated from 1 billion to one and a half. And in practice, when the depositors are depositing into Ave, only 25% are borrowing, so the rest liquidity is there which could be used in flash loans. And the kind of like idea of the flash loans is that you need to return the flash loan in one transaction. So if you manage to do that, then whatever you do in between will be successful in that sense. So how does it work in the sense is that the Ethereum blockchain settles every block and every block has certain amount of gas that could be spent on transactions and every transaction could have nested transactions. So one transaction could execute multiple transactions, which basically means that you borrow a flash loan from Aave, you could basically buy a currency that is cheaper, let's say in uniswap, and sell the currency in balancer where you get better price, for example, vice versa, and return the borrowed currency back to the Ave protocol. And because you return this transaction, all the other transactions will also succeed.
00:14:26.174 - 00:15:45.982, Speaker A: If you fail one of the transactions, for example, you don't return the funds back to Ave. It basically means that all the other transactions you made to call with this used capital will also fail. So it's kind of like a thing that relies upon the Ethereum atomicity and has been existed there for as long as Ethereum has been around. And there's quite interesting use cases that you could do. You could do for example refinancing instruments where you don't need to take liquidity providers capital. Instead, let's say you have a loan position in one lending protocol on Dai and you see for example that in another lending protocol there might be cheaper loan on USDC and you are using, let's say ETH as a collateral. So you could take a Dai flash loan from Ave, close the loan in the first lending protocol, take the ETH and put it to another lending protocol and then draw USDC and now you have basically cheaper borrow rate you take the USDC and you sell it in uniswap and basically for die and return that flash loan back to Ave.
00:15:45.982 - 00:16:41.390, Speaker A: So what you actually did is that you refinance a loan from one currency to another, one Linux protocol to another and to a cheaper borrow rate without actually using your own capital. And this is a product that you could actually build for an end user and it's direct value added for them because they can change their exposures without actually returning those loans. And there's a bunch of other things that you could do with Flash loans. I think it's just imagination that is limiting. I'm pretty sure that even during this hackathon, as usual, we'll find some pretty new use cases and something that will impress everyone again. Yeah, Flash loan is kind of a serious volume these days. Since we launched in January, there has been over half a billion worth of Flash loans.
00:16:41.390 - 00:17:39.226, Speaker A: And I think DeFi Saver is one of the most active user in terms of Flash loans. And one cool part is that the Flash loans actually provides basically yields for the end user as well. So it's kind of quite cool. Another thing we have, which is quite recent that we added is so called Credit Delegation functionality. So Credit Delegation means that basically now roughly 75 or so percent there in the other protocol are depositing but not borrowing. So they're purely using the protocol to gain interest, to gain yield for their stable coins or other assets that they're long. It might be like Aave Link and so forth.
00:17:39.226 - 00:18:28.254, Speaker A: And that's pretty fine. That's the use case we have. But we noticed that basically there is also demand for borrowing, of course without a collateral. But actually Credit Delegation is a way of delegating your credit line after depositing to someone else who could actually borrow. This could be your friend, another person, for example, you could make a legal agreement with that person, or might be OTC Lending Desk. Or it can be also like actually a smart contract that you delegate the credit line to. And the idea is that the depositors, when they delegate the credit line, they actually earn more.
00:18:28.254 - 00:19:41.250, Speaker A: And actually cool thing about this is that when you deposit one currency, let's say you deposit USDC and earn interest, when you delegate your credit line to someone, that entity can actually borrow anything that is possible to borrow from Aave. So that's pretty neat thing. And for this functionality we actually deployed the so called Credit Delegation proxy which allows you to actually create this new Credit Delegation vaults. And anyone that holds eight tokens just deposits eight tokens into this vault. And once there's eight tokens, it means there's the collateral and then the borrower can draw from the Arbor protocol without a collateral. So I think I'm very bullish on the ability to lend out to smart contracts. There is one example of Wyron's Ya Link vault which actually has Credit Delegation activated, which means that you can deposit a link into this Ya Link wallet.
00:19:41.250 - 00:20:45.958, Speaker A: And that wall basically draws credit line from Ave, so it borrows USDC and then I think it deposits into curve to farm CRV and generate yields for the depositors. And currently they are borrowing roughly 20 million worth of USDC with the Credit Delegation. The potential is huge. And I definitely urge everyone that is interested in this feature to think what kind of other use cases there could be for delegating credit to a smart contract that has pre programmed functions that people can read the contract and understand that okay, by reading this contract, the borrower contract only can do this particular function. So I'm happy to delegate because there is no credit risk or the credit risk is very low. So this is like very cool thing. Yeah, avenomics is interesting thing because we have this so called safety module in the protocol.
00:20:45.958 - 00:21:45.102, Speaker A: So one of the reasons we have a lot of integrations and developers building on top of Aave is because it has been battle tested. And on top of that we have the so called safety module where the Ave community members are staking their Ave into the safety module against rewards to basically provide safety for the protocol depositors. And that's very interesting functionality. And the idea is to basically provide safety for all different money markets there are. And if there's some ideas to hack around, kind of like the safety module and how to use it because it's insurance in one sense and I think insurance is something that is highly needed in the DeFi space, but also where we will see a lot of innovation. So that is an area to take a look at quite closely. Yeah.
00:21:45.102 - 00:23:18.330, Speaker A: So the actual topic here permissionless building with Ave, I want to actually discuss a bit about what is permissionless and why it matters in a sense and just show a bit of the key components, what goes to the permissionless kind of properties such as the composability and how some of the projects that are building on top of Aave or have been built previously in these it global hackathons has actually utilized and why it actually is very big value proposition for the whole ecosystem. And whatever we're building. So in very normal sense, we all know that permissionless means that anyone can access. So those developers who come from the web two world, you probably pretty much know how it works there in the sense that, let's say if you want to build a product that interacts with other, let's say software, you basically need to obtain an API key. So you need a permission to use that other piece of technology. You need to subscribe to terms and conditions. So basically whatever you're building has to actually be in the line of what the service provider is offering and accepting and providing in their terms and conditions.
00:23:18.330 - 00:24:28.766, Speaker A: And then once you get the API key, then you can build different things and that API key can be revoked as well. So that access might be granted for temporary period. And basically in the permissionless, just like building permissionless applications, it basically means that actually you don't need any kind of API key and all the components usually are pretty much open source on ethereum. So that means that anyone can build anything, anything they like. And for the users it means that anyone can access those things that you build whether directly or through smart contracts. So missions technology doesn't discriminate the backgrounds of the users or the developers. It basically means that wherever you are located in the globe, you have the ability to build whatever you want in the whole ecosystem.
00:24:28.766 - 00:25:41.570, Speaker A: And it's just not only decentralized finance, but for example, you might build new games, you might build some other functionality and take advantage of the whole ecosystem. You could take advantage of decentralized finance, interact with those protocols, interact with for example NFTs and crypto, blockchain based games and a bunch of other stuff. Think about it as an internet where everything is accessible. You can use everything that is put into this internet, this decentralized network and that all data is usable for you. And also all the interactions is also something that you can partake in. And usually you can also build things on top. If there is a lending protocol like Aave, you could actually build other kind of functionality that is needed or then you could just use ave to something else and use all the different protocols and all the lending protocols that are in Ethereum and even breach to other blockchains.
00:25:41.570 - 00:26:34.042, Speaker A: And that is the idea of that the permissionless means not just permissionless access as a user, but also the permissionless building. And that is what these hackathons are all about to me. And of course it means that no one takes permission on your funds. That goes with the noncustodial aspect and that you can see what's happening in the whole ecosystem. You can see and you can audit, anyone can audit what's happening. And this is like big part of the whole permissionless value proposition. And I could maybe say that you could compare the permissionless DeFi or permissionless technology as an ocean in some way.
00:26:34.042 - 00:27:43.760, Speaker A: So I love this picture in the sense that it really shows kind of like what you are actually accessing. So in this case, if you think about ocean, it's all connected with each other. In ocean you have different kinds of life in different part of the world and everything is accessible. In Ethereum it's actually accessible with one function in real life, probably in oceans you need to travel long distances if you want to see what's happening in another part of the world. So imagine how it reflects in decentralized finance is basically you see this kind of like liquidity pools in different places. You have ave, you have for example, uniswap market making liquidity balancer and whatnot and all those liquidity pools are accessible to you. It's a big ocean that anyone can join, participate and no one restricts your access.
00:27:43.760 - 00:28:55.378, Speaker A: There's no one coming to you and saying that you can't swim in the ocean because that kind of thing doesn't exist, it belongs to no one. And that's basically what it is. And I really love this comparison. And in practice how it works is for example I was brainstorming with Mariano Conti, used to be a developer in MakerDAO and does a lot of things in the DeFi space about MakerDAO worlds where basically when you create this MakerDAO world it basically means that you collateralize ether or something else and print Dai the stablecoin. Now there's different variations, you could use Ether as a collateral, you could even use USDC as a collateral but you cannot swap the collateral in between. So let's say even you collateral as eat and then you print Dai but then you want to change it to WBTC. You can't do it because you need to close your CDP.
00:28:55.378 - 00:29:34.066, Speaker A: And there's various reasons for that, to keep the system simple and more secure, for example. And as a Usability, it's kind of like a difficult and I ask in Twitter just publicly. Like, is there anyone who actually wants to build this thing? Because this is very good value proposition and very useful for many and a person that I didn't previously know. David Truong actually wrote in a few hours that I actually created this. Now I read the tweet. I created this small proof of concept. So you can now swap your collateral from E to bat to eat.
00:29:34.066 - 00:31:15.898, Speaker A: And that was pretty cool. And then just another person from somewhere else around the globe came and basically tried to swap the collateral and was successful in and David I first time met him actually in one of the global hackathons in It London where he was hacking as well and now he actually works at Aave and helps also in this hackathon. So if you have any questions from David, need any help so feel free to reach out but this just shows you like you can be anyone from anywhere and just start building, participate and just create products that you think people need or products that you care about and no one is restricting you to do that. Once you deploy into the main net first testnet of course you need to be responsible but the end of the day they will live there as long as the blockchain is hold up and there's compatibility in the update so you could create virtually applications that will run for the rest of their existence. Imagine deploying a completely new bank that will just run as long as there is demand for it. The side effect is, of course, that it might become quite competitive because if someone deploys a new bank that is slightly better than your bank, then the liquidity might go partially there. But it's of course not the full story and competition that writes innovation and so forth in terms of compatibility.
00:31:15.898 - 00:32:35.566, Speaker A: So permissions building also means that anyone can build on top. So if you build something during the hackathon on Aave, I might not even know about it unless you basically come and tell or I read the submission and that's the beauty out of it because you can build something fairly quickly and use liquidity that already exists in Aave or the whole D Five ecosystem. Now the Ave ecosystem, for example, there's I think, 50 different ways to access Aave with different browsers or different integrations and also pretty cool projects that has been built on top in Ave. And I think this really shows what DeFi is. It's not about one particular project, it's actually the whole ecosystem. When we started in 2017, the beginning before ETLand, there was one decentralized exchange and you couldn't do much in that environment. But now, where you have different kinds of liquidity pools, lending protocols, options, platforms, derivative futures, there's so much you can actually do.
00:32:35.566 - 00:33:16.410, Speaker A: And also the other parts of the onchain economy, NFDS and so forth are growing as well. So it's just expanding so much. There's so many things to build. One of interesting projects that now in terms of composability is being built is Ave Gotcha. So ave gotchas are NFDS. So non fungible collectibles in the shape of ghost. So you have this kind of like a ghost characters and they have variables consumables and you can connect different kinds of brands into this ecosystem.
00:33:16.410 - 00:34:16.270, Speaker A: And what's interesting about the Avocadchi project is that the idea came from last hackathon in Hackmoney in terms of directing interest rate from one place to another. One of the founders, Dan, basically created this yield hero where you can redirect interest rate. And from that idea he came up with the Ave Gotchi idea. And it works in a way that you basically get these ghost collectibles and you can unlock those ghosts based on the interest you earn on Ave. Which basically means that the better you are at saving funds, the quicker you unlock the collectibles. And also there's this kind of rarity farming, the better you save, for example, the more rare stuff you can get. And yeah, teaching people to save, that's the objective of this particular project.
00:34:16.270 - 00:35:27.194, Speaker A: And that is why it's very remarkable as for example, the A token is a way to get grant permission savings account globally. This is a way to teach people how to save. So there is very interesting mechanics behind of this project and it's Daiko, which is the actual real fair launch to launch project. So it was interesting because there's not many of those. And yeah, it started in hackmoney as I presented another project, which is pretty cool and fascinating in the sense that they focus on providing stablecoin swaps with low slippage, which basically means that they're rewarding liquidity providers sufficiently to provide enough deep liquidity for stablecoin swaps. If you want to swap large amounts of stablecoins, which used to be very problematic because the lack of liquidity, and usually you didn't have stablecoin to stablecoin pairs. And this is what practically curve solves.
00:35:27.194 - 00:36:31.242, Speaker A: And to optimize those yields, curve, especially the YPOL curve deposits, are going to Ave, which means that they're optimizing their yield and they're storing the collateral, the deposits in Ave, getting the Ave yield and the liquidity price also getting the trading yield from curve. So it's a nice way to kind of like increase the efficiency of the product that you're creating. For example, I could imagine, for example, scenario where if you're creating a payments project and you could create some sort of like a pulled model where liquidity is stored and in that way, you could store that liquidity. Let's. Say in Aave and use those yields to pay the gas fees and enable free transactions to some extent. And a bunch of other stuff. So it's an interesting thing.
00:36:31.242 - 00:37:37.642, Speaker A: And of course the Wirens Ya Link world which I mentioned earlier is pretty cool way to use the credit delegation function directed to smart contract. The cool part is that Ya Link vault is a deposit vault and it has a strategy. And since these two things are kind of like deployed code, you basically can read the code and see what that strategy can and can't do. And based on that you can understand, okay, this strategy doesn't increase any credit risk. So it just borrows from Ave and then farms something and brings yields for the Ya Link depositors. So in simplicity, Link depositors are receiving a link, when they deposit into Aave, they take their A link and deposit into the Ya Link vault to earn more. And the vault itself with its strategy borrows with credit delegation from Aave.
00:37:37.642 - 00:39:13.070, Speaker A: So the Ya A Link depositors are actually ones who are delegating the credit to these places, to the and currently they borrow USDC and that's pretty interesting to basically farm. And we have another interesting project called DeFi Saver that's actually utilizing the Flash loans. And this is pretty cool in the sense that they are closing automatically CDPs in maker system before liquidation. So in essence, they're borrowing Dai from our protocol and they close the CDP with the Dai, take the eater, sell the eater, return the Dai to the other protocol and return rest of the proceeds to the user so that the user doesn't kind of pay the liquidation kind of like incentive for the liquidators. So they're saving funds that way. And one particular interesting project is called Photocombo. And I think this is interesting in the sense that it's a way of using no code, so aimed to non developers to basically create different kinds of DeFi transactions.
00:39:13.070 - 00:40:25.714, Speaker A: And you could basically create a flash loan deposit into uniswap to provide liquidity and swap between uniswap Kyber and do a bunch of other stuff. So it's really interesting that you could actually create products that are not targeted to developers but create functionality to non developers because that's a big crowd that could be satisfied. And then we have Blazor which was in London. This project offers fixed term loans, they deposit into Ave and then with their own interest rate calculation, they offer you a fixed deposit rate and also give you the future earnings for you for. A fixed time period. This is quite interesting and I think the fixed deposit and also fixed borrowings is something that is still unsolved and could have a lot of innovation in the space. And if you want to get started yourself on building permissionlessly with Ave, there is developers docs docs Ave.com
00:40:25.714 - 00:41:16.580, Speaker A: developers about the A tokens and how to do a flash loan. So there is an actual example on how you could implement a flash loan with a flash loan receiver contract and try it yourself out and it might help you on whatever you're building in your project. That's all about it. This is our team, the Aventures, and there's a QR code to our telegram if you have some questions. We have the sponsor channel in the hackathon discord. So if you have any questions but besides that, this was the presentation from my part today and I hope you guys had fun following and yeah, thank you.
00:41:19.270 - 00:41:46.798, Speaker B: Thanks so much, Danny. That was great. I was hoping we would have a little time for questions, but unfortunately we have to move on to the next one. But I just wanted to quickly add that if anyone does have questions, you can go ahead and put them in the chat. Danny, I think there were a few questions for you. So if you want to hop back in the chat, I think everyone's very excited that you're here, so there might be things if you want to hop in the chat to answer them. Thank you so much and thanks again for sponsoring the event.
00:41:46.798 - 00:41:48.700, Speaker B: So cool. And.
