00:00:00.090 - 00:00:28.546, Speaker A: Alright everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co hosts today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. Welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:28.546 - 00:01:18.290, Speaker A: Today, Dan and I are going to be joined by Alex Nizlobin and Jason Milionas to be diving deep into the world of loss versus rebalancing, also known as lever or LVR. Before we get into the nitty gritty of what exactly lever is, which I'm sure many of you will already be familiar with, is the why we decided to do this. So AMMS have been a remarkable innovation in the world of DeFi, but one of the big problems that they've suffered from is how to make LPs profitable, how to calculate that profitability, but also how to make especially retail, passive LPs profitable. The very first idea of how to quantify that was this idea of impermanent loss, which many of you will be familiar with, but that has evolved to lever. So we're going to get into how exactly we should define lever and what are some of the solutions for lever today, namely dynamic fees and auctions. This was an extremely illuminating and fun episode. I hope you all enjoy.
00:01:18.290 - 00:01:26.774, Speaker A: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve today, dan and I are joined by Alex Neslobin and Jason Milianos. Guys, welcome to the show.
00:01:26.812 - 00:01:27.750, Speaker B: Thank you for having us.
00:01:27.820 - 00:02:11.430, Speaker A: We're excited, guys. And just to set the scene for the audience and listeners, we're going to be diving into one of the thorniest and most complicated, but simultaneously most interesting and I think critical areas of crypto today, which is LVR and LP profitability. So I want to do our best to deconstruct in as simple language as we can for listeners what LVR is and why it's important. And then I want to spend the meat of the conversation getting into some of the proposed solutions for LVR, which I think are super interesting and worth spending time on. So before we get into it, I'll just open up the floor. Alex and Jason, could you guys give us a definition of LVR?
00:02:11.850 - 00:03:01.890, Speaker C: Yeah of know, from what I see, there's many angles to it. There's many interpretations where it is that correspond to several equivalent definitions. I think our paper actually gives all five equivalent definitions, but if you want to analyze all of them, it could take a whole episode of the series to do that. So I think the intuitive idea behind lever is that essentially it's the price of knowledge. So whenever the price of an asset moves in an external market, say if trades on coinbase, the AMM does not know if it's the updated price like it's behind. So essentially what the AMM does is that offers liquidity at stale prices. And the thing is that somebody else and these people are called Arbitrators, they do know the latest price and the AMM will trade with them at worse than market prices.
00:03:01.890 - 00:03:32.206, Speaker C: So basically the LPs of the AMM lose exactly because of the informational disadvantage that the prices of the AMM puts them into. So I think that's my intuition around, you know, more formally, I guess as a computer scientist, the formulation that sticks to me the most is the comparison with alternative strategies that the LP could have done instead of Lping at the AMM. And so I think that's also the view with impermanent loss. But I guess we can discuss that a bit later.
00:03:32.308 - 00:04:14.898, Speaker B: I love the first definition. I think from my perspective, LVR is essentially a transaction cost, yet another transaction cost that is imposed on LPs. If you are a passive LPs and you want to make money by making the market, then you can contribute some amounts to the protocol of one token of another token. And then there is a wide range of outcomes. What can happen in the future, the price can go up, in which case the impermanent loss is probably going to be high. And this may not be the best outcome. The price can go down, in which case the outcome is also probably not going to be very good for LP.
00:04:14.898 - 00:05:14.578, Speaker B: So maybe the price will fluctuate around the same value, in which case it's great for LPs. LP will be making money. One issue, however, is that when you contribute money, you should be thinking about what is going to happen in expectation. And if you take a step back and think about a world without any transaction cost, then there is a theorem in finance, there is a theorem in statistics as well, saying that if you believe that prices follow something like a random walk, then you cannot really time it. So basically all these strategies I will buy now, I will sell later, if the price goes to some higher number, they, in expectation, don't really generate value unless you have some what people call alpha about the price. So if you just think that the price follows a random walk, then there's a wide range of outcomes where you make money in some, you lose money in some others. But on average, that's a fair game.
00:05:14.578 - 00:05:48.406, Speaker B: And what makes this game a little bit unfair is the LVR. Because every time the AMM quotes a price, the price is a little bit stale. And so the AMM end up trading at a price, end up buying at a price that is a little too high, end up selling at a price that is a little too low. And over time this little transaction cost accumulates. And so that makes the game unfair to the LPs. So that's my idea of LVR.
00:05:48.518 - 00:06:35.690, Speaker A: I really like both of those definitions and maybe to sum it up and pull out some of the key concepts. I love this idea, Jason, of the price of knowledge. And then there's also an idea of information asymmetry so if you imagine a world where price was a Martin Gale, right, which means prices are basically a random walk and there is no directional alpha and everyone is trading on one venue, there would be no LVR. However, we're not living in that world. We're living in a world where price is discovered on one venue and then it adjusts to other venues. And that discrepancy in terms of timing and knowledge generally leads to the concept of LVR. And this idea of expected idea of profit as opposed to realized profit is another very important one.
00:06:35.690 - 00:07:33.630, Speaker A: We could get into the weeds of how this works in the world of traditional market making, which is probably the best analog for talking about LP profitability. But it's also one that's a relevant problem for businesses as well. So folks who'll be familiar with the concept of A-P-L balance sheet cash flow is it tells you different parts about the profitability and viability of a business, right? So to ask a very simple question for a regular business, you might say, how profitable is this business? Well, how much money did you start with and how much did you end with? But actually, once you get into the weeds, it's not really that simple because let's say you're building a factory. You might actually have a huge outlay of cash flow at one period of time. But what you're trying to do with the P L is get an expectation of profitability over a certain period. And there's a similar concept, I think, to be applied to LBR. And what makes it so difficult I think I actually heard Doug Colkit, who we're going to be hearing from on our next episode.
00:07:33.630 - 00:08:17.082, Speaker A: He mentioned that probably a lot of people aren't even aware of this issue because you might be if you're not a particularly sophisticated LP lping along. You might be making money, but you might be losing money in expectation from LVR, which just makes it a very devious problem. So that's the way that I sort of sum it up and you guys give really great helpful definitions there and I want to turn it over to Dan in a minute to get into some of the solutions. But Alex, I heard you lay out a great in terms of solving the information asymmetry part of this. You said that information sort of flows from three separate sources. You have to consider the source of the flow. You have to consider information that's going on in the world.
00:08:17.082 - 00:08:32.138, Speaker A: You have to consider order flow. So maybe if you could lay out those three sources of information and then we can transition into the categories of solutions for Mitigating LVR which would be auctions and dynamic fees but turn it over to you to talk about sources of information for pricing.
00:08:32.234 - 00:09:31.058, Speaker B: I didn't mean the list to be exhaustive. So I think that there may be some other sources that we might be overlooking in general, as mechanism designers might be overlooking. But I think that these three sources are sort of the most natural ones. So basically, when you think about pricing your liquidity, where should it be positioned, where should the best bid be, where should the best ask be? How much liquidity do I want to provide? At these best bid and ask prices, you should take into account pretty much all the information that you have. But primarily, if you talk to traditional market makers, it will come from several sources, right? So they will be monitoring other exchanges very closely. What is happening elsewhere, the information about the outside world, they will be monitoring the news. So this is one very important piece of information.
00:09:31.058 - 00:10:38.022, Speaker B: Obviously, the second source of information is the flow that they observe. And the finance literature, the academic literature has done a lot of work on this. And of course, in practice people use that a lot too. So if you see that for some reason you are putting your limit orders on the book and they're getting and somebody is taking them way too eagerly, then there is a chance that they might know something that you don't, in which case you should start taking some defensive action. So even without any outside information about the outside world, you should be learning from the order flow that you observe. And finally, if you have any information about the particular incoming order that you can use, then of course that should be used as well. Almost any market maker would price an order coming from Robinhood differently from an order coming from a traditional exchange.
00:10:38.022 - 00:11:12.850, Speaker B: Right? So those are two very different sources of order flow for them. And basically, in the context of DeFi, if we had more information about the transaction, where it's coming from? Was it observed in the public mem pool or is it coming only through the private MEMP pool? Everything that you can imagine you could learn about the transaction might behave helpful in pricing liquidity for it. So those are the three sources, but maybe there is something else.
00:11:12.920 - 00:12:00.398, Speaker A: Hey, everyone wanted to take a quick second to shout out this season's partner Maverick Protocol. Now, many of you probably know Maverick as an innovative AMM, which they are, but in reality they're a lot more than that as well. Maverick is a suite of tools for DeFi users and builders that allows them to put liquidity where it will get the most work done. Since Maverick launched in March, they have been gobbling up market share. And at the time of this recording, which is the end of September, on a trailing seven day volume basis, maverick is now a top three decks by volume and they support over 50% of the volume on the L two ZK sync era chain. Maverick enables LPs and token pairs to process higher volume with limited TVL, which allows them to support some of the highest levels of capital efficiency for LSTs, like Wrap Steep. Another very cool feature is something called Maverick Boosted Positions.
00:12:00.398 - 00:12:55.038, Speaker A: So that allows protocols looking to bootstrap their token liquidity to target the shape of liquidity of any token pair with surgical precision. Maverick is backed by some of the leading institutions in crypto founders Fund, Pantera Coinbase Ventures, Binance Labs. They are all backing Maverick in their vision to revolutionize the next generation of DeFi DApps and helping them build their liquidity in all market conditions. Click the link at the bottom of this episode. Let them know that I sent you. Thanks, guys. The example of Robinhood is a really good one and the reason why makers would actually be able to provide better, quote, tighter spreads is because they're not worried about getting run over, right? So this is a concept they'll be very familiar with, sort of TradFi market makers, which is if you're making a market for Goldman Sachs and Goldman Sachs places a huge sell order, there's a good chance that Goldman Sachs knows something that you don't and you might lose money on making markets for that particular trade.
00:12:55.038 - 00:13:41.022, Speaker A: Whereas, Robinhood, the reason that order flow is so valuable, right, is because it's what you would call dumb order flow. I wonder how long that's going to be a thing after the movie dumb Money is out. Now, everyone knows that it's called that, but it's dumb order flow. And as a maker, you're not particularly worried about getting run over so you can actually quote better tighter spreads. So maybe, Dan, I could turn it over to you here and start to ask these guys about what are some of the solutions for LVR here? I know in the past you've been more on the sort of auction side of things. Now you've lost a lot of that religion and are looking at kind of dynamic fees and oracles as well. But be curious, kind of introduce this concept of these two different or the different categories that people have for solving or helping to mitigate LVR.
00:13:41.166 - 00:14:28.100, Speaker D: Yeah, and I think what we just talked about is a great lead into that. And just before I do, I would say I consider myself mostly agnostic on the concept of how to reduce loss residue balancing. It is a project that I think makes sense as a project. And I think we talked about this a little in our last episode. But one of the things I loved about Jason's Lever papers that it really crystallized for me, this as a meaningful research direction. And when you zoom in into the micro of basically what's happening every block, it makes a lot of sense. Whereas up until the lever paper came out, a lot of people, I think, had been framing this as how do we reduce impermanent loss? Which to me is almost an incoherent concept for a market maker to the idea that a market maker could make markets without having some risk of the market going away from them and being run over.
00:14:28.100 - 00:15:15.314, Speaker D: But I think with lever it's specifically talking about the part of the risk that can't be hedged and that generally comes from these sort of generally short term informational disadvantages. And one more thing for I think when talking about these, I do think lever is very different in or the concept applies very differently. If we were talking about say like a longer tail token that maybe one that's only traded on this particular exchange. I do think it's still a meaningful concept potentially there. But I think when people talk about solutions to lever, we're often talking about it in the context of highly liquid tokens with a lot of price discovery, especially a lot of off chain price discovery where it becomes slightly easier to measure. And I think possibly the concept means, I think, a slightly different thing in that context. I don't know.
00:15:15.314 - 00:15:27.242, Speaker D: Alex and Jason, would you agree with that as maybe the main or maybe that's sort of a more meaningful thing to limit our discussion to is about the shorter tail of tokens?
00:15:27.406 - 00:16:33.654, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that sounds just about right. It's just that I think that when you have price discovery also happen on chain, it's more an unknown as to how this price discovery is going to reverse affect these external markets where you previously assumed that you have price discovery. So for something like, let's say ETH, we can safely assume that since, I don't know, 70, 80% of the order flow is essentially on centralized exchanges, basically the price discovery happens on these exchanges. Once on something else you have AMM be the dominant part of the order flow, then you can't essentially perfectly distinguish as to what is the quantity that you're losing due to adverse selection, which is basically what that lever represents. So I think that poses a difficulty that I think is a very interesting research direction and definitely one that I like thinking about. But I don't think we've certainly crystallized to this point as to what's the right way to think about price discovery on chain.
00:16:33.702 - 00:17:24.842, Speaker B: I agree. I think that there are certainly different market segments in this debate and I think they should be addressed separately. Deep liquidity major tokens would be one and of course we probably have the expectation that price discovery is happening elsewhere. Then stable coins would be a different example and we may not worry about LVR for stable coins too much. But there is still a related problem. How do you make LP in this particular market even more profitable? Can we make it even more profitable? Then there are assets that people call long tail assets. The market there is obviously very different.
00:17:24.842 - 00:17:39.294, Speaker B: So some of the ideas may carry over but not necessarily everything. And then there are some other interesting markets as well. But I think the big one should probably be the major tokens for now.
00:17:39.492 - 00:18:05.030, Speaker D: And then one more question on this is do you feel like Markouts might actually be a better metric for measuring this with longer tail tokens? Like does loss versus rebalancing maybe mean a little less as a concept with the longer tail? And we didn't really talk about Markups as maybe an alternative way to talk about this, but is that maybe a weakness in the lever frame if you're actually talking about a token where price discovery is happening on the same exchange?
00:18:05.530 - 00:19:00.086, Speaker C: So personally I don't think it kind of is because there's basically theorem that if you take Markouts and you take the time interval go to zero as to how you measure your markout, then that essentially is going to be exactly lever. So what Markouts are essentially doing, and it might not be obvious at first glance, but I think that's the case is essentially that they try to interpolate between lever and impermanent loss. So if you have a markout with a huge time horizon, then that's exactly equal to impermanent loss. Whereas if you have a markout with a time interval that goes to zero, then that goes exactly to lever basically. So I'm not sure as to what the benefit is if you have an intermediate time interval. Maybe Alex can speak more to that. But I think that in the two edge cases it's kind of relatively clear what markout corresponds to.
00:19:00.086 - 00:19:02.814, Speaker C: So I don't think there's a meaningful difference in that direction.
00:19:02.882 - 00:19:34.402, Speaker B: Yes, I think there is this traditional debate on how long the markout period should be. If you take it all the way to zero, if you somehow know the fair value of the token at the time when the transaction is made, then to me it's almost the same thing. markout or LVR, there's almost no difference between the two. Literally the same thing, isn't it? It's literally the same thing. Yeah. I wanted to hedge my bets a little bit because Jason has a special interpretation of fees, but we may not want to go there right now. So let's call it the same thing.
00:19:34.402 - 00:21:00.154, Speaker B: But then the issue is that liquidity providers, they like to provide liquidity to uninformed flow. And when there is somebody buying in size, then there is a chance that they're buying on multiple venues at the same time. So there is always a question that when you use the price from centralized exchanges or from some other venue or some weighted average price, or maybe the global price, the mid of the best bid and offer everywhere, is that price biased relative to the fair value because of the temporary pressure on the price that the uninformed flow creates everywhere. And so the traditional thinking is that we should allow for some period of time to make sure that if there is some uninformed flow going on right now that it dissipates, we need to give it some time to dissipate. There will be some other uninformed flow later, of course, but we don't know in which direction it will be. So the trade off in choosing the markout period is that the longer the markout period, the less bias you should expect to see in your markout. But this lesser bias comes at a cost of higher noise because you're just giving some more time for the price to walk away in each direction.
00:21:00.154 - 00:22:09.246, Speaker B: You don't know in which direction it will go. So there is no bias, but there will be noise. So basically there is this trade off. Which brings me back to Dan's question. Would that be an appropriate metric for long tail assets? For long tail assets, you don't necessarily have a good price from centralized exchanges even 15 seconds later because there's simply no good price. And so the question is, at what time period can you expect the price on the decks, on the same decks that we are talking about today to be unbiased and for all the uninformed flow to dissipate? And so I don't want to go into much detail on the mechanics of how uniswap pools work, but basically, since uniswap pools can only be moved by takers of liquidity, it takes a little bit longer for the mid price on uniswap to sort of reflect the average true price. So basically it takes a little bit longer for uninformed flows to dissipate.
00:22:09.246 - 00:22:21.366, Speaker B: So basically you do have to take longer Markouts. I think that the approach still works. You just might need to give it a little bit more time and use longer Markouts if you are talking about long tail assets.
00:22:21.478 - 00:22:21.754, Speaker C: Cool.
00:22:21.792 - 00:22:29.270, Speaker D: So I did want to ask get into some discussion about solutions and possible families of solutions to Lassos.
00:22:29.350 - 00:23:36.866, Speaker C: I think maybe before we go there, can I interject a little bit? I think what Alex said gives me a kickback to discuss something else that also came back a bit earlier and that's like, I think we should make clear that the term like noise traders or uninformed order flow, it's not a diminutive term. I don't think it's meant to say that these people are dumb or being taken advantage of and actually think on top, this is actually wrong. And that's because what it solely means is that uninformed order flow does not have a short term edge. So immediate market information, long term, I think that uninformed order flow is actually exactly what moves in efficient market. It's basically the purpose of any efficient market to uncover and aggregate this long term information. So I think that the distinguishing bit between arbitrarized flow and uninformed flow is essentially whether you do have or you don't have short term market information for the next, let's say second or millisecond. And I think that's actually what constitutes the impetus for essentially having Markouts with.
00:23:36.888 - 00:24:26.882, Speaker A: Different time periods and actually just one interjection there for folks who aren't aware of a markout. A markout is again, one of these ways that more traditional market makers or high frequency traders use to measure expected profitability, right? So if you're a high frequency trader, you're placing many, even sometimes hundreds of thousands of trades per day. You want to get a sense of a am I placing these trades in a way that I'm getting good execution and is my strategy profitable? And sometimes the period that you actually hold your trades doesn't measure up to the sort of expected alpha timeline that you have. So again, you'll sort of take a period of time, you'll place the trade and say after 5 seconds I'm going to measure whether or not this was a good trade. So I just realized we haven't defined what a markout is. So just to set the scene, it's another one of these sort of expected measures of profitability that high frequency traders or market makers will use.
00:24:26.936 - 00:25:03.820, Speaker D: And I think Jason, I think that's a great point because I do think when you hear people talking about uninformed traders, you might think, right, that the market makers are scheming about basically how to take advantage of them. But in fact, the brutal competition generally among professional market makers is people competing to give the best possible execution to uninformed traders and just trying to take advantage of or avoid being taken advantage of by informed traders. But generally knowing that flow is uninformed is a reason to give it better execution traditionally. And that's, again, I think an interesting property of how these markets work.
00:25:04.830 - 00:25:31.414, Speaker A: There's a great I'm going to blank on his name. I will find it and link it in the show notes for people who want to take a look at theirs. But sky named Patrick something. I will link this who wrote a great sort of treatise on payment for order flow and how it works in traditional markets and why people have it exactly backwards. And actually, most of the time retail gets better pricing than institutions. But we'll link that in the show notes. If some nerds want to go down the rabbit hole of payment for order.
00:25:31.452 - 00:25:50.570, Speaker D: Flow, I think that leads pretty nicely into our next topic, talking about solutions to possible mitigations for loss residue rebalancing. And I think if we start with thinking about dynamic fees or what they've been called, alex, you want to describe this general family of solutions.
00:25:51.310 - 00:26:34.438, Speaker B: I think that LPs talk a lot about fees. When I think about fees, I mostly think about the bidask spread because this is what fees do in an AMM. Essentially you have the mid price, which is the Mm price, and since you have to pay the fee when you buy and when you sell, then the best bid and dusk prices that the Mm essentially offers are different. And for a market maker. Determining how to best position the spread is probably one of the most important exercises. You do have to make other decisions as well. You will probably want to be present at many levels, but the best levels, the best bid and dusk play the most important role in trading.
00:26:34.438 - 00:27:02.974, Speaker B: If you look at traditional markets, most trading happens exclusively at the best bid and dusk ticks. So essentially not much is happening deeper inside the book. Deeper inside the book. You're just competing for priority. You don't have to compete for priority in AMM because it's pro rafa, essentially. So there is no competition really. But what the AMM can do, you can try to come up with a better ways to position your bedask spread.
00:27:02.974 - 00:28:26.954, Speaker B: And so when you start thinking about this better ways to position the bidask spread, you have to ask the following question what if I had perfect information? How would I want to position my bidask spread? What if somebody told me that the fair value of the asset is X? And you can immediately say that, well, if the fair value is X, then you probably want to center your spread around that X. And if you look a little bit more closely at what happens in actual MMS, it's not necessarily what's going to happen. So one observation, for example, is that since the spread is only moved by takers of liquidity in a traditional Mm, is that if you have an arbitrage transaction, it will move the best ask price to the fair value of the asset. But then for the next block, the spread will stay. It will not be centered relative to the fair value of the asset, but the fair value will be at one side of the spread, which is not great because you have liquidity that is overexposed on one side and you have liquidity that is pretty far away on the other side. You always want to be somewhere in the middle. This is just one example, but I think that there are many ways that you can think about how to position the spread.
00:28:26.954 - 00:29:00.402, Speaker B: And actually univ four gives quite a bit of flexibility because you can come up with your custom fee mechanisms for different pools. You can write a hook that basically governs the fee for a particular trade. And by changing the fee, you can basically adjust the Bdask spread for each individual trade in theory. And now basically you just want to use as much information as you can gather to position the spread optimally.
00:29:00.546 - 00:29:56.266, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think an important thing here is that the fee happens to be the mechanic when we're talking about AMMS that you're using to reposition the spread. But really what you're doing is you're changing the spread and you're changing potentially the price, the midpoint price that you're using. And when you're thinking about how to change that price, you could be using any of the signals that Alex was talking. About earlier, you could be basing it on recent activity, you could be basing it on off chain information like the prices on other exchanges, and you could even be basing it on the characteristics and the source of that particular volume. And so that's where some of the discrimination order discrimination might come in. Now, why when we talk about AMMS, are we always, or at least you and I tend to be talking about adjusting the fees rather than adjusting just the price. I think Alex and I have strong feelings on this, but I've seen others try to build AMMS that try to adjust the price based on off chain information.
00:29:56.448 - 00:30:50.058, Speaker B: I think the nice thing about the underlying algorithm, why you may not want to change the price too quickly, is that it does provide certain guarantees to liquidity providers, in particular, the passive liquidity providers that basically I know. That if I contributed my liquidity in a certain range and I know that the price moved within that range or maybe even outside that range, but for every price move I can bound my losses. So my losses are essentially bounded depending on how far the price moves relative to where it started. And that bound on the losses. The upper bound on the losses comes specifically from the Mm mechanism. If you start changing the price altogether, changing the mid price without any constraint. So basically, instead of just changing fees, you say all right, I'm going to move the price.
00:30:50.058 - 00:31:54.186, Speaker B: And you can also start doing other things. You can concentrate liquidity more and do all those things. It's great if it works. So if you have a very good solution for LVR, it's great. But the issue is that if you are leaking value to arbitragers, then you can significantly increase the losses and there will be simply no up abound on your losses. You can imagine a situation where the price moved somewhere, you reposition all of your liquidity, there you sold completely all of your inventory of one token, and then you know that the price was wrong and your losses can be everything. So I think that having some constraints, meaning that you can adjust the spread around the price, but you actually have to an arbitrager has to do some real work to move the price, create some guarantees on the maximum amount of losses that LPs can encounter.
00:31:54.378 - 00:32:40.430, Speaker D: And I tend to think this is particularly nice combination with how uniswap V four works. Because if you are just adjusting the fees, you can't make fees negative on uniswap V four, which is nice, which means that you can do whatever you want to fees during the swap. But liquidity providers will still ultimately who are providing a particular hook, they'll know that their losses will be bounded, assuming you don't have any hooks that operate on liquidity when it's being burned. And so I think there's a nice property there where we could have more experimentation with fees in uniswap before and have liquidity be able to provide to that while knowing that their losses would still be bounded, which I think is an interesting combination there. Now, what limitation does that come for? What's sort of the downside of trying to do things entirely with dynamic fees?
00:32:43.100 - 00:34:00.636, Speaker C: So I think if I can speak to that a bit, I think what I consider the most significant drawback of many approaches that are related to dynamically setting fees is that in general, you could have, let's say an AMM with a fee of 100% of the trade, right? Like that would be perfect. It has no arbitrage, no losses to LPs, but what do we achieve with that? We achieved absolutely nothing because now nobody, no real person is going to trade with this AMM. So there's actually a trade off between minimizing the losses to LPs and actually having a meaningful order flow that we need to think carefully about. And so similarly, dynamic fees are also friction for the uninformed flow and so this will kind of lead the AMM to have lower income besides just lowering the losses from arbitrage. So what you're basically trading off here is how much the LPs are losing versus how up to date the price of the AMM are with respect to the market and subsequently the gain in fees from the uninformed order flow. So I think that's one of the considerations that we need to think about when we consider dynamic fees as a solution to lever. Maybe minimizing lever is not your only objective, it's actually maximizing the income to the liquidity providers.
00:34:00.636 - 00:34:02.080, Speaker C: That is your objective.
00:34:02.420 - 00:34:03.910, Speaker D: Alex, do you agree with that.
00:34:06.520 - 00:34:39.212, Speaker B: Wholeheartedly? I agree with this 100%. There are easy solutions to LVR that people we don't mention because we know about them, right? But there are solutions. You can charge a very high fee to everybody. So essentially you are not making markets then there is no LVR. You can reduce block times if you could, this reduces LVR as well. You could reduce fixed transaction costs, which is a very, very important component of that and that reduces LVR. So there are all these solutions.
00:34:39.212 - 00:35:26.596, Speaker B: When you think about charging different fees, you absolutely have to find the mechanism that helps discriminate between arbitrage and uninformed flow at first. So the idea is that on average an uninformed trader should face the same spread, whereas the arbitrager should on average pay more. And so only when you have some good ideas on how to discriminate the two flows, only then you should be raising the fee. Otherwise you can still raise the fee. There is no problem with that. But you are reducing LVR at the cost of also having a lower uninformed flow. And so that may be a solution, but it's not necessarily something that is super exciting.
00:35:26.596 - 00:35:33.120, Speaker B: We would like to lower the LVR holding the spread faced by uninformed traders unchanged.
00:35:34.500 - 00:36:29.884, Speaker A: I have a quick question guys are dynamic fees. One thing that I'm thinking about listening to this is, all right, this makes really good sense, right? One of the things that Dan and I are thinking about is like when you scale a decks, you can't just totally favor LPs, you can't totally favor swappers. You kind of have to gradually sort of in a step kind of way, make the experience better for both of them. And there's a positive flywheel that starts to kick in. So one of the things I'm finding myself wondering here is, are dynamic fees something that only a market leader like Uniswap could really implement? Because I'm imagining a know, like kind of the Nth Dex after something like Uniswap where there's not a whole lot of liquidity saying, hey, with very well intentions. My LPs are an important stakeholder within my ecosystem and I'm going to start charging toxic flow for more discriminate. I'm discriminating basically doing price discrimination against toxic flow.
00:36:29.884 - 00:36:56.152, Speaker A: But in that world, if you make up a very small percentage of volume and liquidity and Uniswap for instance, is not doing that, then I would imagine all of that liquidity or all of that trading just flows to Uniswap. Do you see what I'm saying? Do you have to kind of implement this from the position of a market leader? Would Uniswap have to move first here and sort of set the precedent or would this be available for anyone to just implement right now and you think they would see positive results?
00:36:56.216 - 00:37:17.084, Speaker D: Are you talking about all of the toxic flow of flow to Uniswap? If this is a working discrimination order discrimination method, right, then ideally it should only be punishing people who are informed traders. And generally as a rule, you don't want informed traders, your liquidity providers don't want informed volume on your decks.
00:37:17.132 - 00:37:48.748, Speaker A: Right, I agree. I guess maybe what I didn't articulate there is I wonder what percentage of volume today is actually toxic versus retail order flow. All of the people on this call would probably have a much better idea than me, I would guess it's majority toxic probably these days. So on the one hand it's like, we don't want that volume. But then I could imagine implementing some sort of discriminatory pricing scheme against the toxic volume. And then your volume falls by 80%. You're like, wait, come back.
00:37:48.748 - 00:37:52.110, Speaker A: I'm not going to discriminate that much. So do you see what I'm saying?
00:37:52.800 - 00:38:54.812, Speaker D: We talked about this a little bit, I think, in our last episode. But I do think I'll put it slightly differently in that I think this is something that maybe only uniswap, only a market leader could have the courage to do, which is to basically sacrifice a lot of what looks like volume, but is, in fact, something that you don't want and say. We're going to give up this vanity stat in favor of actually better returns and a better offering for liquidity providers. I think that is potentially true in that if you want to actually make a mark as a new decentralized exchange, I've seen a lot of decentralized exchanges that get a lot of attention because they have a ton of volume. This happens a lot with VAMM Perps, these types of DEXes that are designed terribly and that lose money on every trade and that don't have no bounds on the amount of losses, et cetera. And they get insane amounts of volume they launch, they get so much volume that they have to shut down because they've lost all their money. And I think that can be a good marketing strategy for a new Dex to kind of to burst onto the scene.
00:38:54.812 - 00:39:12.600, Speaker D: Whereas right, I think it might be harder to get attention as like we're getting no volume, but it's all bad volume that we got rid of. I think that might be a harder sell, whereas I think, again, someone like Unison might have a little bit more be in a more of a position to make that long term choice that you actually don't want this volume. I don't know if Alex and Jason have thoughts on that.
00:39:12.670 - 00:40:21.084, Speaker C: I don't know. I think, to what Mike said? I wouldn't say so because essentially by discriminating for toxic order flow and by kind of having a better fee income stream from uninformed flow and maybe providing better execution to them as well, essentially what arises in this Nth Dex, as you said, is essentially that you have competitive pressure for liquidity providers. So essentially you have liquidity providers being better off in this Nth decks than in the dominant essentially decks. So I think gradually, because of this competitive pressure for LPs, what you'll see is that you'll see that if this Nth decks achieves better price discrimination, both arbitrage and essentially uninformed flow, you'll see, the Nth decks will become n minus one, and then it will become N minus two and then it'll start dominating because exactly. The LPs will start leaking from the leading decks to this Nth decks. Exactly. Because competitively it's better for them to be there than the first one.
00:40:21.202 - 00:41:25.920, Speaker A: Jason, I'm actually going to push back on your pushback there and I think the thing that might be worth debating here is the idea that all LPs are behaving perfectly rationally. And I think there's pretty demonstrable evidence that that's not necessarily the case or there are broader strategic implications that LPs are thinking about beyond just the profitability that I'm making today. So the big question that a lot of people are curious about in LP land is who are these big univ three LPs? Dan, I've heard you muse and question about that and we've talked a little bit about who are these people who have been pretty empirically demonstrated to be losing money. And it's another uncertain pools, right, on certain pools. But an additional layer of paradox or irony is that actually more active LPs, these larger LPs tend to be more active and that makes them lose even more money, gas costs, things like that. But I like your explanation, Dan, which is that basically there are a couple of big pools on Uniswap. If you're not an LP or active in these pools, then you're basically just out of the game, right? So even you might lose money for a specific period of time.
00:41:25.920 - 00:41:39.956, Speaker A: And if you're a very large, sophisticated, well funded entity that's taking a concentrated bet, you might be okay losing money for years as an upstart. Dex you don't have years to demonstrate traction. So that would be the only pushback? That would be the only pushback that.
00:41:39.978 - 00:42:18.960, Speaker D: I would yeah, I think another way to put it is you do need to bootstrap retail volume in order to have any returns above any returns basically at all in expectation. And so that happens right now to be on Uniswap. And so in order to if LPs move to somewhere that just happens to perfectly set their fees correctly, but they don't get any retail volume, then I think it won't really work. I think the more efficient routing gets, hopefully the better the more competitive that gets. And again, I think part of the idea of we talked about this last time of Uniswap X and Uniswap before in combination is to try to make it easy to route volume to new, more competitive models for decentralized exchange provision.
00:42:19.460 - 00:42:46.632, Speaker B: Alex yeah, I think that this is a great question. People talk a lot about discriminating different groups of traders, informed versus uninformed, but also need to think about the different interests of LPs. We use the same word for them. We just call them LPs. And we don't really look at the incentives, why they're doing what they're doing. And I think that this is absolutely a critical component in all of this. So let's say that I gave you an optimal oracle price.
00:42:46.632 - 00:43:31.640, Speaker B: You can rely on it 100%, then you can build a great decks around it. You can position all of your liquidity right around that price, offer it without slippage, and maybe just charge the lowest fee possible on both sides. Then you will get only done informed flow. There will be zero arbitrage flow because you're always pricing around the correct price. And it looks like you're doing great. You may not be showing as much volume as some other exchanges, but all of your volume is great. Are we done? Is this mission accomplished? And I don't think that the answer to this is yes, because there are ILPs who are actually willing to lose a little bit of money for some useful service that they get, namely directional execution.
00:43:31.640 - 00:44:55.152, Speaker B: With an algorithm like the one that I described before, where you position everything around the optimal price, it's very difficult to execute a trade directionally by being a liquidity maker. And in traditional markets, I have not seen a great estimate of the number. All of the estimates seem to be a little bit hand wavy, but people say that 60% of liquidity comes from about 60% of liquidity can be coming from people who trade directionally. If you lose, let's say, three basis points on each trade as an LP, it's horrible if you want to be in the market making business because you lose essentially three basis points and expectation on every trade. But if you want to trade directionally, three basis points is great execution. This is why Univ Three is actually a big improvement over Univ Two, because people could start trading directionally with short range liquidity position, and they are willing to position their liquidity very close to the true price, or maybe even cross the spread a little bit and position it sort of on the other side to get that directional execution. So I think that strategically protocols should start thinking about having these different groups of LPs.
00:44:55.152 - 00:45:33.424, Speaker B: Some are interested in passive market making, some actually want to get something out of it, and those who want to get directional execution out of it, they should be willing to pay a little bit more and they should be fine with some losses. I looked at some of these large trades that happened recently. Vitalik had a famous one not a long time ago. Yeah, well, it wasn't a very huge one, but it was 600K something. So he was selling maker. I'm not sure if he was aiming for high price impact in that particular case because he was not selling out of there were different speculations for why he's doing that. But I looked at the execution cost and it's pretty high.
00:45:33.424 - 00:46:01.000, Speaker B: According to my back of the envelope calculation, it was maybe something to the tune of 30 40 basis points. He could have executed better, I think, with short range LP positions, potentially. So that's why I think that it's not necessarily just about offering liquidity to uninformed flow. It's also about offering a way for people to trade directionally with liquidity positions.
00:46:02.060 - 00:46:41.876, Speaker A: And just to highlight for listeners who this might not be as common knowledge, I think FBI femboy was the first one who wrote a post about this where basically people were actually providing extremely on, like, univ three, where you can do concentrated liquidity across an extremely tight range that was very close to the current price in hopes that essentially the price would cross the spread and that they would basically be getting paid a very small amount to make the trade. So is your point there, Alex? Basically that those people, you should be able to charge them less or even a small fee for doing that, and that would still be cheaper than the execution they would get on another venue and that's something that would make sense.
00:46:41.978 - 00:47:27.876, Speaker B: Yes, I think that people should be they're probably fine with small losses. Right. So if you maybe lost 510 basis points on this, but you managed to trade directionally in the direction that you liked and you didn't have to pay 60 basis points in an RFQ, then that's a good outcome. Still, again, in traditional markets, most people try to most largest institutions try to execute directionally as makers, not as takers of liquidity. They end up being takers sometimes because they throw in a limit order and turns out that it's a marketable limit order. So it falls on the other side of the book when it lands. So that happens, but they generally try not to take liquidity when they can avoid it.
00:47:27.876 - 00:47:41.272, Speaker B: And I think that this is something that the DEXs might want to work sort of might focus on as well to offer better execution this way.
00:47:41.406 - 00:48:21.620, Speaker A: I know we're winding down here or getting to the sort of tail end of the interview here, and I want to bring up the so we've been talking a lot about dynamic pricing as one potential solution for LVR. So how do we identify uninformed versus informed order flow and maybe have a differential pricing strategy for each of those two different groups. But there's another, maybe family of solutions which would sort of broadly fall within the category of auctions as a way for mitigating LVR. So Alex, Dan, or Jason, whoever wants to take this, can you just kind of introduce the idea of auctions and how that might complement dynamic fees as a solution for mitigating or reducing LVR?
00:48:23.100 - 00:49:21.896, Speaker C: I think my idea around auctions is that essentially their purpose is to try to take back lever from the ARBs before or after they trade with the AMN. So basically the idea is that there is this total amount on the table that is LBR, and you might not be able to reduce it straightforwardly, but you might be able to take it back from the arps. And so auctions try to do exactly that. And so how do they try to do that? You try to organize a competitive market between all of the arps to do exactly that. And you have two ways of doing that. You could either do that just in time, basically, as the trade occurs, or you could try to do that before so auction out the right, essentially to be the arbitrator. And so you pay some amount of money in this auction in order to have some exclusive rights that grants you ARP privileges, let's say.
00:49:21.998 - 00:50:12.120, Speaker D: Yeah. And I think one advantage of auctions potentially over dynamic fees one is that you may reduce the need for some kind of possibly trusted oracle off chain. Because if you have this competitive process where basically anyone there's an incentive compatible mechanism in theory here for people to be competing to move the price to the right price. The other potential advantage is you maybe lift some of the constraints you have on dynamic fees. Right? With dynamic fees, you can only move so far off of the current price and you can't have negative fees. You can't set like fees on your AMM to a negative value. So in some cases you may not be able to adjust the price to the proper price.
00:50:12.120 - 00:50:28.760, Speaker D: I think with auctions it's cleaner potentially to actually have that rebalance happen at the new price because you had just explicitly auctioned off the right for anyone to trade against it. So in theory you should actually get that to clear. Alex, you want to talk a little about some of the disadvantages of auctions?
00:50:28.920 - 00:51:08.596, Speaker B: I think that auctions can be a great idea, but there are a lot of details that would need to be very carefully implemented and I think that some of these issues seem to be pretty tricky to me. But there is hope, I guess that's my overall assessment. One of the first things is that when you are running an auction, I think it's a good idea to actually collect money regardless of whether transaction lands on chain or if it or it doesn't. And the reason why it's a good idea because if you don't, then I can bid whatever I want. And then at some point I can just decide, hey, I don't want the transaction.
00:51:08.628 - 00:51:08.740, Speaker A: Right.
00:51:08.750 - 00:51:58.844, Speaker B: So you need some mechanism to make sure that bids are actually respected. And so one of the ways to do it is of course to collect some amount of money upfront, but then there is a difficult issue with this upfront collections. How do you actually allocate them to LPs? You don't know exactly who is at risk. Are those just the LPs in the current tick or are those the LPs in the Saddetix? Is it just this particular pair or was the arbitrager trying to use this pair to arbitrage some other pair? So the allocation of this surplus becomes a pretty difficult problem. I know that there was a great proposal by the Cowswap team that attracted a lot of attention called MCMM, and in that particular proposal I think that problem turned out to be pretty difficult. So I think that was one of the reasons maybe it was not implemented. There are other issues as well.
00:51:58.844 - 00:52:49.470, Speaker B: So how do you make sure that when you sell the right to arbitrage to somebody, how do you make sure that they don't slow down things intentionally? We know from Jason's paper that LVR is high when blocks are slower. If I have the exclusive right to open the exchange to everybody, then I can artificially slow down the process, I can artificially increase the block time and so on and so forth. And then finally there is a question of how competitive these auctions really are. Because right now we see people competing in auctions, but when volatility is high, there is a grand total of one or two participants who can actually arbitrage a pool like ETH USDC on univ three. So it may not be as competitive as it seems at the end. Again, I think that there is hope here but there are also quite a few problems to address.
00:52:49.840 - 00:54:01.380, Speaker A: One thing that I think bears mentioning here, and the reason I mentioned it is because it ties into something Dan and I are looking at this whole season, which is how much value is leaking out of call it the Dex ecosystem and how can we stop some of that leakage? At least when I think about auctions, it's kind of a transfer of wealth away from Ethereum stakers, actually, and towards LPs. Because when there are arbitrageures that are we've been talking about arbitrageures? As if they're extracting all of the ARB, but they're not really, because they ultimately have to participate in an auction which is run at the block space layer, which is mev boost today, and they end up surrendering a whole bunch of those profits back to the stakers of Ethereum, who are the real winners right now. Right? So when I think about auctions, it's actually a way for hey, how can we transfer through another auction the excess profits here to LPs of the decks instead of basically paying the platform tax of Ethereum to stakers? So I don't know if you guys see that in a similar way or just wanted to make that observation.
00:54:01.960 - 00:55:18.840, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a good question actually, to whom this value should go. There's many people that could go. It could go first, of course, to the arbitrage as it is, it could go back to the Ops. The argument could be made that since they are the ones that provide liquidity, it should be returned to them. It could also be that it should be returned to the users because these are the swappers, because these are the people who are using the AMM and so these people should get better execution price or like higher quality of execution. And there could also be the argument that could go to the block proposer as it defined because they have essentially the right to do whatever they want in the block and so they could just as easily exclude your transactions from the block and provide you with no execution whatsoever. So I think there's a mix of situations that can occur and actually that's why I like the lever as the whole idea of capturing the entire value that could be distributed anywhere and then where you want to distribute it might be something that could be more fine tuned.
00:55:18.920 - 00:56:16.990, Speaker B: I view this trade off between LPs and stakers as a bear market zero sum game mentality. I don't really think that we should be thinking in those terms. Everyone is going to be better off if we can come up with more efficient mechanisms to trade. And that's because when you start implementing more efficient mechanisms people will be providing more liquidity, there will be more trading volume and this is how you really build systems that can compete with centralized finance and can just attract more volume there is always this thing, hey, you know brokers, they used to charge $5. That was great for them, right? $5 a long time ago for transaction. I'm old enough to remember that now. They charge maybe a zero point ten of a basis point on average relative to the true price.
00:56:16.990 - 00:56:54.920, Speaker B: But I think they're happier now. And the reason they're happier now is because more people are willing to trade at that transaction cost. There is higher volume for everybody. And so I think that in my world, this trade off is a sort of secondary or maybe even third thing to think about after you address the big ones. And if you come up with a really efficient mechanism to trade, then this will be much more efficient for stakers as well, just because people will be doing more of that trading, more of all of those activities that we love ethereum for.
00:56:54.990 - 00:57:58.880, Speaker A: So maybe just to close here one thing that we haven't we've sort of danced around this but not directly addressed it, which is why is this topic of loss versus rebalancing so important? Because I think the end state, Alex, I know you just sort of indirectly alluded to this, but at least my goal would be I want decentralized finance to not only compete with, but eventually optimistic enough to say I want it to surpass what gets done on traditional finance. And there's obviously a lot of room for improvement there. And LVR is a very important component, at least from where I'm sitting. So for folks who are out there, because whenever you get into something as technical as LVR, there's sort of these people arguing about very arcane stuff. But I viewed as very fundamental to one of the core primitives of, you know, just as like a high level takeaway for the audience. Alex and Jason, you guys have both dedicated an enormous amount of your personal time and professional career towards exploring this. Like, why do you view it as something critical and worth spending time on?
00:57:58.950 - 00:58:52.736, Speaker C: Lever is essentially extremely important for Dex design. Basically, like you said, Mike, so I just want to echo this. Basically, I think the upside is that no one is going to actually provide liquidity if they don't find it profitable to do so. And so this will eventually lead to there not being any DEXes any longer. So basically that's the stakes of the game, basically with lever. And in order to essentially avoid this outcome that can be alleged to be bad, you need to build the incentive structure in such a way that you could avoid it. So I think building an incentive structure such that you can avoid this situation of DEXes being inferior to centralized finance is exactly why the subject matter of leverage is important to me.
00:58:52.838 - 01:00:03.024, Speaker B: People sometimes think of trading as speculation and just games, but you can use a different term for it, right? It's resource allocation and all of a. Sudden it sounds much nicer. And I think that this is why trading is really one of the most important activities in traditional finance and it's going to be one of the most important activities in DeFi as well. And in my view, if you cannot solve some of these issues with inefficient trading, then everything else becomes a really sort of remote question. Right? We can do other things on chain, of course, but I think making trading more efficient and coming up with mechanisms of more efficient resource allocation is probably the number one most important point in all of it. So coming up with more efficient mechanisms on this particular topic I think is very important. And LVR right now is the biggest inefficiency that's out there, I believe.
01:00:03.024 - 01:00:05.752, Speaker B: So it's a very natural thing to study.
01:00:05.886 - 01:01:02.200, Speaker D: I wholeheartedly agree with both of those. And then I think for me, getting as much crypto trading at least as possible noncustodial is like my mission in life. But I think even more than that I do think trading is essential for the security of the having reducing lever is essential for the security of the chain just because right now a lot of the mev that is leaked to current block proposers today comes from lever and this latency ARB and it's a potential centralization vector for the whole chain. And I think we trying to plug this hole and capture it for users, for Dex users. It's good for users, but it's also really good, as Alex said, for the long term future of the protocol. Because I think actually it's not in anyone's interest for this to destabilize the chain. And so I think it is really important to try to capture this and make it as efficient as possible so that you don't end up with these unhealthy incentives kind of leaking into the core of the protocol.
01:01:03.020 - 01:01:15.948, Speaker A: Really well said, guys. I think that's a great place to end it. And Alex and Jason, thank you both so much for coming on and helping Dan and I kick this season off. If folks want to find out more about you guys, follow you or the work you do, what's the best way to do that?
01:01:16.034 - 01:01:31.664, Speaker C: People can essentially follow my Twitter account. It's. Jason underscore of underscore CS. So Jason of CS with Underscores and they can of course, follow my archive for the academic papers that we're going to release with my collaborators.
01:01:31.792 - 01:01:46.908, Speaker B: My academic field is quite far from defy, so I will not advertise that. But I do have a Twitter account where I post some stuff. It's zero x 94305, so that would be the way. Thank you for the invitation, Michael.
01:01:47.104 - 01:02:08.108, Speaker A: Of course. And we will link in case anyone didn't get those right off the cuff, we're going to link those in the show notes. And guys, I highly recommend that you follow both Jason and Alex. There's a lot of alpha and very thoughtful content that comes out of both of your accounts, if I can plug you there. So, guys, thank you so much again for just taking the time to do this. This was a ton of fun. All right, Dan, what an episode there.
01:02:08.108 - 01:02:09.740, Speaker A: What a treat to get those two.
01:02:09.810 - 01:02:12.688, Speaker D: Real heavy hitters on. Yeah, yeah, that was great.
01:02:12.774 - 01:03:01.760, Speaker A: Ton of fun. And there was a lot to dig into. I actually want to go in reverse order in terms of takeaway here. And that last question that we asked of why is LVR important? I thought we got a lot of good responses there. And one of the points that I just want to underscore and highlight because I like to push back on this whenever I possibly can, but this idea that speculation and more trading volume is a bad thing and that's not really real. I would just wholeheartedly push back on that because I think one of the takeaways that I've actually had of previous seasons of Bell Curve is that speculation actually provides sort of the building blocks of financial alchemy that enable very useful products. So, for instance, if there wasn't a deep and liquid market for interest rate derivatives, you couldn't have something like the 30 year fixed rate mortgage in the US.
01:03:01.760 - 01:03:22.004, Speaker A: So I understand the temptation to say, oh, this is just trading, this is just speculation. There's a lot of that that happens in traditional capital markets and Wall Street and things like that, but it actually feeds into better, bigger products. And I think that mission that you outlined of bringing trading volume on chain is a very noble one and people.
01:03:22.042 - 01:03:23.572, Speaker D: Shouldn'T just thumb their nose at it.
01:03:23.626 - 01:03:25.864, Speaker A: So I just want to highlight that at the end. Absolutely.
01:03:26.062 - 01:03:26.376, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:03:26.398 - 01:04:13.232, Speaker D: And I think on a micro level, this is something we've talked about. I think this is true of, for example, minor extractable value and the existence of arbitragers who take advantage of it, which in the short run means that maybe, again, people making money off of these risk free trades. And I think you want there to be basically an efficient arbitrage and in equilibrium, ultimately, their profit is zero if actually the system is working correctly. But you do need some initial profit to basically kick that off. And then on a macro level, I think this is important for crypto in general. I think my colleague Matt Huang just published a piece called The Casino on Mars about the general, among other things, the dynamic where speculation often does drive a lot of infrastructure buildout and growth into new areas that can ultimately bootstrap a new, better system. And I think that is important for crypto.
01:04:13.232 - 01:04:16.576, Speaker D: When thinking about this on the macro scale, for what it means for crypto's.
01:04:16.608 - 01:05:22.684, Speaker A: Evolution, it seems like a very old type of business that Warren Buffett would get involved in and famously has gotten involved in. But there's the old analogy of the railroad lines, right? There was a huge boom in speculation around railroads. People came in and funded huge amounts of infrastructure, which was these rail lines that led cross country. There was a lot of money lost, but it paved the way for a booming railroad industry eventually. One point that I wanted to underscore because we initially almost made it a theme of the season, but you brought up a really interesting point that I hadn't thought here, which was how can we move trading activity on chain and how does that impact LVR? I had one of these naive thoughts, or I can never really tell how naive it is when I was just learning about LVR, which is, hey, if we didn't have this alternative trading venue in the form of centralized exchanges, but really binance, a lot of this LVR problem would just go away. So I thought the point that you brought up about LVR on very popular trading pairs versus very unpopular trading pairs, where price discovery is actually happening on chain, that's a very different conversation. So I just want to highlight that again for people to go back and listen to.
01:05:22.684 - 01:05:36.290, Speaker A: And the question I have for you ultimately, I'm sure you probably thought of this, how can we bring price discovery, even for the USDC bitcoin pair or something like that on chain instead of on a centralized exchange? What's the through line to that future?
01:05:36.980 - 01:06:32.420, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a deep question, and I think there's two ways that it is sort of happening. One of it is just by reducing lever on these short tail pairs like ETH, USD. And I think the more we can reduce lever, the more volume you end up actually having, the more liquidity you can get on chain, and therefore the more volume you ultimately get on chain. And then we try to shift the primary market apathy on chain. And I think we've done some work that it seems like already, at least at certain times, liquidity on chain has been greater than on binance or at least liquidity visible on the book because of latency, because of other factors. That doesn't necessarily mean that price discovery is happening on chain. And I think the more we can actually move it for those, the more these DEXes improve, the more we will actually potentially be able to move it more on chain.
01:06:32.420 - 01:07:24.580, Speaker D: And then I think on the flip side, we do see a lot of innovation in terms of this long tail where price discovery is already happening on chain. But I think there you still do have mev, you still do have and I think it's a deep and subtle question, but you do have some kinds of lever, it's maybe just harder to measure. And so I think figuring out how to reduce the lever or the mev on those and that may involve getting smarter, but how to measure it, I think you still have the possibility of losing money to an informed trader and it just becomes a little bit maybe harder again to measure in this short term way. But I think if we improve both of those, then hopefully we can start to see some of those longer tail assets becoming a little more having better price discovery. Things that are happening with Icecov is still happening on chain for them. And then conversely, where we can have the assets where high school is happening off chain, see if we can move it on.
01:07:24.730 - 01:08:00.892, Speaker A: Yeah. All right, let me ask you some questions that are going to start to lead into next week's episode. I want to underscore again, and it's a pity we had limited time with Alex and Jason, but this is something that we talked about offline as well. I want to underscore the importance of latency in price discovery. And I want to ask you just kind of a candid question about ethereum's block time. So latency is an extremely important variable when it comes to price discovery. And I guess my question for you is can we ever get price discovery with a twelve second block time? And how do you think about the role of latency within price discovery?
01:08:01.036 - 01:09:09.876, Speaker D: So I think we do see price discovery on chain and longer tail tokens with a twelve second block time. Ultimately, if those tokens end up getting a lot of volume and becoming major tokens, you will start to see people basically doing more off chain volume, doing more RFQ, maybe listing it on centralized exchanges, getting more volume there. And so I do think that's a potential threat essentially to the stability of that as a market structure. So I do think in some ways trying to in the naive way now, like just having ordinary on chain AMM markets, it may be hard to prevent price discovery from happening off chain. I think there are interesting mechanisms possibly for saying we actually don't need price discovery faster than that. And I think batch auctions are one such where it's not entirely clear to me that there's a lot of social value in having price discovery in a lot of these assets that is shorter than 12 seconds. And I think there's possibly a lot of costs to having really fast price discovery and this high frequency trading arms race that we see.
01:09:09.876 - 01:09:42.690, Speaker D: And I'm not sure 12 seconds is necessarily the right period, but it seems clear that nobody really naturally needs price discovery within a second. It just kind of happens or within 100 milliseconds down to the nanosecond. No one really needs that for any practical, real world thing. It's a consequence of just these market forces that causes it to happen. And so trying to figure out is there a way to do something more like a batch auction where we can have slower price discovery without losing to competitors who do it faster, I think is a really important open problem.
01:09:43.060 - 01:10:44.948, Speaker A: Man, I want to believe that so badly because I think anyone who's spent even any amount of time looking at high frequency trading has kind of zoned out for a second and asked themselves, what are we really doing here? What social good is this providing? And I think that just like anything else, there's sort of a curve, right, where you do want markets to be deep and liquid. And actually there are a lot of good things that come from that. But what's the difference between price discovery on a 1 second time frame versus 500 milliseconds versus ten milliseconds? I think you probably see less and less. And one thing that we didn't discuss actually was something cool to check out. But the third bucket that we talked about from Alex about just different buckets of information to be aware of where your flow is coming from. So one thing that I think is starting to happen on Balancer is that the flow that's coming from cowswap is actually getting better prices. Because in general, if you're a trader that's placing trades on cowswap, you're comfortable waiting for a little bit, which means you're probably not one of these high frequency trader toxic order flow people.
01:10:44.948 - 01:11:28.610, Speaker A: And Balancer has essentially priced that and said, okay, there's a high likelihood that people who are trading here are retail and we're actually going to give them a better price. So something kind of cool to look out at. One thing that I've thought about with LVR, and I know we're in our final minutes here is this is a very sophisticated approach to profitability for an LP. So I would just go out on a limb and say LVR is only relevant really for professional or institutional market makers. I just can't see a retail person, first of all, even grocking this concept. But second of all, there's no way that they could really measure this in any sort of consistent way. So does the prevalence of LBR presuppose a more sophisticated professional class of active LP or what do you think about that idea?
01:11:28.920 - 01:12:43.748, Speaker D: I don't think so, in that I think ultimately what it reflects is something very real, which is a real opportunity cost and a possible loss in expectation for retail liquidity providers. And I think it measures it in a more reliable way and a clearer way, in some senses, objective way, than impermanent loss or someone just looking at their realized PNL over a period. It's very hard when you think about for a retail liquidity provider, for example, if they're looking at just whether they made or lost money, it's sort of like a poker player looking at just, oh, did I play good well tonight? And they look at just whether they won or lost money on the hands. They played for the whole night and they said, oh, I lost money, so I must have made some mistake, right? And that would be a mistake if you've got a short time horizon because there's a lot of luck or a lot of how things worked out. That could have been difficult. You could have played perfect poker but still lost some money. And I think similarly, this concept for even amateur poker players, I think it's important to figure out how well did you play the cards that you were dealt? And I think that's roughly what Lever is trying to measure.
01:12:43.844 - 01:12:50.430, Speaker A: I agree with you. I think the question that I was really trying to get at is, will they do that? I know that is the right thing to do, but will they?
01:12:50.960 - 01:13:11.376, Speaker D: In the long run, I think so. And in the long run, I think there's a lot of competitive reasons why I think they should care about it, and they will tend towards solutions that do it. And this is separate from, again, whether ultimately, I think liquidity fighters are people who are comfortable with basically the delta risks that they're taking there.
01:13:11.398 - 01:13:11.536, Speaker C: Right.
01:13:11.558 - 01:13:25.504, Speaker D: That's why they're doing the rebalancing portfolio. I think they sort of want that that's more in their preference set, but then everything else is kind of how well you're doing compared to that. And I think it's something that, in theory, could actually be very legible to them or made legible.
01:13:25.632 - 01:14:01.550, Speaker A: Yeah. All right. Now, guys, just to give you a little bit of a preview of next week's episode, the reason we talked about designing sort of a gas constrained environment is we're going to have a central limit order book builder from Solana and someone who's a little bit more on the AMM side from Ethereum. So we're going to have a very fun discussion about what the differences are of designing kind of with gas cost and sort of a gas constrained environment on ETH mainnet versus an environment like Solana where that's not so much of a cost. And then we're going to talk about sort of the spectrum of AMMS and central limit order books and how there's a little bit maybe of a convergence that's happening there as well. But, Dan, this was a ton of fun, and I will see you next week.
