00:00:06.730 - 00:00:22.782, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome back to the session stream. We are joined now by Antonio Giuliano. He is the founder and CEO of DyDX, a platform that recently integrated with Chainlink. So he is here today to show us how it works under the hood. So, Antonio, I'll let you share your screen and take it away.
00:00:22.916 - 00:00:47.434, Speaker B: All right, sounds great. Share my screen here. So, yeah. Hey, guys, I'm Antonio. Like Abby said, I'm the founder of DyDX. DyDX is one of the leading decentralized exchanges for margin and derivative products. And I'm here today to talk about an integration and a launch we just did this past week, which was that we actually launched a perpetual, and I'll talk about what that is.
00:00:47.434 - 00:01:29.494, Speaker B: Perpetual contract for link itself. And that's integrated under the hood with the Chainlink Oracle system, which is kind of one of the big drivers behind it. So just kind of wanted to walk through what the product is, what perpetuals are, and then really wanted to open it up for questions. So if you have any questions for me at any point along the way, just type them out in the chat and then I will get to answering them. So without further ado, let's kind of dive into the DyDx product here. So, as you can see, it looks like a normal exchange that you might trade on. But kind of the main difference about the products that are traded on DyDX is that they are derivative products, at least on the perpetual section.
00:01:29.494 - 00:02:26.182, Speaker B: So with this chainlink perpetual that we launched more recently, basically what it is, it's a synthetic asset that tracks the price of link under the hood. So there's no actual link involved in kind of the trades that you're making here. But the advantage of using these perpetual products to kind of trade on the price of another asset is that you can trade with leverage. So you can kind of see that here on the left, DyDX supports leverage, and that's kind of its killer feature. All leverage is, for those who aren't familiar, is it's basically a multiplier on kind of your gains or losses when you're trading. So you can either go long on the platform, which means that you make money when the price goes up, or you can go short on the platform, which means that if for some reason you're a link bear, you'll make money when the price goes down. And then kind of the amount of leverage that you take on is just like a multiplier of how much money you will gain or lose.
00:02:26.182 - 00:03:10.050, Speaker B: Well, you'll gain if you're right, and then you'll lose if you're wrong. So it's kind of a more capital efficient way to trade, and allows you to just get access to kind of a higher amount of whatever token you're trading in this case link, than you otherwise would. Just talking a little bit, like, before we dive into the product, let's just talk a little bit about how it works under the hood. So, as I was saying, this is a synthetic product, so there's no actual link under the hood. So basically, how perpetuals work at kind of the base layer is. So let's go into the deposit here. So we support two different types of assets that you can deposit to the link, perpetual right now, USDT and USDC, both of which are kind of held as a stablecoin under the hood in the product.
00:03:10.050 - 00:03:59.442, Speaker B: So all there is in this perpetual, this contract, is stablecoins. There's none of the actual tokens that are being held, but kind of we create this synthetic asset, which, as you can see from the order book over here, is basically trading at or very close to the price of link itself. And the main mechanism that perpetual contracts use to kind of make an asset that trades close to the price of the underlying is something called a funding rate. So you can see that up here, it's currently at 0%. Normally, this will change over time. If you look at some of our other markets, like the ETH perpetual, you can see there's like different funding rates on a per market basis. And all the funding rate is at a very simple level, is just this basically dynamic interest rate that's paid between those who are long the contract and those who are short the contract.
00:03:59.442 - 00:04:47.270, Speaker B: And kind of how this funding rate works is it really just incentivizes people to trade the contract at the price of the underlying asset. So it's going through a more concrete example. Let's say for some reason, our link perpetual is trading below the price of what actual link is trading at. So we want to get it up to basically trading at kind of the same price as what normal link would trade at. In that case, we want to incentivize more people to buy, right? So the price goes up. So in that case, we'd have the funding rate making the people that are short pay the people that are long to kind of incentivize more people to buy, and to incentivize the price to get traded closer to the price of the actual link token. Conversely, if the price is too high, so if you want more people to sell to kind of drive the price back down to what the price of link actually is.
00:04:47.270 - 00:05:24.258, Speaker B: You make the funding rate the reverse, and you basically make the longs pay the shorts, some kind of dynamic funding rate to incentivize more people to go short. So that's really the main mechanic you have to understand if you're trading perpetuals is this funding rate. It's dynamic, so it's changing all the time. Kind of like an interest rate on like a compound or something like that, variable rate. And that's kind of the main thing that you have to understand. So, perpetuals, we've kind of launched one of the first perpetuals in DeFi, and we just launched them pretty recently. Just our first perpetual, which was bitcoin a couple months ago, then we launched ETH after that.
00:05:24.258 - 00:06:00.110, Speaker B: And most recently just this week actually, we launched link. These products know if you've ever traded on Bitmex or traded on FTX, it's kind of the same products at a high level that are offered there in terms of the perpetual contracts. So, okay, let's get started here and get trading on our link perpetual. And of course, as I mentioned before, if you have any questions along the way, just let me know. So one question here from Paul. I assume the funding rate is easy to manipulate on a centralized exchange. It can be.
00:06:00.110 - 00:06:33.660, Speaker B: I mean, fundamentally, all the Funding rate is based off of is whatever the price of the asset of the perpetual is trading at. So you can kind of manipulate it by taking a position on one particular side, but you'll always end up kind of moving it away from yourself. These funding rates usually tend to be pretty volatile, and there's something that changes a lot, like over time. Okay, so let's get started here. So like I said, you can deposit either USDT or USDC on the platform. They both go to the same thing. So let's get started and deposit USDC here.
00:06:33.660 - 00:07:01.010, Speaker B: Okay. Gas is expensive, that's kind of sad. But let's confirm the deposit here. And then now you can see that we're just waiting for basically the deposit transaction to be mined. And then once that transaction is mined, I'll kind of get some equity in USD. There's no actual USD. It's basically just kind of, we're holding it as a stable coin under the hood, and then we can start making trades after it gets mined.
00:07:01.010 - 00:07:48.660, Speaker B: So maybe I'll just talk a little bit about the exchange and kind of the underlying mechanics of how DyDX works beyond just perpetual contracts while we wait for it to get mined. So you can see that DYDX, we are an order book based decentralized exchange. So all of these orders here, as you can see, are just people that are offering to buy and sell the contract, very similar to what you would experience again on a centralized exchange. DYDX doesn't integrate with any automated market makers or anything like that. And kind of what this allows is just for us to get much more liquid markets. So you can see a lot of the liquidity here is pretty good, especially on the more established contracts for decentralized exchange. So like within 1% on the bitcoin market.
00:07:48.660 - 00:08:19.510, Speaker B: And then of course we have depth charts and everything like that. Really what you would expect when you're trading on an exchange. Okay, so now my deposit went through, so I have this 5000 USD that's kind of sitting in my account here on DYDX. And now I can make a trade on the platform. So let's go down to kind of the trade sidebar over here. Obviously you can buy the contract, which just means you go long, or you can sell the contract, which just means you go short. And there are three order types that DYDX supports.
00:08:19.510 - 00:08:52.406, Speaker B: So first of all, just market orders. All that is, is just trading at kind of the price of the market right now. You can place limit orders on the platform, which will show up on the order book here. And then you can also place either standard or trailing stop orders if you're a little more advanced. And all stop orders are, they basically just kind of protect you if the price moves against you. Yeah, good question. So one question about how well do the DyDX perpetuals track the price of the underlyings? Historically quite well.
00:08:52.406 - 00:09:19.386, Speaker B: So far they've never deviated by more than like half a percent or so. You can see that kind of on our contracts here. Probably the link one right now is not the best example of that since we literally just launched that on Tuesday. But if you kind of look at the historical charts for the bitcoin perpetual and kind of you can compare it to the price of bitcoin over time. And it's very similar. It tracks it very closely. Okay, so let's make a trade.
00:09:19.386 - 00:09:36.834, Speaker B: So let's get started and maybe we'll buy, let's say ten link. Let's go long. Ten link. So there's kind of two ways you can make a trade, actually. Sorry, 15 is the minimum. So let's go 15 link long. So there's kind of two ways you can make a trade here.
00:09:36.834 - 00:10:26.900, Speaker B: Either you can just buy a particular number of contracts, kind of irrespective of how much collateral you have, you can see how that would basically modify my account here. I'd be trading at some leverage. And then this bottom section here just kind of shows what my position would be. And then the second way you can trade, which we just launched recently actually, is you can select the leverage that you want to take kind of based off of how much you've deposited. So you can see that as I kind of modify this slider here, the amount field is changing, which basically means that in order for me to get more leverage, I have to buy more contracts. And this just makes it really easy to kind of zero in on exactly the target leverage that we want. So let's go just like conservative two x long here, DyDX supports up to eight x long and eight x short on the link perpetual right now.
00:10:26.900 - 00:11:00.922, Speaker B: So you can see all of the kind of details about the trade right here. You can see the fee that you'll have to pay. You can see the expected price, the worst price, since it's a market order that it will execute at. And then let's go ahead and place this order right now to go. So, okay, what's going on here? So, one thing to call out here is that when you're trading on DYDX, you don't actually have to send transactions. All you have to do is sign messages in your wallet. So that means you don't have to pay gas fees.
00:11:00.922 - 00:11:43.902, Speaker B: When you're trading on DYDX, you'll just pay kind of the normal exchange fee. And then under the hood, we're the ones sending the transaction on your behalf. So you can kind of see, basically this message that we're signing here is not intended to be superhuman readable, but it basically is just cryptographically saying, how much of the contract do you want to buy? What is the worst price do you want to buy it at? And then whenever you're okay with that, you basically will sign it. And then kind of the transaction in the trade will get mined eventually to the blockchain. Okay, what happens here after I sign this message, kind of under the hood, and let's talk through that a little bit. So, basically what happens is that this order that I just put through just hit the market. So it was sent to our back end.
00:11:43.902 - 00:12:23.610, Speaker B: So also the trade already mined. And you can see everything's updated already. But let's just continue on on kind of what just happened under the hood there. So when I placed that trade, the first thing that happened is this sign message, which was the order that I wanted to place kind of buying. How much was it? Like 588 contracts of this link perpetual kind of hit our back end servers. And these back end servers are where this order book is entirely stored, still entirely noncustodial because all of these orders, very similar to like a zero x order, if you're familiar with that, are just represented by cryptographically signed messages. And then DyDX also runs a central matching model.
00:12:23.610 - 00:13:08.410, Speaker B: So the really cool thing about that is we can get instant trade finality. So that's why even as soon as the signed message hit our backend servers, we knew what the price was going to be. And we can show that to the user on the platform. And then the other nice thing about central matching is if you're a more advanced trader or you're even like a programmatic trader or a market maker, we support instant and free order cancellations. So this is a lot different to what you may have experienced if you traded on other decentralized exchanges before. But it feels very similar again to the user experience of just using a centralized exchange, which is really what we're going for. And kind of, you can place and cancel orders for free and just kind of make the order cancellations really easily.
00:13:08.410 - 00:13:49.270, Speaker B: One more question. Can you edit your permissions? DyDX has to your metamasks still, since you only have to sign the. So, yeah, metamask doesn't exactly support permissioning like that. So basically, the only thing that metamask gives us permission for one time is when you connect your wallet to the site. And all that lets us do really is just kind of see what your address is. And every time you do a state changing action on DyDX, you'll kind of get to confirm that in your wallet directly. So it's not like the website or us or anybody can just start making trades or anything without your authorization.
00:13:49.270 - 00:14:22.570, Speaker B: Okay, one more question. Thanks for all the questions, guys. This is great. Is there any non public trading data emitted from DyDx that's monetized? No, there's no non public trading data that's emitted. We don't trade on the exchange or anything like that. And kind of the main way that we make money is just by taking trading fees. So you can see like right here, this kind of fee that I paid to Dydx to kind of execute this trade, it's just a very similar model to what's been popularized and what works really well for normal exchanges.
00:14:22.570 - 00:14:43.750, Speaker B: And we're very much in that same bill. Okay, cool. So now we've opened our position. We've made our first trade. We can see all of the info on the trade right here. So you can see the amount of link that were long. Basically one link on the contract is the same unit or the same pricing as r1 link.
00:14:43.750 - 00:15:26.450, Speaker B: And now we can kind of wait to see if the price goes up or the price goes down and then see if I will have made or lost money over time. Kind of down a little bit already. It's not the end of the world, but yeah, hopefully the price goes up. And kind of the best way to think about this leverage or think about this position that I have here is that I effectively own the same price exposure as if I would have kind of owned this amount of link. So you can see this amount of link and its notional value. What notional value means is kind of the market price for this amount of synthetic link that I own. Basically the joy or the magic of leverage is you can see here that my notional value.
00:15:26.450 - 00:16:01.402, Speaker B: So the amount of link exposure that I actually own is more than I actually deposited. So if you remember, I only deposited 5000 USDC into the contract. And here I am sitting a few minutes later with exposure to almost $10,000 worth of link. So that's basically where the leverage comes from. If I were to up my leverage to even like an eight x or something, I could potentially even go to $4,000 worth of exposure. Sorry, what is that? $40,000? Sorry, I'm bad at math. Eight times five worth of exposure.
00:16:01.402 - 00:16:35.242, Speaker B: Eight times 5000 worth of exposure to links. So you can get a lot more exposure. You can also kind of bet on the opposite. If you think the price of link is going to go down, then basically you can just take a position that is short and that will just make you money if the price goes down. So here you can see the funding rate is still zero. So that's not like an excellent example of this, but you'll be paying, or kind of earning some funding rates over time based on what the price of the market is. So right now, the price of the market is trading pretty much exactly at the price of actual link.
00:16:35.242 - 00:17:30.790, Speaker B: So it doesn't require any funding to be paid between those who are long and those who are short because we don't need to incentivize anybody. And then you can see the other thing to call out here is kind of the thing that you have to think about with leverage is kind of the risk for trading with leverage as well. And that kind of risks just basically means that there is some price at which you can be liquidated. So what liquidated basically means, and this is a very similar mechanism to what happens on other, especially crypto exchanges, is that if the price of link goes below this 9.30 here, then I will be liquidated and I'll effectively lose all my money. So basically, since I've taken a two x position, in addition to making money twice as fast, you kind of lose money twice as fast as well. And then that's kind of where with these liquidations, that's where actually chainlink itself comes into the equation.
00:17:30.790 - 00:18:08.546, Speaker B: So you can see back up here if we look at the oracle and then the index prices here, the oracle price. So for this contract, our smart contracts on DyDX basically integrate directly with the chain link link price oracles. And you can see what the current price of that is here, and it's this price that's used for liquidation. So if kind of the chain link link oracle price ever goes below this 9.30 that is shown here, then my position will be liquidated and I'll lose all my money. And then the other price that you can see here is this index price. So the index price is just a live real time updating price.
00:18:08.546 - 00:18:39.506, Speaker B: And this is effectively the price that kind of link actually uses for its link oracles. And then you can see it just updates pretty frequently. But kind of the oracle price should be pretty close to that. So that's kind of most of what's going on here. You can see just your position here. You can close it out whenever you want to, can partially close it, can set like stop orders on it and stuff like that to protect you if the price goes down. Let's actually maybe do that.
00:18:39.506 - 00:19:14.042, Speaker B: So I'll just go through placing a stop order and then I'll talk about how that's useful and how that can work. Yeah, good question. I'll get to that in just a second after we place a stop order. So there are two types of stop orders that you can place here and maybe just taking a step back. Basically what a stop order is, is you don't have to wait until the price goes all the way down to $9.30 to automatically close your position. You can basically place a stop order which will say the price is, what is it, like 16.7
00:19:14.042 - 00:20:05.038, Speaker B: right now, let's say, okay, I'm long, I think it's going to go up, but I don't want to put all of my money at risk on this particular trade that I'm making. So I want to say, okay, if the price goes below $14, let's just close my position and cut my losses there so I don't lose all my money. So I could use basically a standard stop order to be able to kind of place that trade. And kind of on this trade here, you can place like a stop order, which will basically close your position at that price. And then the other type of order that you can actually place here is what's called a trailing stop order. Trailing stops are pretty cool. They're basically, what they mean is you can kind of express that if the price of link ever goes down by more than x percent from its all time high while the position is open, then close the position.
00:20:05.038 - 00:20:45.706, Speaker B: So I could place a trailing stop that say, is like 10%, then say I was right, and the price of link doubles overnight, but then it goes down like 10%. After that, my trailing stop would execute, and then I'd kind of be like net up on the overall position. Okay, so let's go through some of these questions now. Thanks for all the questions, guys. So, first question, what are the distinguishing features of spot trading on DyDX versus a centralized exchange? Sure. So let me take just a stab at answering this by kind of talking about all of the different types of products that are available on DYDX. So we've been just focusing on and going through the perpetual products right now.
00:20:45.706 - 00:21:21.494, Speaker B: Those are kind of the most new, and I would say financially sophisticated of the products that we offer. DyDX also offers spot trading, which is just buying and selling, regular buying and selling without leverage. And then we support margin trading, which is just trading with the physical underlying assets with leverage as well. So what are kind of some distinguishing features of trading on DYDX versus a centralized exchange? So the first one, and kind of most important is that, of course, trading on DyDX is fully non custodial. So that basically means, like us at DyDX, we never have access to your private keys. That's much more secure. All of that.
00:21:21.494 - 00:22:05.138, Speaker B: The second big advantage of trading on a decentralized exchange, and especially kind of trading more advanced products and collateralized products on a decentralized exchange, is it's much more transparent. So all of the mechanisms that kind of go into this perpetual contract, like everything from the funding rate to how liquidations work, like how the insurance fund works, is kind of codified into our smart contract. It's been audited by third parties and all of that. So you can have a lot of confidence that when you're trading on DYDX, you can see exactly what's going to happen. You know, it's not like a bitmex or something like that, where it's like a bit of a black box. You don't really know if you got liquidated for the right reason or whatever. So here it's like trading on DyDX is very transparent for that reason.
00:22:05.138 - 00:22:31.546, Speaker B: And I think that's a reason why a lot of traders will trade on us. You guys got to make the price of link go up right now. So I make money on my position here before this is over. Okay, let's kind of go to the next question here. Okay, so the order book and limit orders. So order book for limited stop orders is hosted by DyDX? Yes, that's correct. Yeah, so that's right.
00:22:31.546 - 00:23:15.766, Speaker B: It's basically a noncustodial order book. And the order book and also the order matching are run in a centralized way. So kind of by having this order book and order matching in a centralized way, we can support just way more performant trading. And just like trading on DYDX is going to feel a lot better from a UX perspective than trading on probably most other decentralized exchanges that you may trade on. I kind of alluded to this before, but a couple of the advantages that you get for trading on like a central order book and matching engine are kind of instant trade finality. So you know exactly the price. You know it's not going to revert things like that the moment you make the trade, like instant and free order cancellations, which are really important for traders and market makers.
00:23:15.766 - 00:24:17.066, Speaker B: And kind of, it's just a more similar experience to what you get on a normal centralized exchange, while also retaining all of the noncustodial aspects of trading on a decentralized exchange. Okay, what is the compelling reason I should use this, Dex? Yeah, good question. I think maybe I addressed that before with kind of the noncustodial and transparent trading, I would say are probably the biggest things that we can point to as advantages over a centralized exchange and then compared to other decentralized exchanges. So DyDX is kind of the leader in terms of supporting more advanced financial products. So while a lot of other decentralized exchanges that are popular like a uniswap or like a zero x, they are great for supporting the use case of spot trading. Our kind of wheelhouse is supporting these more advanced products which offer leverage, which offer shorting, kind of like margin and perpetuals. All right, buying up the sell side of link perp.
00:24:17.066 - 00:25:17.700, Speaker B: Thank you for that. Okay, sorry if I missed it before, what are the safeguards against large differences in prices between centralized exchanges? Yeah, good question. I kind of point to basically all the work that chainlink itself does to just under the hood on their oracles to kind of support, just like making sure outliers aren't factored into the price. I think basically like a median price is used. So any outliers or really large, say, there's like a flash crash or something on a centralized exchange that isn't going to affect the price of your liquidation price or the oracle price or even really the index price that kind of the funding rate is based off of. So you don't really have to worry about that. You also don't have to, since kind of all of the liquidations and all of the margining are based off of the oracle price, you don't have to worry about flash crashes on DyDX itself, like in our order book, because that's a bit less liquid than some of the other exchanges we're based off of right now.
00:25:17.700 - 00:25:59.550, Speaker B: That won't kind of cause any liquidations on your position. Okay, got a couple of minutes left. Thanks for all the great questions, guys, and let me know if you have any more. So that's kind of the product that we have right now. Maybe also just talk about a little bit about what's coming next for us and what's coming for DuidX, because I think it's pretty exciting. So the main thing that we're focusing on right now in terms of what we're building next at DyDX is a layer two integration. And you may have seen this, but we recently announced a partnership with Starquare to basically build a layer two system which utilizes zero knowledge roll ups, kind of for scaling our perpetual systems.
00:25:59.550 - 00:26:53.946, Speaker B: So it sounds like a lot of jargon, but basically what it means is kind of that the product that we'll be able to offer will be much more scalable. So we'll kind of reduce the gas costs that we're paying under the hood by 100 x, which should result in way lower fees, way more, kind of more sane minimum trade sizes for actual traders. And then we're also, in addition to kind of reducing our gas costs, there's a lot of other really exciting benefits that we're getting out of this layer two integration, so I'll go through them really quickly. The second one, which is a little bit. You kind of may need a bit more financial sophistication to appreciate, but is basically that right now our perpetuals are margined separately. So they're all what's called isolated margin. And all this means is like if you put down some money kind of on the link perpetual, you can't use that money to then go and say, you can't use that collateral to then go and say trade on the bitcoin perpetual.
00:26:53.946 - 00:27:36.046, Speaker B: So right here you can see I have like 5000 or so in my link accounts and I have 100 in my BTC account. What we're going to be building with the Starcore integration is what's called cross margining and a cross margin perpetual system. And this basically means that with one account of collateral, you can start trading on every single perpetual you might want to trade on. And this is also really impactful for market makers. So you're going to see us just launch a ton of new assets after we have this kind of cross margining feature because it's like way more capital efficient basically. So say for some reason you want to go long BTC on DYDX and you also want to go long chain link. Right now you kind of have to put up collateral independently two separate times.
00:27:36.046 - 00:28:50.254, Speaker B: Once we have this cross margin system, you can just put up collateral one time and kind of use half as much collateral to basically take a very similar position and get very similar price exposure. Kind of the third improvement that we're going to be getting after we do the layer two integration is something that I think is really important to traders, but it's just like a much better user experience. So I think the experience on DYDX already, at least in my opinion, is a good bit better than what you'll probably find on other decentralized exchanges because we have this central order book, central matching model, but we still had to wait whatever that was like 20 or 30 seconds for our trade to finalize and kind of for our position to update after we made a trade on the site. And there's basically what happens under the hood, is that DyDX itself, even though in the metamask before we were only signing a message, you can basically see that this is the transaction that we DyDX sent to the blockchain to execute this trade. And consequently we had to wait until that transaction was mined to update the position and everything like that. But after we have the starware integration, basically trades are going to be instant or as fast as centralized exchanges. So that's going to be really exciting.
00:28:50.254 - 00:29:35.774, Speaker B: We'll be able to just offer a user experience that's very much on par and even in a lot of ways I think superior to what will be offered on centralized exchanges, because, of course, since we're a decentralized exchange, you can basically just walk up with your wallet. We support tons of different wallets. I'm using metamask here, but we support basically every other wallet there is. And it will be just really easy to kind of walk up with your wallet and trade on a product that really feels like a centralized exchange experience that you're used to. Okay, let's go through the other questions here. So how centralized is the ownership structure of DyDX itself? Yes, good question. So we are a VC backed company, so we've raised a couple of rounds of financing so far, which were both led by Andreessen Horowitz and then polychain.
00:29:35.774 - 00:30:05.438, Speaker B: So they own. Know I own some, obviously employees own some. So it's kind of a normal equity structure right now. Yeah, I'm the only founder, but yes, luckily I do hold meaningful equity, so that's always good. Yes, thanks for that question. Are there plans for users to be able to participate in the revenue stream? Fees via a DyDX token? So we are thinking about like a DyDX token right now. We haven't decided if we're definitely going to do one or not.
00:30:05.438 - 00:30:27.590, Speaker B: Probably not going to support revenue sharing from the outset, at least. Do transactions ever get dropped? No, they never get dropped. It's kind of like because we have this central matching model, then basically we know exactly what's going to happen before it even gets sent to the blockchain. Cool presentation. Never selling. All right. I love it.
00:30:27.590 - 00:31:07.954, Speaker B: Yeah. So head on over to DyDx and plunge into a long position, but also definitely take some time to understand kind of the advantages and also risks of leverage trading before you jump in. Yeah, good question. Actually, could you talk a little bit about your journey into crypto and how you learned about the space? So I used to work at Coinbase back in 2015, which is how I got into the space. So, yeah, kind of got to Coinbase. It was like my first job right out of college. Didn't really know anything about crypto then, but at Coinbase back in 2015, that was like the prime place to be, just in terms of tons of the great people that were in crypto in the time were there.
00:31:07.954 - 00:31:47.134, Speaker B: So got a really firsthand seat to seeing things like the launch of Ethereum, seeing having stuff like Vitalik come and talk to us at Coinbase. And that was just a really good opportunity to learn about the space. And that's what got me really excited about the potential of smart contracts, the potential of building things like decentralized trading. Can you explain more about the current and future link integration plans? Sure thing. Yeah, so definitely oracles are really important for us. And the other cool thing about perpetuals basically is they're really like plug and play. So because you don't actually need the underlying tokens that are in these contracts, as long as you have a price oracle for something, you can trade it.
00:31:47.134 - 00:32:29.546, Speaker B: And kind of that's why synthetics are really popular, just because all you need is a price oracle, and then you can just use the same contract structure to trade any asset you might want to trade. So consequently, oracles are really important for us and it's really important that we have very performance oracles, obviously, because we want to make sure that that's obviously really important to traders and getting liquidated and all of that. So yeah, definitely talking with Chainlink about potentially supporting other markets using the link oracles over time. And that's something that I think is really exciting. Cool. All right, I guess we're basically at time now, but thanks so much for all the great questions, guys. Yeah, I really appreciate it.
00:32:29.546 - 00:32:57.700, Speaker B: If you'd like to learn more about DYDX, just head over to our website, just DyDx exchange. You can jump into our discord, ask us any questions that you have there. We really appreciate any feedback that you have on the product. And then, yeah, you can just kind of jump in and try it out. It's really easy to get started. Just like connect your wallet and try it out, support spot margining and then perpetualist trade. Thanks for all the great questions, guys, I really appreciate it.
