00:00:05.050 - 00:01:12.126, Speaker A: Mean, I think Zucky and I agree on this, but we've discussed it before. But the interchange staking module, I see the interchange staking module and celestial security model having different purposes. So I guess to recap, the Cosmos hub interchange staking module, the way it effectively works right now, or at least the way it works in the v one, is that you can set up a chain where the validators of the Cosmos hub are also the validators of your chain. So effectively, the Cosmos hub validators are also validating other chains. So they're validating multiple chains and they're also executing the transactions in those chains and processing the transactions. So this is quite similar to some extent to the Polkadot shared security model where there's parachains and the relay chain takes an interest in the validity of those parachains. The problem with this model is that it doesn't scale to, let's say, thousands or millions of chains.
00:01:12.126 - 00:02:13.938, Speaker A: It scales to an order of magnitude of maybe like 100 chains, which is like Polkadot has to auction off parachain slots. There's like hundreds parachain slots, and they have to auction it off because obviously the validators in relay chain can't validate every single chain in the world. Now, with Celestia, our aim is we see a world with millions of blockchains. So we're kind of catering towards the kind of tail end of blockchains. Imagine you can just deploy a blockchain. Maybe you're still a small project, and recruiting the Cosmos hub validator set is too expensive for you, then you can just deploy on Celestia and use celestia as database layer. The advantage of that is one interesting part of that is if your roll up does not initially have a lot of activity, then it's not as if you have to post blocks on that chain, like every single epoch.
00:02:13.938 - 00:03:15.340, Speaker A: So you can just post blocks as long as you need to. So it's like you pay as you go, data birthing ordering. And something that I echo with Zachary, what Zaki has said before, I think the interchange staking module is kind of useful as a value accrual mechanism for the token. So let's say the Cosmos hub wanted to kind of acquire or deploy new chains that are in the same vertical as the Cosmos hub. So, for example, in the future, I see a world potential where the Cosmos hub might want to deploy or launch its own settlement layer for roll ups. And using CosM WaSM, for example, a community might decide they don't want to actually deploy, actually integrate Cosm was into the hub itself. So they might deploy Cosm waSm specific hub and then there's two chains in parallel but their interchange stick with each other.
00:03:15.340 - 00:03:29.390, Speaker A: So it's kind of like a way for the hub to have a suite of chains. Zaki, same question to you, please.
00:03:29.460 - 00:04:35.690, Speaker B: Well, I agree with everything Mustafa has just said and I think the biggest way of thinking about it is it's like Cosmo shared security is a sort of expensive solution to the deployer of a chain that hopefully gets them a business benefit, which is like this tight partnership with Atom holders, a solid value accrual mechanism for this tight partnership between this new chain and atom holders. And hopefully this gets is an opportunity to create value and it coexists in an ecosystem. Know, you can start a validator set with three machines on AWS and just go from, you know, the Cosmos model is permissionless in a rop and so shared security is this very specific point solution.
