00:00:00.120 - 00:01:09.124, Speaker A: Associate professor of finance at Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University, and he is a founding director of the Fintech Initiative there. He is also a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, Kaufman Foundation Junior faculty, fellow poets, and Quant World Best Business school professor and editorial board member of top business and finance journals such as management science. He has advised companies such as string Lab, Trinity Data, yes, and currently holds a senior economist position at Chainlink. He advises BlackRock modular asset management, among other industry leaders in fintech and asset management. Professor Zong's research plans financial economics, information economics, fintech and AI, as well as entrepreneurship, digital economy and China. So he's a widely recognized scholar, and today he's gonna present his research on tokenomics and staking. So the floor is yours, and welcome.
00:01:10.544 - 00:02:08.026, Speaker B: Thank you very much catrion, for the kind introduction. I trust everyone can hear me and thank you for including the paper in the program. So this is strong work with Zhi Heng, who's a PhD student at Tsinghua University, and Katang Hussein, a faculty member in the finance group there. We probably need a better title for the paper, but for now we'll do with this staking, token pricing and cryptocurrency. So because we do have the cryptocurrency term there, we definitely want to emphasize the asset pricing angle quite a bit. But staking itself, the mechanism itself is very interesting. And as Jonathan was chatting about in various lending DeFi protocols, part of that is related to staking for sure.
00:02:08.026 - 00:03:11.534, Speaker B: So that's something we hope to understand better. Actually, with the crowd, I probably don't need a elaborate introduction. I kind of prepared a little bit background intro on kind of the tokenomics within this space. So, you know, I think we all know what blockchain technology is serving, is serving as a decentralized consensus in the system. And that decentralized consensus is useful. Both base layer consensus formation on the recordkeeping of transactions on so forth, as well as flow higher level, L2 layer three kind of defi applications. So when we think about the various crypto tokens out there, I would say the SEC of course, labels it into utility tokens versus security tokens, which is pretty coarse way of categorizing things.
00:03:11.534 - 00:04:01.380, Speaker B: There are technical ways to categorize the tokens. If you look at Coinbase, there are also hundreds of different categories. I think what matters a lot, at least from an economic perspective, are the functions of these crypto tokens. In that regard, I would say there are roughly four main categories of tokens. The first one would be what we would call platform tokens, tokens that are used at least as means of payment on certain platforms. Examples include Filecoin, that's for decentralized storage, dfinity, decentralized cloud computation, chainlink, decentralized oracle service. Tokens are used as a form of money within the platform, within the ecosystem.
00:04:01.380 - 00:04:40.554, Speaker B: It doesn't have to be the only function. There could be other utilities. These tokens are enabling the users or holders. As staking is one example. I will have more to say about staking a little bit, but that's one category. That's an area that my colleagues and I have looked into quite a bit. Now, one extreme form of platform token would be general payment token, where the platform is essentially the general economy and tokens are used as competitors for fiat money.
00:04:40.554 - 00:05:06.040, Speaker B: Bitcoin will be example. Ethereum may be better put in the first category. There's an argument to be made either way. Definitely. Central bank, digital currencies, stablecoins, those would fall in the second category. Typically, stability is heavily emphasized, and there are various ways to achieve stability. Open market operation or through collateralization changing, so on, so forth.
00:05:06.040 - 00:06:13.144, Speaker B: And if we look at Terra Luna, it's through more of a dynamic algorithm for adjusting token supply that gives some stability. And there's still very interesting research going on there. And of course, because these tokens are competing with fiat currencies, definitely they are going to interact with monetary policy, so that's not surprising. Third category tokens are not necessarily used as means of payment within the network, but they are essentially ownership or entitlement to certain products or services or digital art collectibles. So some non fungible tokens will be included in this category as well. And how do we think about token pricing within this category? Well, how we price collectibles, how we price art forms or products or services in general. So in terms of pricing, I don't think it's fundamentally different from what we know from earlier economic studies.
00:06:13.144 - 00:07:22.188, Speaker B: And then finally there's the cash flow based tokens, where we're just tokenizing cash flows. It could be the rental cash flows that we collect from a real estate property, and the tokens are essentially just a digital form of security contracts. Of course, this category of tokens should definitely fall into the security token category. From the regulatory perspective, what I'm going to talk about today in terms of staking and token pricing will mostly concern the first two categories of tokens. Okay. And empirically we can also show that there is strong segmentation across these four different categories. If you build a, let's say a crypto version of five factor model for these different tokens using local tokens, meaning tokens within that category versus using all the tokens available to build global factors.
00:07:22.188 - 00:08:47.642, Speaker B: The pricing performance would differ quite a bit, and hybrid models and local models would work really well, indicating there are strong segmentation and local information that's not incorporated unless we create local vector models. Here we're using the jargons of local international from international finance. But what we really mean is these are different categories of tokens, and we should view them as different types of tokens to analyze. Now, for the first two categories, I think it's safe to say tokens are hybrid assets. They are used to bootstrap the user base or even stabilize user base. They can be used as a corporate finance tool where the founders or funding team of the platform can manage the token either through discretion or through some commitment in the form of smart contracts to dynamically incentivize contributions from third party innovators, from distributed decentralized financiers in the form of icos, so on and so forth. And there are quite a number of studies looking at how tokens can potentially mitigate agency issues.
00:08:47.642 - 00:10:08.420, Speaker B: I think it's safe to say that tokens, in addition to being used as means of payment, they are acquiring quite a number of utility functions within the ecosystem. If we think about how we value these tokens, general payment tokens, if we view them as money in general, it's going to be the same way as we value money, and our money is a bubble. We need the next generation of holders and investors to take over that. But if we're talking about platform tokens, I think there are fundamentals that we can trace down, for example, the productivity of that platform. How effective is matching buyers and sellers, borrowers and lenders that would affect the value of this ecosystem? And to the extent that token supplies are rule based, that leads to certain valuation of tokens. So there are fundamentals that we can speak of. Of course, there are also speculations that could be an important driver, but these are all potential plus for token valuation.
00:10:08.420 - 00:10:47.150, Speaker B: Now, in terms of the price dynamics, especially return volatility, we know fundamentals could be driving it. I already mentioned speculation. The endogenous adoption is quite important, and that's very different from any fiat currency. So if I live in the US, there's not really endogenous adoption all the time I have to use us. Dollar and immigration is a long process, low frequency process. So it's not that I can switch on and off a platform anytime. But for digital platforms, that's the case I could log on to.
00:10:47.150 - 00:11:48.392, Speaker B: At least I can decide how to devote my attention and the hours I have on different platforms within different networks. So there's strong indulgence, adoption, and of course the token supply policy would matter. And that's something I think practitioners are also carefully thinking about. How do you essentially run the monetary policy within these platforms? So that's a lot of background that I just talked about. How does staking play a role? Well, we do know there is the rise of staking phenomena, and on the next slide I'll provide some more institutional details. But because staking is getting to a scale that's hard to ignore, we naturally wonder how that affects the pricing of tokens. And I think Fahad Kohs and Thomas have a very nice paper.
00:11:48.392 - 00:12:54.202, Speaker B: I think it's probably the first analyzing equilibrium staking levels. And staking is of course related to proof of stake and their earlier work talking about Pos token valuation and how that leads to inequality of wealth within the ecosystem. So we definitely want to add to that, want to understand how staking in equilibrium affect asset prices or token prices. And another contribution that we hope to make through this study is this will be one of the first applications of mean field game in finance beyond applications in macro DSGE, while inequality discussions and I hope to convince you that it's actually a very natural application. So some quick background on staking here. When I'm talking about staking, I really have in mind two forms of staking. One is about base layer consensus generation.
00:12:54.202 - 00:13:38.668, Speaker B: We have proof of stake. We have variants of proof of stake. The idea is if I have more tokens staked, I have a higher chance of being allocated the right to build the next block. It is incentive compatible in the sense that I have more stakes. I probably care about the stability and success of the ecosystem, so I probably would be incentivized to behave properly. Another type of staking happens at the defi level, and we've seen staking on Aave Uniswap. There are various staking programs ongoing.
00:13:38.668 - 00:14:03.716, Speaker B: They are not necessarily related to the base layer consensus generation. They typically have a business model in mind. It could be market making, liquidity provision, so on and so forth. That volume is also getting to pretty big. This number is not the most updated. I think right now it's about $200 billion. So that's very large volume.
00:14:03.716 - 00:15:13.920, Speaker B: And there are at least six distinct DeFi assets. And on average they are offering a yield, staking yield of 8% to 15%, depending on whether we do equal weighted or value weighted yield. So if we compare this to bank deposits and view this yield as interest rate, this is really high interest rate. Of course, staking is not riskless. The stakes could be slashed if the system fails. If a insurance pool has a triggering event that leads to distribution of some of the token staked, or even in POS based protocols, if you don't properly record the transactions, there is a risk of losing some of the value in the stake. So that's all observable within these systems.
00:15:13.920 - 00:16:37.934, Speaker B: Typically when a staking program starts, the designer or the system would make it public how the staking is going to work, how many new tokens are going to be minted, how are they distributed? What is the total amount of staking rewards to be distributed? So that's something highly relevant for what we study. Essentially, we are going to focus on cases where the staking rewards, total staking rewards, are fixed or are given ahead of time. And that's what happens in practice. And the staking reward rate is going to be endogenously determined. Are there programs where we fix this staking reward rate? There are some, but they typically have a cap on how much you can stake, so it's essentially controlling the quantity. And again, if we compare this to bank saving, one key difference is in the banking system, at least these days, we're adjusting the interest rate, or even for treasury bonds, we are adjusting the interest rate, whereas for staking programs, typically the adjustments happen. True quantity, how many tokens they're going to mint as staking rewards, so on, so forth.
00:16:37.934 - 00:17:26.623, Speaker B: One thing I need to clarify is in many DeFi protocols, people talk about total value locked. Total value locked could include both the native tokens as well as some other forms of token. If it's a dex protocol, we have to exchange tokens, different tokens. So obviously, other than the native tokens for the protocol, other tokens are being locked as well. What we are going to discuss today will be for native tokens only. We want to understand how the locking of native tokens or the staking of native tokens affect the pricing of native tokens. It would be interesting to look at how these different tokens interact, especially in terms of pricing.
00:17:26.623 - 00:18:16.338, Speaker B: And if we make that comparison to bank deposits or maybe CDs, certificates of deposits would be more suitable. We naturally map this reward rate to interest rate. And if we think about all these platforms as cyber countries, it's natural to think about whether interest rate parity would hold across these different platforms. And whether they are carry trees. And that's something we're going to offer some discussion. So, super long introduction, let me jump to the model. Okay, so we're going to work in continuous time, infinite horizon, there's one native platform, there's one digital network, digital platform with native tokens.
00:18:16.338 - 00:19:09.714, Speaker B: And we're also going to introduce a consumption goods as numerator. And a lot of why I typically use lowercases, I typically use that to denote the value in numerator. When I use upper cases, it's the number of tokens. So the platform has a productivity process that's exogenously specified. In one of my earlier papers we endogenized that, but for simplicity, let's just take it as a geometric running motion. It could be related to regulatory shocks as well, but in general captures how efficient the platform is providing the functionality to people. It could be decentralized storage, it could be decentralized computation agents.
00:19:09.714 - 00:20:09.244, Speaker B: There's a continuum of agents normalized to unit measure. Each individual is indexed by I and is characterized by the wealth that individual has. So the individual is making this allocation decision of his or her wealth between off chain, off platform, potentially for consumption, and on chain. Allocation for the wealth that's allocated on chain is further decomposed into two parts. Xt indicates the amount that the agents would hold for transactions. I could be providing linear service, I could be borrowing, and so on, so forth. Lt, again, in amounts of the consumption numerator is the amount that I lock on the platform through a staking program.
00:20:09.244 - 00:21:14.224, Speaker B: Off chain wealth is nt and in each period, of course, the individual has decides how much to consume that's given by yT. Now, if I hold xt tokens for transaction convenience, we follow our earlier specification, and it's also specification in quite a number of studies to provide a reduced form convenience flow. The convenience flow of holding xt worth of tokens is going to be positively related to the amount xt. It's also related to the productivity of the platform 80 which is natural. Alpha is a constant just to have a cal douglas form so that it's easier to solve. And UWT is the wealth dependent utility that individuals get. Since individuals only differ in their wealth, so the kind of the type is going to be indicated by the level of wealth.
00:21:14.224 - 00:22:13.504, Speaker B: We can specify that wealth function to be generally increasing with diminishing returns in WT, we have to specify transaction cost in consumption. This follows the international finance literature for forex literature. Reason being, we want to also capture the concept of convenience of holding the numerator so, introducing transaction cost and consumption is one way to reflect that convenience of numerator. The transaction cost is going to be decreasing in the amount of numerator I hold. Basically, if I save my wealth in banks, it's easier for me to immediately buy a car or buy coffee to consume. Of course, the transaction cost is bigger. It's increasing in the amount I actually consume.
00:22:13.504 - 00:22:48.314, Speaker B: That's given by this precise function. And it's quite standard in that literature. How is the staking rewards determined? Typically, the staking rewards are comprised of two elements. One is what is called emission. The newly minted tokens that's going to be distributed as rewards. And for that we're going to use et to denote for that. In most programs, I'll say it's deterministic process.
00:22:48.314 - 00:23:30.196, Speaker B: Even though we could introduce some noise. The other component is actually this rewards that's coming from fees. I think more and more staking programs do allow some fees generated within the ecosystem to be paid out as rewards for staking. And of course that part is intrinsically stochastic. We don't know what the business revenue or fee revenue is going to be for tomorrow, next week. So we're going to model that as a random variable. Let's say a uniform distribution around a certain mean.
00:23:30.196 - 00:24:10.644, Speaker B: For simplicity, we're just going to say the emission is a linear function of the current token supply. And also the fees that the system collects will be a random variable tau t multiplied by the current token supply. We don't have to use this functional form. You can try a few other specifications. We're using this just for the numerical solution. And the emission being a certain percentage of aggregate token supply. Is broadly consistent with what we observe in practice.
00:24:10.644 - 00:24:52.384, Speaker B: But in general, we just want to capture the fact that giving out rewards for staking actually inflates the system. Because more tokens are being introduced into circulation. Of course, when tokens are staked, they are temporarily locked out of circulation. So there is a trade off in a continuous time model. It's not very explicit, but have we written down a discrete time model? You'll be able to see it. The temporary locking exerts a deflationary pressure on token prices. Whereas the new emissions has a inflationary pressure.
00:24:52.384 - 00:25:31.314, Speaker B: But fixing that reward process, the reward rate is simple. It's the number of tokens given in this capital RT divided by the number of tokens staked. In aggregate. That would be the reward rate. And we introduce a slashing cost CT. That's a flow cost. Just to reflect the risk of the staked tokens being slashed, there's certain probability for that across different programs want to capture that element as well.
00:25:31.314 - 00:26:21.962, Speaker B: It's not going to be crucial in this particular setting, because we're not focusing on how the staking provides the right incentives. We're taking staking as given. People are staking mostly to get the staking rewards and want to see how token prices affected by the aggregate staking. Now, token price is going to be endogenously determined. It follows a general diffusion process. So here, the drift and the diffusion coefficients could be time varied. One important concept that turns out to be crucial for determining token price dynamics is the staking ratio.
00:26:21.962 - 00:27:14.374, Speaker B: It's essentially the total number of tokens staked divided by the total number of tokens in supply. Okay, it's not tbl, it turns out. Okay, so we'll come back to this quantity in a little bit. So, for each individual agent, the whilst process is quite intuitive. When I hold xt amount, remember, lowercases indicate the amounts in numerators I hold xt amount, I stake lt amount. Of course, these tokens still belong to me, so they are subject to this token price drift. Muti if I'm staking rt amount I earned staking reward Rt, there's a slashing flow cost CT, right? That's the amount I generate through staking.
00:27:14.374 - 00:27:51.536, Speaker B: I got my convenience yield for holding XT. So there's vt I consume for that period yt amount. And of course, I have to pay the transaction cost for consumption. And then again, because Xt plus Lt amount of tokens are subject to the token price fluctuation. So I have this diffusion term as well. Individuals are essentially solving a optimal control, stochastic control problem. I have to decide how much to consume, how much to hold for transactions, and how much to stake to maximize my lifetime utility flow.
00:27:51.536 - 00:28:38.894, Speaker B: And here the, you know, the utility function for each instant could have some curvature, right? That could reflect resonance on so forth. Now, if I write down the HJV equation, I can solve this dynamic programming problem. So we can write down the HJB equation, and we know the amount that I consume cannot exceed the amount of wealth I have. Other than that constraint. We pretty much have the standard HIV equation here. That's for an individual. But individuals have different wealth level.
00:28:38.894 - 00:29:56.508, Speaker B: In aggregate, we know the wealth level is going to evolve over time as individuals do their own dynamic programming. So this is very much akin to a diffusion process, right? Individual particles are following a geometric brownian motion, or brownian motion process. The distribution is going to follow this forward PDE typically characterized by, typically referred to as Fokker Planck equation. And that's not something we invent that we take that from physics and also other applications of mean field game in finance and economics. But what is important is that we are solving a fixed point problem because individuals staking decision is going to affect the amount that they stake. And you aggregate that staking ratio is going to determine the reward rate. In turn, the reward rate will affect the incentives of individuals to stake.
00:29:56.508 - 00:30:41.182, Speaker B: So we have to solve that fixed point problem. So to derive this equilibrium, we basically solve this system of PDE's. The agent's control should be optimal for their own lifetime utility maximization. And the token markets have to clear, the system stays or the distribution wealth follows Walker plank equation. And finally, the reward rate solves the fixed point problem. If we read out the PDE for the prices, it's similar to black scholes formula. There are a couple of differences.
00:30:41.182 - 00:31:41.014, Speaker B: For example, instead of the risk neutral rate, the fundamental productivity of the platform is not treated. So it has to follow its own drift process rather than a restraint rate. But we can go into some details on how the different terms play out. But safe to say that we can write down this PDE, which is actually not very easy to solve. So the way we deal with this is it turns out that we can use a change of variable. If I write the token price as the total value of the ecosystem v here, divided by the number of tokens I have, is separable. So the total value of the system, regardless of the token supply, is going to be just a function of the only exogenous variable 80 that we have.
00:31:41.014 - 00:32:27.812, Speaker B: Exogenous process we have, then we can reduce this into an ode that can be solved with the right boundary conditions. What are the right boundary conditions? Well, when the productivity of the platform drops to zero, the value of the ecosystem should drop to zero. When the productivity of the platform goes to infinity, we pretty much get all the wealth on chain, so it should correspond to the total wealth. So we are just integrating over the density of the wealth distribution for all individuals. So with that we can solve the model. And there are a few predictions out of this theoretical exercise. The first one is just a sanity check.
00:32:27.812 - 00:33:06.216, Speaker B: Higher staking ratio is going to instantly decrease reward rate. Makes sense. If I'm fixing the total rewards, more people are staking each individual, each token is earning a lower reward rate. So that is fine. The aggregate staking reward ratio, which is given by this roti, which is defined by the total amount of rewards divided by the total number of tokens in supply. The higher that ratio is, the higher the staking ratio. Again, it is quite intuitive.
00:33:06.216 - 00:34:06.664, Speaker B: If I'm offering more as reward, I would expect more people to come and stake. The third prediction is quite non trivial. Higher staking ratio is going to predict higher price appreciation. And I'll provide some more intuition on that in a little bit. We also have a prediction that uncovered interest rate parity is going to be violated across different tokens, simply because the tokens, in addition to generating the reward, is also generating a convenience yield from transactions. So that's going to make interest rate parity fail, just because the convenience being generated across different platforms could be different. So just to show you some numerical plots, we have to specify some parameters.
00:34:06.664 - 00:34:53.188, Speaker B: They are not too ridiculous. And if you're interested, I'm happy to provide more information on how we justify that. We have that in the paper as well. So here I'm just showing you the numerical plot of the reward rate that the staking ratio against the aggregate reward rate for individuals. The higher the reward rate, the more I want to stake. And once we aggregate that, that's also the case for the aggregate staking ratio, which is given by this blue line here. The black dotted line is the fixed point equation to determine the reward rate in equilibrium.
00:34:53.188 - 00:35:41.046, Speaker B: So their intersection would give us the equilibrium outcome. And in this figure, we also observe that for individuals with higher wealth, which is basically wealth equals to 100 as opposed to wealth equals to ten, what we observe is the staking ratio will be higher as well. Okay. For that individual. This is related to the third prediction, how aggregate staking ratio predicts price appreciation. So in general, there's a positive relationship. And the intuition is the following.
00:35:41.046 - 00:36:34.454, Speaker B: When do we have a really high staking ratio? Remember, the individuals are trading off holding the tokens for convenience or holding it for consumption versus staking it to get the rewards. So when staking ratio is really high, it must be that the convenience flow is relatively low for the platform. When is the convenience flow low? Well, 180. Right. The productivity of the platform is low, so the right region would correspond to low a. But when a is low, that means the adoption or the amount of potential allocation of wealth on chain is still big, right? Because not many people are allocating on chain, not many people have adopted. That means the future adoption and future additional wealth allocation on chain is going to be bigger.
00:36:34.454 - 00:37:42.638, Speaker B: That means there's more room for token price appreciation. What do we mean by adoption and allocation of wow, sound chain. That means people have to demand the tokens and fixing token supply, or fixing the rules for token supply, that means we're going to exert an upward pressure on token price going forward. Low a would also correspond to higher potential token price appreciation. That's why we see this monotone relationship as to why there's a particular bump in the, in the middle that has something to do with the nonlinearity involved in how individuals trading off staking versus transaction convenience. Basically, if we cast this in a simple quantity of money, the quantity theory of money framework, when more tokens are being staked, less tokens are in circulation. And if we have to clear the same amount of transactions fixing the money velocity, that means each token's price has to be higher.
00:37:42.638 - 00:38:15.544, Speaker B: And if it's already higher now, that means going forward, the potential appreciation is going to be lowered. So there is a region of nonlinear bump in the middle. So that's theoretical prediction. Do we observe these phenomena in the data? Well, let's look at the data. In fact, we started the project more than two years ago. So our original data was until August 2020. That's before this DeFi summer.
00:38:15.544 - 00:38:56.414, Speaker B: So we fortunately were able to update the data earlier in February this year. So now the data is until February 2022. Instead of the original 30 tokens we have, we actually have over 60 stakeable tokens from stakingrewards.com dot. Is this the entire universe of stakeable tokens? No, but the list covers all major staking programs. Staking rewards has a way of displaying and ranking these different stakeable tokens. So we just take what they provided.
00:38:56.414 - 00:39:50.904, Speaker B: And if you look for all major Defi protocols, their names are there. Stakeable with stakeable tokens. Stakeable native tokens, because we're talking about how it affects the native token price. So here we're just plotting the average staking ratio against the staking reward ratio to show you that the higher reward ratio we have, the higher staking ratio, contemporaneous staking ratio we're going to have, which is one of the predictions in the model. This is using all 60 plus tokens. And here was a smaller sample period with 30 tokens. Using our original data, that ends in August 2020.
00:39:50.904 - 00:41:19.854, Speaker B: If we run a regression of the, basically the aggregate staking reward ratio, row it against the aggregate staking ratio, we can see that higher staking reward ratio given by this royalty positively predicts higher aggregate staking ratio over seven day horizon, two weeks, all the way up to a month. We do control for the market cap of the cryptocurrency, as well as volatility, and they do play a significant role. But in general, we can verify that staking ratio increases with staking reward ratio. This doesn't fully mapped to the model in the sense that we have to assume some behavior in practice. When agents observe, oh last week, they have higher staking reward, then I want to stake more this week. So there has to be some serial correlation in how staking rewards are introduced. And there are in practice.
00:41:19.854 - 00:42:10.460, Speaker B: In our model, it's going to be reflected from that constant times the total token supply QT, right. When QT increases, of course fixing the constant, the new emission also increases. So that part is consistent with the earlier table. Higher staking rewards are going to attract more staking. So we do verify that in the data as well. And in the interest of time, let me just move to our next table, which is our key result. The aggregate staking ratio is going to positively predict token price returns over the short horizon seven days, as well as in the longer horizon 14 days after 30 days.
00:42:10.460 - 00:43:06.654, Speaker B: So we use that staking ratio, capital Zeta as our key explanatory variable. We do control for the cryptocurrency size. We also control for the crypto market return. So we do see significant predictive power of aggregate staking ratio. And if you are an investor, this is potentially a useful signal because the staking ratio is observed in practice, right? I especially when it's on chain, I do know how much is staked. I do know the aggregate token is token supply as well. At any instant, I can calculate that staking ratio and I can use it to forecast token price returns going forward.
00:43:06.654 - 00:44:43.324, Speaker B: Okay, so that's about token pricing. Now, of a single token, if we think about all these tokens we have and view them as currencies in different cyber countries, what do we observe in terms of interest rate parity? Because the interest rate will correspond to the reward rate in these cyber economies. So we can use the conventional regression that pharma did in 1984. Basically, you can regress the difference in exchange rate in international finance, but here that would be the difference in token price appreciation, relative token price change, the difference of the reward rates for different staking programs. C here comes from the fact that we have that slashing cost in our model, so we can estimate that constant. In theory, when we run this regression, there shouldn't be any significant beta. Essentially, if I'm experiencing a higher reward rate, I should expect my token price to appreciate less than an alternative protocol where the reward rate is low but the potential token appreciation is higher.
00:44:43.324 - 00:45:30.134, Speaker B: That's interest rate parity, right? And that's not what we observe. So we have to define what is foreign currency, what is domestic currency? Here we can use, say, us dollar as domestic currency. Then we take the average of all 60 stable tokens, view them as foreign currency, and run this regression. And the beta that we get would be significantly negative over the short horizon. The longer horizon is still significant. We can change to different home currencies. We can use bitcoin as domestic currency or ethereum, do the same exercise, or even using other tokens.
00:45:30.134 - 00:46:39.318, Speaker B: I think in the paper we have this longer table here. I'm only showing you the top portion of the cryptocurrencies. We can verify UIP is violated in sample. You can estimate model using a subsample and test it on the other sample to show some auto sample UIP violation as well. So that's in the data. And if we think about UIP violation, naturally we can think about can we develop a trading strategy, carry trade strategy, just as we typically do with currencies. If we generalize the concept of carrying from Kaijin, NATO's 2018 paper, we can define a corresponding notion of carry for crypto, and it's essentially defined by the reward rate minus the slashing rate minus the domestic reward rate, or domestic interest rate scaled by one plus domestic interest rate.
00:46:39.318 - 00:47:29.694, Speaker B: That's the carry quantity that they have across different asset classes, essentially. So if we use this query to predict or to form strategies, we can see how they perform over time. We can do a long short strategy based on the sorting of this carry variable and look at one week performance. We can also use long only strategy. Take an equal weighted portfolio across all tokens. So I think we can look at the sharpe ratio here annualized, which is pretty high for the equal weighted strategy. The longshore strategy also has a pretty high sharpe ratio.
00:47:29.694 - 00:48:16.654, Speaker B: I think this is reported out of sample one. I can double check, but the auto sample sharpe ratio is quite high. Is that surprising? It is surprising, but if we think about how the crypto sector has been exploding and growing, then it's not too surprising to see a really high sharpe ratio. So we have to think about how relative to the market, things are changing. For that, I think the long short portfolio would make more sense. And here I'm just plotting the cumulative return for the different carry trade strategies that we form. The red line would be one week carry trade with staking.
00:48:16.654 - 00:49:17.148, Speaker B: Basically you're also earning the staking rewards. We take long position with high staking reward, short position in the low staking reward dotted line in the middle is without staking. Suppose you are just holding those tokens, but you didn't use those tokens for staking. And finally, the lower blue line would be one week, actually one month. Character rate of performance accumulated and relative to the market, equal weighted all crypto asset market. The equal weighted carry strategy. If we take the long side, let's say 50% highest carry assets, the cumulative return is still, I think, about double what the cumulative return will be for the crypto market in general.
00:49:17.148 - 00:50:20.764, Speaker B: So some more results, you can test this in regressions. Interestingly, there is a difference between time series carry versus cross sectional carry that will be consistent with what we observe in the currency market as well. So I think I have been talking for a long time. So let me just conclude here and potentially take some questions. There's a few interesting dimensions we are still exploring. For example, the wealth distribution, how you can map on chain wealth distribution or evolution to the off chain wealth distribution, because we do have the allocation between on chain and off chain in this model. But in general, staking has become an important phenomenon and ways for participants to derive utility and to participate in the ecosystem.
00:50:20.764 - 00:51:02.904, Speaker B: For both baseline blockchain consensus generation as well as DeFi protocols, the key takeaway is that staking ratio is a very important predictor. It's going to affect token price dynamics and across different tokens. We document that UIP is violated as predicted by the theory, and the crypto carry strategy will be very profitable. It's not explained by any crypto factors that we know for now. So this is a very interesting area that I think is definitely worth exploring. Thank you.
00:51:07.564 - 00:51:21.708, Speaker A: Thank you for the very interesting talk. Yeah, we have some time for questions. Yeah, Thomas, I will.
00:51:21.836 - 00:51:22.748, Speaker B: Hi. Hi, Thomas.
00:51:22.796 - 00:51:57.284, Speaker C: Yes, very interesting. So I know this is probably way beyond the scope of the paper, but I guess I was wondering, you're saying, you mentioned earlier, this is like especially, the theory is just focused on native tokens. I was wondering how it might change if, for example, you analyze staking of platform tokens. And I guess there might be some slightly more interesting dynamics if staking leads to price appreciation, but then makes it more costly to utilize the platform. Just if you have any thoughts about that.
00:51:57.404 - 00:52:37.404, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I have some speculation on that. Just as you say, in practice, I think the lock up doesn't have to be only for the native token. People could be locking up other tokens. I think that definitely reduces the amount of staking in the native token. And if we believe what the model is predicting, the price appreciation is going to be lower potential price appreciation. And that's consistent with the notion that if you allow more currencies to compete with your own system's currency, your currency becomes weaker.
00:52:37.404 - 00:54:00.244, Speaker B: So that part is consistent in practice. I think it's partially offset by the fact that when you allow other tokens to be staked or to be used in your ecosystem, typically the willingness to pay or willingness to participate is higher because many people are using, let's say, avalanche, or they're using Ethereum. And when they want to join a new platform, if they can still conveniently use those tokens, maybe they are more willing to participate, or maybe they are willing to pay a higher service fee than what they would do with the pure native token. So I think that can partially offset that. And to the extent that including more different tokens would allow the ecosystem to grow faster, so the kind of the economic growth could outpace any detrimental effect of allowing more currencies in the ecosystem. But that's just kind of speculation. I think economically it's interesting to investigate further multiple currencies or multiple tokens, especially when they are used both as means of payment and also as stakeable assets.
00:54:00.244 - 00:54:07.844, Speaker B: Thanks, and sorry for the loaded question, this great question. Thank you for asking.
00:54:10.184 - 00:55:14.646, Speaker A: Yeah, so maybe I will ask in between one question as well. So it is a bit like on the technical side of your setting, especially related to this mean field scheme, because it has like some hints towards like perfect competition, which would lead to efficiency, because people take prices as given, or things like knowledge spillovers in the endogenous growth when you are not taking into account your impact on innovation, while of course that's aggregate, it does. But in both of these cases, like, in one situation things are efficient, in other situations it's indigenous growth. There are not. And I wondered like whether, I mean, first, like how similar this approach is to more known things. And second, like, is there a kind of endogenous growth like inefficiencies, which could imply that there could be too much staking or too little staking or some other imperfection? Yeah, because of this approach.
00:55:14.710 - 00:56:00.516, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. So it is similar in that individuals are taking prices as given and they don't internalize their impact of their own staking. I have to think more which direction it goes, whether it helps with efficiency or it doesn't. That part I have to think more about what we do of service. Now we are exploring the wealth distribution. Over time, the distribution becomes more even. So we're still trying to understand why that's the case.
00:56:00.516 - 00:56:46.934, Speaker B: It could be that the larger players, they know they have. Well, they don't know that they have a price impact because they are all autonomous, whereas in practice they do have a price impact. So that could affect whether that's overstaking relative to what is optimal. And that's also consistent with the earlier empirical evidence. We've seen the numerical solution, we've seen where higher wealth individual would stake more for the same. For the same level. Actually.
00:56:46.934 - 00:57:35.934, Speaker B: Higher, yeah, higher wealth level individuals would stake more in equilibrium. So my guess is that it's inefficient, it's going to be over staking, but I have to carefully check that before I make that statement. Yeah, but in terms of the application of the methodology is very similar to what we've done in macro regarding wealth inequality. It's just that the setting is different and the focus is no longer on the inequality part, but on asset pricing, which is not something that macro DSG models talk, uh, rather bond.
00:57:36.014 - 00:57:54.126, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, it's like. Yeah, it's very interesting. As what you said about wealth distribution effects. It's also, I guess, a bit surprising to say that wealth becomes more even. But it's a high wealthy individuals that stake more. So does it doesn't give you enough returns in this case, yeah.
00:57:54.190 - 00:58:53.124, Speaker B: So sorry, I wasn't clear when I say the wealth becomes more evenly distributed, it's the aggregate wealth. So that includes the off chain wealth as well. I think on chain it could be that wealthier people are becoming more concentrated. That's something we're still trying to explore. It might inform us about what type of inference we can draw when we look at on chain walls, because we typically don't observe what people hold off chain. And if we observe concentration on chain, does that necessarily imply that the overall walls for the individual is more concentrated in general, it doesn't have to be, depending on how people are allocating between on chain, off chain and consuming versus holding tokens for transaction versus staking. We don't have the results on that part yet, but that'll be interesting to explore, as you mentioned.
00:58:54.404 - 00:58:55.344, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:58:55.764 - 00:58:56.984, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
00:58:59.924 - 00:59:17.644, Speaker A: So unless there are no more questions, thank you very much for this interesting talk and thank you all presenters of today and the audience for being here. And we will resume tomorrow morning with a new session.
