00:00:00.170 - 00:00:18.800, Speaker A: In 2021, finally we were able to get together and we just had a small hangout in New York. A woman actually told me that from my courses, she was able to get a new job, divorce her husband, and pay for her childcare, which she wasn't able to do because she was like in a totally an industry where that salary cap was just never going to happen.
00:00:32.730 - 00:00:37.682, Speaker B: Okay, so today I'm really happy to welcome on the show Maggie Love, founder of Shifi. Welcome, Maggie.
00:00:37.746 - 00:00:41.350, Speaker A: Thanks so much for having me. Happy to be here. Looking forward to the discussion.
00:00:41.430 - 00:01:32.438, Speaker B: I used to have a boss called Mark Love. I was always very jealous of that surname. Different subject matter, but cool name. So we describe Shefi as empowering female and nonbinary professionals and entrepreneurs to succeed in frontier technologies such as crypto, web3, and AI. All the things that we love here. I believe you've been collaborating with Hanan here at Outlier on a number of things and we're looking to hopefully kind of ramp those up, obviously across all those three areas, but in particular trying to get more female women and nonbinary founders into the program. I believe there was a coin Gecko report back in 2020 which really solidified, I guess, a viewpoint that you had that basically DFI.
00:01:32.438 - 00:02:05.922, Speaker B: At that point, 99% of DFI users were male, between 25 to 40. I'm not sure it's changed that much, to be honest with you. Since then, although I'm sure you've been make where there has been change, you've been contributing towards that. But of course that's probably representative more broadly in terms of founders users. We always try to have as balance the program as possible, whether it's founders, co founders. We find that easier in some categories than others. Defi is pretty consistently the one where we struggle the most.
00:02:05.922 - 00:02:27.882, Speaker B: But let's get into your journey. It's been a really interesting one. You've done lots of stuff prior to Shifi. Can't wait to learn more about Shifi plans. I know you kind of got a good global reach. There's a few hubs that you're seeing, a lot of traction in London being one of them, which was really great to hear. But let's hear more about your journey leading up to Shifi and what led you to found it.
00:02:27.936 - 00:03:10.322, Speaker A: Yes, to go back to where I guess I fell down the rabbit hole, as they say. I was actually working at IBM, Watson in Watson and financial services, doing product. You know, I went from AI, got into blockchain, and now dipping my toes back into AI through that role, I was in a corporate strategy meeting at IBM about technologies they should focus on in the financial services space. And we were in person in this big meeting room in Aster Place, which is a prominent building in New York City. But there was one guy on the phone, and he kept being like, blockchain, blockchain, blockchain. We need to be talking about blockchain. And this was in 2016, and everyone was like, oh, my gosh, can you mute that guy? He's so annoying.
00:03:10.322 - 00:03:36.706, Speaker A: He won't stop talking about blockchain. And in my head, I was like, whoa, someone's really excited about something at, like, I need to go figure out what that is. So I went to Barnes and Noble, like, a physical bookstore in Union Square, New York. I typed blockchain in their search bar. The blockchain revolution came up. I was like, okay, great. Purchased the physical book, read it in about two days, and it was really focused on all the use cases, like, zero talk of a currency, really.
00:03:36.706 - 00:04:04.326, Speaker A: Maybe about bitcoin, but I can't remember. I just remember that wasn't my takeaway. And so from there, I was like, oh, I have to work in this space. I don't fully grasp what it is, but it sounds like it's the frontier. It sounds like you can create value for good in new ways. And so I want to be a part of it. And so I kind of gave up my Watson Journey and just spent all of my free time pinging people on the Internet.
00:04:04.326 - 00:04:41.234, Speaker A: There wasn't an ethereum.org website back in 2016. There was, like, Reddit and very few companies. Finally, through enough Internet searches, I made my way to consensus, which is the Ethereum company building products back in 2017. Got a job there on a team called strategic initiatives, which was just Joe Lubin's crew of people. He was like, either start your own venture or make a venture scalable, like operationalize it. So it was a lot of ex consultants and product people just given this blank canvas to try to make something happen at consensus, which was very much the vibe in 2017.
00:04:41.234 - 00:05:21.438, Speaker A: Like, let's throw all these ideas on the wall of what a blockchain could reimagine and run with it, which leads to a lot of exciting things happening, but also a lot of chaos. So my first venture in the crypto space that I co founded came along in 2018. It's called Web three Cloud, and we really focus on building compute and storage infrastructure for web3 protocols. So we focus a lot here on the software space. DFI, ZK, metaverse, web3 social. That's all very software layer, but we know blockchains need hardware to run them. So we focus on that atoms layer, that physical infrastructure.
00:05:21.438 - 00:06:10.340, Speaker A: And it was actually the third deal that came across my desk when I joined consensus. So it was early 2017 I just joined, and Joe Lubin was like, hey, can you put together a presentation on ethereum? The transition to proof of stake, like what that timeline is and gpus and infrastructure? And I wasn't exactly sure what that all meant, but I was like, sure, I'll figure it out. And I figured it out. Joe was like, this was a great presentation. Now will you close the deal for me? And long story short, he was very inspired by this idea that the advanced micro devices, which is the partner in this venture, had brought to the table. Like, there should be an infrastructure layer dedicated to blockchain protocols. And then I, at 27 years old, just went ahead and figured out how to close the deal.
00:06:10.340 - 00:06:26.966, Speaker A: So that was where I started in crypto. I worked on a couple of other projects as well, and then wasn't until 2019 when I had the idea for Shifi. So I'd been in the space a couple of years before I saw this opportunity for Shifai. Yeah.
00:06:26.988 - 00:06:59.234, Speaker B: And I know consensus, Joe, whatever's been criticized for that approach early on, but I actually think for that moment in time, it kind of made sense, right, because it was so early. As you say, ethereum had kind of only really just come online. Everything was up for grabs, right? Everyone was learning. Everyone was trying to figure out limitations, possibilities. And so I guess that kind of bottom up approach would make sense. And I know he empowered a lot of people. So it's great to hear you're one of them.
00:06:59.234 - 00:07:28.806, Speaker B: Right? What kind of learnings do you think you can take from that applied now to, you call them frontier technologies. Other technologies that are coming through that are nascent perhaps aren't yet at the commercialization phase. What have you taken away from that? I don't know what you'd call it, really the consensus. I know it's kind of like hub and spoke model, or it was kind of like a venture studio, but it was also like an incubator. I'm interested to hear about what you learned from that that could be applied to other technologies.
00:07:28.918 - 00:08:08.342, Speaker A: Yes. That time, honestly was really fun, although chaotic, and definitely had its challenges. A lot of people compare it to an early dow structure where if you had an idea, there was this pool of resources that you could then run with, and you had to excite people about your idea, and people could kind of go from one team to another. Teams were meant to cross pollinate and support each other. And we all frequently got on these large meetings to hear what everyone was working on. And definitely certain people had go no go decisions, but it was pretty emergent. Things could bubble up, which was really the philosophy of blockchain and ethereum technology.
00:08:08.342 - 00:09:08.838, Speaker A: We don't need companies to necessarily fund ideas. We can have protocols, fund infrastructure and building. And so it really took that ethos from the technology that we're building upon and then tried its best to apply it to human coordination. And I think we can all agree that coordinating through dows and tokens and protocols is one of the most challenging parts of the ecosystem that we're still working on. But something that I took away, and I think many people took away, was that you don't need, at least in the beginning, a ton of vc money, and to go through this whole fundraising process and all this pitching to get your idea started right. Blockchains, I think, really enable small teams to ideate quickly, maybe go find grants, or not even need to find funding right away, and get something out there and get feedback and see where it goes. And there's all these different ways that you could figure out how to make it sustainable long term.
00:09:08.838 - 00:10:03.402, Speaker A: But I think it really attracted a group of hacker like people. Even if you weren't an engineer or developer, you could still come with an idea, try to get people excited about it, and then be scrappy and how you continue to create value. So I think what came out of a consensus is a ton of founders out in the ecosystem building incredible products. Maybe it was similar to the idea they had within consensus. Maybe it's a totally new idea, but people hadn't left the ecosystem, really. People just left consensus to go start their own products. And I think it gave people that confidence to come with an idea and build something quickly, like a proof of concept, and then figure out how it gets funded, which I think is part consensus and part of the industry we're in, where we have this ability to launch tokens and create value.
00:10:03.402 - 00:10:21.026, Speaker A: We have like the blank canvas for that. So it's easier to spin up your ideas in a lot of ways, especially if you are an engineering type. But I think that's really what it was, was this place where you could get started quickly and just kind of run with your crazy idea. And that continues to breed that confidence of running with your crazy idea.
00:10:21.128 - 00:11:28.422, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think kind of the consensus alumni is obviously very strong, and I think we haven't even really yet fully seen the impact that that kind of alumni network will make on the world. But you're right. As far as I'm aware, everyone I've worked with have come out of it. We've got a couple of outlier both founders in our portfolio and then full time staff members. And I think it's really interesting to think of it as that kind of proto Dow, that fluidity of role and function, that cross pollination, as you say, perhaps it's actually the closest thing we've ever had to a functioning Dow because of course, we know most dows are still riddled with complexity and coordination issues. Before we get into chief, I do you think that given you have an AI background, something that we've been really interested on is the ability of AI tooling to continue to lower that barrier to kind of permissionless innovation that we've seen in web3 because of its open source nature? Do you think that that is something that's going to continue this trend of needing less venture capital to kind of get to, I guess, product market fit?
00:11:28.476 - 00:12:37.914, Speaker A: Yes, I definitely agree. I think we're going to see the solopreneur term, right? So that's like one person who maybe has a couple of part time employees, maybe one part time employee, and like a full time AI employee, a employee, help them get to the next level and once again get their idea out there. Get a product out there. If you can build a product more quickly and get it out there and get users and start getting that funding right, that recurring revenue, that's kind of that inflection point I know a lot of venture capital looks for is really product market fit. And if it's easier to get to product market fit without a ton of funding, then I think founders will really, I just think, weigh their options more heavily. Like, do I need to go the VC route? Can I just bootstrap? And I think we're going to see way more solopreneurs and smaller teams and hopefully not less people building, but more people building different things and bringing more new ideas to the market. So I know people get stressed about like ais taking jobs or how that impacts teams, but I think it's more this creative multiplier and productivity multiplier.
00:12:37.914 - 00:13:27.454, Speaker A: And what we really need to help people with is get the confidence to go out and start their own things. And so I do think that will happen. I still think there's going to be a huge need for VC because trying to build large, sustainable businesses will definitely still have a place in the age of AI. But I do think we'll also see people starting with less, and maybe that's good for the healthy, for the whole ecosystem. Maybe billion dollar valuations from PowerPoints we've seen as kind of maybe been challenging when we are dealing with the consequences of a macro economy that has these interest rates and money is not free anymore. So I think in general, maybe it could just also just balance out how everyone that's a part of that funding ecosystem thinks about funding and valuations and how they're examining projects. Yeah.
00:13:27.492 - 00:14:38.074, Speaker B: And I think leading up to the topic of inclusion, one of the things that really excites us is the potential around large language models for people to be able to effectively code through natural language, or even to be able to just access the world's knowledge in a kind of conversational manner. And through these kind of multilingual mediums, we've been playing around with some AI internally based upon some of our documentation, which of course is primarily in English, which precludes huge parts of the global population. Our mission being to kind of reach as many founders as possible. And interestingly, it just automatically translated, like the advice it gives, is multilingual, even though it hasn't translated the underlying documents, which kind of blew my mind, really, as to the potential for reach founders in parts of the world where it'd just be very challenging for us to do that language by language. So maybe, hopefully that's a reasonable segue into Shifi. So I know at the top end, we kind of said it spans frontier technologies. Obviously, Shifi is a play on Defi.
00:14:38.074 - 00:14:49.526, Speaker B: So I'm assuming that at its core, there's some kind of financial inclusion component, or at least a core of the community were initially focused on DFI and web3.
00:14:49.628 - 00:15:38.898, Speaker A: Yes, exactly. So I had the idea for Shifai in 2019, and that was my personal first bear market was 2018. Right. I read the high of early 2018 down to the very low of 2018. But in that time, in that space where things were cooling off and once again, the hype had sort of died down, there was incredible building happening, and 2019 was really when we saw the DFI rails being built, this foundational infrastructure. And so I was at consensus at the time, and we used to work out of a flattened bushwick. So once again, being able to just quickly run into people or hear what people were talking about was an incredible ability to have ideas spark.
00:15:38.898 - 00:16:10.354, Speaker A: You hear something, you're like, wait, let me dig into that. I'm curious. So all of the males in my office were talking about, like, compound and 11% interest on their stablecoins and all this stuff. And something that empowered me about joining crypto in 2017 was buying this Ethereum token. Because I saw builders, I met them, people were smart, things were happening. I used metamask, like a wallet, a product, and I was like, great. I don't have to be an accredited investor to take advantage of this opportunity.
00:16:10.354 - 00:17:06.578, Speaker A: That's exciting. And I really passionate about financial inclusion and literacy. But it wasn't until 2019 where that ability to actually make financial inclusion more expansive than just, like, one token really came into play, which was through DFI, and not only allow people to earn or leverage tokens, but leverage applications that could replace our banking systems that we have today. And them being permissionless means that for the first time, your banking services aren't gated through KYC or approvals or any of that. And so I heard people talking about it. Then I happened to get a coffee with a friend who mentioned know people were playing the NCAA bracket, which in the United States there is March Madness basketball teams. You bet on who's going to win, and everyone contributes to a pot of money.
00:17:06.578 - 00:17:32.714, Speaker A: And it just happened that all men decided to participate. It was open to everybody. I always have to caveat. And they mentioned that they put the pot in compound while the tournament was going on throughout the month. Because if compound got hacked, like, no big deal, everyone put in $50. Only one person was going to win it, so why not experiment with it? And for some reason, we weren't even talking. I didn't even have the name for Shifai yet.
00:17:32.714 - 00:18:28.954, Speaker A: We were just honestly getting a coffee and catching up, and I was like, that's such a good idea, getting people to play with money that they have less attachment to in these new DeFi protocols as a way to kind of help people get over their fear or their risk or the attachments they have to money and why maybe they're not doing something with it in the first place in this nascent technology. So that stuck with me. And then I happened to be home on a run, listening to music, just playing around with this idea in my head, like, decentralized finance people playing with their money. Could I do a bachelorete tournament? I don't really watch tv, so maybe that wouldn't work. And I was like, oh, maybe people want to donate to charities. Like, if they're giving up the money for a good cause, would they put in these protocols? Just playing with these words in my head? And then I was like, DfI, shifi. And I was like, wow, that feels very divinely inspired.
00:18:28.954 - 00:19:32.226, Speaker A: Like, it has to be my purpose, because it just came to me out of reflection, but also sort of out of thin air. So I went home, I told my parents, and they're like, we don't even know what this is, but that's a great name. And so that really was like the beginnings of Shifi, was this idea that women would come together, learn about a defi protocol, understand that on a lending protocol, the tokens were in liquidity pools. Liquidity pools are smart contracts, so understand when they're pressing the buttons, what's happening under the hood, not to a developer technical level, but to a technical level where we're not glossing over that, understanding the impact, why it's important. What were money markets in traditional finance? How was compound and Ave reimagining the structure in defi finance and giving them the whole picture, but then trying to encourage people to put their money in these protocols and see what happened. Now, when I started, I launched it in 2020. So around the time that coin gecko article came out, and I was like, great.
00:19:32.226 - 00:20:02.910, Speaker A: My intuition was correct. And so I started with a proof of concept cohort inside of consensus, like the women of consensus, and people just loved it. And I thought I was going to do like, ave compound, uniswap, makerdao. I think Nexus mutual was around that time, but like four or five DFI protocols. Oh, Uniswap too, and be done with it. And then DFI summer 2020 happened, and that was the summer of launching protocols. Yield farming.
00:20:02.910 - 00:20:36.390, Speaker A: Getting into that DFI really exploded, and I just started creating more and more content. I ran my first public cohort in October of 2020. So women who were not at all close to crypto, I did it by just talking to friends, let them invite their friends of friends. And after the first class, I think I started with wallets. They were like, that was amazing. I want more. And I was like, okay, so even my non crypto community likes it, and it just grew from there.
00:20:36.390 - 00:21:32.298, Speaker A: And you're correct in saying shifi started as a plan, the word defi. But when nfts started happening, my community was like, what are nfts? How do I purchase them, or how do I leverage them, or how do I build them? And then it was Dow summer last year. And so when dows happened, how do I get involved? What does it mean to contribute? What should I be thinking about? What are these different structures? And there's always something new happening in the space. So really it's transitioned away just from this focus on DFI. Earn 11% on your tokens, potentially to really, this information can allow you to become an entrepreneur, can allow you to change your whole career. And much in the ethos of blockchains reinventing all these systems, I think of it as a way for women and nonbinary professionals to reinvent themselves. It's sort of new for everybody.
00:21:32.298 - 00:22:08.742, Speaker A: We're at the beginning, come and contribute now. It'll be a better ecosystem if more voices, backgrounds and experiences are contributing to it. And so it's really about making sure they understand the core use cases moving forward this industry, and allowing them to get that promotion, change their career entirely, or start their own company in the space. And so it kind of grew as the interests grew of the community and as the ecosystem moved. And I'm just a nerd, so I like to know everything that's going on, and I just learn it and then share it.
00:22:08.796 - 00:22:26.070, Speaker B: Fascinating story. So what form does the community take, and how has that evolved? So does it just start out as like a discord server? And I know there's kind of a real world component to it as well. How's the community evolved and what kind of channels and forums you leverage?
00:22:26.150 - 00:23:14.390, Speaker A: Yes. So the community started, and at its core as this virtual classroom. And so you enter the community agreeing to this 13 weeks of intensive educational program meet twice a week. It's about 3 hours, content, demos, guest speaker Q and a format. And after I ran this for the second time, I did my second cohort, early 2021, we could get together for the first time. So it started virtual because it was born in the pandemic. I literally launched it from my best friend's apartment that I was living with in the pandemic and was like, I know this might not be a great time to talk about money, but if you do have the options, you should be thinking about these new investments and new technologies.
00:23:14.390 - 00:24:07.194, Speaker A: And so in 2021, finally, we were able to get together, and we just had a small hangout in New York. And a woman actually told me that from my courses, she was able to get a new job, divorce her husband, and pay for her childcare, which she wasn't able to do because she was, like, in an industry where that salary cap was just never going to happen. And I was like, whoa, I definitely had tears in my eyes. And I'm not advocating for divorce, but I realized that not the class is incredibly important, but so is gathering with this community, sharing stories, continuing to potentially get a job. People have gotten jobs from Shifi meetups. So after I kind of had that first in person magic, I was like, okay, this can't just be a course. This has to be a whole community, and I want to continue to find ways to engage it.
00:24:07.194 - 00:24:36.158, Speaker A: So we have the virtual classroom, of course, we have discord and telegram and email. Like, we all are fragmented across multiple virtual channels. Within the community. We have two clubs that have arisen, which is an investment club. So they talk about different opportunities in the space and bring in guest speakers. We have a technical club for our more technically minded group and people that actually just want to learn. So people are learning coding, GitHub, all of these tools as well.
00:24:36.158 - 00:25:39.222, Speaker A: And then we've decided in the last year to have local chapter leads. So those are in your major cities. And Shiva is actually in 50 plus countries, which is really incredible to think about if I think about clicking the send button on my first blog post from lockdown to today. And so the chapter leads are asked to get people together casually three times a year, and one time a know partner with outlier ventures in London or Ave or let's say one of the protocols in the space, and bring people together for a more educational event. So we have people in London, Paris, Lagos, Nigeria, San Francisco, Mexico City, you know, a lot of different places where members are getting together in person. And then the final component would be what we just had many outlier ventures people attend, which was the Shifai summit in Paris. So that was our first attempt at a premiere event, which was a wild success.
00:25:39.222 - 00:26:28.134, Speaker A: I mean, I was totally on cloud nine when I looked out and saw a full audience. So we had over 300 people come out during the day. We ran an experiment with Po apps where people could mint po apps, which for those who don't know, they're NFTs, basically that you can receive to your wallet. And 662 PO apps were minted and we did it for each talk. And 65 people minted all talks. So there was like twelve talks and they got a free t shirt. We experimented with airdropping digital goods, and so that's our next big venture and we'll definitely want to do more of them because there's clearly just such an appetite to come and hear experts and to engage in web3 native ways throughout the day and network.
00:26:28.134 - 00:26:39.034, Speaker A: We provided a lot of opportunities for networking. So Zoom, discord, telegram, in person events throughout the world is how we come together.
00:26:39.152 - 00:26:56.062, Speaker B: Very cool. And are you looking at, you mentioned you kind of have to do this initial course and then you have plenty of other courses after it. Are you looking at kind of accreditation as well, so the ability to have credentials that you've done the course and kind of level up, and for these to effectively be a qualification.
00:26:56.206 - 00:27:50.546, Speaker A: Yes. I haven't looked in the process for formal certification, but we launched something this year in the spring, our own NFT, which is an earnable avatar. It's called the Shifi Robonova because the three pillars of Shifi are education, experimentation and community. And so when I was putting it together in the beginning, it was like, you can learn if you read and read and read, but things don't really click until you hold your breath while you send your first transaction or mint the NFT and hope the NFT shows up in your wallet. So we have this earnable avatar. And as you do different activities, so as you bridge your tokens to a layer two, or as you swap on uniswap, or it can also be off chain data as you come to 20 Shifi events, you can unlock traits on this avatar. And then basically how fancy your avatar gets is your ability to show the world.
00:27:50.546 - 00:28:07.846, Speaker A: Like, I've been really engaged, I've done all the activities and that is tracked through your wallet activity. And then we also have an ability for the off chain data to be manually added as well. So that's our own beginning of certification. Yeah.
00:28:07.868 - 00:29:03.174, Speaker B: And I think, look, what do you need to become formal for? I mean, that's as formal as you're going to get, right? If you have a community that puts together the kind of content programs as carefully as you do, why would you need that to be recognized in a traditional academic sense? Very cool. Just on the topic of defi, before we go elsewhere, one of the challenges with, I guess, the financial education around DeFi is how you navigate it, not being investment advice or this kind of stuff, especially in a us context. How have you managed that organizationally? Is it actually relatively easy? But I know it's put off a lot of people putting out too much content that might otherwise help people for kind of fear that it's seen somehow as promoting one particular protocol or one particular product offering.
00:29:03.222 - 00:29:50.134, Speaker A: I definitely hear a lot about making things credibly neutral in this space when it comes from a content building perspective. And I don't give out any investment advice. People ask me and I just say, hey, I'm teaching these foundational use cases and protocols because I know that they stand the test of time. Like I'll teach an aave or a Uniswap when I'm explaining lending or I'm explaining decentralized exchanges, because people need to see and be able to do these things somewhere, like I said, in order for it to click. But I'm never like, oh, and therefore you should buy some uni tokens. They're highly discounted. Uniswap V four is coming out and so I just frame it in the way that I am your trusted guide.
00:29:50.134 - 00:30:14.654, Speaker A: And these are the use cases and teams that I think are doing an excellent job and let people go from there. I've also provided information on how to examine investment opportunities. Right. Like, if you're going on Coinbase, that doesn't mean that it's necessarily a good investment. Coinbase does a better job than uniswap. As we know, Uniswap is totally permissionless. But hey, this is what you need to look.
00:30:14.654 - 00:31:02.190, Speaker A: Know how much tokens are in circulation? Have you checked to see if the team has their discord, their GitHub? I've given out advice in terms of how you look at opportunities and make sure they're real. But I have never given out like direct buy XYZ, and I think that's important in this space too. I'm really giving people tools. But if someone asks a question in discord, like, have you heard of this project? Or when people get together to discuss it, then people are just adults discussing opportunities. But yeah, it doesn't necessarily come from me. Do XYZ. It's like, look at these products that are never been hacked, upstanding, pushing things forward.
00:31:02.190 - 00:31:11.570, Speaker A: And then if you're enjoying the product you're using and you think that, wow, this is really going to be a gangbuster project, then I'll let you kind of determine from there what your next step is.
00:31:11.640 - 00:31:54.058, Speaker B: So, kind of coming back to the point around inclusion education, I really like this idea about enabling people to reinvent themselves. I think it's a great way to bring people into the space to actually be able to match existing skill sets that they might have, might be professional, might be otherwise, and transfer them into web3. But how do you frame the problem around inclusion, especially in the context of female and nonbinary professionals? And then more generally, is there a root problem? Is it that simple? Or is it more systemic? And actually you need to attack it in a number of different ways, proactively?
00:31:54.154 - 00:33:07.682, Speaker A: The first question how do I frame inclusion in the space? Well, I think in this space, especially in the beginning, there was a lot of, well, permissionless technology means it's inherently inclusive, right? Once again, anyone can go up and download their web3 user custody wallet, right? They don't need to put in their information. The blockchain doesn't care who you are when you're transacting on it or using an application. And so I think there was just a lot of thinking that that means we're doing better than traditional industries. So what people were missing, or how I frame inclusion, is if we build it, they will come, is not the right attitude, even if now they are allowed to come without having to give up any information to do so. So you can't discriminate or bear access to things. And I think that was just a little bit of hubrius in the beginning of this young ecosystem's idea of what it meant to build great products and make sure people know about it and are contributing to it. So I think that I frame it as like, yes, it's a permissionless technology, but you still need efforts to reach out to people, to let them know it exists.
00:33:07.682 - 00:34:13.066, Speaker A: And you likely need to go out of your direct sphere of influence, because if you are a male, it's more likely the people you're talking to and sharing this information with also identify the same. Because of the way that we exist as a society. I think there's that, and I think that the next big problem is, and what I really try to break down in Shifai is it's a whole new language. It's basically like getting a finance degree, or a legal degree, or any. Maybe not like getting the degree, but those are groups of people and industries that have their whole own dialects. And so if you weren't even in the finance or tech space to begin with, you're way behind on the language and understanding. And a lot of engineers building this technology were coming up with terms that made sense to them in that moment, but they weren't necessarily thinking about the end user, who is your grandpa, or some other family member who is less tech literate.
00:34:13.066 - 00:35:21.358, Speaker A: So I think that there was kind of this permissionless technology means equals inclusion, which it doesn't, and then also not understanding that there is this whole new language we've created. And that's a huge barrier to entry. And really what I try to do at Shifi is break down what that dictionary is, what that language is, and also relate it to the tech and financial concepts that were taken from the traditional space, and try to put it into context of what else is also going down. A great example is when SVB, Silicon Valley bank blew up, which was a more traditional financial infrastructure, banking blow up because of the stablecoin part, it did have an impact on the space. And you can highlight points of centralization still being negative and inherently why we want decentralized systems and why you want to manage your own funds. And so making those connection points is really important because crypto doesn't exist in this vacuum anymore and it really never has, maybe except for the very early days. So that's how I think about making it more inclusive and accessible.
00:35:21.454 - 00:35:56.698, Speaker B: Well, so that was the framing and then I guess it's how you then approach that. So for example, we attract founders in different ways. Referrals is one, of course, actually a big driver for us of quality founders. But again, if you've got largely certain demographics represented, you're going to get referrals similar when we try and do, say, activations, online activations. Well, a lot of users use brave and so actually you have no to little demographic data on them. You can't really target them in a demographic sense. Of course you can on things like LinkedIn.
00:35:56.698 - 00:36:17.966, Speaker B: So it's actually quite difficult unless, well, to identify people who may be curious, may be participating on the periphery of the space and kind of use them through traditional advertising channels. So how do you go about tackling that?
00:36:18.008 - 00:37:03.634, Speaker A: Yes, well, I think the easiest thing for me, and people ask this question often is like, my brand is literally called know. I probably wouldn't even have to say that I'm empowering. I could say empowering professionals and entrepreneurs, but just the name shifi itself, we get very few men in our enrollment forms or applications. Now, trust me, plenty of my male peers are like, wait, I would like to take that course. But I think just because we're not trying to appeal to everybody, it's very easy for us to brand and be specific and targeted. And you come to our page and if you identify as a woman or nonbinary folk, you're like, oh, this is for me. There's no question that she fi is not for me.
00:37:03.634 - 00:37:35.966, Speaker A: So I think that I had to make the decision very early on that I'm going to stick to this group of people who identify this way and build it for them. And I think that really helps Shifi. And another thing is we also grow heavily on referrals. My goal is when someone takes the shifi course, that they have the best experience they've had. We start each class with music. I try to keep it interactive. I try to bring in the best experts to talk to the community.
00:37:35.966 - 00:38:26.730, Speaker A: I trying to think of new fun ways to show off your engagement. And so I put all of my effort into being like, how can I create the best experience for this person. And once again, that's how we grow on referrals. Now, I'm excited for in the future, and I haven't really dipped my toes into this yet, but there's all these NFT communities now and daos that identify with female pfps or for female and non binary folks. And so we haven't necessarily offered slots to those communities yet. We do some co marketing, but that's also another new avenue. And so I think when all these messaging apps like XMTP, they are embedded into apps, but let's say that you can target based on nfts, you know, people have, and wallet messaging, I think that'll start to make our lives a bit easier.
00:38:26.730 - 00:38:59.606, Speaker A: If they're somebody who likes to showcase who they are based on their wallet, it won't be perfect because there's a lot of people who bought female pfps because they thought the price was going to go up only. But I think I'm excited for that next phase. Right now, we're still kind of that organization that's like hustling for each sign up. But I am very grateful that we have a product that people love talking about or a community that loves talking and kind of comes in and has this experience and wants to shout about it and tell people about it. Yeah.
00:38:59.628 - 00:39:39.334, Speaker B: And I think there was this hope or assumption that NFTs would bring in a wider kind of demographic of founder and user into the space. They definitely did, from a founder perspective, disproportionately. If you look at the founders in our portfolio that are female or non binary, it's heavily skewed towards nfts. But of course, NFts aren't doing so well. Now, we all know that that might not last forever. It's going to evolve away from perhaps quite narrow PFP, as you say, very speculative use cases. Hopefully some of those people that came in with NFTs stick around, but I don't think we can kind of necessarily rely on that.
00:39:39.334 - 00:40:06.446, Speaker B: So I know the team at outlier really value you as a partner, you, your community as a partner, because it is otherwise very hard to reach. So maybe we kind of zoom out a little bit. I saw recently that you were tweeting enthusiastically about the recently about PayPal and the launch of their stablecoin. Maybe you could talk a little bit about that and then also what trends you're most excited about in web3.
00:40:06.548 - 00:41:09.742, Speaker A: Yeah, very excited about PayPal. I can't say my experience on PayPal has always been the most user friendly, but I do think that the most exciting headlines we've seen in terms of user adoption has been applications in the web two space that have tons of users experimenting in the web3 space or adding in web3 rails. We had the Reddit avatars. They branded them as collectibles, right? That onboarded millions of people got wallets for that. Last year, I was excited when Starbucks came out because it has such a strong brand and engagement and point system, and I just thought that was one of the perfect companies to really take hold of this. We've seen some stuff in the luxury space as well. And so I think that while we are not in this NFT PFP space, which I'll be frank with the NFT ecosystem, your users were probably not everyday people or buyers.
00:41:09.742 - 00:41:52.090, Speaker A: They were a class of investors. They were a specific type of class of investors. And so these other applications like PayPal, which has a user base of basically anybody that needs to send a payment in a non traditional rail already existing. And now adding in this stablecoin, and the stablecoin's on ethereum, which is exciting because it means then it's basically on every layer two or anything that bridges from ethereum, right? It benefits from being able to be on these other networks that are cheaper and faster, like an optimism, or know it's going to be auditable. So it's backed by us dollars. So that's exciting. But also still centralized.
00:41:52.090 - 00:42:38.254, Speaker A: And they're going to go through an auditing process. And I believe the number is around. I think it was 223,000,000 users already on PayPal. And so at first it'll be four us citizens. But that means eventually 223 people could take the advantage of peer to peer global payments. I think payments is this use case we don't like to talk about because it's not exciting, but I've thrown events all over the world now, and I can tell you I'd much rather send a stablecoin in PayPal that will settle in seconds and requires me knowing their username rather than going to moneytransfer.com, putting in their address, all their personal banking information.
00:42:38.254 - 00:43:22.154, Speaker A: The cut being like $75 plus if it's in a currency that's not the US dollar, that's more expensive. I'm paying like $750 instead of like 600 something, right? So that process is so painful that this is just lights out, going to be such a better experience for people. And they won't have to download wallets, they won't have to manage seed phrases or secret phrases. And I think that's a big move forward for inclusion. Now, I know people are listening to this and they're going to be like, yes, but at the end of the day, they're not your keys, not your crypto. So it's not in their user custodial wallet to start out. PayPal does censor people and not allow them to access it.
00:43:22.154 - 00:43:56.038, Speaker A: Like, yes, that's true. And it's a stablecoin collateralized by the US dollar and treasuries, which means it's not fully on chain. Right. We're still once again relying on the health of the US banking system, the policies of the US government. It's localized to that, even though it's a global stablecoin. So yes, those are the risks of centralization. But we're coming to a place where how centralized, decentralized is it is going to always be a spectrum and there's going to be a use case for different type of people.
00:43:56.038 - 00:44:27.102, Speaker A: People will not mind a stablecoin backed by the US dollar all over the world. They'll be very excited about that. And they'll be really excited. They can access it through an app in their phone rather than teaching them to manage all the difficulties around a wallet. So I'm very excited about that. Understanding its limitations, but understanding in a world of 4 billion people, there's going to be products for many millions of different types of people. Other things I'm really excited about.
00:44:27.102 - 00:44:54.714, Speaker A: I think this is like some of the things we're all talking about. So I was just complaining about wallets and writing down your seed phrase and private key. I literally mentioned that like 15 times in my wallet presentation. Like, do not put it on your computer, do not put it in your password manager, write it down. It takes two minutes. But account abstraction, right, which is just being able to have different types of wallets, wallets from emails, wallets. You don't need crypto to get started in.
00:44:54.714 - 00:45:44.986, Speaker A: So just once again, different types of wallets for different types of use cases. Not all of them need you to write down a seed phrase and private keys and all this other stuff. I'm very excited about zero knowledge technology and its ability to help us with expensive fees, but also be privacy enabled, which is going to be hugely important in the future. And I'm super excited to see how AI interacts with the blockchain. I think people got a little stressed when they saw everyone just going from being like a crypto thought leader to an AI thought leader on Twitter. Those thought leaders have also died down a bit. But I think that it's going to be a huge unlock in terms of the type of functions and programming that's built.
00:45:44.986 - 00:46:10.302, Speaker A: And I think we will want to keep a lot of this data decentralized and think about how we have large language models computing over decentralized data. And I think that will only enhance this movement to keep infrastructure and technologies decentralized. So I'm excited about diving into all those things as well coming up in this next shifi season.
00:46:10.366 - 00:46:14.498, Speaker B: Oh, great. And they're all things that you're going to be covering in specific content modules, right?
00:46:14.584 - 00:46:53.950, Speaker A: Yes. So we're going to be talking about likely ZK EVM enabled layer twos. So what is zero knowledge? And then how that helps these new layer twos be cheaper, faster, more user friendly. We'll be talking about AI. So what are large link, there's all this terminology in AI, too. So what's all this terminology? And then what are the tools that you as a business person can start leveraging? Whether you're a solopreneur to supercharge your creativity, how can you see it as a friend, and I use AI every day, so how it empowers me to do more with less. And so not only what it is, but how you'll use it.
00:46:53.950 - 00:47:39.006, Speaker A: And then when we talk about wallets, I think people will start to interact with different types of wallets, ones that are allegedly enabled through account abstraction, which I really dislike that term. So hopefully we come up with something better soon. But how that works. And there's like wallet as a service now and all this stuff coming up, and we'll also cover governance and public goods. So I'm excited to dive into where governance has failed because we've seen a lot of that. Like a lot of dows are shutting down and where people are trying to rethink it and enable it to be something that people participate in, I guess participate in and scalable. And I think we'll get there.
00:47:39.006 - 00:47:56.610, Speaker A: And I think governance is a super inspiring idea. Like you don't like your politician remove your tokens and put it somewhere else, or you don't like this thing do this. But we still have a long way to go in enabling that and allowing people who don't have a lot of tokens to get involved. So I'm excited to see where we are today and where we can potentially go.
00:47:56.680 - 00:48:19.078, Speaker B: Very cool. Well, look, thanks for coming on the show. It's been fascinating talking to you, hearing your journey. A big thank you from everyone at outlier as well as the wider community for helping grow the space, grow web. Three, make it more accessible. Help it reach more people. How can people get in touch with you? Find various programs, courses that you're running or events.
00:48:19.174 - 00:48:39.074, Speaker A: Yes, I think the best way would be to follow us on x.com. So Twitter, that translation, the shifi handle is she. Underscore. Underscore f. I got that in 2019 and I never thought to switch it, so that's what it is. And then I'm always available. Feel free to reach out.
00:48:39.074 - 00:48:57.366, Speaker A: I'm easier. I'm Maggie love underscore. And then from our Twitter, you'll see in our know where you can enroll in our course, where you can find our website. So that should be an easy place. But if for some reason you can't find something, feel free to reach out to us on Twitter at the Shifi account or my personal account.
00:48:57.468 - 00:49:12.382, Speaker B: Okay, well, highly recommend people do that. As you said, there's lots of courses that you've got, especially in defi that I would probably quite like myself. Probably need just to be able to do my job without feeling constantly out of depth. Maggie, thanks for coming on the show.
00:49:12.436 - 00:49:13.820, Speaker A: Yeah, no problem. Thanks for having me.
