00:00:00.320 - 00:00:35.934, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 14 October 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So you'll see here that I have the ETH USD chart up. Now, I don't really talk about price too much on the refuel and I don't really look at charts at all. I remember when I first started doing the refuel, I did like a market recap every day, or at least an ETH recap every day, and I quickly stopped doing that because it just wasn't relevant to the content. But every now and again, I do want to kind of like just talk about price, talk about what's going on, especially on days like today where the price is actually moving up pretty quickly on ETH.
00:00:35.934 - 00:01:15.562, Speaker A: You can see here at time of recording, the price is at $3,734 and it's kind of broken out of a range that, that ETH has kind of like been in for a little while here. You can see that the last time it was at this price, uh, was back all the way back here in September. So about a month ago. So, you know, it's kind of broken out of that range and seems to want to keep going up. Right? Like, I don't know what the price is going to be when, when this video gets published or when you watch it or whatever, but still, it's, it's positive movements here now, obviously, I think we're going back to all time highs and beyond right now. I don't think the bull market is over, far from it. And I remember saying that, you know, all throughout, I guess, like the refuel over the last few months, especially when we had that big crash, I said that.
00:01:15.562 - 00:01:40.954, Speaker A: I mean, I think I remember saying that. I, it was surprising how far we had come down and how quick we came down. But, but I remember saying that I don't think the bull market was kind of, like, over. I just don't think that people are leaving the industry like they used to. I think there's just too much going on across, like, every sector, defi nfts, L2s, you know, whatever, like, all the stuff I talk about on the refill all the time. So from that perspective, I have never turned bearish. I mean, it's, it's pretty much impossible for me to turn bearish, to be honest.
00:01:40.954 - 00:02:09.338, Speaker A: I was still, like, really, really bullish all the way down to dollar 80 during 2018. And still all bullish during 2019. So, um, maybe. Maybe my kind of, like, opinion on that is, is not the best. But just generally, I think that, um, there's just so much to look forward to within ethereum that is actually having gonna have a tangible effect on the price. Because, look, we, we're burning ETH, right? And we've been burning ETH since, uh, since August. It's been, I think, 70 days, uh, today, and we've burned over 500,000 of it.
00:02:09.338 - 00:02:49.300, Speaker A: And I've said before that I think the burning of ETH, people overestimate how much of an impact it's going to have in the short term, but in the long term, they underestimate how much of an impact it's going to have because it just adds more and more deflationary pressure to ETH. It just takes ETH out of circulation. And then when the demand increases, you can have these really quick spikes in price, because what ends up happening is that you have such a sudden demand increase and there's just not enough supply. Right. People just aren't selling because they're using the ETH for various things, whether that be in staking or they're using kind of like their Ethan Defi in general, or they're just holding it. There's so much stuff to do with your ETH, right? And especially, I mean, there's 8 million ETH in staking right now. The ETH issuance is basically halved because of the fee burning.
00:02:49.300 - 00:03:13.612, Speaker A: So we basically had our own halvening. And then we have a lot of catalysts coming up, like the merge, which is going to, as I've described before, drop issuance pretty much instantly by 90%, which is, and that's not just dropping issuance. That kind of, like, doesn't get sold. Most of that gets sold because it goes to miners. Right. Miners have cost to cover and things like that. So, I mean, I've explained all this before, but ETH is in a really, really amazing position right now.
00:03:13.612 - 00:03:44.216, Speaker A: I think we've got, like, the L2 catalyst coming, which is an amazing narrative for ETH because, I mean, one, you can't really buy anything else to get exposure to the L2 ecosystem. There's only a couple of other tokens out there that will give you exposure. I've gone through them before. Obviously, you know, Matic will give you exposure to kind of like, what they're working on, but optimism. Arbitrum, Starkware, Zksync, they don't have tokens yet. And you, you know, Zksync did say they're going to do a token, but they didn't give any dates or anything like that. So maybe we don't see these protocols doing tokens till early next year.
00:03:44.216 - 00:04:08.900, Speaker A: Q one or q two. So really the best way to get exposure, and again, this is an investment advice, but the best way I think to get exposure to just the whole ETH ecosystem right now, or ethereum ecosystem is to just buy ETH. Right? And that's what I've been doing. Uh, you know, even though I'm a, I'm a kind of like seed investor, not seed investor, I'm like an angel investor in some of these L2 stuff and some of these bridges and things like that. I still, you know, I'm buying it. Of course I'm buying it. I'm buying it every day.
00:04:08.900 - 00:04:37.712, Speaker A: And actually at around 3500 I bought a lot more ETH than just my daily buys. I was like, okay, well I am feeling like really, really good about ETH right now. It's been consolidating in this range for a little while. It keeps bouncing off 3400. It seems to want to keep that level. So I'm like, you know, I feel comfortable dropping a lot of money on ETH right now and this is ETH that's going into my long term stack as well. It's not like I'm trying to trade ETH or flip it or whatever, but, but I don't like buying into, you know, buying a lot into manias.
00:04:37.712 - 00:05:10.754, Speaker A: Like I'll do my normal daily buys but I don't like putting in a lot of money when the prices I feel is overheated. Like I wasn't putting in a lot of money when ETH was $4,000 last time, right. And I wasn't putting in a lot when ETH was, was at its all time high or anything like that. But when it came back down, I bought a lot at 3000 back then I know it went lower than that. And I bought, I bought there as well. And you know, I'm not just buying it with like money that I got in the bank account or anything like that. I'm rotating out of other investments that I've held too into ETH, especially if they're kind of like in long term capital gains which means I get like a tax discount where I am.
00:05:10.754 - 00:05:42.360, Speaker A: It's much easier to sell things in that, in that kind of like regard there. But yeah, I mean I just feel like ETH is not only the best way to get exposure to, I guess, the L2 ecosystem, but just to everything. Like think about the amount of tokens there are right now that will give you, that will give you exposure to different things. And I'm not saying that I'm bearish on like every token, but, you know, look at Defi, for example. To pick the right defi token that outperforms ETH over the long run is actually very, very hard to do. There's so many tokens and there's so many projects, there's so many changing narratives. I mean, right now we have like this DeFi 2.0
00:05:42.360 - 00:06:35.204, Speaker A: narrative that's taken hold. And you know, if you, you know, you. If you buy right now, you may be buying into like the kind of like local top of this DeFi 2.0 run and you may kind of like, kind of like have it where you underperform ETH sort of thing and then you have like daos and social tokens and stuff like that which are again, very hard to pick the winners. And if you're a long term investor, I don't know, I just feel like it's just very hard to pick the winners. And I've actually made investments, longer term investments in DeFi tokens over like a period of a year or more where I've actually come out on the other end with more kind of fear but less ETH because depending on where you are in the world, if you're taxed on, on the profits, then you're taxed on the fiat profits, you're not taxed on the ETH profits. So even if you have outperformed ETH by a little bit, you can end up ending up with less ETH than what you had because you have to cover taxes if you don't have the money to cover it anywhere else.
00:06:35.204 - 00:07:14.084, Speaker A: Like, you know, so when I say I put like, you know, ten ETH into something as an example, and then I make twelve ETH out of it, well, I mean, I still have to pay kind of like tax once I cash it out. So that twelve ETH could end up being like nine ETH instead to cover the tax bill. So it gets really murky, especially, I mean, if you're in the US and, and some parts of Europe and where I'm obviously in Australia, if you're in places that don't have capital gains taxes, I mean, you're laughing, right? And lucky you. But unfortunately, I don't have that luxury. So for me, that's kind of like how I view things. But again, not investment advice. But I mean, you guys know this I've said this plenty of times on the refuel, and I talk about this in the discord a lot where, and I'm in the trenches.
00:07:14.084 - 00:07:56.902, Speaker A: I'm buying ETH right alongside everyone else. Like, I am not trying to kind of like, game the system or just play really speculative with it. I'm happy just stacking ETH. I think, as I've said before, I think long term ETH is going to $100,000 plus, it's not going to happen overnight. Of course, you know, I've said that it's five to ten years sort of play, but in my mind, you know, for things to outperform, ETH going to $100,000, like, how many projects are actually going to do that? Because there's a lot of projects that short term, their tokens will do really well, and then long term, they'll just bleed for one reason or another, a lot of the projects will fail, or they'll. A lot of people just won't want to hold the tokens through periods where the projects are kind of like having slower growth and stuff like that. Whereas holding ETH gives you exposure to everything.
00:07:56.902 - 00:08:34.540, Speaker A: And a lot of the big money, the institutional money, they're not buying tokens because they're illiquid. These, a lot of these tokens, they can't even get exposure to them if they wanted to. So they're just going to buy eve. And we've seen this play out like they're actually, I think Raul said on a video the other day, a Raul Paul, he said, he basically said that a lot of institutions are now skipping BTC entirely and going to Ethan. And I think a main reason why they're doing that is because they just see all the activity happening on the ethereum network, and they're wondering to themselves, okay, how do I get exposure to this? Well, they can't buy any of the tokens for multiple reasons. Actually, I think one of the big reasons is that they're illiquid. But another reason is that they don't have regulatory clarity, whereas ETH has some regulatory clarity.
00:08:34.540 - 00:08:57.640, Speaker A: It also has a futures market. So that adds more legitimacy to it. So I think that institutions are just basically going, okay, well, here's the easy bet. And they're buying ETH for those kind of, like, reasons there. But also just generally, it's definitely a much safer asset as well. They're not going to, like, could you imagine some retirement fund through, like, a proxy fund, buying into some. Some new kind of like, defi token that.
00:08:57.640 - 00:09:20.418, Speaker A: Yeah, maybe it goes up, like, maybe it's gone up, like, ten times in a few months, and then it just crashes, like, 90% from there or goes down 90% or something like that, which very often happens. They're not going to do that. Right. So they're going to go for the safest assets. And I think they were. Obviously, they started with BTC, and I remember saying on the refuel, I think it was last year, like, later last year that, yes, okay. Or even.
00:09:20.418 - 00:09:37.346, Speaker A: Even when I started doing these videos, yes, okay. Like, institutions are buying BTC, but the leap to eat from here is, like, minuscule. And they're going to be buying a lot of Ethan. They have been. I'm sure that a lot of them have been stacking. You know, Raul. Raul Paul does a lot of kind of, like, talks and education for the traditional finance world.
00:09:37.346 - 00:10:01.454, Speaker A: So I'm sure he's been pushing Ethan to all these people as well, because he's big on ETH. So I'm not surprised to. To see ETH doing. Doing this well at all. And, you know, just generally as a market catalyst, right now coming up over the next couple of weeks, there are bitcoin ETF's that are apparently going to get approved, and it's actually looking like some of them will get approved. They're not spot ETF's, they're futures ETF's. And I don't know how much demand there actually is going to be for these products.
00:10:01.454 - 00:10:26.986, Speaker A: I don't know how much volumes they're going to see. But I think the narrative is very powerful because as far as I know, these ETF's actually won't go live until, like, January or something like that, or February. But they'll know if they got approved in, you know, over the next couple of weeks. So that should be enough, I guess, to. To kind of, like, reach, you know, get the market, get BTC and ETH over all time highs and keep the market hot for a while. But I think Ethereum has a lot of its own catalysts. It doesn't rely on this sort of stuff.
00:10:26.986 - 00:10:51.402, Speaker A: And ETH will get an ETF in the US quickly after BTC does. There's. There's no way it doesn't. Um, but, yeah, there's just so many bullish catalysts on the horizon that I just. I, you know, I normally I can't be bearish, but, like, right now, just finding it impossible to be bearish. So, yeah, anyway, that was ten minutes of market talk from me. I rarely do it, but I feel like once in a while I should give my kind of like thoughts on what's happening there because I, I do think the market is incredibly important for crypto.
00:10:51.402 - 00:11:10.858, Speaker A: I know a lot of people say, oh, you know, don't talk about the prices. That's distracting. I mean, come on. Like, most of crypto is, is speculation and people are here for the money. Like, you can't just, you know, tuck it under the rug and be like, oh, well, we'll just ignore that. No, you got to talk about these things. But I mean, the refuel or the daily wait channel is not a price speculation channel.
00:11:10.858 - 00:11:46.252, Speaker A: It is a ethereum ecosystem coverage channel and updates. So I just give price kind of like talk sometimes. But anyway, hopefully that gave you a bit of clarity. I'm going to move on to some of the updates from the last 24 hours. So Brian Armstrong, obviously the co founder and CEO at Coinbase, announced that over 1 million people have signed up for Coinbase's NFT platform since they launched yesterday. So basically within 24 hours, 1 million people signed up. And, you know, this is pretty crazy, right? I mean, there's probably some people in there signing up with multiple kind of like email addresses so that they can get on the waitlist with multiple email addresses and get, and use the platform sooner.
00:11:46.252 - 00:12:28.778, Speaker A: But let's say, like, let's, let's, let's take the most conservative approach and say that only half a million of these signups are actually real people. That's a massive amount of people. Still, like, I think opensees, unique users on Ethereum, or at least total Ethereum addresses that have interacted with open sea, not, not users, I think is four or 500,000. And I can tell you right now there's multiple, there's, there's people using multiple addresses there. I mean, I've used like at least five different addresses on OpenSea for various different reasons. So from that perspective, and there's probably a lot of people game trying to game and potential airdrop for OpenSEA as well. So there, the fact of the matter is Coinbase has a massive, massive retail user base that have probably been hearing about nfts but just don't know how to get exposure to it.
00:12:28.778 - 00:13:04.008, Speaker A: They are going to be a force to be reckoned with in the NFT space. And I put out a tweet today speculating that maybe OpenSea will do a token to kind of like claw back some market share. But I, I'm not sure and I don't know if doing a token actually helps them because Coinbase is onboarding a very, very different type of person to what OpenSea has probably traditionally seen in terms of like just this real kind of like newbie retail user who doesn't want to jump through any of the hoops. They don't even want to install metamask. They don't want to have to worry about gas, they don't have to worry about signing transactions and wrapping their ETH and all that sort of stuff. They just want a really, really simple NFT experience. And I think that's what Coinbase is going to give them.
00:13:04.008 - 00:13:32.286, Speaker A: So we'll see what happens here. I'm, you know, I'm sure they're going to have many millions of people signing up and they've got like tens of millions of monthly active users. So those people are probably all going to at least try out the NFT platform at least once. But this is, this is crazy. I mean, this isn't just crazy for Coinbase, this is also crazy for wider crypto. Like, the more people that get involved with nfTs, the crazier it's going to get because you don't just stop at like nfts, right? You don't just stop at one part of crypto. You, if they get exposure to this and they really enjoy it, they want to do more.
00:13:32.286 - 00:14:08.598, Speaker A: Just more and more people are going to be coming on chain, especially as Coinbase starts integrating some of these L2s as native kind of withdraws. They've already committed to doing the polygon pos chain. They're going to do arbitrum and optimism and starkware and Zksync and stuff like that. They're going to do all of them. So we're going to see such a large influx of users just come from Coinbase because believe it or not, 90 plus percent of people, I would say that you have used a centralized exchange, have definitely not used anything on chain before. And I think it's because it's just friction for them. Like, people that are coming into crypto, especially through Coinbase, are used to like just the one click stuff.
00:14:08.598 - 00:14:43.364, Speaker A: Like if you're selling, buying or selling things on OpenSea, it is far from a one click experience. It takes a lot of clicks, especially if you're selling something. You have to like approve the transaction of sign messages, wrap ETH and do all this stuff, and people don't want to do that. And buying, buying kind of like nfts is also cumbersome because you have to kind of like do it through metamask, have gas, gas and all that. Sort of stuff. And obviously opens is on the polygon PoS chain as well, but still, like, it's, it's the same, it has cheaper fees, but it's the same kind of experience in terms of like the friction that there is there. So I'm sure, as you know, the on chain ecosystem abstracts away a lot of this friction.
00:14:43.364 - 00:15:11.472, Speaker A: We're gonna have coinbase onboarding these people in and it's just gonna grow the ecosystem so much larger. They're not even just gonna stop at nfts. Defi is gonna keep growing. People are gonna join daos, they're gonna do stuff with social tokens, they're gonna do stuff with, with all these sorts of things. It's, it's crazy. I mean, as much as I think that, you know, defy is going to disrupt, you know, these centralized exchanges and services, they still play a very, very pivotal role in being the front door into crypto. And, you know, Robin Hood announced the other day they're going to let people withdraw their crypto to their own wallets.
00:15:11.472 - 00:16:03.878, Speaker A: That's another key driver there, another key catalyst to getting more people on chain. So, yeah, I mean, this is, this is crazy, right? It's going to be a really, really great growth going forward, I think. All right, so I didn't talk about Polynya yesterday on the refill, but today they put out an update, basically, I guess like a personal update, where they kind of like put out these blog posts called roll ups, data availability layers and modular blockchains. Introductory meta post, which is basically a collection of all of their blog posts about modular blockchains and related fields here. So, I mean, obviously, definitely go check it out, read everything Polynar does. But I think the feel that I got from this thread is that Polynara is probably not going to be tweeting as much and not kind of like doing as much writing on this topic because they are satisfied that they've been able to essentially change the narrative around blockchain scaling. You have, obviously, myself talking a lot about modular blockchains now you have the bankless guys pushing the message.
00:16:03.878 - 00:16:32.548, Speaker A: A lot of people within the ecosystem I've seen pushing the message. So I guess Polly and I just kind of feels like they came out of the ether, dropped all these alpha and all these messages and all these kind of like new ways of thinking about this stuff on us and now we're just kind of running with it, which I think is awesome, to be honest. Like, I, I actually think that's a, that's a really cool way to do it where you just drop an idea in. It's kind of like what Satoshi did, right? Like they dropped an idea. They dropped bitcoin. Obviously, they dropped the white paper. They stuck around for a little bit, building it out, but then they just disappeared after it.
00:16:32.548 - 00:17:14.758, Speaker A: And they're just like, you know what, guys? Like, I feel like you guys can handle this on your own. It's probably better if I step away and you guys just take it from here. I think that's what Polina seems to be doing here. I'm sure they're going to be still posting things and still posting on Reddit as well, under the handle liberosist, which they've been kind of like using for quite a while there. But, yeah, I'm going to miss Polina if this really is kind of like them saying they're going to take a step back for a little bit, but I'm sure they're going to keep posting stuff, and I will definitely keep you guys updated on it. But I am just, like, super grateful to Polina for kind of like, I guess I said this in the Discord channel the other day. I basically had all these ideas bouncing around in my head of, like, how sharding is going to work with L2s and the roll up centric roadmap and data availability and all this sort of stuff.
00:17:14.758 - 00:17:48.620, Speaker A: But Polynar was the glue, and that was the glue that basically introduced modular blockchains to me and kind of like that way of thinking. So I was able to kind of formulate it all in my head and kind of, like, start passing on the message to you guys in a really easy to understand and digestible way. So I'm just really thankful for that. As I mentioned before, this is, like, the first time that I've, I've, you know, not the first time, right. This is the most bullish I ever been on. Ethereum and poly now has played a really, really major part in kind of, like, pulling that all together for me so that I can kind of, like, continue educating you guys on that. So, yeah, little bit of a sign off there for poly now.
00:17:48.620 - 00:18:16.890, Speaker A: Hope to see them keep publishing things, but we'll take it from here, my dude. All right, so ethereum based L2 tvls, uh, the TVL is back at all time highs. So you can see here on the l two beat website, uh, we had the TVL kind of, like, spike up to $3.5 billion after the arbitrum launch. Then it came down because I think a few of the arbitrum kind of like Ponzis or like yield farms are kind of like rugged. So people are like, oh, well, I'm going to take my money out. But then it's just been trending back up.
00:18:16.890 - 00:18:50.000, Speaker A: And it hasn't just been arbitrum that's been growing. There's been a bunch of others growing as well, including Dy Dex, of course, and optimism and a few, a few other new entrants in there too. But it's just great to see. And I know, I know I've said TVL is like a poor metric for measuring kind of like usage of consumer of like on chain things. But I think that when it comes to L2s right now at least, it is still a really good way to measure what kind of interest there is from people to kind of like bridge into these L2s. Because um, pretty much all of them don't have, uh, except I guess like dy DX. But I'm talking about like arbitrum and optimism.
00:18:50.000 - 00:19:24.512, Speaker A: They don't have native token incentives yet where there's no RB token, there's no opti token or anything like that. They do have projects on there that may be offering token incentives, but still, like, I think most of this is just the appetite of people wanting to go somewhere where they're getting cheaper transactions, but also, and cheaper and faster transactions, I should, I should say, but also like a very familiar ethereum like experience. So really, really cool to see the TVL growing. I know. Owe you guys a data pump. I was actually going to do it on the weekend, believe it or not. And I know I've said this a million times, but I had my vaccine on Friday and then I felt like really fatigued over the weekend from it.
00:19:24.512 - 00:19:45.136, Speaker A: It's one of the side effects, unfortunately. So I didn't get around to it. But there's a lot of cool data to pull out of the aisle two ecosystem that I really want to pull out. And I actually had someone make me a dashboard on dune analytics for looking at kind of like how much the l two s are paying in gas to l one. So I'm going to go over that as well. So coming soon, maybe this weekend. We'll see.
00:19:45.136 - 00:20:14.600, Speaker A: I will see how I go there. There is the AMA this weekend as well. Just as a reminder, on Saturday night, australian eastern Standard Time, eastern daylight time. It's a bit different because of daylight savings this time. But anyway, cool to see l two s keep growing here. And speaking of l two s as well, a new app has launched on Arbitrum Futureswap v four main net beta is now live on Arbitrum. So their announcement here says Futureswap v four is the most competitive, flexible and economically secure perpetual trading protocol.
00:20:14.600 - 00:20:53.070, Speaker A: So in this update, it's ten times more liquid for traders, 30 times more capital efficient for liquidity providers. They say it's more economically sound, no need for an insurance fund, more fees to LP's, fully composable, and they have exotic asset support including NFT. So if you want to kind of like learn about future swap, how to get started, how to play around with it, and the link to go play around with it, which is just app dot, Fujiswap, futureswap.com, it's all in this, this blog post here, but really, really great to see them on arbitrum. I remember saying that future Swap was one of the kind of like apps that are just going to be natively launching on an l two, skipping l one altogether. That's the trend going forward, guys. I don't expect it to reverse at all.
00:20:53.070 - 00:21:16.184, Speaker A: I don't expect new projects really to launch on layer one, especially as the costs keep coming down on the L2s. I mean, arbitrary announced nitro the other day. Optimism has their OVM 2.0 going live on Testnet today, actually. And in two weeks it'll be live on Mainnet and everything if everything goes well. So super, super exciting times on the l two front. So definitely go check out future swap v four here.
00:21:16.184 - 00:21:57.768, Speaker A: So Matthew Graham from the index cop posted I guess like an update on the index cop's growth because they turned one year old back on the 6 October here. So gross profit improved 111% month on month. So the best, most profitable month a month to date was, I think last month for the index. Co op and liquidity mining expenses are basically non existent here. So you can see here that in September the ETH two x fly product accrued $322,000 in fees on $105 million of TVL and alpha. They may have there, there are many flies or flexible leverage indexes in the pipeline. You can see a nice little chart here there.
00:21:57.768 - 00:22:38.290, Speaker A: You know, Matthew, in this thread, Matthew has like kind of like a comparison of competitors. You know, where are the competitors? Basically they're on the bottom left here, not very big. And then you got like DPI and f two x fly being really, really big. And then what's in the treasury? You can see a lot of index tokens, some USDC and a bunch of kind of like index products and then a bunch more information here. So you can check out this, this thread if you want to kind of like get information on what's going on with index cop disclosure. Of course, like I hold index tokens, but I mean, they've just been steadily growing, like amongst all these DeFi 2.0, marketing, psyops, branding, whatever has been going on right now, these projects that came out before and may not be considered DeFi 2.0,
00:22:38.290 - 00:23:22.522, Speaker A: which I still think is a really dumb term, but they've been growing, they've been kind of like kicking ass on the product side. They may be moving slower than other projects because they don't have massive liquidity mining programs, but they're building for sustainability. I think liquidity mining has its place, but there are so many projects that kind of like do massive liquidity mining programs and just ruin their long term sustainability and health. And uh, I'm glad the index co op hasn't done that because I wouldn't, I wouldn't want to see the index co op basically ruin its uh, its kind of like health and sustainability here by basically saying, well, we need to grow really fast. Let's do a really, really insane liquidity mining program, attract all these mercenary farmers, and then once they're gone, we're left with basically nothing. No, I never really liked that approach. And I know there's a lot of people right now on Twitter being like, oh, Defy 2.0
00:23:22.522 - 00:23:39.274, Speaker A: is going to kill DeFi 1.0. But okay, maybe I should go on about these terms for a little bit. And I'm going to answer it on the AMA on Saturday exactly what DeFi 2.0 is. But just to give you a quick breakdown here of exactly what's happening, it's marketing. There's no such thing as DeFi 1.0 versus DeFi 2.0.
00:23:39.274 - 00:24:06.822, Speaker A: Yes, there are newer products that do different things to other products, but they're different products. Like, it's just, it's so, it's so weird how these narratives take off. And I know it. I mean, it's actually not too weird when you think about the incentives. It's just to pump bags, really, if I'm being honest. But if you look at something like, there's been a project recently called Abracadabra, the native token is spell. And you know, everyone's memeing it as like the Maker killer, when in reality it is not really the same product as Maker and die.
00:24:06.822 - 00:24:38.728, Speaker A: So you have in the Abracadabra system, you have a new stable coin called mim. And the reason why the kind of like abracadabra system is earning so much revenue and kind of like offering such a high yield is because it's actually using the collateral that's backing the mim stablecoin to yield farm. Maker doesn't do that. The assets in maker are not used to yield farm. They're just sitting there backing the dai that's available. So already Mim and Dai are completely different products. You can argue whether Abracadabra's approach is better than maker's approach to a collateral backed stablecoin and all that sort of stuff.
00:24:38.728 - 00:25:20.386, Speaker A: But I just think comparing the two just really is disingenuous and trying to meme it as like DeFi 2.0 versus Defi 1.0 and like boomer DeFi versus like new age DeFi. I just think it's unproductive. I think that actually on the regulatory front there's a, I mean, there's a reason why these kind of like older protocols move slower and also don't do these like ridiculous Ponzi nomic liquidity mining programs is because they are big targets for regulators. Look at like maker uniswap compound, they're all us based, kind of like companies or, sorry, us based teams. And, and at the end of the day, they're acting as a regulatory shield to, to enable these kind of like quote unquote DeFi 2.0
00:25:20.386 - 00:25:46.446, Speaker A: protocols to basically do whatever they want and to play cowboy with, with the law. Um, now of course I've said before, I think most financial regulations are crap and I don't like them. But at the same time, it doesn't matter what I think. If it's the law and you can be prosecuted for it, then you will. But a lot of the smaller ones aren't going to be targeted, or smaller deFi projects aren't going to be targeted because the regulators are busy targeting the big ones. So the big ones are just acting as a shield. So I think really there should be some, some mutual respect between the two.
00:25:46.446 - 00:26:21.720, Speaker A: There shouldn't be the kind of like this fighting between them, but it's fine. Competition breeds innovation. Competition is good for end users. But I just, I hope people know the risks of playing with these newer protocols because at the end of the day, the risks are actually pretty high for these newer protocols, especially ones that kind of like play with the collateral or do something called PCv protocol controlled value. The risk is higher because the value can move around and the collateral can move around. So depending on where you are in the ecosystem, whether you're holding the asset that's backed by that collateral or whether it's your collateral that's actually being used here. You just got to be aware of the risks.
00:26:21.720 - 00:26:50.842, Speaker A: And of course, on top of all that, you have smart contract risks and everything, too, to consider. So, yeah, little bit of a rant there. But as I said, I'm going to, on the AMA tomorrow, I'm going to go over exactly what DeFi 2.0 is, kind of why people are calling it that, why they think it's kind of like the future and all these sorts of things and differences between the different products. But, yeah, I'm running out of time here, so I'm going to move quickly through the rest of the updates. So little Cohen from hot protocol is teasing that ETH support on arbitram is coming very soon. Now, this has been delayed, I think, a few times at this point, but it's coming.
00:26:50.842 - 00:27:29.374, Speaker A: So you'll be able to bridge into and out of arbitrum with ETH using hot protocol very, very soon, which is really cool to see. Curve now supports curve factory pools on polygons, pos chain. So users can now deploy their own meta pools on curve in just a few clicks on, on polygon. So you can check out this, I think this is a blog post, or at least probably the curve website. You can check out the kind of like curve website there for kind of a, kind of like how to set it up, you know, pull type, create your factory pool with a token address and everything like that as well. Moving on to slingshot. So Slingshot has released a web3 troll box, which is now live on their website.
00:27:29.374 - 00:28:00.884, Speaker A: So for those of you who have used some of these centralized exchanges from back in the day, like BTCE, Poloniex, I think, crypsy, they used to have something called a troll box, which is basically just like an open chat chat message box on the site where people could just basically ship posts. And a lot of the time was just people pumping and dumping coins. It was like an unfiltered, completely unfiltered Twitter real time. It was actually quite fun to be. And I remember getting banned from the BTC trollbox back in the day. I think in like 2013, I got banned for like 100 days or something. And I was really mad because, like, I love being in the troll box is shitposting.
00:28:00.884 - 00:28:26.958, Speaker A: So, you know, now you can, now you can do it on the slingshot website here. So definitely go check that out. And the last thing to talk about was this kind of, I guess, chart, graph, whatever you want to call it that. Justin Drake posted yesterday about the base gas price distribution. So you can base. So to explain this chart, Justin likes to refer to, I guess, like these things is like the ultrasound barrier. So this is basically where ETH becomes deflationary.
00:28:26.958 - 00:29:00.904, Speaker A: So at 27 way, 8th is basically deflationary and kind of like anything above that is a nice little bonus. So the average gas price over the past few weeks has been 77 way, which is ultra mark 2.8, I think. Yeah, with kind of like with the validated. Sorry, with, with my million validators, if I'm, if I'm understanding this correctly. But I actually really like how this is shows, I guess, like a nice distribution of the gas prices over time as well, and kind of like what the average gas price has been. As you guys know.
00:29:00.904 - 00:29:42.212, Speaker A: I think I've explained this a few times, too. The gas prices on layer one are probably not going to go down in any material way, and it's just going to be L2s using them. So there's no need to worry about this as kind of like an end user once we have like the l two s running up and running and everything. So I think it's really great to see that there's just such like a cool distribution here. And I expect this to smooth out even more. Like once we have L2s as the dominant kind of like gas guzzler of layer one, the distribution of, like, gas prices are going to, it's going to be so smooth, the, the efficiency of blocks is going to be amazing. We're going to be able to squeeze so much juice out of ethereum's blocks and it's going to be much better than the kind of chaos that we have today.
00:29:42.212 - 00:29:57.144, Speaker A: So I'm really looking forward to that. But anyway, I think that is going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
