00:00:02.410 - 00:01:10.382, Speaker A: Yield farming is one of the many memes that was created by the defi community. While it's a term that gets kind of tossed around loosely, there is a narrower criteria to define what exactly yield farming is. Firstly, it refers to when DeFi market participants use assets that would otherwise be sitting idly in their wallet, and secondly, it often requires providing liquidity or lending liquidity in a permissionless deFi protocol to earn passive income. Thirdly, it results in one earning more than one form of yield simultaneously, thanks to the symbiotic nature of earning incentives, often across multiple defi apps. And fourthly, yield can come in the form of interest market making fees, or liquidity provider fees, and protocol rewards, which commonly comes back to governance tokens. Now, despite some of the chadlike behavior associated with yield farming, farming really does represent a culmination of all we've ever been promised in crypto, an alternative peer to peer finance system. Yield farming programs, also known as liquidity mining, were actually pioneered in defi by Synthetix, a protocol that offers on chain exposure to any asset using derivatives.
00:01:10.382 - 00:02:27.670, Speaker A: With yield farming, a protocol will reward its early users by paying them in the protocol native token, like comp, like Wifi, and yes, even like Pickle. It's the equivalent of a web3 customer acquisition cost paying early users in the native token that powers your DFI application, and it often involves voting rights and future upgrades to the protocol. Why not reward those who believe in you early and risk capital to make you successful? Now imagine if Facebook could have rewarded early Facebook users in their own Facebook token, which would allow users to vote on the future of Facebook and see some return in trading the token. Well, if Facebook launched now, that is probably what would happen. And today we have even simpler examples of yield farming like compound finance, where anyone who borrows or lends on compound continuously earns a portion of the daily issued comp, which is the governance token of compound, and one can easily earn lending interest and comp simultaneously for lending assets on the platform. And comp gives users a voice in the future upgrades and proposals of the comparand protocol, but they can also easily sell that comp on an AMM like Uniswap. Now, yield farming is not just about earning insane yields over a short period of time on hyperinflationary tokens.
00:02:27.670 - 00:03:13.330, Speaker A: Despite what the headlines might tell you when applied with well designed incentives and a strong product market fit in deFi, yield farming can actually quickly bootstrap liquidity in the most promising future DFI applications. It's no coincidence that synthetics has remained one of the top ten DFI apps in TBL and users over the last two years, and no coincidence that uniswap continues to be used in other yield farming programs to similarly establish liquidity in new DFI apps. You've been watching DFI 101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out there's.
