00:00:00.280 - 00:00:47.326, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 18 February 2022. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So Jesse Powwow, the co founder and CEO of Kraken, had a really great, great tweet today, following on from, I guess, like his parent tweet here, where he was kind of making fun of what's going on in Canada right now with the kind of, I guess, like bank accounts being frozen and all that sort of stuff there. But he was replying to someone and this person asked him, is it possible Kraken, we put in a position where they are told to freeze assets by police without judicial consent and, and you will probably comply. And then Jesse kind of like replies by saying, 100% yes, it has and will happen, and 100% yes, we'll be forced to comply. If you're worried about it, don't keep your funds with any centralized, regulated custodian.
00:00:47.326 - 00:01:35.646, Speaker A: We cannot protect you. Get your coins, cash out and only trade p two p I thought this was like a very, very cool thing for Jesse to say, considering that he is a centralized exchange operator and people having their funds on his exchange. And trading on his exchange is how he makes money. Right, and how his company makes money. So he's basically encouraging people to get off his exchange and go trade somewhere else in a peer to peer environment, such as on a decentralized exchange. Now this, as I mentioned here, is pretty based, like, I really like that he said this, but I think if we kind of look deeper here and kind of like deeper into what he's saying, he's basically saying, not your keys, not your crypto, which is, which is essentially, you know, the mantra of, of crypto. It's been in crypto for a while now, where if you're storing any funds on a centralized exchange, they are not your funds like they are the centralized exchanges funds.
00:01:35.646 - 00:01:55.310, Speaker A: You have an IOU. The centralized exchanges basically said to you, hey, you know, you have this balance with us. We will honor that in norm under normal circumstances, but there is no guarantee that you're going to get those funds out. Now, those funds could be stolen in a hack. Those funds could be confiscated by law enforcement. Those funds could be just lost because of negligence. Right.
00:01:55.310 - 00:02:30.116, Speaker A: On the centralized exchanges behalf. There's lots of different ways those funds can go missing. So that's why I've always encouraged everyone, if they feel comfortable doing so, to get their coins off centralized exchanges and into their own wallet, especially if it is a material amount, like if a material amount of your net worth, so to speak. So, you know, if 90% of your net worth is on a centralized exchange as crypto, eh, maybe you should reduce that, right? Maybe you don't withdraw all of it to cold storage, but you should reduce that risk considerably. And you know, you may be thinking to yourself, well, I don't do anything wrong. Like, I don't do any kind of money laundering, I don't do any criminal activities. But I don't think that's the point.
00:02:30.116 - 00:03:19.502, Speaker A: I think the point is that there are things that I guess like the, the funds can be frozen for like any reason and it doesn't even matter. Like your funds could be frozen because the tax office suspects you of tax fraud, for example. Even if you've done nothing wrong, there could be a process where your funds get frozen because of that and you've got no recourse in that kind of environment. You just basically have to do what the authorities tell you to do. So, I mean, this is exactly why we're building all this sort of stuff in the first place. We're not building this stuff just to, you know, spin up Ponzi's and have a bit of fun making some money. We're building this decentralized finance infrastructure to stop this from happening because no one should have the unilateral power or no entities should have the unilateral power to cut you off from the financial system with I guess, basically a push of a button like that is way too much power for any one personal entity to have.
00:03:19.502 - 00:03:38.774, Speaker A: And that is the found, you know, as I said, the foundation of why we're building this sort of stuff is we want to reject that. We want to reject that kind of like world. We don't want to be part of that anymore. We want to opt out of the traditional finance. And I definitely keep my funds off exchanges. I don't keep any material amount on a centralized exchange. Yes, I have to use them to go in and out of fiat.
00:03:38.774 - 00:04:15.872, Speaker A: That's just the way it is. And yes, I have fiat in a bank account for taxes and things like that. But look, there are certain reasons you have to keep kind of like money with centralized custodians and centralized kind of like places. And that's all kind of like fine, if that's the case, but as I said, if you feel comfortable doing so, you should self custody and you should also just use decentralized exchanges instead of going to centralized exchanges to do things. And for the most part, you can use defi for pretty much everything these days, except cashing in and out of fiat, of course. I mean, you can technically use it, but you're still going through centralized third parties. There's no way to do decentralized fiat on an off ramping.
00:04:15.872 - 00:04:43.524, Speaker A: I mean, the closest you'll get is doing, like, peer to peer cash sales in real life, which are, I guess, wrought with scams. Like, I mean, the. The thing is, is that, like, there's no protection from, like, a cash sale. Like, you could go somewhere, meet up with someone. They could bring a couple of buddies that are hiding around the corner, you give them the cash and you expecting them to send you the crypto, and they just run off of the cash. Like, obviously, that's not a great way to do things, and it's. There's a very high chance of kind of, like, scams and fraud in that environment, and you've really got no recourse from that.
00:04:43.524 - 00:05:11.232, Speaker A: So I think, other than going in and out of fear, you should be able to do pretty much everything you want to do on. Within defi at this stage. Yes, of course, you know, some of the things, the costs are quite high because you can still only do it at layer one, but we're rolling out the L2 ecosystem to obviously rectify that there. But I think if you have China, just funds on exchanges doing nothing, they're just like your cold storage. Don't use exchanges as cold storage. Get a hardware wallet. Like, I've been a big proponent of the grid plus lattice before.
00:05:11.232 - 00:05:24.576, Speaker A: It's a. It's an awesome device. Obviously, you can go with other hardware wallets as well, like the ledger nano or the Trezor, or. There's. There's a few others out there. Honestly, I've only ever used the. The lattice and ledger.
00:05:24.576 - 00:05:52.960, Speaker A: I haven't really used Trezor, and the Trezor people seem to be kind of, like, more on the bitcoin side of things, so they're kind of, like, slow to add support for Ethereum stuff and all that sort of stuff there. So, yeah, you can't. I don't think you can go wrong with. With ledger or a lattice. I personally kind of, like, prefer the lattice. I think they're, you know, they're much more aligned with, I guess, like, the web3 ethereum ethos than ledger is. And obviously, there was that ledger leak a while ago, so kind of bad taste in people's mouths, of course, but, you know, there's other ways to secure assets too.
00:05:52.960 - 00:06:17.318, Speaker A: But those are the most user friendly ways. Like you can do all sorts of things. Like, the funny thing is as long as you have the private key, you can do anything you want with it. Or the seed phrase. Like you could split up the seed phrase into multiple different pieces, give it to friends and family, you can make your own cipher, you can hide it in different. Like you can go crazy with securing your assets. You can do shamir secret sharing, you can do a bunch of kind of like encryption things.
00:06:17.318 - 00:06:40.150, Speaker A: I mean, there's so much you can do. You can do air gapped PCs, but this is getting like super technical. That's why these hardware wallets exist, to just simplify this whole process for you and allow you to do this without having to go through all the complex processes. So. Yeah, but anyway, I think I'm gonna, I'm gonna leave that one there for today. But I just felt it was really cool that Jesse kind of like called this out here. And it's just a reminder to everyone that not your keys, not your coins, you're.
00:06:40.150 - 00:07:23.844, Speaker A: Just because you have an account balance on a centralized exchange does not mean that centralized exchange will and always will honor that and let you withdraw to your own wallet at all times. There are going to be times that they're going to be forced to freeze your assets, as I said, and there are going to be times when they lose assets or get hacked. That's just the name of the game when it comes in crypto. And that's why I always encourage people not to keep material amounts on centralized exchanges if possible. I say if possible, because if you don't feel comfortable keeping, you know, securing your own funds and you feel more comfortable just leaving, leaving it on a centralized exchange, that's totally fine. Guys, I'm not going to shame you for that, but do realize you're taking risk by doing that. You know, the risk may be less to you than the risk of kind of trying to self custody, but the risk is, is still there, I believe.
00:07:23.844 - 00:08:04.616, Speaker A: All right, so Parathos today put out a tweet that merge Devnet four is now live. So they're still working on getting the tooling links up, but the configs can be found at this GitHub repository. Now what is this? Well, this is the testnet that is meant as a dress rehearsal and a precursor to the killing testnet. So merge Devnet for is not meant as a replacement for Kintsugi, but, you know, please wait for the killing testnet announcement to migrate away from Kintsugi so this is really I guess what the devs and kind of like researchers are working on right now. Obviously getting all this sort of stuff set up for the next big merge testnet which is killen which is obviously coming up after Kintsugi. This is all I guess like working in the background. There's a meta spec for killing happening right now.
00:08:04.616 - 00:08:21.528, Speaker A: I mean there is so much going on guys. Like it's just absolutely crazy how much is going on right now with the merge stuff. It's moving at a lightning, lightning pace. I feel like. I mean I'm getting more and more optimistic about that June date. Like it's obviously happening this year but I'm getting more and more optimistic about that. That kind of like June date.
00:08:21.528 - 00:08:43.120, Speaker A: And I'm getting more and more optimistic about the kind of like developers and researchers and their confidence around it. That's really encouraging to see. And you know, parathos here. The underlying power test net had had multiple forks. So different beacon nodes detected, different terminal block hashes. The chains however, agreed on a block hash and moved ahead as expected. The chain is finalizing and we had no downtime with zero intervention.
00:08:43.120 - 00:09:02.652, Speaker A: Great test overall. So the tests are going well as well. I mean this is for the merge Devnet for. This is just awesome guys. Like I am so, so happy to see this moving along so nicely. I'm so happy to see that there's been no major bugs yet. I mean, it's always funny because sometimes you think ah, if there's been no major bugs does that mean like we've missed something? Cause there's always that risk as well.
00:09:02.652 - 00:09:23.468, Speaker A: You're like oh, you know, it can't be. It's too good to be true that we got it this perfect that it's running this perfectly off the bat. But sometimes that just happens. And there have been bugs obviously with the. With the merge test nets so far, but I don't think there's been any major showstopper bugs. I think the biggest thing was the. The newly kind of I guess like formulated attacks on Ethereum's proof of stake.
00:09:23.468 - 00:09:52.820, Speaker A: But I think that wasn't from the merge test nets. That was already known from a ago and they ended up being patched. So I don't even think that would classify something to do with the merge to be honest. But I think they needed to be patched before the merge would go through, of course. So I guess it all intertwined at the end of the day. But yeah, just I guess like a little update on the merge for you guys today, but I will, of course, keep you all updated on all of that as I get more updates. So Sequoia Capital has announced that they're launching a five to $600 million crypto fund to invest in tokens.
00:09:52.820 - 00:10:57.264, Speaker A: Now, this isn't tokens as in precede rounds, pre seed rounds, series a, like private rounds, right? This is actually them investing five to $600 million in tokens on the public market. That's why I'm highlighting this, because obviously a fund raising a few hundred million dollars is a dime a dozen these days is nothing special. But I think them, you know, committing to buying tokens or liquid tokens, I guess the ones on the public markets with this, with this amount of money actually signals, or at least I guess, like signals to the, to the wider crypto market that, hey, like, there are big name investors out there that think that there's plenty of opportunity in the public market still in the liquid markets. It's not just all about getting into the seed rounds, getting into the private rounds and having the opportunity there. There's plenty of opportunity left in the liquid markets. And look, they're right. I mean, I've said to you guys before, like, maybe not right now, because I guess right now, um, the, the market's kind of quiet, but generally over the long term, there is still so many things out there that I believe be not necessarily undervalued, so to speak, but like a good buy for the long term.
00:10:57.264 - 00:11:39.206, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to tell you what those are. I'm not going because, I mean, honestly, I don't have any kind of like special insight, obviously, like, I'm very long on ETH, but I think that if you do the research, you do the homework, and you look into these things, there are plenty of liquid tokens that are out there and that you can buy that will give you a good return over the coming years. And I think that's what sequoia sees here as well. They're obviously still going to be doing their private investments and all that sort of stuff. I mean, that, that game for them is kind of like a pretty, pretty safe one because at the end of the day, if they get into rounds that the valuations are really cheap and then it ends up being a really successful product, by the time it tokenizes, they can make a return. This is what all the VC's and funds do anyway. I mean, I'm sure you guys have seen this play out plenty of times at this point.
00:11:39.206 - 00:12:04.426, Speaker A: Um, but yeah, them investing in public markets is, is really cool and something different for once. And I wish more kind of like VC's and, and funds did this. I don't think sequoia is the first kind of like VC or fund to do this. There have been some out there. I mean, a lot of the funds actually do public liquid kind of like investing. But the thing is, is that sequoia is more like a VC. And I've explained the difference between VC's and hedge funds before, but the line is blurring there as well.
00:12:04.426 - 00:12:49.072, Speaker A: It feels like they're kind of like both doing a bit of, bit of both. And there's not really a delineation between VC's and funds anymore. But I think the way I still delineate them is that VC's have like a much longer time horizon of like five to ten years, whereas funds are usually a few years. But even in that kind of respect, how can you have a five to ten year time horizon in crypto on anything but really BTC and ETH? I think those are the only two assets you can actually have a five to ten year time horizon based thesis on. Because think about even just like five years ago, what was like the hottest thing within crypto in 27? This was 2017. I guess the hottest thing in crypto besides ETH was all the icos. Pretty much all of them are basically worth zero or went down 90 plus percent.
00:12:49.072 - 00:13:34.324, Speaker A: How can you have a five to ten year thesis on ICO tokens from back then? You can't. There are a few big winners, of course, but your thesis was then not based on kind of like those tokens. Your thesis was based on things like Defi, like if you had bought Aave early on in 2018, not necessarily 2017, but in 2018, you did very well over the longer term. You know, SNX, same deal, bunch of others out there, same deal. But it's just the industry changes way too quickly. There are gains that can be made much quicker than five to ten years and, you know, VC like gains, like 100 x plus kind of gains there. So that's why I think the lines are blurring where VC's are having much shorter timeframes also because things go public in a much shorter timeframe, like for all tokenize, I guess tokenizing is crypto's version of going public.
00:13:34.324 - 00:14:08.536, Speaker A: But in the, in the. I guess like traditional markets or in the traditional startup world, I think the last time I checked, it was an average of about seven years from seed funding, or I guess like first funding to IPO. It's not. Nothing is like seven years from funding to token in crypto, like not even close. Most projects tokenize within twelve months of initial fundraising. You know, twelve to 24 months really covers the, probably the 99, well, not 99, maybe 90 plus percent of projects in this kind of like, space. So none of them get anywhere close to seven years.
00:14:08.536 - 00:14:44.720, Speaker A: And I think, you know, I don't really have an opinion on whether that's a good or bad thing. I think that the timing in crypto is always a funny thing because if you release your token in a bull market, well then your token is going to do really well. But if you release it in a bear market, it's going to do very, very poorly. It might spike up and then go, you know, and then trend down. But I think that during the kind of quieter markets and during the bear markets, this is when things can get irrational and where you can get scoop up the liquid tokens on public markets and potentially make that hundred x on some of them. Like I don't know what, which one's going to do that. To be honest, I don't really pay much attention to the public markets these days.
00:14:44.720 - 00:15:18.172, Speaker A: Besides ETH, they're very noisy. Like don't get me wrong, this isn't an easy thing to do, but the opportunities are there if you want to grind, if you want to make it, so to speak. If you've only got a few thousand dollars to play with, then this is what you should be doing. You should be doing these deep research, looking into these things, you know, making sure that you can position, position yourself accordingly and just kind of like sit on the positions for a while. Like you're not going to be able to, especially in this market, buy something and then a few days later make a shit ton of money on it. The only place where that was still happening up until recently was nfts. And that basically was just even harder to pick.
00:15:18.172 - 00:16:00.904, Speaker A: So I think having the long term thesis on specific sectors is always, is always promising as well. But having a long term thesis on any one asset besides maybe Ethan bitcoin, I mean, I say bitcoin because you can kind of like easily reason about BTC as a long term thesis there. But ETH obviously is very easy to reason about as well. But just look at everything else. Look at, look at even the top ten. Like could you give me, for any of the Ethereum competitors out there, could you give me a five to ten year thesis? Would you be, would you be comfortable holding any of these ethereum, quote unquote ethereum killers like Solana, avalanche terror, I guess kind of a bunch of the others out there, like Phantom. Would you be comfortable holding those things for five to 1010 years? No, I don't think you would.
00:16:00.904 - 00:16:36.650, Speaker A: Like. I'm not going to speak for you, but like nine times out of ten, I think most people would say no, they wouldn't feel comfortable doing that, because not only are these things part of like their own hype cycles, but they're competing with, like, as I've said, the ethereum L2 ecosystem. There's so many headwinds coming for them, and a lot of them are just unnecessary. So I think from that point of view, like, for me personally, there is nothing in this ecosystem except maybe ETH. Except definitely ETH. Not maybe I should say that I would hold for five to ten years or feel comfortable holding for five to ten years. Maybe a few of the l two project tokens, actually, I would probably feel comfortable with.
00:16:36.650 - 00:17:28.204, Speaker A: But again, ETH is like number one, and then second place is like a distant second in terms of kind of like holding there. But anyway, not investment advice as usual, but just something for you guys to think about and just, I guess, like my way of thinking about it as well. There's. All right, so the Coindesk has this article out today that the graph has a new $205 million ecosystem fund backed by multi coin capital, reciprocal Ventures and digital currency group and others, which aims to accelerate the development of key projects in the data indexing networks ecosystem. So there's, as I said, there's this article on Coindesk that you can go check out for yourself if you want to read more information about this and see who's involved. But this is really cool. I mean, as you guys know, the graph powers a lot of the crypto ecosystem, especially a lot of the DeFi ecosystem, their core web3 infrastructure.
00:17:28.204 - 00:18:07.678, Speaker A: Without the graph, you wouldn't be able to get a lot of your fancy, kind of like data on the front end. So it's very, very important that we have things like this. And, you know, they're the graph. What I like about the graph is that they're a project that really gets the web3 vision and gets the decentralized vision. Like the founder of the graph, Yaniv, he really cares about decentralizing absolutely everything, not just the protocol contracts and the smart contracts, but the front ends as well. And you don't decentralize the front ends by having centralized data sources for those front ends. So the graph is trying to decentralize out that querying for that, for that data, so that anyone can kind of like tap into that across the graph nodes and it doesn't become any kind of like central point of failure here.
00:18:07.678 - 00:18:44.374, Speaker A: So that's, you know, really exciting to see that they got a $25 million fund that's kind of, I guess, going to be involved now, or ecosystem fund that's going to be involved. They also have obviously a token, they've got like token funds going on. They got plenty of money flying around here. But it's just really cool to see more and more money pouring into this because this is definitely needed in the crypto ecosystem. So Euler on Twitter today announced that they have launched their Uniswap Oracle Oracle attack simulator. So you can go check it out or try it out at Oracle Euler finance. You can read more about it on this blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description.
00:18:44.374 - 00:19:10.548, Speaker A: So what this tool allows you to do is allows users to simulate and quantify attack risks. On Uniswap v. Three TWap price oracles. Now, TWAP stands for time weighted average price. Now what does this mean in plain English? Well, basically the Euler taps into Uniswap v. Three TWap price oracles for different kind of like markets on their, on their money market. And what a twap is, is basically takes a, I mean, it's self explanatory, right? Like a time weighted average price of an asset.
00:19:10.548 - 00:19:52.106, Speaker A: So it waits the kind of, I guess, the time and then it gets like an average price over time, um, and even saying, you know, in some cases based on the, on the trading volume as well, and kind of like spits that out. So instead of just taking one price point in one point of time, like, say, you know, ETH is $3,000. Instead of just taking ETH at $3,000, it averages it out over a certain period of time and then takes the average of all the prices that ETH has seen in that time. And that's supposed to make, um, the oracle more resistant to manipulation, right. And supposed to make it safer to kind of like use as an oracle. So if you want to kind of get involved with this and try to attack it and try to break it and, you know, try to fool it, be sure to do so. I mean, this is, this actually be really cool because you'd be helping the Euler team out with this.
00:19:52.106 - 00:20:33.968, Speaker A: You'd be helping them out, test out their oracle, make sure that it really is resistant to attack and really does what it, what it says is going to do, because what Euler wants to do is they want to use these, these oracles in order to be, to make it so that anyone can spin up any kind of like market with any assets or any money market with any asset on the Euler platform. So if this sounds like something that's up your alley, definitely go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. So I don't know, I don't know if I say this as lock protocol or locky protocol, I'm just going to say lock protocol from now on. But lock protocol was introduced today. So what is it? Well, will Price, one of the people who worked on lock protocol, has given a nice TLDR for us here. So what it is, is it's a fair and inefficient token distribution.
00:20:33.968 - 00:21:01.166, Speaker A: Unsophisticated users will not get wrecked. It's mev resistant, no gas wars and composable af. So basically it's a generalized platform that enables protocol facilitated token distribution. It is a token sale platform, in plain English essentially. So what, as will Price says here, what are they hoping for is they're hoping that this is a way to fairly and efficiently distribute tokens and make it so that people don't, you know, just don't get wrecked. It's mev resistant, all that really cool stuff. And of course no gas war.
00:21:01.166 - 00:21:36.772, Speaker A: So if you want to know how they all do this, you can definitely read more details about it in this, in this blog post here. But they implement what's something called streaming auctions, which is an efficient and equitable price discovery mechanism that can be viewed as a special case of a twam, which was something that the paradigm research team posted about here, which you can find a link to in this blog post. But basically this is a visualization of how it works. You know, wheel price has it here. So I guess you kind of got the tokens on the right hand side here and people get rewarded for it. And you can kind of like just see it in the video here. Obviously if you're listening you won't be able to see the video, but it'll be linked here in the YouTube description.
00:21:36.772 - 00:22:02.314, Speaker A: And then you can see like Alice has her ETH deposits being kind of like drained and getting these gov rewards over time. So this is cool. I mean look, I think token sales are hard to do. I think fair token sales are even harder to do. And I think fair token sales where the price doesn't go bananas and you know, everyone doesn't get wrecked, is really, really hard to do. So I'm hoping that this is kind of like a solution to that. I'm hoping this actually works as advertised.
00:22:02.314 - 00:22:58.390, Speaker A: We're going to have to see how kind of like this plays out within a real kind of, I guess, real life scenario. It hasn't been launched yet, but I welcome any of these sorts of things because we've all seen like how my, how many token sales have just been so poorly run. Like, there's been a few successful ones with the LBP from balancer, which is pretty cool, but a lot of them turn into gas wards. A lot of them get Mev'd like to hell, a lot of them end up kind of pumping and dumping like pretty, pretty hard. And a lot of them are basically just whale games. We don't want that. Like, distributing a token is already hard enough and if you're trying to do a token sale where you want to distribute it fairly, it becomes just, just, I mean, nightmare scenario for projects because how many times have projects basically died because their tokens did poorly even though the product is good? So, so many guys, like, I think, I don't think people realize how much a token, how much of a part a token plays in a project's life in this ecosystem.
00:22:58.390 - 00:23:28.516, Speaker A: Because a token is basically a way to get free publicity. Free marketing. Well, maybe not free, but like, you know, a marketing publicity, building up a community, building up an army. But if the token is not appreciating in price and instead is deep depreciating and is losing lots of value over time, the community that you were able to cultivate is going to go away. They're going to, they're not going to hang around. Like if, especially if they're losing a lot of money. If say you launch a token and it goes down like 50% in a month, I mean, you're going to lose most of the quote unquote community members that you had gotten.
00:23:28.516 - 00:23:49.102, Speaker A: Now this is, this happens for everything. This isn't just for new tokens. I mean, this has happened for ETH. Like ETH had a massive run in 2017, $10 to 1400 bucks in like a year. Then it dumped 94% to $80 in another year. Look, I was, I was there. We went from like everyone everywhere talking about ETH to basically only a handful of us sticking around.
00:23:49.102 - 00:24:13.362, Speaker A: So this doesn't just happen to these random tokens in the ecosystem, it happens to even the biggest ones out there. And it's happened right now. I mean, look at how quiet the ecosystem is right now and the prices haven't even gone down that much. Like you know, relatively, like ETH is what, $3,000 down from 5000? We're not even down 50%. Like, come on, guys. And the ecosystem is basically like super quiet right now. The markets are super quiet, but, you know, that's it is what it is.
00:24:13.362 - 00:24:40.840, Speaker A: That's how this ecosystem has always worked and how it will probably always work, or at least for the foreseeable future, in that tokens drive a lot of activity. I mean, the markets drive a lot of activity. The prices of things drive a lot of activity. And if all your token does is wreck everyone that buys it and he's down only, you're not going to have a great community. And the perfect example of this, actually, now that I think about it, is Zcash. Z Cash has been down only since day one. And it's day one was a long time ago.
00:24:40.840 - 00:25:15.766, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure it launched just after a theorem, I think, in 2016. That's like six coming up on six years ago now, guys, that token has done nothing positive for anyone like the project awesome Z cash team. Awesome researchers, awesome. They've, you know, they've, they've been involved with the cryptography related stuff, like zero knowledge proofs, Zk, stark, snark, sorry, I should say all that sort of stuff there. They've been heavily involved in that. They've done a lot of great work, but at the, like, at the end of the day, the token has done really poorly. So they don't really have a big community, they don't have any attention on them.
00:25:15.766 - 00:25:40.406, Speaker A: The only time anyone ever brings up the project is to talk about how badly the token has done. I mean, how often do you hear me talk about Zcash on the refuel? And I'm talking about it right now because I'm using it as an example of what not to do with the token. And the reason why Zcash was down only was because they didn't do a token sale. I don't think they did a token sale. I wasn't around back then, but I don't believe they did. But they had like a really high inflation at the start, and they're on proof of work still. They have.
00:25:40.406 - 00:26:33.198, Speaker A: And because of that, they have miners constantly dumping the coin. And also, even though I believe privacy obviously is a huge thing, I don't think you need a separate blockchain for privacy. I don't think we should just have one chain where everyone has to own this zcash asset in order to have privacy, because look at what happens on Ethereum. Tornado cash exists and you can kind of get a user to mix Ethan some other kind of tokens out there. We have aztec protocol doing privacy at L2, you're going to be able to basically send any kind of token and ETH in a private way and kind of like wrap it and shield it like you would in zcash. So I don't really see the point of Zcash in an ethereum kind of like world there, even though the tech is sound and the tech is good. And I think that's why, another reason why the zcash price has kind of like not done very well over, to say the least, over the longer term.
00:26:33.198 - 00:27:09.486, Speaker A: But yeah, anyway, little bit sidetracked there. But I think it's always good to understand how these kind of like token sales work and why a lot of them end up being really poorly run. So definitely check out lock protocol here if you want to learn, and their blog post here if you want to learn more about their protocol and hoping to see them launch soon. All right, so last up here is just an interesting tweet from Greg Vardy, who basically has this kind of like, I guess, image, and he's captioned it with die transpired from solidity to Cairo with warp 2.0 versus its handwritten Cairo counterpart. Efficiency is almost exactly the same, and the transpiled contract is 10 kb smaller than the native one. Now, quick refresher here.
00:27:09.486 - 00:27:46.310, Speaker A: I've told you guys before that Nethermind has been working on a transpiler for developers to be able to just instantly port their solidity code to Cairo, which is the language that is being used on Stocknet. So using Warp 2.0, what Greg is saying here is that the efficiency is almost exactly the same between the solidity version and the Kara version, and the transpiled contract, which is the Cairo version is actually 10 kb smaller than the native one. That's really, really cool. And this is talking about the DAI contract. That's actually amazing that they've been able to achieve this. This means that you don't need to write your apps in Cairo again.
00:27:46.310 - 00:28:23.084, Speaker A: You don't need to write, you know, from the ground up. You can basically just kind of like transpile it across, probably want to get it audited again, or do some code reviews and make sure everything's running smoothly and do some test nets and things like that. But this cuts down a lot of development time for people to move to stocknet or to kind of like, I guess, like deploy their apps to stockinette. Could you imagine transpiling the whole maker system over, or like, part of like, the wormhole system that they want to do, or transpiling the whole kind of like, RB system over Uniswap, for example, and not having to rewrite everything. That'd be super cool. And I think that's the reality we kind of, like, barreling down towards. So I just wanted to highlight that because I thought it was super interesting.
00:28:23.084 - 00:28:33.344, Speaker A: But I think on that note, it's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
