00:00:04.890 - 00:00:48.890, Speaker A: Hi everyone. Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First Headline U. S. Lawmakers put pressure on Mnuchin to rethink crypto wallet regulations Rumors have been picking up that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin plans to enact regulations on self hosted digital wallets that would limit their privacy. Ohio congressman Warren Davidson, a previous test on unchained tweeted his objection to any quote burdensome regulations that might be put in place by Mnuchin. Before his term ends in January, davidson posted the full content of a letter addressed to the Treasury Secretary signed by himself and three congressional colleagues, highlighting their concerns that such regulations could hinder the ability of American entrepreneurs to compete while not accomplishing the goals of fighting illicit activity.
00:00:48.890 - 00:01:24.262, Speaker A: Circle CEO and founder Jeremy Alair has also responded to the rumors, posting the full text of a letter he sent to the senior staff of the US. Treasury Department. On Twitter, Alair called this a, quote, critical moment for the crypto and digital currency industry, adding that the US. Government quote, may be putting a massive transformation at risk. He criticized the suggestion that this regulation might be pushed forward without congressional review or meaningful industry engagement. Last month, we covered this topic in detail on Unchained with Jake Shavinsky and Kristen Smith. If you missed it, this episode is a must.
00:01:24.262 - 00:02:30.934, Speaker A: Listen. Next Headline G Seven Regulators come for cryptocurrencies Finance Ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven G Seven advanced economies are sounding the alarm on digital currencies, calling for regulation with a new sense of urgency highlighted by what they say is the potential for quote, use for malign purposes and illicit activities. The US. Treasury Department released this statement on Monday after a virtual meeting of G Seven officials, echoing a joint statement in October which acknowledged that digital payments could improve access to financial services while decreasing costs as long as they were, quote, appropriately supervised and regulated. German Finance Minister Olaf Schultz said, quote we must do everything possible to make sure the currency monopoly remains in the hands of states. Stricture regulations have already arrived in France, where the Ministry of Finance formally tightened Know Your Customer requirements for crypto unveiling higher standards prohibiting anonymous crypto accounts. The decision is reportedly related to recent terrorist attacks in France that were allegedly funded using cryptocurrencies.
00:02:30.934 - 00:03:38.418, Speaker A: In addition to the new KYC regulations, registration for crypto to crypto exchanges may also be on the way in France. Next Headline Mass Mutual invests $100 million in bitcoin Massachusetts Mutual life insurance company invested in $100 million worth of bitcoin Mass Mutual purchased the first cryptocurrency through NYDIG, the New York based fund known for managing billions of dollars in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, while also acquiring a $5 million minority stake in NYDIG itself in the process. Next Headline MicroStrategy to sell $550,000,000 convertible note offering to buy Bitcoin The company that started this trend. MicroStrategy will issue debt in the form of convertible notes that would allow it to buy even more bitcoin. This news comes months after the company announced it was buying bitcoin as a hedge against inflation. MicroStrategy plans to offer the notes privately to qualified institutions. The debts will bear an annualized interest rate of zero point 75% payable semiannually, with the notes reaching maturation at the end of 2025.
00:03:38.418 - 00:04:42.674, Speaker A: A day after the announcement, Citigroup analysts downgraded MicroStrategy stock to sell, saying the recent rally in its stock was overextended. Citi described the plan to raise additional money to buy bitcoin via convertible notes as, quote, aggressive and a possible, quote, deal breaker for software investors. The downgrade sent the stock tumbling after months of bullish activity. Interestingly, as MicroStrategy's stock has risen precipitously since the summer, block research analyst Ryan Todd discovered that the third largest buyer of the company's stock this year has been Renaissance Technologies, a mysterious but extremely successful hedge fund known for its incredible returns. Next Headline More crypto companies apply for bank charters Following Kraken and Avanti, at least two more companies in the cryptosphere want to be banks with Bitcoin. Payment start at BitPay Venturing to create a national bank in Georgia, and crypto services firm and Stablecoin issuer Paxos filing paperwork to become a federally regulated US. Bank.
00:04:42.674 - 00:05:43.674, Speaker A: BitPay's proposed bank would be known as the BitPay National Trust Bank and Paxos, which is powering payments for PayPal's. Cryptocurrency service would operate its bank out of New York. Next Headline Square to invest $10 million for bitcoin clean energy in addition to announcing its intention to become net zero carbon by 2030, Square also announced the Bitcoin clean Energy Investment Initiative. The company pledged $10 million in support to companies who will, quote, help drive adoption and efficiency of renewables within the bitcoin ecosystem. In the company's statement, Square co founder and CEO Jack Dorsey said, quote we believe that cryptocurrency will eventually be powered completely by clean power, eliminating its carbon footprint and driving adoption of renewables globally. Published estimates indicate bitcoin already consumes a significant amount of clean energy, and we hope that Square's investment initiative will accelerate this conversion to renewable energy. Next headline bitwise Launches first.
00:05:43.674 - 00:06:53.070, Speaker A: Crypto Index publicly traded in the US. The Bitwise Ten crypto index fund began trading Wednesday under the ticker BITW. The fund tracks a diversified and market cap weighted index of the ten largest cryptos and debuted with $120,000,000 in assets under management. The fund was up 184% on a year to year basis, outperforming a standalone position in Bitcoin. Bitwise chief investment officer Matt Hogan, a previous guest on my podcasts, tweeted Thursday morning that the fund was the fourth most active ticker on OTCQX. Next headline the Economics of Ethereum's Internet Bond if you were interested in the concepts discussed with Ryan Watkins and Wilson withhiaham of Masari about how ETH the asset changes with the arrival of Ethereum 20 bankless recently published a summary of a white paper published by Colin Myers and Mara Schmidt that delves into the financial model and economics of ETH 20. In the paper, they compare staked ETH to what is known as a contractor license bond, which construction professionals are required to purchase before they can perform construction work.
00:06:53.070 - 00:08:08.650, Speaker A: With this reallife analogy, they explain how ETH 20 is similar and different. Concluding quote An Internet bond is a new type of incentivized digital work agreement that in a more mature state can be best described as a hybrid perpetual bond with debt and equitylike characteristics. In case you missed it, be sure to check out the episode with Ryan Watkins and Wilson with him on Unchained discussing this exact topic. Time for Fun Bits first headline under Fun Bits Masari's Crypto Feces for 2021 Masari has published its 2021 Crypto Theses, written by founder Ryan Selkis, aka Two Bit Idiot, and this report calls out key trends in the space, along with predictions for 2021. Highlights include its take on Bitcoin. Quote the world's top institutional money managers have finally taken public positions that make it socially acceptable for their colleagues to jump into the fray and buy BTC, the gateway drug to the rest of crypto on ethereum, he says. Quote It's hard to ignore five year old technologies that process more than $1 trillion in real value transfers per year, a figure that has already eclipsed PayPal's on DFI, he says.
00:08:08.650 - 00:08:55.110, Speaker A: Quote DFI is justifiably hyped. The only thing I see slowing down the sector's momentum would be precedent setting and maybe logic bending regulatory crackdowns of top market projects. I'm not betting on the regulators, though. And our second Fun Bits is CoinDesk's Most Influential People in Crypto for 2020 CoinDesk published its list of the most influential people in crypto over the past year this year. Among those on the list are several notable names who also appeared on Unchained and Unconfirmed in the last twelve months, including Andre Cronia of Urine, Kathy Wood of Arc Investment, and Chad Cascarilla of Paxos. If you missed these interviews on the podcast, now is the perfect time to catch up. All right, that's it for the news.
00:08:55.110 - 00:09:15.450, Speaker A: Thanks so much for tuning in. To learn more about Rowan and the Stable Act, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. And don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchained podcast YouTube channel today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with help from Ant Finney Yoon, Daniel Nuss, Bossy Baker Shashank and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
