00:00:00.480 - 00:00:29.994, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 22 January 2021. Alright everyone, let's dive into the news from today. So Rocketpool put out this explainer thread today. Basically, well, explain a blog post, really diving into an overview of rocket pool and kind of, you know, how it all works. For those who don't know, Rocketpool is a trustless staking service. So basically a decentralized staking service for ETH two.
00:00:29.994 - 00:01:00.166, Speaker A: I mean, it has, it's doing a lot more than that, but that's like, kind of like the gist of it, the overview of it. And it's been in the works for quite a while now. A bit of history here. This project I think actually started all the way back in 2017. And for those who weren't around back then, there was actually an expectation that ETH two was going live in like 2017 or 2018. No one knew that it would take as long as it did. Obviously, it took much longer than that, right? A lot of things changed and pretty much like a lot of the rollout changed.
00:01:00.166 - 00:01:40.820, Speaker A: You know, there wasn't going to be a phase zero, right, beacon chain, separate chain or anything like that at the time. It was going to be basically an upgrade to ETH one. But obviously things changed a lot since then. But, you know, obviously that changed rocket pools plans. You know, they, they kind of like, I think, you know, kind of got screwed around a little bit there. But, you know, they've stuck to it, they've kept building and I think they're very, very close now to an implementation that's going to go live and then people can use to do decentralized staking. And not only, and I guess I should say like, why would you want to do this? You can just stake on your own, right? Why would you want to use rocket pool? Well, rocket pools customer base are those that don't have 32 ETH to stake on their own.
00:01:40.820 - 00:02:20.492, Speaker A: So as you all know, you know, you need a minimum 32 ETH to spin up your own validator on your own hardware. Now, that's a lot of money. That's over $32,000 right now. Obviously it was a lot cheaper back in the day, but it's not now. So to get more people in to decentralized staking, rather than using a exchanges to stake, rocket pools created this network here and it lets you stake with kind of like little amounts of ETH, you can stake with one ETH or you know, 0.5 ETH or whatever, two ETH or whatever you have or whatever you feel comfortable with staking through their service. So if you want to learn more, this is part one of, of a blog series they're doing about the decentralized staking protocol.
00:02:20.492 - 00:02:54.236, Speaker A: I think this is just giving an overview so that people can learn how to use it, what, what it's all about. Know, the tokenomics of the RPL token, how that works, and the launch details and everything like that. So they've got like the launch details down here at the end here, I think. Yeah. So they're in live beta right now and you can, and you can go test it out if you'd like to. I think they're saying here that the beta fish is on 27th of Jan, so maybe we're getting a mainnet relatively soon. I don't know if that the mainnet has been announced yet.
00:02:54.236 - 00:03:10.092, Speaker A: The date has been announced yet. I've missed that. But I'm assuming if it had been, it would have been, you know, reiterated here. So, you know, I'm still expecting this to come out relatively soon. As I said, it's been in the works for a while. They have a lot of things going on. They seem very close to a, to a main net launch.
00:03:10.092 - 00:03:38.690, Speaker A: So very excited to see this go live. I'm very curious to see how many people will do this decentralized staking with rocket pool because we, we want the network to be as distributed as possible. Right. The ETH two network. We don't want people staking with exchanges. Ideally that's going to happen anyway, of course, but we would like to encourage people not to do that. So giving them the tools to be able to do this is much better than, you know, just hoping people will stake on their own or, you know, if they're using an exchange to stake.
00:03:38.690 - 00:04:22.860, Speaker A: It won't centralize around one exchange because really the only option you have if you don't have 32 ETH is to either use one of the, I guess, staking services on Ethereum that give you um, a tokenized uh, kind of stake position like what Lido finance is doing, or use an exchange, a centralized exchange to do it right. There's not really a decentralized alternative. That's where rocket pool comes in. So I'm very, very excited to see them go live and, and to see their, their kind of system in action and to see kind of how much uptake it has. I assume it's going to be slow at the start like everything is. But, you know, as we get kind of like more new users coming in, they find out about staking and they're like, you know, oh, I don't really want to do it on exchange. What's the other options? We can send them to rocket pool.
00:04:22.860 - 00:04:45.832, Speaker A: Right. Which, which I think is very important for the, for the whole ecosystem. So Jacob Franek shared this chart on Twitter today, which I thought was really cool. So this shows the Ethereum and bitcoin transaction counts. Now, Ethereum is obviously way ahead and has been way ahead for quite a while. I do want to make a note that this is ethereum transaction counts. Counting everything on Ethereum, all the tokens, right.
00:04:45.832 - 00:05:19.528, Speaker A: You know, whether that's ERC, 20 tokens or nfts, basically any asset, like a lot of this would be stable coin transactions, obviously, ETH transactions as well. But predominantly it's not ETH because he shared another chart down here, I think somewhere I saw it where he. Oh, man, if I can find it quickly, because he definitely did share that. It wasn't just ETH. Sorry. If you just look at the ETH transactions that are being shared here it is. I don't know why it was hidden there, but basically you can see here that just the pure native transactions.
00:05:19.528 - 00:05:50.054, Speaker A: So pure BTC being moved on the bitcoin network. Pure ETH being moved on the ethereum network. If ETH is still lower than BTC here, which makes sense, I think, because, you know, more people are, you know, on, I mean, on bitcoin, you only have the option of moving BTC, right? That's the whole thing of the network. You can't move tokens. There's nothing else really to do on the network. So whereas with Ethereum, you can move ETH, you can move, you know, stable coins, you can move other ERC, 20s, you can move nfts, whatever you want to move around. So that's why ethereum is a lot higher there.
00:05:50.054 - 00:06:33.550, Speaker A: So this metric is cool, but it doesn't really paint a picture of, of kind of like, I mean, anything substantial, I would think. I actually think it's quite bullish that ETH is moving less than kind of bitcoin on its own network. Because when you think about it, you don't want the kind of reserve asset of the network or the store of value asset of the network to be moving around too much because, you know, for something to kind of go up in value over the long term, you want people to be holding it, not spending it, because it's this theory of the like, kind of the velocity of money. So the more piece like money moves around, right? And Ethy's money, of course, and so is BTC. But the more it moves around, right. And the more it changes hands. That means people aren't really interested in holding it.
00:06:33.550 - 00:07:20.906, Speaker A: They want to, they want to get rid of it, right. They want to discard it. They want to dispose of it, which is, you know, if we saw really, really high transaction counts for both Ethan BTC on their networks, it would be bearish for those, for those tokens, because of the fact that it means that people are wanting to dispose of it, right, rather than hold on to it. And that's not the best metric to see that. You know, there are other metrics out there that show you how long people have held for, you know, kind of like when they held from basically, and what price they bought in, stuff like that. But I still think it's interesting that Ethereum has obviously been, you know, ahead of bitcoin on transactions for quite a while now. That is in part due to, I mean, it's due to Ethereum being more scalable, but it's obviously also due to a lot of the DeFi activity happening and especially the stablecoin activity.
00:07:20.906 - 00:07:58.294, Speaker A: So good to keep that in mind. That kind of, these charts, they're cool, they're fun to look at, but there's a lot of nuance that you need to go into to actually understand what they're showing. And a lot of the time, they're not really showing anything. It like between the comparisons between the two networks, because the two networks are actually quite different in how they kind of operate. They're both blockchains, but they do very different things and they appeal to very different bases of people. So, you know, I mean, I'll be doing a another daily grade data pump next month that'll cover the months of December and January. You can go watch the first one on the channel, if you haven't already.
00:07:58.294 - 00:08:36.976, Speaker A: And I basically go through all the different on chain metrics that you can look at to compare, like growth and kind of like, see how the ethereum network's going, see how DeFi is going from an on chain perspective. And I actually have come to believe over the last few months that on chain analysis is so much better than technical analysis, even from like a trading perspective or from a long term investor perspective. Because if you know where to look and you know what, you know what on chain kind of metrics to look at and how to spot certain things, you can make some pretty informed investment decisions, um, that. That can play out really well. I actually remember there was a. There was a fund beginning of 2020 that. That since blew up.
00:08:36.976 - 00:08:56.806, Speaker A: But the. The reason they blew up was because of Black Thursday, obviously, the. The coronavirus related dump that we had. Um, apparently they were. They were really levered up, and, um, you know, they had a massive leverage position. They got washed out because of that dump. But their investment thesis, and it was actually working, was that was on chain analysis only.
00:08:56.806 - 00:09:19.914, Speaker A: They looked at all the on chain indicators, and they were a bitcoin based fund, but they looked at all those on chain indicators, and they saw that now was the time for the market to recover. Right. And it was. If we didn't have the coronavirus dump in March. Right, or the. Or the black kind of Thursday dump in my. In March, we would have just kept going up, because if you look at January and February, February, we were recovering quite quickly.
00:09:19.914 - 00:09:39.314, Speaker A: I think ETH got to $300 or something before the. Before that dump happened, if my memory serves me correctly, or almost 300 from. From like 100, 120 or something like that. So we were moving up. It was the early stages of a bull market. So this fund was right. But unfortunately, they didn't account for this black swan, which obviously washed them out.
00:09:39.314 - 00:10:05.104, Speaker A: And so that fund went under. Went under. No one really hears from them anymore. But if Blackthirst there hadn't happened, they would have probably had the best returns out of any funding, simply because they were so confident in their on chain analysis that they opened up this massive leverage position right where that would have paid off handsomely for them, I think, over the. Over the long run. But, you know, unfortunately, no one foresee, foresaw that coming. Right.
00:10:05.104 - 00:10:20.250, Speaker A: That was such a brutal dump, if you think about it. We went from $300 ETH to, like, 80 or $90. I think it was in, like, a very, very short period of time. No one knew what was happening. It felt like the world was ending, and now look at us. Right? Eleven months later. I spoke about this yesterday.
00:10:20.250 - 00:11:01.404, Speaker A: Eats at $1,200, you know, even after dumping over the past couple days. So, yeah, that's why I'm very, very, you know, someone who pays a lot of attention to on chain analysis, because I think it is extremely important it works. Right. You might think, oh, you know, can't people fake this? Can't people, like, you know, do psyops or whatever? I mean, they can, but they don't, because there's just too many players in the ecosystem. You know, retail investors aren't doing psyops for on chain analytics, right? They're not thinking, oh, if I buy this token on uniswap, will it trigger some on chain analysis? Well, yes, it will, but no one is thinking that, right? 99% of people are not thinking that. I don't even think that. And I know that it's going to trigger on chain analysis, right.
00:11:01.404 - 00:11:42.802, Speaker A: I just do it because I can get a good trade on uniswap, right? I can buy a token that I want to on uniswap. No one cares enough to do these psyops at this point in time. Maybe in the future it happens. Maybe it's already happening in some areas, right? Some whales are doing it, but for the most part, it's something that I don't think is manipulated yet. So I love looking at on chain metrics for both for investment decisions and also just out of curiosity, I just love it. I call it chain archaeology, right? Digging into the chain, seeing what's happening, seeing the growth, it just makes me, like, really bullish. Even times when the price isn't doing really well, you know, seeing that growth, you can front run the next bull market, right? Or front run tokens, right.
00:11:42.802 - 00:12:17.556, Speaker A: There are some tokens that you can actually watch in real time. If you look at on chain analysis then being accumulated by new buyers, and then you think, okay, well, if the buyers are increasing, if the holder base is increasing, then naturally these tokens probably going to go up. So you can make investment decision decisions based on that. I know a lot of people that do this and they make money doing this. So, yeah, I mean, I know I've gone off a little bit of a tangent there, but I think on chain analysis is something you need to add to your toolkit going forward. So an interesting tweet from Jay today. So they said basically, it's just like one, like three words, basically.
00:12:17.556 - 00:12:46.796, Speaker A: But it got me thinking. So it reads ethereum, not blockchain. And I, I'd never seen it put so succinctly before. Right. So, so kind of like simply because when you think of blockchains, right, I mean, you, you think of the technology, you don't really think of the platform, platform themselves. Like, I think the term blockchain will actually end up getting kind of washed out. Kind of like, you know, the Internet wasn't always referred to as the Internet, right.
00:12:46.796 - 00:13:17.896, Speaker A: It was referred to as the information superhighway at some point, which was just bizarre and, you know, weird and cringy a little bit, but it was. And there were other names for the Internet, they were like, proprietary names like AOL and things like that for, like, different networks. But the Internet that we know today is just, you know, called the Internet. And then some people, you know, I guess the younger generations call it Wi Fi. For example, like, I was hanging around some young people recently, and I'm talking like teenagers and younger than that. And they don't really say the word Internet. They say Wi Fi.
00:13:17.896 - 00:14:14.466, Speaker A: It's like, do you have Wi Fi? And it's like, okay, well, I mean, I get why they're saying this, but, you know, before kind of Wi Fi and social media and smartphones were prevalent, right? And all these iPads and things like that, people would say just the Internet, and I still say the Internet, right? I'm probably a boomer at 28, right? You know, if I'm comparing myself to the younger generations, I'm not with it anymore, so to speak. But, you know, I think the same thing's going to happen to the word blockchain. I think in ten years, you know, blockchain is just going to be used by the professionals in the industry. It's not going to be used by everyday people. They're going to literally call it what the winning platform is. And, you know, I believe, obviously, like, truly believe that ethereum is that winning platform. It is the platform that the world is going to come to know its name, right? Just like they know bitcoin, they're going to know Ethereum, and they're going to know Ethereum as this platform that hosts all their financial apps, right? All these other web, three apps and things like that that they're using.
00:14:14.466 - 00:14:36.876, Speaker A: It's like, you know, but then eventually, I even think the term Ethereum will just be used by professionals as well. Probably be a new term that people come up with to describe this kind of new network that we've, that we've built. But ethereum, not blockchain, resonates with me because pretty much all the other blockchains aren't really doing much right now besides bitcoin. Right. And bitcoin is. Never liked to talk about blockchain. Right.
00:14:36.876 - 00:15:03.488, Speaker A: There was always, they've got battle scars from when people were pushing the narrative blockchain, not bitcoin. Right? So, yeah, I mean, that's really funny to think back on and kind of, I kind of see the kind of similarities there. But that got my brains, this tweet got me. Got my brain spinning today. Sorry, mumbled my words there. It got my brain spinning today because of this implication of, you know, where we're going to be in ten years. Right? Where.
00:15:03.488 - 00:15:32.676, Speaker A: Where's blockchain going to be? The word blockchain? As I said, I don't think it's going to be part of the common lexicon, you know, that people use. What about the word aetherium? Is that going to be something that gets abstracted away, too? You know, it could be. I. Maybe. I don't think so, simply because, I mean, I think there's a low chance of that happening because of the fact that there's an asset tied to it. Right. Where ETH, you know, ethereum, ETH are very tightly coupled when you're like, you know, promoting ETH or investing in ETH, right.
00:15:32.676 - 00:15:53.506, Speaker A: You think of a theorem. When you're, when you're talking about Defi, you think of ethereum, right? You know, I mean, we already have, like, actually thinking about it now. We already have a term that people use without mentioning ethereum. That's Defi. Right. But I do think the defi term, as good as it is and as popular as it is, may get obstructed away eventually as well. Maybe we'll just call it finance one day.
00:15:53.506 - 00:16:16.482, Speaker A: I mean, that, that is the end goal, right, to just call it finance. Maybe we just come full circle and we just call this finance. No one says Ethereum or Defi or blockchain. We're just like finance and no one says web3. They just say whatever, right? I don't know what they're gonna say, but they just, you know, they just. Maybe they just say, like, twitter, but the decentralized version of Twitter, for example. So, yeah, that's why this tweet got my brain spinning.
00:16:16.482 - 00:16:40.206, Speaker A: And I just wanted to kind of share those, those thoughts with you guys. So interesting pro tweet out from Ryan today. So he's actually shared a screenshot from the off chain labs discord. So what off chain labs is, is a L2 scaling solution. They're building roll ups as well. They've been around for quite a while. They're pretty close to mainnet, I think, and they have, they're building optimistic roll ups.
00:16:40.206 - 00:17:33.966, Speaker A: So something similar to optimism. But basically this discord post, what it says is that their, their chain, their optim, their kind of optimistic chain is going to be what they call a community chain, and it will just use ETH for fees and there will be no new token. I thought that was really cool because we don't actually know how a lot of these L2s are going to monetize what tokens they're going to take for fees, things like that. I suspect that optimism will have a token that'll run the validators, that'll be paid for fees that will act as economic incentives for things like MeV, which is minor extractable value, which is quite technical. You can google it if you want a breakdown of what that is, but I think that's going to happen. I'm not sure if Starkware is going to do a token. I mean, loopring already has a token for their protocol, not necessarily for their L2 solution, but, you know, I'm sure that'll become integrated at one point.
00:17:33.966 - 00:18:08.076, Speaker A: But yeah, I thought it was really interesting that that off chain labs is just going to use ETH for fees with no new token. I think that makes a lot of sense. Right? That's, that's a quick way to bootstrap a community too, and get broad support from the Ethereum community. But at the same time, I don't think that people, you know, creating their own tokens, I don't think optimism, creating their own token for their network should be frowned upon or anything like. I'm very bullish on tokens in general. I think they're fine when done right. And I assume that, you know, there'll be some sort of like fees being paid to the validators that hold the tokens right in some kind of maybe proof of stake system.
00:18:08.076 - 00:18:38.856, Speaker A: Maybe there's a block reward or something like that. I'm sure, you know, they're working on it. I wouldn't be surprised at all for optimism to do a token, and not just them. Pretty much a lot of the L2s to do a token, they don't need to, as shown by off chain labs here, they can just use ETH, but it depends on the construction, it depends on what you're trying to incentivize. It depends on the behavior you're trying to optimize for. There's a lot that goes into it. So I'm curious to see which ones do and don't tokenize this year because pretty much all the L2s are going to be out this year, you know, in one form or another.
00:18:38.856 - 00:19:08.514, Speaker A: So, you know, I'm curious to see how that plays out there. And as I said, I wouldn't blame any teams for issuing a token here, as long as it makes sense, which I think it does in some cases. So DydX put out their 2020 in review post today. I'll link it in the description for you to read the whole thing. But basically they had a pretty big 2020. They increased their trade volume by a 40 times in terms of, like, in terms of money going through the system. They had thousands of new traders.
00:19:08.514 - 00:19:43.854, Speaker A: They launched their perpetual contracts. You can see the charts here of them kind of the cumulative trailing volume going up to, you know, I guess the start of 2020. It was quite, quite slow, but then it rapidly kind of accelerated, and they've accelerated even more recently at $2.5 billion here. They've got a bunch of other metrics and charts here that I won't, won't go through right now, but it's really cool to see, you know, how fast they've grown. They've grown with the rest of Defi as well, which is, which is great to see. And they also talk about how they're going to be scaling with starkware, so going to L2 with, you know, ZK roll ups here, which is going to be big for them.
00:19:43.854 - 00:20:23.986, Speaker A: I think their protocols already incredibly popular, you know, as seen by the growth there, at least in the context of defi. Can you imagine what it unlocks on L2 when we have scalability? Because I think scalability is holding them back. I mean, I know it is. It's not even an opinion. I think scalability is holding DIY DX back from being able to achieve their kind of full vision here of a fully decentralized kind of like exchange that focuses on like perpetual products. And once they have that, I think they're going to unlock so much more liquidity. I could see them doing hundreds of billions of dollars worth of trade, trading volume, maybe this year into next year, you know, same with all the other exchanges like uniswap and stuff like that.
00:20:23.986 - 00:20:48.246, Speaker A: It just, when you have that scalability there, you know, there's no, there's no limits anymore. Everyone can trade on it, right? The fees are really low. It's really quick. The arbitrage between layer one, L2 is going to be quite wild for a while, I think, until that becomes more efficient. So we're going to see a lot of that happen in 2021 and into 2022. So I'm very excited for that. So quick update from yearn finance today.
00:20:48.246 - 00:21:19.316, Speaker A: So they updated their version two of their y vaults with a new fee truck fee structure. There's no more withdrawal fees. So they were criticized for this because the withdrawal fee was 0.5%. So if you put your money in and didn't stay in for a little while, didn't even make the yield back, you would get, you know, kind of like taxed with this fee more than you made. So now they've done a 20% fee on revenue and a 2% management fee. So it's basically a fee on the performance or the. I guess like the yield generated by the.
00:21:19.316 - 00:21:55.014, Speaker A: By the protocol. So if you make, you know, ten, just as a simple example, if you make $10 of yield, they'll take dollar 20% of that, which is $2, and then a 2% management fee, which would be $0.20. So that's a normal two on 20 structure, right, that you see in a lot of traditional finance. I think this is fine. I don't mind paying a fee if I can put my kind of yield on autopilot. And this fee is, of course, going to the treasury, where it can be used by Wi Fi holders and the kind of the core team and things like that. But, you know, obviously, protocols need to monetize.
00:21:55.014 - 00:22:29.034, Speaker A: I do wonder how defensible this is, though, because when you think about it, these things are fully open source, right? And because they're fully open source, these strategies can be copied. So if someone just forks this strategy and drops the fee down, then, you know, people are just going to go into that other strategy. So I think that there's a lot of different moats you can. You can have within defi. Outside of that, because of everything being open source, integrations is a big one. And the yearn ecosystem is obviously quite vast right now with all their partnerships and things like that. So, you know, that might be something that's defensible for them.
00:22:29.034 - 00:23:03.794, Speaker A: The yearn brand is definitely very defensible there. The fact that maybe the strategies have to be manually kind of managed to an extent. Right. And then because of that, they basically can't really be copied. Or if they're copied, you know, the people that copied the code would have to manage it the same way urine does, and all this kind of, you know, nuance to it that you don't just get when you say, oh, the strategy in the vault could just be copied. Right? I mean, it can, but, yeah, as I said, there's a lot of different things there to consider and to consider different moats and where. Where yearn shines, basically.
00:23:03.794 - 00:23:47.272, Speaker A: So red phone crypto put out this thread today about BTC coming to DeFi. I mean, it already came to Defi, but, like, apparently he's saying it's going to go full beast mode within DeFi in 2021 thanks to bridges like Wren, boring Dao and Thor chain, and also projects like Badgerdao. For those who don't know, Badgerdao is a project that's focused on bringing BTC to DeFi. And they actually have like hundreds of millions locked up in their protocol, predominantly bitcoin liquidity. And this is because as they're kind of advertising, they're tapping into that BTC community, which, you know, badger is like honey Badger. Don't care, right. It's like a meme from the bitcoin community.
00:23:47.272 - 00:24:28.710, Speaker A: So they're obviously appealing to. To this kind of, I guess, space here, right? The bitcoin space that may not be interested in like holding ETH and doing things with ETH, right, because of one reason or another, but they're interested in bitcoin. So red phone crypto basically goes through this and goes through, you know, how BTC is going to come to Ethereum and defi. It's only a few short tweets here through these bridges and kind of maps it to ethereum. I kind of agree with this because I was actually surprised and blown away by how much BTC came over to Ethereum already. And it came over predominantly through raft bitcoin, the centralized version. I can imagine that there's a lot of bitcoiners that don't like that, right.
00:24:28.710 - 00:24:53.530, Speaker A: They don't want to use a centralized version, but they will use a credibly decentralized one. So we'll have to see how that plays out. But I'm expecting to see plenty more BTC come over to Ethereum in the near future. So, interesting blog posts from coinlist here today. They go through basically how tokens have evolved over time or coins have evolved over time. I'll link it in the description for you to go read it. Just wanted to give some quick thoughts here.
00:24:53.530 - 00:25:24.296, Speaker A: I don't want to dive too deep in, but basically reading through this, it was kind of amazing to see how different tokens kind of have. Have been over the years, right? We had like the ICO era from, I'd say it was from 2016 to like early 2018 or something like that. Predominantly in 2017, of course. And that model was. Was pretty poor, right. It resulted in a lot of capital going to a lot of the wrong projects. Then we had the ieos kind of evolve from icos in 2018, right, which was quite poor as well.
00:25:24.296 - 00:25:53.004, Speaker A: And then I think in 2017 and 2018, we also had airdrops, but different. The airdrops were different to what they are today. The airdrops were given to, like, everyone you didn't have. There wasn't a specific criteria for the airdrop. It would just be airdrop to every. Every kind of active ethereum address, the most famous one being the emise go airdrop. And also liquidity for these airdrops was hard because now with uniswap and decentralized exchanges, anyone can provide liquidity, right? But back then there wasn't any of those services.
00:25:53.004 - 00:26:28.974, Speaker A: So you had to just pray that exchange list of this token when you start, when you created a new token. So that's why I think airdrops are more successful today. And then they go into like basically how there's liquidity mining now, right, in 2020, or yield farming, whatever you want to call it. There's all these different novel mechanisms of issuing a token, like the balance of pool sales, and there's the mesa auctions sales as well. There's like icos kind of coming back sort of in some limited way, but not really. And then of course there's the, as I said, the proper airdrops as well. So I just thought it was interesting to see the evolution.
00:26:28.974 - 00:26:55.468, Speaker A: Go give the piece a read if you want to, want to dive deeper there. So this isn't ethereum related, but I thought it was very important. So over the last couple days, there was reports of a double spend on the bitcoin network. Now, if that actually happened. Well, first of all, it didn't happen, right? There was no double spend on the bitcoin network. But if it actually happened, it would be extremely bad. Probably one of the worst things to happen to bitcoin in its history.
00:26:55.468 - 00:27:49.924, Speaker A: And the reason is, is because a double spend basically means that someone was able to spend the same bitcoin twice on the network, essentially inflating the supply. Now that, as I said, would be the worst thing to happen in bitcoin's history. So you want to make very, very sure that that was actually the case before you publicize this. And the reason why it went so far was because BitMex actually said this. Their research desk, and their research desk is actually quite good normally. So people trusted it, right? It came from a credible source, but they should never have tweeted that because it was literally normal behavior for the bitcoin network. And I'll link this thread in the YouTube description, but the TLDR is basically that, you know, the bitcoin network has a works with proof of work mining, right? And if you just wait for one block of a transaction to be confirmed just with one block, that block could later be orphaned in the next block, right, and become an orphan in bitcoin.
00:27:49.924 - 00:28:06.846, Speaker A: It's called an uncle block in Ethereum. And then that could be basically, that block could be kind of, as I said, orphaned, which means it's not part of the main chain. And then it would. And then that original transaction you thought was a double spend isn't. Because that. Because that block is not part of the main chain. Right.
00:28:06.846 - 00:28:31.576, Speaker A: I know I'm bastardizing it a bit here because it is a little bit technical if you don't have context here, but go read this thread for the full kind of thing there. But I did want to, did want to kind of bring it up just because it actually led to a lot of fuD. And I don't know if it led to the sell off. I think that's a bit of a stretch. But it did lead to a lot of Fud. And it plays into Ethereum as well, because Ethereum runs on proof of work right now. And this, you know, double spend could technically happen in Ethereum, too.
00:28:31.576 - 00:29:14.076, Speaker A: But as I said, for bitcoin, it was to be the worst thing that could happen. Ethereum, pretty much the worst thing that could happen as well. So you really, whenever you see this news, you want to make 100% sure that it is right. And even if it's coming from a credible source, you want to obviously check different sources, because this kind of stuff is just so bad. If it was to actually happen that it would be, I don't know if it would be the death of bitcoin or crypto in general, but it would be. It would be so bad that it would require people to reevaluate things, right. It would mean that someone was able to get majority control of the bitcoin network, essentially, or there was some bug in bitcoin that in the bitcoin protocol that allowed this, a bug allowing this would be better.
00:29:14.076 - 00:29:39.750, Speaker A: Someone getting control of the bitcoin network would be a disaster scenario, I think. Nightmare scenario. So this is why, when I saw this, I was like, no, surely not. Because I first saw the bitmex tweet. I was like, no, no, this isn't right. There's no way there's a double spend on bitcoin, because this would be catastrophic. And then I went and sort out these other sources, and many in the bitcoin community put out tweets and put out, Andreas Antonopoulos put out a video as well.
00:29:39.750 - 00:30:05.506, Speaker A: So you can go watch that on his YouTube channel. But basically, I had to check it because I was in disbelief about it. I was like, there's no way this is true. And sure enough, it wasn't. But if you're a. If you're newer to the ecosystem and you don't actually know how bad a double spend is or, you know, or can be. If it was actually to occur, then it's easy to kind of, like, fall for this, right, and not fall for it in the way that you get tricked or whatever, but believe it, especially if it's coming from a credible source like BitMex, so.
00:30:05.506 - 00:30:50.492, Speaker A: Or BitMex's research desk. So I'm actually very disappointed in them for doing this because it probably did play some part in the market action. But on top of that, it required, like, so much people to, to, to kind of come together to debunk this, because kind of bad news or drama or bullshit spreads much faster than, than kind of like the truth, right? So it's. It's very hard to kind of, like, correct this misinformation, and it required an ecosystem wide effort to do it. So that's why I'm bringing it up as well, just for anyone that didn't see these explanations here. So, yeah, nothing to worry about with, with bitcoin, because that would be bad for ethereum as well, you know, if bitcoin had a double spend and the market was like, holy shit, I need to sell my BTC and get out of this stuff. East dumping along with it.
00:30:50.492 - 00:31:12.076, Speaker A: Like, I'll be honest, there's no way that ETH would survive that. You know, in the short term. Long term, you know, we'll see what happens. But short term, the whole market would sell off and everything would crash. I think maybe that's hyperbole, but honestly, I mean, I would personally be considering kind of, like, my position at that point. It'd be like, okay, this is really bad, what's happening. But as I said, there's two different ways.
00:31:12.076 - 00:31:37.964, Speaker A: If it's a bug, I'd be like, okay, if it's just a bug, they can fix it. You know, even though they don't want to fix it because they don't like hard forks, the bitcoin community, they would fix that because it's catastrophic. But if it was actually a 51% attack where the majority of the network was overtaken by one party, that would be, yeah, catastrophic. So good to keep in mind, but I'll digress for now. I don't want to, you know, I think I've gone over time here over 30 minutes already. All right, I'll stop there. So that's it for today, everyone.
00:31:37.964 - 00:31:47.484, Speaker A: So if you haven't subscribed to the YouTube channel, do so. Give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the Deli Gwen newsletter, join the Discord. And since it's Friday, I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
