00:00:00.120 - 00:00:35.480, Speaker A: Well, I will get started for all the awesome people that stayed around. Super pumped to be here. Thank you to all the guys at the nebular summit. This has been a great conference last year, this year, et cetera. Glad to see some familiar faces out here for, for the few that are here. But I'm, you know, I'm Cooper, I work on the injective labs business development team and we are one of the core contributors to injective today. I'm kind of, you know, just going to present a high level understanding of what injective is, how developers can get started, and really what our mission is and what we're attempting to build.
00:00:35.480 - 00:01:35.744, Speaker A: So getting into it, for those who don't know, injective is the blockchain built specifically for finance and finance based applications. What that means is that every single upgrade, integration or collaboration on the chain level will always be made with web3 finance developers in mind. So because all of us are kind of on this mission to democratize finance, we understand at this point in time there's really not that many tools and not that many good user experiences on the developer side, on the user side that really exist. In order to get us there. It may take months to develop applications properly from scratch and generate things like meaningful liquidity. However, we try to create tools, which I'll go through today, that allow for developers to seamlessly access the, access those types of things. Um, so to kind of go back in time and kind of give the genesis story to understand how we got to where we are today.
00:01:35.744 - 00:02:44.030, Speaker A: These are our two awesome co founders, Eric and Albert. Um, they started injective all the way back in 2018. And what they had initially, you know, planned to do, they set out to create like a new financial system. What does that mean? They kind of were running into the same problems that, that were being faced like across Ethereum mainet at the time it was long development cycles, low liquidity, lack of real on chain institutional capital, and really a big piece of it was mev shitty user experience. Excuse me, bad user experience on etH mainnet surrounding how can I utilize my ERC 20 assets back in the day with things like uniswap? So they originally set out to build an exchange product with superior capital efficiency to that of an AMM and something that you could find on things like the New York Stock Exchange or something like even Binance or coinbase. And funny enough, Binance Labs was the incubated injective about six years ago. And really at that time, the branding surrounding it was building the first ever decentralized binance.
00:02:44.030 - 00:03:35.520, Speaker A: They looked into a myriad of chains to build this product on, and they always ran into the same issues. And it was slow transaction times, high costs, and rampant mev. And even if they had succeeded in finding a different chain, it didn't solve some of the issues that DeFi faced overall. And that's how do we secure liquidity? Because if you here go to any DeFi conference, which this is one, you just hear the word liquidity over and over. That really just means access to get into a position or out of a position at any time, in any size. So they wanted to build a solution for all those different problems outlined. So, first, to go through the core components of injective, the first, and I think really what sits at the base layer is this order book functionality.
00:03:35.520 - 00:04:45.140, Speaker A: So the intent was to create exchange at first and injectives, kind of core value add, I would say, is this on chain order book. And in traditional finance, an order book is nearly always the integral component of any transaction. Injective helped to create the first fully on chain order book that not only could power financial activity, but also do it in a super capital efficient manner. To understand why this is, I think, much different than a lot of the different primitives that exist today, the team at injective developed something called frequent batch auctions. And it's commonly proposed today in economic journals as like a definitive solution to solving different forms of capital inefficiencies on chain, but also being able to keep every aspect of the trade on chain. So a big problem that you see today is that people utilize matching engines that are off chain, in the cloud, using things like AWS, et cetera. Injective actually is probably the only thing that I'm aware of to this day, that every aspect of the chain is still fully on chain and fully decentralized.
00:04:45.140 - 00:05:30.788, Speaker A: So essentially, orders are accepted over a discrete time period known as the auction interval, and are filed based on their priority of order type. Orders are then published to the order book once the auction interval ends and the batch auction is executed, eliminating the possibility of front running. So we currently have a block time of about 600, 700 milliseconds, and within that, every singular block, there's a new auction occurring. So this is not a long period by any means. So next is the concept of speed, which I just brought up. Injective also is able to process transactions at lightning fast speeds. Block times are currently in the neighborhood of 700 milliseconds, and we're working super.
00:05:30.788 - 00:06:32.074, Speaker A: Our engineering team is working around the clock to kind of decrease and compress those times as much as possible. And this in practice means you can aggregate and process thousands of transactions and bash them into a singular transaction, leading to even more sophisticated use cases than what could be possible in other types of environments. So the next piece is that zero gas. So there's been a primitive created that allows you to abstract gas from the user experience, which we feel as if from the UI. And kind of the chain extraction kind of concept is immensely important in being able to attract developers, but to bring on users. Right. Do your grandparents want to use an application where they have to worry about gas fees or some concept of an additional form, a fee or signing? And we think that that is really a core component of why the modules and the use cases we have built can be utilized by many.
00:06:32.074 - 00:07:18.968, Speaker A: And next is by having incredibly fast transactions and zero gas fees with an order book, it's really not enough. And this is something that personally is something that I work on quite a bit and can speak to, is the concept of liquidity. So if you look at any other blockchain out of the box, we can provide things like an order book and different modules, which I'll get into a bit later. But at the end of the day, liquidity is the concept of really institutional capital and institutional working capital that exists. And there's very few places on chain, maybe one, two or three that exist, that really have this in a meaningful way. One of those being uniswap. And I wouldn't say that that's too capital efficient in the amm form.
00:07:18.968 - 00:07:54.804, Speaker A: However, it exists very deep across several different assets. And this is how injective has changed the game, in my opinion. We have gone and integrated all of those institutions. I would say they're more web3 institutions. Many of those come from more of the tradfi names that are plugged in and integrated via API, via SDK, and trading on the chain and providing liquidity on a block by block basis. And this pretty much allows for, let's assume you're on some other large chain that has none of these primitives. You have to go as an early developer and go to, I think.
00:07:54.804 - 00:09:18.942, Speaker A: Let's think of some of the injective investors, whether that's jump Revin, Howard, et cetera, and go and ask those guys to spend a ton of financial and technical resources to integrate and then provide capital, which still in that environment is incredibly, incredibly expensive. And that is what we have solved by this shared liquidity model, such that currently there is over 15 institutional market makers trading on chain as we speak in this exact moment, that any developer can come on and spin up an application and tap into those markets and create their own experience. So next, with all those core components, we then access the next piece, which is these plug and play modules. I like to think of this as a WordPress for finance, where you essentially can take the orderbook module, the Oracle module, the bridge module. Obviously, smart contracts are built into many of those things, but you could add customizations, et cetera, and create your own exchange fully on chain without having to build anything from scratch. With that being the case, these templates are utilized as building blocks to rapidly create powerful applications. Next, I want to highlight to many who might not know some of the exciting stuff that we've seen on the injective side of things.
00:09:18.942 - 00:09:48.484, Speaker A: We have just some growth statistics, which I'll go through pretty quickly. Last year, we had about 586,000 kind of daily transactions. Today we have 3 million. And this is really on a daily basis. I think this says a lot to how the ecosystem is really scaling and how the technology is getting better on kind of a month by month basis. Next piece, that's 411% increase. Next is daily volume across Dexs.
00:09:48.484 - 00:10:24.660, Speaker A: And I think this speaks a lot to the developers who have really come on and the users who are coming and pushing a lot of new products. So last year, about $7.7 million a day in volume across all Dex is built on the chain and across the ecosystem. Today, about $75 million on average. Obviously, that's a massive increase. Then next, staking, which is obviously immensely important to underpinning the security of the proof of stake network. We have seen the amount of staked Inga go from 30 million to 58.8
00:10:24.660 - 00:11:33.386, Speaker A: million, which is obviously 100% increase. And then in terms of growth, right. I think one of the most important growth numbers from our side of things is injective has also seen a massive surge in the total number of active wallets on chain, seeing around 548,000 wallets today compared to about 14,000, 14,500 last year. It's really cool to go and visualize a lot of this growth with tools like Artemis and other things that really can compare how much growth. And I think it's really cool being a cosmos developer focused ecosystem to realize how these chains can really grow much, much larger than what exists in the concept of cosmos and really compete with the names like Solana or Avalanche or Polygon, et cetera. And I think that many chains within the cosmos ecosystem are really showing that as well. So that's a 3000% growth over the past year onto the next piece.
00:11:33.386 - 00:12:25.036, Speaker A: And this is probably the cool one specifically for this conference is the developer activity. So it's no surprise that kind of with all these different pieces across the ecosystem and the community, we're seeing much more developers join. The ecosystem is why we come to conferences like this and we speak and do different events like we did this past week, is that we're seeing 27,000 weekly typescript downloads compared to 7000 occurring just one year ago. Now obviously that's quite an increase. So next it's easy to say after going through all those things, that our ecosystem is growing. So we're not only powering, and I see some of our partners here today, like Tyree, that injective is powering some of the best and most innovative protocols and communities in all of crypto. And our growth story is just getting started on this end.
00:12:25.036 - 00:13:28.630, Speaker A: So it's where are we going from here? And this spans, we like to think of every different vertical of the finance stack or the web3 finance stack, which include things like DeFi, real world assets, NFT, fi, GameFi, different forms of trading, lending and more. And we want to be the central hub for developers and make them able to create innovative new protocols that are faster and provide competitive advantage to onboarding users in creating very innovative products utilizing these plug and play modules and the shared liquidity. We're super excited about that. An area that I wanted to chat about today is something that I work on quite a bit and it's this concept of real world assets. Beyond that, injective is powering the most liquid real world asset products today, such as on chain, euros, gold and more right now as we speak. If you go to helixapp.com comma, which is one of the Dexs that's built on top of the injective shared liquidity.
00:13:28.630 - 00:14:34.972, Speaker A: You can utilize the real world asset perps on gold, euro, pound and silver that have deeper liquidity than anywhere else on chain. I think right now, on a second by second basis, there's more than a million dollars per market that you could go and open up a position which is significant and it's something that we've been working on quite a bit. And the next piece that I wanted to talk about is those are things like perps, which are fantastic. And we believe based off a lot of research that we've done, let's say we go to add several more commodities which we see in the roadmap. You go to a place like Argentina, many of those folks are not hedging and utilizing different forms of hedging, and we believe that those types of users will have a real use case for things on chain like hedging real world assets. The next piece is that you hear a big roar about the concept of real world assets coming on chain. And really all they are and what we've seen to this day is a lot of different forms of money market funds or a lot of different forms of potentially tokenized real estate.
00:14:34.972 - 00:15:28.440, Speaker A: But that's really cool and I think it's really awesome. But once you have the token, okay, now I created this token. How is it any different from my web two version or my kind of web zero version where I have a deed or a title or that thing? I've not tokenized it or created an NFT or whatever that thing is. I now need to create composability or utility for that form of asset. That's what we're super excited about doing in the future. We released just this past January the first ever permission module, which essentially allows you to take any asset on chain. You can take a look through our docs and dig through this, but essentially you can take any asset and permission it with an on chain or off chain allow list as well as take any market id, which is very novel relative to some of the things that exist and essentially allow for only on chain or off chain whitelisted addresses to associate with a given market id and swap.
00:15:28.440 - 00:16:41.506, Speaker A: Which is quite interesting because I think the next piece of really onboarding or the next developers or users or quote unquote institutions is making them feel as such that they're in a very compliant ecosystem and have different use cases that are available to them. That leads us to today, injective has built one of the most powerful networks for developers that want to build finance applications with these easy plug and play modules that make it seamless to quickly build and launch high fidelity applications. We now have a prime network with active members and users that allow each DAP within the ecosystem to flourish. So for those of you who are interested, please join our discord, our channel, to get connected further with other builders within the ecosystem. Love to see composability that's occurring between different applications. We had quite a few here this week. It was really cool to see for the first time you have teams flying in from Korea from all over the world to join kind of our mission and building applications that can seamlessly compose with one another and create products that people use.
00:16:41.506 - 00:16:50.650, Speaker A: So really appreciate you guys at Nebula for putting this all together. And thanks for everybody for listening and sticking with us this morning and Saturday. So cheers, guys.
