00:00:00.280 - 00:00:27.094, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise's Hanoi, and today's the 31 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So you guys will know all about the client diversity stuff that I've been chatting about with the Beacon chain. I've talked about this for the last few months at least. And you guys will know that Superfizz has been an absolutely massive champion of this effort. Now you can see here, Superfizz put out a tweet today thanking all the other people that were involved in this effort.
00:00:27.094 - 00:01:14.640, Speaker A: Well, you know, as many people that, that he could think of, including Evan van Ness, Ben Edgington from the what's new in ETH two newsletter, Michael Sproul, myself, Prolabs, bunch of others. Look, I mean, I don't think this would have happened without this really nice concerted effort from superfizz and others around increasing client diversity on the beacon chain. I mean, no one was really talking about it in any big way before Superfizz started making a lot of noise about it. Obviously, you know, it was, it wasn't just him. It was a lot of us kind of coming together and doing this and amplifying the message and all that sort of stuff. And I've talked about it a lot, as I said, but I think that it always takes kind of like, you know, it's always fun. People were like, oh, you know, how can a theorem be decentralized if there's, if there are, there are people out there who kind of like have more power than others or have more kind of clout than others or more, more, I guess, reach than others.
00:01:14.640 - 00:01:45.016, Speaker A: Well, I push back on that and I say, well, this is the perfect example of a decentralized ecosystem coming together. Right? Superfizz does not work for the Ethereum foundation. He does not work for any of the core client teams. He did not work for anything ethereum related at all from, from what I can see. He spends a lot of time as part of like the take a community, the rocket pool community, does a lot in the Ethereum community, specifically on the staking side of things. But it, you know, he wasn't paid to do this. He just basically said, well, there's a problem, right? The client diversity thing is a problem.
00:01:45.016 - 00:02:00.630, Speaker A: I'm going to make noise about it. I'm going to get other people bought in. I'm going to speak to the right people that I need to speak to. And we're going to make some noise, we're going to make this happen. And it worked. I mean, like, I am so like impressed that it worked so quickly as well. I mean, I say quickly, it did take a, take a bit of time here.
00:02:00.630 - 00:02:22.366, Speaker A: But you know, the fact that we got below 66% on, we got prison below 66% so quickly is, is awesome. And I mean, it really, really speaks to just how amazing the Ethereum community is that anyone can come in and do this. I mean, as, you know, as I said, like super fizz. I mean he's a prominent person within the staking community, so he's not just some random off the street. Right. But he's not Vitalik. Right.
00:02:22.366 - 00:02:44.782, Speaker A: For example, or he's not Danny Ryan or Tim Bico, the, the coordinators or he's not a core dev, he's a community member who is really passionate about client diversity. And he came and he did this amazing thing, got everyone on board, got us all to kind of like start making noise about it. And it was really, really good. And you know, I think this isn't obviously the end. Obviously. Client diversity is an ongoing thing. We need to kind of like keep this up.
00:02:44.782 - 00:03:25.560, Speaker A: We need to make sure that it stays this way and we keep on top of it and that gets better over time. And we also need to focus our efforts on not just the beacon chain but also the execution kind of layer as well. So, sorry, not just the consensus layer, but the execution layer. So next step would be to get people to stop running geth and run minority clients such as Nethermind or Eragon. So if you're running an 8th, one node or an execution layer node today and it's geth, you can consider changing to Nethermind or Aragorn or something else there. Because at the end of the day, as I said yesterday, get this, still 80% of the network and that, you know, he's not, I mean it's not, it's an issue, but it's not like a huge issue currently. But post merge, it's definitely not going to be something that we want to see.
00:03:25.560 - 00:04:06.522, Speaker A: We definitely want to see similar kind of client diversity on both their consensus layer and execution layers. So, so that's just a shout out there from me, but I'm sure either superfuse or someone else is going to come, especially post merge, and say, hey guys, like, you know, the client diversity on the execution layer is not good enough. Let's do better here. So yeah, just an appreciation post appreciation shout out from super fizzy and to all of you as well, I'm sure at least some of you would have either changed your client from the super majority client being prism, do something else, or if you've spun up a validator recently, you would have, you would have basically spun up something else. Or you've just made noise about it, right? I mean, just talking about it is enough because you just make more noise about it. You get it top of people's minds and things happen in the background. Things definitely have been happening.
00:04:06.522 - 00:04:42.954, Speaker A: The wheels have been turning and the proof is in the pudding. And that's what we saw when we visited the Invis website yesterday, the one that I. Or not yesterday. Where is it? Yeah, pools Invis cloud here. I think it was yesterday or the day before where we saw that prism usage is well below 66% right now and hopefully getting better over time. So just a cool little appreciation tweet from super fizz there. All right, so following on from Tim Bico's tweet yesterday, where he asked what are the most important things to get right in the next two to three years for ethereum to thrive? Danny Ryan has said, always tweeted out what are the biggest systemic threats to ethereum in the next two to three years.
00:04:42.954 - 00:05:10.320, Speaker A: Now this. Got a bunch of good replies here. One of my favorite ones is from Hudson Jameson, who says, a major bug in a majority client that requires manual intervention post merge. We have a lot of work and experience dealing with proof of work bugs and how to recover. Proof of stake recovery is less tested and the safety net of client diversity may be difficult if clients aren't diversified enough. And then he continues on to say, this is not to imply that a ton of work hasn't been done in both testing, recovery and proof of stake and client diversity. I believe it is getting better at time, goes on and have full confidence in the merge.
00:05:10.320 - 00:05:34.618, Speaker A: I do, however, see it as a huge risk. I mean, I agree with this. Obviously the proof of work chain has been around a lot longer than the proof of stake chain has. And we, we've had the beacon chain live for over twelve months now. You know, I think it's like 14 or 15 months, something like that. And that's all well and good, but it really hasn't been doing much. It hasn't been validating transactions on the execution layer side, which is a whole nother kettle of fish.
00:05:34.618 - 00:05:59.446, Speaker A: So there's definitely a big risk there. I don't know if I'd call it a systemic kind of like threat. Look, you know, it's always funny when I, when I see something like a systemic threat, like when I, when I think of that, I think of something that sets ethereum back by a lot, right? By maybe years. Like if something happened, then we had to kind of like fix it. But it set confidence in ethereum back by, by years. And it took a lot of time for us to kind of like get back to where we, where we were. It depends on the bug, I guess.
00:05:59.446 - 00:06:31.170, Speaker A: If it was like a really, really bad bug where maybe a lot of people lost their ethan and because of some, some slashing event that happened when it shouldn't have happened and then people came together and couldn't decide on how to, you know, fix the issue, that could set ethereum back, definitely. So I guess it defends on, depends on the severity there, for sure. So that was a good little reply from, from Hudson. You know, a bunch of other replies in the, in the, in the tweets here. I think around, I guess, like bugs primarily, obviously, is a big systemic risk. Ease of use of L2s was. It was, it was, it was something that got commented on a few times.
00:06:31.170 - 00:07:05.562, Speaker A: Like if we don't make L2s just dead simple, simple for people to use, then they're going to use something simpler, and that might be an alternative l one. So that's definitely a risk there. And I would actually say that's more of a systemic threat because if people decide to use these alts l one's instead of the l two s, like if l two s just totally fail to gain traction and everyone's just using these other l one s, well, that's a systemic threat to Ethereum because it means Ethereum is not going to succeed in the long term. Right. So that's definitely something to, I guess, keep in mind. I wouldn't, I mean, I'm not worried about it. Like I have, as I said to you guys before, I think it's basically a 0% chance that L2s fail.
00:07:05.562 - 00:07:58.854, Speaker A: There's just like no way in my, in my kind of like eyes, but there's always the kind of like chance there. Now, if I was to give my own kind of like, I guess, opinion on what the biggest systemic threat to Ethereum would be, honestly, I would go big here, guys. I would say that nation states are really the only thing I worry about because a concerted effort from a nation state to take down aetherium, look, they could do a lot of damage, don't get me wrong. And I've talked about how with something that's truly decentralized is actually hard to kind of like kill it dead. And what I mean by that is that they can attack the network, they can split the network off, they can do a bunch of different things, but for them to actually completely take over a few ethereum as not just a network but as a community would be impossible, right? Like the Ethereum community can come together and say, well, this chain keeps getting attacked, or this chain is basically dead. Let's move on to this one. And this, you know, we'll all agree that this is the canonical chain.
00:07:58.854 - 00:08:29.870, Speaker A: That can happen easily on the social consensus side of things. And I mean, I say easily. It wouldn't obviously be an easy thing. It would be quite a mess, but it could happen, right? So I guess, like, you know, from that perspective, I would say that nation states are the only thing that I worry about. And that's why I harp on so much about the importance of decentralization, because you, the only way, the only way you can resist nation states is with decentralization. If you are centralized, they're going to shut you down instantly. If you have a maybe on the technical layer you are decentralized to an extent, but on the social layer you are not.
00:08:29.870 - 00:09:02.340, Speaker A: I mean, it'd be very hard to do that. But if that was the case, again, you're basically very susceptible to a nation state attacks. And don't get me wrong, guys like, or don't, don't think these attacks aren't coming. They are like, I just, I don't think we've seen them yet because it hasn't been kind of like, I mean, I don't think the nation states take crypto or take blockchains as a serious systemic threat to themselves yet, but they will in the future, and some of them will play nice. Some of them won't. You know, I could imagine, you know, China's already been pretty strict on crypto. I could imagine China being like, well, we don't want a theorem to succeed.
00:09:02.340 - 00:09:44.940, Speaker A: We want our own thing to succeed. And they kind of like attack a theorem with all their resources, all these sorts of things, you know, it can happen, right? That to me is the biggest systemic threat. I still put a low percent chance from that happening. I feel like, you know, yes, they could do it relatively easily, but I don't really see the benefit, to be honest. I mean, they, it's more beneficial for them to actually, to get involved with crypto, to fund it, to put tax money towards it, to actually generate and stimulate the economy in order to earn more tax money from it and in order to grow their country's economy and keep their voters happy and get voted back in. Like, and I'm talking about a democracy here, obviously, that, you know, China is not a democracy, so that could be a different thing there. And I mean, not really Russia.
00:09:44.940 - 00:10:06.292, Speaker A: I mean, Russia at this point in time seems to be in their own kind of little predicament there, I have to say the least. So. But I just think in general, you know, the nation state doesn't even have to be a superpower either. Like, they just have to have enough of enough resources to go after these things. And obviously attacking bitcoin and ethereum right now is extremely expensive. But these other networks are not. These other networks are very cheap to attack.
00:10:06.292 - 00:10:50.204, Speaker A: I mean, some of them that basically require data centers to run the network, they're extremely easy to attack. Guys like you could literally, I mean, I'm not going to pick on any one chain, but any of these chains, if you just go to some of the top data centers in the world, they most likely hold or are hosting all of these nodes and validators, just tell them to shut it down and that's it. These, you know, AWS and Google cloud and whoever else are not going to basically say no to the US government, right? They're going to do it, especially if they're ordered to do it. So that, to me, is the biggest systemic threat to ethereum and crypto in general. But at the same time, I don't view it as something that's likely to happen. I view there will be regulations, there will be laws that, that suck in some countries for crypto. There will be probably more tax reform around this sort of stuff.
00:10:50.204 - 00:11:33.234, Speaker A: But I don't really think that we're going to see a nation, a concerted nation, like big nation state attack against one of these networks. But in saying that, I think that just because I don't expect to see it and just because it's a low chance doesn't mean we shouldn't build these systems to resist that. Because not only are we building these systems to resist nation states, but we're also building them to resist any type of attacker. Like, we need to make sure that it can resist not, not just an attacker with the monetary resources, but also with the technical resources. For example, if they're an attacker who can find a critical bug in the network, we need to make sure that it's either very hard for them to exploit that bug or have a culture of recovering from that bug and being able to patch it or just making sure that there's no, none of those bugs to begin with. So there's a whole lot that goes into this. This is not a simple thing.
00:11:33.234 - 00:12:15.114, Speaker A: And that's why you'll always, always hear me go on about decentralization being the most important thing. Because at the end of the day, for me, if a blockchain is not actually like maximally decentralized, then you don't need a blockchain. Especially as we go into the modular blockchain paradigm where you're going to get more scale, the more decentralized you are. It makes zero sense to me why you would sacrifice decentralization to achieve scale if you don't need to do that anymore and if you're just giving up so much security in order to do that. So that's why, that's, that's basically, I mean, the TLDR of why I go on about this stuff a lot, but I think it's critically important. So let me know what systemic threats you say to a theorem either in the Discord channel, the YouTube comments. I, I don't reply to a lot of the comments, but I do read them, guys.
00:12:15.114 - 00:12:28.454, Speaker A: It's just not enough time to reply to part of them all. But I do read them. I do, I do try to art to try to digest all that. And I do read your comments about what's on this beanbag here. Guys, it's all clothes. It's nothing, it's nothing conspicuous. It's like my tracksuit pants.
00:12:28.454 - 00:13:10.650, Speaker A: There's that I wore tonight when I, when I went out before. And yeah, I mean that's a little off topic there. But as I said, I do read the comments. That's just to prove to you that I read the comments there. But anyway, moving on from that to an interesting tweet here from data always who tweeted out with decreasing gas fees and lower burn? I've naturally been getting questions about whether post merge ETH will still be deflationary. To date there hasn't been a single day since ERP 1559 where staking rewards have been larger than the token burn. Amazing, right guys, I think I've mentioned this to you guys before, but even at the lower gas prices that we had like 1010 way or 20 way, we were still burning more than was being issued in proof of stake.
00:13:10.650 - 00:13:36.006, Speaker A: Now obviously we weren't burning more taking into account staking and mining, kind of like ETH being issued. But like how amazing is this? Because we're getting rid of the mining issuance in a few months. Right, with the merge. And then even at 20 way, we're still going to be deflationary. Uh, and this, you know, we're still gonna be burning more, ethan. We're issuing and a lot of. And as I said to you guys before, there is a six month or at least a six month dead period where no new ETH is being issued into, into the market.
00:13:36.006 - 00:14:12.622, Speaker A: So I don't know, like, guys, I don't want to get too bullish here, but, like, I don't know how many times I have to repeat myself about how stupidly bullish this is. Not only is the triple harbing extremely bullish with the 90, 80% to 90% issuance reduction, but we still have 1559 going. I mean, I put out a tweet the other day where I said no one talks about it anymore, but Erp 1559 is still burning millions of dollars worth of ETH per day, guys. Like, it's not a small amount. It's millions of dollars per. Just imagine Erp 1559 as a person that goes out there and buys millions of ETH, millions of dollars worth of ETH every single day and burns it, removes it from the supply forever. And, and I don't know.
00:14:12.622 - 00:14:30.944, Speaker A: I don't want to go on too much about it because I'm repeating myself so much here, but I love seeing stuff like this because it just reaffirms that. And, and look at how much, like, ETH we're burning during kind of like the hype, I guess. The bull market cycles. Like, once we go back to that, we're going to be straight back there. Gwei is going to be 100 again. I mean, it already doubled the average. I mean, it's been at 40 gray for the past few days.
00:14:30.944 - 00:14:50.174, Speaker A: It was 20 gray last week. Like, the gas price moves up so quickly when the market gets hot and the market really is heating up, guys. I mean, ETH is, you know, hanging around 3400. I don't know how much of you guys kind of, like, pay attention to technical analysis, but that is, like, the level everyone's looking at. But when I look at things, I look at momentum shifts. The momentum has shifted bullish. That's for sure, guys.
00:14:50.174 - 00:15:12.770, Speaker A: Like, yes, the price can still go down from here, but I have felt that momentum shift. And I think leading up to the merge is going to get more and more shifted there. There's tons of ETH going into staking. Everyone's talking about staking. Everyone's talking about the yield that will happen once the merge goes through. It will spike to like 10% plus, probably. And that's another thing that I've been talking about on the refill for a very long time, but just now people are clueing into it.
00:15:12.770 - 00:16:12.734, Speaker A: So it's always fun to see, like, how long I've been talking about this stuff and then watching on Twitter as everyone clues into this and Bezla and he's like, holy shit, like, what? I can get 10% risk free on my 8th post merge because the unburnt fair revenue is going to be going to stakers and, oh shit, there's a 80 90% issue introduction coming in and oh, shit, we have a six month dead period of new issuance. All they have to do is watch or listen to the refuel half an hour of their day, but they don't. That's where you guys get the alpha. And that's what I love about the, about doing this sort of stuff is that, like, I can say this stuff so far in, in, you know, in the past and the people who actually care enough to listen to me every day will get that alpha and the ones who don't have to come later. And you may think, oh, you know, the market's super efficient because of this, this and this, and everyone knows about this. I remember saying probably over a year ago at this point to you guys on here, that if you think people understand all of this, or if you think, you know, hundreds of thousands of people, the, you know, everyone that's in crypto understands all of this, you're sorely mistaken. I still think.
00:16:12.734 - 00:16:41.624, Speaker A: I mean, there's probably a lot more people that understand it now, but I still think up until the last maybe month or so, there was probably less than a few thousand people who actually understood all of this sort of stuff that I talk about to you guys every day. And I'm going to say that most of them would probably be refuel watchers and listeners. So I'm pretty proud of that. Like, I. The most proud thing I am with, with the refuel. So the most. The thing that I'm most proud of with the refuel is basically being able to say these things so early on and then see them watch, watch them play out later.
00:16:41.624 - 00:17:08.512, Speaker A: It's not like an ego thing. It's just I'm kind of, like, proud. I'm proud that I'm able to kind of, like, spot that information early and pass it on to you guys. And I don't charge for any of this, right? Everything's free. And just watch it all play out because it's just awesome to see kind of like that I was, you know, that I kind of got this stuff right, and I kind of, like, had a thesis and it played out. And that's what I've felt like for my entire time in crypto. I had, you know, have had the thesis on a theorem for a very long time, and I've kind of watched that play out.
00:17:08.512 - 00:17:31.582, Speaker A: And then now these days, I'm just like. Like, it's just insane. The information asymmetry, how many I sort of took the other day, someone's thought Ethereum was already proof of stake and. Look, guys, it's just crazy. I'm rambling here, but this is just all the sort of stuff I like to think about a lot and kind of like where I, where I kind of, like, see my most value in, um, in crypto here. But, yeah, no one's bullish enough on ETH. I don't even think I'm bullish enough on ETH, to be honest.
00:17:31.582 - 00:17:54.022, Speaker A: And I don't think, you know, anyone's gonna have enough ETH going to the merge, as I said in my tweet the other day, because it's just crazy. Like, you try to catch it and you try to buy more, but the price just gets away from you because so many people just clue in and they're like, holy shit. Crap. Like, I gotta buy now. And I know everyone, like, a lot of you guys are trying to DCA in. Unfortunately, a price gets ahead of us, guys. Like, I've been trying to DCA in, like, in the two thousands for a long time as well.
00:17:54.022 - 00:18:24.334, Speaker A: Like, you guys know, I buy as much either as I can, and even me, like, right now, I'm like, damn it. I knew, I knew it was gonna go up, but, like, I didn't have, you know, the money at the time I wanted to buy. And, yeah, I'm sure you guys are in the same boat. Boat there, but I'm. Hopefully you were able to buy a bid and hopefully, you know, you're happy with your entry, your entries there, and your DCA strategy. And I, you know, I hope that it can keep appreciating to the future. I can't promise that it will, but I've given you guys all the information you need to know to kind of, like, have conviction on Ethereum and ethos an asset there.
00:18:24.334 - 00:19:09.580, Speaker A: All right, so speaking of staking, so Alex Stokes, who's working on validator withdrawals, which is coming in the Shanghai update after the merge, put together a thread, you know, basically of of things that he's going to be covering in his peeping EIP discussion with ETH cat herders, which is going to go over the EIP for enabling validator withdrawal. So if you want a sneak peek of what he's going to be talking about and everything, you can read this Twitter thread here, or you can kind of like wait till the ETH cat herders kind of episode that will be out on their YouTube channel there. This is cool because I think technically it's a really interesting thing how the validated withdrawals are going to work. I can't tell. Doctor, for you, you're just going to. You're going to have to read this because it's actually quite intricate and quite technical. But yeah, I'm looking forward to this.
00:19:09.580 - 00:19:31.144, Speaker A: You know, obviously, as I said, this isn't going to happen for. Until at least six months after the merge. I would say Q 120 23 is most likely. It could even push into q two. It just depends. But yeah, that's when the kind of be enabled. So at least six months of no validated withdrawals means not none of the staked Ethan, none of the kind of block rewards can be withdrawn.
00:19:31.144 - 00:19:47.852, Speaker A: But at the same time it could be as long as nine months or it could be even like twelve months. You know, we don't know. It's. It's too hard to tell at this stage. But. But yeah, definitely check out this thread from Alex Stokes here. All right, so a new project got announced today on Twitter called Verse, which.
00:19:47.852 - 00:20:16.500, Speaker A: Which Kieran here is calling the hyper exchange protocol. And the TL doctor is the ability for digital objects to be their own medium of exchange enables a paradigm shift for media culture, infrastructure and identity on the Internet. So this is basically got a lot to do with the creator economy and nfts and basically financializing a lot of. A lot of this sort of stuff. And what verse is trying to do is. And I'll just read out what they say here. The verse protocol enables every digital object to have an embedded autonomous exchange.
00:20:16.500 - 00:21:10.852, Speaker A: Structurally, this means that every LC 721 NfT created through verse is natively backed by an underlying ERC 20 market, which is, I mean, pretty cool, right? Like when you think about the implications of this, and there's a nice little graphic here that explains this, it is trying to solve the liquidity problem for nfts, which obviously, as you guys know, is a pretty big problem. There have been other attempts around this where it's like, you know, breaking up the nfts into smaller bits or kind of like indexing them, you know, putting them to indexes and stuff like that, like breaking them up or bundling to get them together. Whereas this approach seems to be a bit different, where basically you have like an NFT that is actually backed by an ERC 20 that is kind of like in an amm. So you have instant liquidity there for that kind of like NFT or object as they're calling them here. If you want a full breakdown of how this works, definitely check out the blog post from verse here. I'm still digesting this. I'm still trying to wrap my head around it.
00:21:10.852 - 00:21:48.050, Speaker A: I only just saw this before, so I haven't, haven't even read the pro, I've read the post yet, but I read the TLDR, I kind of looked at the diagrams, I was like, okay, I see how this could work. I see, you know, the value prop here obviously, but I need to digest it more. So definitely go give this post a read to learn about this new protocol. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Alright, so I just wanted to highlight this thread from 100 y ETH, which is a polygon 101 thread. So in this thread they jump into everything about, I guess kind of like modular blockchains, how polygon fits into that, what they're building, you know, all their kind of like solutions they've got going. As I mentioned yesterday, they have a new solution called Polygon ID that has just come out.
00:21:48.050 - 00:22:14.610, Speaker A: But on top of that they have all their other things like the PoS chain, the ZK teams, polygon nightfall, all that sort of stuff. So if you want to refresh, if you want more context around all of that, definitely check out these thread from 100 y ETH. It was very, very good. It's only 22 tweets, so it's not that long, but it's a lot of alpha packed in this thread. And as you guys know, I'm a polygon advisor. Just a disclosure there. But I mean, at this point, like, I don't even know why I have to disclose that anymore, you guys know that.
00:22:14.610 - 00:22:49.392, Speaker A: Plus, I mean, polygons doing so much amazing work for aetherium that even if I wasn't an advisor, I'd still be talking about them all the time. So, you know, but anyway, go give this thread a read. It's, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. Alright, so an update out of defi saver where they've introduced automated stop loss and take profit options for make a date, make a dow volts. These new automated strategies allow users to set threshold prices below or above which their CDP's would be automatically closed securely and trustlessly. This is pretty cool. Obviously, a lot of people use maker CDP's or vaults, as they're called these days, in order to leverage up on ETH.
00:22:49.392 - 00:23:21.554, Speaker A: So you put ETH in, you borrow Dai, you buy some more ETH, you may do this recursively a couple of times, and you have a liquidation price that you monitor. Now, what if you could automate, stop losses and take profits? Which basically means that if it gets to a point where you're like, oh, crap, like, I got to close this position because, you know, the market's getting dicey and I don't want to get liquidated. Well, you can automate that and on the flip side, take profit. You know, what if you've, you've kind of like, gone long on ETH through a, through a maker vault, ETH has doubled in price. You're like, okay, okay, I should pay down some of these debt. I've made a bunch of money. Let's pay down this debt.
00:23:21.554 - 00:24:01.250, Speaker A: And this could be automated through Defi saver as well. So if you are someone who uses, you know, CDP's and you have to do this manually, look at Defi saver, see what's, see what's going on there. They may be able to help you with their automated strategies here, which I think are pretty cool because, look, I mean, defy saver came about, I think, originally because to protect people from getting liquidated in general with, with maker CDP's and vaults, because a lot of the time people would get liquidated because they were either away from their computer and they couldn't access their computer or their ledger or they were sleeping and you needed an automated way to save your positions. And they've just kind of grown from there. They're trying to do like, kind of like automated strategies for all kinds of Defi things. And I think this is pretty cool. Like, I would use this.
00:24:01.250 - 00:24:46.674, Speaker A: I mean, I don't typically use my maker vaults for leverage. I don't typically trade on leverage at all. Like, if I don't have the money to buy the ETH, I just won't buy ETH that day. But if I did do that, I would use something like this because I'd be too concerned that I'd either be away from my computer or didn't have my ledger on me or didn't have my lattice on me or was asleep and the market just tanked 20% overnight or something because it can do, I mean, he can go down 20% while you're sleeping. Guys, this is not an unprecedented thing. This has happened multiple times in the past, you know, few years even. So, I think, you know, if you're into this sort of stuff and you're happy with kind of like, kind of like risking stuff and doing leverage trading and stuff like that, definitely check out defi savers tools to kind of like, lower your risk and automate this, this whole process here.
00:24:46.674 - 00:25:23.020, Speaker A: All right, so final shout out here to Git Pope, who says that if you ever contributed to one of these projects listed below, you're getting a pop on April 7 that you can claim at Gitpop IO. So the projects include things like truffle, Gitcoin, the power project itself, ethereum.org, comma, the bigger chain website, open zeppelin. I mean, there's a bunch here. So if you've contributed to them in any way on Gitcoin, then, sorry, on GitHub and on their net, on their platforms themselves, then you will be getting a pop. I know a lot of you guys love these pops. So definitely, you know, check this out on April 7, get pop IO because you'll be able to get one there.
00:25:23.020 - 00:25:43.628, Speaker A: So I just wanted to give a shout out on that. Now, I have a few minutes left here. I did want to talk about something rather important, I think, today. So look, the markets are getting, like, I've talked about the markets a little bit recently. The markets are getting, you know, heated again, right? It's going back up. We, we could be at all time high before the merge. You know, who knows? Maybe we are, maybe we won't be.
00:25:43.628 - 00:26:02.100, Speaker A: What I want to talk about and what I've seen too much of lately is, is people get greedy really quickly. Like really quickly. The market moves up, you know, evens up from 3000 to 3400. And all of a sudden everyone gets super greedy and they're like, oh, my God, we're going back to all time high. Everything's gonna be great. I'm gonna be rich. I'm gonna buy a lambo, blah, blah.
00:26:02.100 - 00:26:36.132, Speaker A: I'm not talking about specifically any, you know, any of you guys. I don't really see this happen in the Discord Channel, but just more broader, you know, in crypto. And, and I think this is extremely dangerous because when people get greedy and we will get FOMo and they tend to do things or act irrationally and especially with leverage trading, as I was just talking about. And I think that, I just want to warn you guys against these sort of things, leverage trading. So basically, uh, borrowing against your existing assets to go long on that same asset potentially is very, very risky. It's very easy to get liquidated if you're not careful. And a lot of the time, it's not worth the risk.
00:26:36.132 - 00:27:22.922, Speaker A: Uh, now, this is not investment advice, but this is me trying to kind of, like, warn you guys, because I've seen too many of my friends blow themselves up like this. And there is absolutely nothing worse than blowing yourself up, because for some reason, the markets just kind of, like, moved against you, even though it's in a, in a bull market, and then missing the entire move because you have no more money left to buy back in or what you're left with is very, very small compared to what you have, or because you were chasing maybe another 10% or 20% on top of your stack, which is not worth that extreme amount of risk. And I've seen this happen to multiple people, guys, it is terrible. Like, I mean, mentally, it is terrible. Like the stress, the anxiety, the. You basically, these people don't want to even be involved with crypto anymore because they're like, why would I even care what's happening anymore? I lost everything. I don't even get to share in the excitement anymore.
00:27:22.922 - 00:28:07.844, Speaker A: Every time they see the price of their ETH going up, for example, they get really pissed off because they're like, you know, I could have had this. I could have had that. I just want to implore you guys to be very careful if you're, if your leverage trading, and if you want to do it, you can do it with a small part of your stack. I've seen people do it with their whole stack, and it is just insane to me, as I said to you guys, I don't do leverage trading because of the fact that it's just way too risky for me. And if I did do it, it would be a small part of my stack, and I would make sure that I had, like, all these automations in place to protect myself. So, so, yeah, as I said, not investment advice, just advice in general, because I don't want to see you guys blow yourselves up. I don't want any of you that have built an ETH position, that are along for the ride, that are really excited about ethereum, to lose that spark because you blew yourself up trying to increase your stack by a little bit more.
00:28:07.844 - 00:28:18.816, Speaker A: That's simple as that. I've seen too many people do it. I don't want to see it happen to you guys. And I think, on that note, I'm going to end this episode there. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:28:18.816 - 00:28:23.624, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
