00:00:02.090 - 00:01:01.114, Speaker A: Yeah, hello everyone. Yao chi here. So I'm the founder of All Layer and at Olier, basically we are building a decentralized interlayer for all the roll apps. And on top of it, as you can see right, we also have a product is no code dashboard, which can easily allow developers to launch roll ups in many It. And today I would like to share a little bit more of all the new updates and progress on our side and I hope can also help everyone here to have a better understanding of the current roll up landscape. So, as you can see, right, for the past two to three years, for the interior blockchain space, not just the Ethereum ecosystem, we have so many new development around this roll up test deck. So, as we can see, right, typically we have two categories for the roll ups.
00:01:01.114 - 00:01:59.758, Speaker A: One is we call Classic roll up or smart contract roll up, like Optimism, Arbitrum and all the different Zke EVMs. So for them, we have full set of security guarantee and also the bridge and data availability guarantee from the Ethereum. As you can see, for most of these classic roll apps, we launch smart contracts on Ethereum to derive the security guarantee via the fraud proof or validity proof. And beyond that, we also have this trust minimized bridge. So that means compared to previously, either Cosmos Polkadot even earlier or different L ones, we have to have some relayer based bridges. But right now, for most of the classic roll ups, we have native bridge, which also security guaranteed by the L One via the proving system. And for all these classic roll apps, right, it's quite straightforward to deploy.
00:01:59.758 - 00:02:49.870, Speaker A: Like as you can see, right, for example, the Op stack, you can quickly deploy sort of the L Two sequencers. And at the same time you can deploy contracts on L One, so you can launch a roll up in just a few days. And beyond that, recently we also have this new concept called Sovereign Roll Up, which proposed by Celestia. And compared to classic roll apps, right, sovereign Roll Ups. Basically, as you can see from the name, it has more sovereignty. So basically you will have group of nodes on the roller side and you can decide what kind of execution logic you want. So basically, you have more freedom to choose how many sequencers you want and how you execute these transactions.
00:02:49.870 - 00:03:58.166, Speaker A: And on the other side, you have more ability to basically choose how you upgrade the protocol via the half fork. However, for these two types of roll ups, right, Granularly, we figure out there's some sort of drawbacks for these two types of roll ups. For the first one, as you can see, for the existing midnight version of a lot of this classic or smart contract roll ups, typically we only have a single sequencer like this Optimizium Arbitrum and various Zke EVM rollabs. So in that case, we may encounter some of these single point failure issues. For example, during the AirDrop, for the optimism and Arbitrum, the sequencer was down for a few hours or even over one day. And beyond that, as the speaker just mentioned, there are also different mev and also these front running issues around this single sequencer because right now you don't have many choices compared to a peer to peer network. Right now you only have a single sequencer.
00:03:58.166 - 00:05:14.658, Speaker A: It's equivalent to a server which can really control who run or execute the transactions compared to the other transactions. And beyond that, right, as we all know, there's another hard problem, it's about the upgrade. So for all the solidity, all the blockchain applications, it's actually the same as our traditional software, like our browsers or operating system. We all have upgrades, we need to basically add new features and sometimes if there are some vulnerabilities, we need to patch these vulnerabilities with some new code, right? So in that case, we need to have a proper upgrade system around these class A roll ups. But right now it's really controlled by some multisate wallet and the developer need to propose the upgrade and then sort of directly leverage the existing contracts on the L ones to do the upgrade. So it's relatively risky compared to if we can really have protocol level upgrade. Yeah, beyond that for sovereign rollabs because you have more sovereignties of freedom, but at the same time probably you don't really have the trust minimized bridge compared to the class A roll up.
00:05:14.658 - 00:06:28.150, Speaker A: So you really need to rely on some other bridge providers and to provide the bridge across your software roll ups and the other L ones and different chains. And beyond that, compared to these class A roll ups for software and roll up, you also need to orchestrate the network a little bit. Like for example to get a bunch of these nodes or validators and to compose the L two network. And after that basically you can set up the sovereign roll up. So the issue here is that you need to contact all the node providers or community nodes to join your network. And then is it possible we find a way to address all these questions and issues and really get a better solution? Yes, there's another type of rollout we call instrument rollout. Basically, as all the issues we just mentioned, either this centralized sequencer or this upgrade issue, or even this minimized bridge issue, we can just enshrine all the proof system bridge logic and also including the data availability logic in protocol level.
00:06:28.150 - 00:07:43.790, Speaker A: So it's sort of like we have all these logic previously written in smart contracts, but right now we make into protocol. It's sort of like in protocol roll up system and in that case assume we have such instrument roll up and together with the l one protocol which can help to enhance with all the logic, especially for the proving system into it. And as you can see, right, there are so many benefits we can get. The first one is really like the upgrade part. So instead of updating the contract with Modesty wallet relatively sort of security less, we can really have these in protocol level upgrade. Basically different nodes can verify sort of the logic and then later they can propose some EIP to upgrade the protocol. And beyond that, we also have this sort of protocol level security guarantee, basically all the logic, including for the bridge and also the proof system, right, since it's baked into the protocol, then all the logic will be verified the protocol instead of this contract level.
00:07:43.790 - 00:08:55.330, Speaker A: And beyond that, as you can see, probably better performance. And we can also leverage the l One nodes to become the sequencers for the l two S. In that case, we don't have the sort of the concerns around a single sequencer and sometimes once the sequencers behaving maliciously, we can directly slash these sequencers via this l One protocol level security guarantee. But why this insurance roller is so good, right, why we don't have it? Right now the biggest hurdle is still about in protocol changes. So, as we just described, right, if we really want to have all these benefits, we have to have somehow changes on the protocol level. We need the l One protocol to be incorporated with roll up systems to include the logic previously from Smart contracts. But right now in protocol, for example, like the existing optimism or Arbitron bridge logic and also the proof logic, right, we have tons of thousand lines of code installated, but right now we need to find ways to write them in go and directly into this Ethereum client.
00:08:55.330 - 00:10:04.282, Speaker A: So that's a lot of work and at the same time we also need the consensus around the Ethereum community for such a huge change. So at the same time is really sort of a middle ground for us to benefit this instrument roll up approach, but at the same time without much changes on the l One protocol. Yes, so that's sort of the stuff we've been working on for almost two years and we really like to present to the community and also the ecosystem to use it's called beacon layer. So, on our side we are proposing this called instrument interlayer for all the roll apps. As you can see right on the beacon layer side, it's like a decentralized sequencing verification upgrade protocol for all the rollabs. So for the users, if they want to spin off a rollab, they can send a request to this beacon layer network and then later the decentralized sequencer verifier will be assigned for the rollab to bootstrap this sort of the system. And at the same time we have the full fledged security guarantee from the l ones like Ethereum.
00:10:04.282 - 00:11:06.018, Speaker A: So we have the fraud and also ZK proof on the Ethereum side and also trust minimize bridge for DA. You can also choose either you want Ethereum or Celestial or Eigen DA. Roughly, the architecture is quite similar to the existing roll up Asia. Like we have some extra load balancing system called aggregator because we want to handle millions of transactions and requests. So where the aggregator side? It will do the load balancing and split the traffic into different sequencers and verifiers for sequencing and verification. And beyond that, as I just mentioned, we also have the proof system on the L One just to make sure we really derive the L One's security. Okay, so into the details, right, what are the benefits or the components? The out layer can the beacon layer can really augment at the moment.
00:11:06.018 - 00:12:20.310, Speaker A: The first one, as I mentioned, we have this decentralized network for all the sequencers. So this is just some sudo code, right? So as you can see, one developer can just send some requests similar to this one to specify the settlement layer like Ethereum or DA layer Celestia and the VM, either you want EVM or WASM. And at the same time you can also specify the tab for your proof system. Either it's optimistic or it's a ZK proof. And beyond that, the beacon layer will sort of handle all the orchestration for this roll up and by selecting some sequencers from the network and then assign for the developer to set up the roll up. And the second cool part probably is also the first time we introduced for the ecosystem is the decentralized verification. So once we have a decentralized sequencer set, right, I just show you basically we can have a relatively better security guarantee because it's a multi sequencer compared to a single sequencers, like a single point failure.
00:12:20.310 - 00:13:22.698, Speaker A: But right now beyond that, the beacon layer can also doing some extra verification work. We call this proof of validity. So regularly the beacon layer will check the crack needs of the transactions and blocks proposed by the sequencers and also do this quick verification on this beacon layer side. So in that case, now we have multiple options for developers, traders and also users regarding the finality. So one, as you can see right on the sequencer side, we have this multi sequencer so it's relatively better security guarantee and the finality compared to the single sequencer. So at that level we can achieve less than two second sort of latency. Beyond that, beacon layer provides this extra verification finality for you and that's so called like harder than softer finality and it's also within minutes compared to the L One level security.
00:13:22.698 - 00:14:20.890, Speaker A: And beyond that, for some exchanges, right, they really want the L One level security guarantee. In that case, we also have this fraud and ZK proof. And just to make sure the L One also confirm the transaction or blocks are finalized on their side. And beyond that, it's also the first time for us to propose this average proof model. Compare just this optimistic proof or the fraud proof. We also add these ZK components to Snark or basically generate the ZK proofs option for some of the components for the fraud proof and later you can verify on the ethereum side. Beyond that, as I mentioned, upgrade is a big feature for a lot of protocols and for us we really sort of introduced this forklist upgrade.
00:14:20.890 - 00:15:48.518, Speaker A: So the developers and also the protocols, they can just generate the new binaries and new features via the WASM and later they will be passed across all the protocol and beyond that we are collaborating with Eigenvear to introduce the restaking to the system because we have full flight proof system so we know how to do the staking and slashing. The details will be announced on Friday and probably next time on the dev connect. Okay, this is a very cool and decentralized protocol right on top of it. What are the concrete use cases we are building? The first one is sort of like this full flight or versatile rollab stack. You can choose different sequencer or DA layer and even interoperability layer you want and you can also choose different types of roll apps you want. And our local dashboard, you can quickly choose the parameters and launch it on this dashboard within a few minutes and it's already live on the website, you can just try it out. And beyond that we also help a bunch of projects already launch a bunch of campaigns either for NFT issuing either for these kind of events ticketing like the football match in Malaysia and beyond that right now we have a very big ecosystem.
00:15:48.518 - 00:16:28.934, Speaker A: So beyond sort of the roll up stack we can provide for all the developers now for any sort of applications, especially gaming applications. Like we are collaborating some big studios in the space and to help them to provide the fully on chain game. And also Ticketing and NFT quest here I also bring this very interesting game. It will be included in our next campaign. You can just try out this one is our game focused roll up. It's less than 100 millisecond and zero gas, very high TPS. So for all the users or players right, you can just try out this game.
00:16:28.934 - 00:17:05.460, Speaker A: So every move is a transaction on chain. So we just want to show that for fully on chain game we can really provide the same user experience without latency in this crypto native world and in the future for all the users and the players and developer you can just try out to build fully on chain applications using our tech stack without concerning about the infrastructure provisioning. Yeah, that's sort of all the staff around earlier just feel free to check out our documentation and we like all developers to try out our staff that. Thank you.
