00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.854, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan, and it's Asana, and today's 17 August 2022. Hi everyone. Let's get into it. So I came across a good thread or a good couple of kind of like tweet threads from Eric Wall today, and this is obviously still about kind of like the OFAC sanctions, the censorship, kind of like concerns on Ethereum, and all that kind of like entails there. But I think Eric's thread here is really great. You should definitely go give it a read, the full thread.
00:00:28.854 - 00:01:22.422, Speaker A: But it's basically about the kind of like UASF or user activated soft fork, that defense, or I guess like the concept of the UASF defense. Now, just to give some context here, Bitcoin has already invoked this defense in the past, and it is actually one of the most bullish things bitcoin ever did. This was in 2017 around, I guess, like where the block size war or the block size debate reached its fever pitch. And there was a kind of like large, I guess, like a large group of centralized entities that were signaling that they wanted a kind of like block size increase, that they were kind of like on the side of what ended up being the bitcoin cash fork, in that they wanted a two megabyte kind of like block size instead of a 1 mb block size on bitcoin. So they wanted to double it there. Now, this was out of step with the wider bitcoin community, which didn't want that to happen. They wanted the block size to remain at 1.
00:01:22.422 - 00:02:11.846, Speaker A: They wanted to activate, activate Segwit to kind of like increase the block size in a different way. It wasn't kind of like the same way. It's not a hard increase, it's more of, I guess like a soft increase. Now, the way the bitcoin has expressed these concerns, or expressed their kind of like voice with the, I guess like these big centralized entities, and what inevitably made them cave was this kind of like UASF of running the kind of like node, this segwit kind of like node software here from, from memory. I may be getting the details wrong here, but essentially, I guess like the TLDR was that the centralized entities and exchanges especially back down and basically said, okay, well, we're not going to push for this on the bitcoin canonical chain, but we will support kind of like this bitcoin cash thing, which was led by Roger Veer. At the time, I believe he's still involved with it. That ended up kind of like doing that, increasing the block size.
00:02:11.846 - 00:02:59.736, Speaker A: I think they've increased it further than that by now. And definitely kind of like, I guess like that kind of like ended those wars in that debate, which was good for bitcoin at the end of the day, because there wasn't that division within the community anymore. And the people who wanted bigger blocks went to bitcoin cash. And bitcoin has proved that social consensus at the end of the day is what matters most in these networks, which is kind of funny because these days they try to bury that. They try to kind of like get around the fact that social consensus is what matters the most. But UASF was in reality a social consensus kind of like defense. And now with Ethereum kind of going through all that it's been going through with regards to, through these, I guess, censorship risks and the kind of, I guess, chatter about these big centralized staking entities such as Coinbase, potentially having to censor transactions due to us government sanctions and things like that.
00:02:59.736 - 00:03:37.484, Speaker A: There is another kind of like potential UASF defense here from the Ethereum community. But, but the cool thing about the kind of like Ethereum defense is that it's actually much stronger than the bitcoin defense. Let me give you an example here. So if in bitcoin, the majority of the hash power decided to start censoring transactions, all that the kind of, there's only two things that could happen in bitcoin to prevent this. Or I guess, like to kind of like resist this. The bitcoiners or the community could ask these miners to stop doing that, which is fine. Like you're allowed to ask people or ask kind of like entities to stop doing something that you disagree with.
00:03:37.484 - 00:04:14.766, Speaker A: And they can signal that this is kind of like not something that they want to be a part of or not something that they believe is, is kind of like healthy for bitcoin. And secondly, which is on the technology side, so that's the social side. But on the technology side, the only thing they can do is change the hashing algorithm to kick these miners out. That's all they can do. But if you change the hashing algorithm, you punish all miners, not just the offending ones, you punish all them, the honest ones. And then essentially it bricks all the existing asics, which means that the bitcoin chain can goes back to being validated on, you know, GPU's and CPU's and things like that. And then new asics would have to be created for this new kind of like hashing algorithm.
00:04:14.766 - 00:04:56.950, Speaker A: So that is probably an untenable solution. So in reality, what would end up happening is that the bitcoin chain would probably split off into maybe two or more kind of chains where there'd be, and kind of like the split off chain or the fork chain that was trying that that was going to be censorship free becomes the minority chain because the majority of the miners are on the kind of like censored one. So the really is just like a social layer defense there. But if the social layer defense fails, there's no technical kind of like way to enact that social defense. Whereas in Ethereum proof of stake, we can do the social slashing slashing that I talked about yesterday, where essentially we can only slash. We can. We can slash only the offending validators.
00:04:56.950 - 00:05:39.314, Speaker A: Yes, it will be messy. Yes, it's not as straightforward as I'm kind of like saying it, but it doesn't punish everyone, it only punishes the offending validators. Now, in a withdrawals enabled world, we could basically signal and we could give people time and basically say either this entity stops censoring on the network, or we are going to slash them. If you are staking with this entity, now would be a good time to unstake and get out, because if they don't stop censoring, there is going to be a kind of social slashing event happening here. And that's why I've actually been kind of like, I've been happy to see people talking about and kind of like signaling that this would happen. But also at the same time, I, you know, if it was to happen, I hope it didn't happen before withdrawals are enabled, because it would be punishing innocent users. Right.
00:05:39.314 - 00:06:34.112, Speaker A: And yes, I know that there are risks involved with staking, and the user should know these risks, especially if they're staking with a centralized entity. But at the same time, you know, I don't even know if I'd consider Ethereum to be a full, full, 100% proof of stake network until withdrawals are enabled. Because, like, it's not a closed loop, right? It's just like a one way thing and kind of like forcing users to suffer from being kind of like socially slashed because of the entities that they've staked with decided to go against the community and, you know, they've got no way to exit. That is kind of like a shitty thing. But, you know, if it had to happen, it would happen still, I believe, and that's why I call social slashing the nuclear option because there's so much collateral damage not just from kind of like the user's stake, but also the other things like defi ecosystem and stuff like that. But generally that exists. So if we're talking worst, worst case scenarios, and in my mind, worst case scenarios is kind of like permanent censorship on the base layer.
00:06:34.112 - 00:07:16.338, Speaker A: And to get out of that, bitcoin doesn't really have a tenable way to do that, whereas Ethereum does. And I think that's incredibly powerful. I guess Ethereum in a proof of stake world does. And I think that while there are trade offs with proof of work and proof of stake, maybe the fact that you're kind of like, I guess like what's the word I'm looking for? Joining up the, I guess validation of the network with kind of like staking instead of kind of like having an extra protocol and outside of the protocol with mining. And maybe you get, you're giving more power to centralized entities such as exchanges and staking service providers. It gives you basically a better way in the worst case scenario to recover from any of these censorship attacks. At least that's my view on things.
00:07:16.338 - 00:07:59.366, Speaker A: But you can read Eric's full thread here for how he's thinking about it. I'll link that in the YouTube description. And he also had another tweet thread here about the fact that really in general, it's impossible to reach distributed global consensus in a system if validators can only attest to OFAC compliant chain tips in the US and only CCP compliant chain tips in China. And then he says, wake up, neoneutrality is the only option. One of these chains has a future, the other does not. And this is true because there's not just the US sanctions list. Every nation state has their own kind of like sanctions, right? So like, would we expect the validators to sanction like based in different kind of like jurisdictions to shine, to only appear to one sanction sanctions kind of list as opposed to another? No, that's on.
00:07:59.366 - 00:08:26.828, Speaker A: That's kind of like unworkable because you can't reach kind of like consensus by doing that. Which means that the only path forward is neutrality, credible neutrality. With a chain that doesn't censor at all. You have to have a chain that has zero censorship or you have a chain that has 100% censorship, right? There is no middle ground here. So. And even if you have one that has a, I guess like 100% censorship, I don't even know what that would look like. It's still quite hard, if not impossible, to do because staying in consensus would just be a mess.
00:08:26.828 - 00:08:43.660, Speaker A: Right. They'd be kind of like forks, just depending on what jurisdiction you're in. So it's just untenable again. And Eric has, like some more tweets about this below here as well, which I think is relevant. But. But yeah, those kind of like two tweets really got my head kind of, like, spinning today. I really got me thinking.
00:08:43.660 - 00:09:07.140, Speaker A: And Eric Wall, for those of you who don't know, has been around for a long time, he is definitely a bitcoiner. Definitely came, I guess, like, over to the Ethereum kind of like school of thinking over the past couple of years. And he's definitely much bigger fan of Ethereum these days. But he's a bitcoiner first and has kind of like been through the wringer with all of it. Very smart guy. So he's worth listening to if you're not following him. I know his Twitter name is erica Wall, but he's a bit of a troll on Twitter as well.
00:09:07.140 - 00:09:41.074, Speaker A: I mean, his bio is, I will blog your eulogy, so take that how you will. But as I said, he's a smart dude and I listen whenever he talks or writes tweet threads. So you should definitely check both of those out. I'll link them in the YouTube description. All right, so speaking of those sanctions, Banteg shared an interesting screenshot today of kind of like how many users, you know, applications would lose when installing TRM. Kind of like blocking. Now, for those of you who don't know, TRM is basically this tool that allows, I guess, like any app to kind of adhere to sanctions, but you can kind of like, see the different levels here.
00:09:41.074 - 00:10:12.792, Speaker A: So if you, if you kind of like set the TRM lab software up to block, I guess, alter, kind of like adhere to certain number of sanctions, or to go beyond that, you get a different tier of the number of addresses that would be blocked in those worlds. And essentially it boils it down to kind of like starting from the start, it's kind of like they, they bucket it into ownership risk. So addresses appear on a sanctions list or belongs to an entity on a sanctions list. So that would be all the tornado cash. Kind of like addresses that were sanctioned. And this covers 0.03% of addresses blocked.
00:10:12.792 - 00:10:35.288, Speaker A: Then you can go to counter party risk. Address has transacted with a sanctioned address. This would cover 2.3%, 6% of all addresses. Then there's indirect risk, which is an address that has received funds from, or sent funds to a sanctioned address through multiple hops that would cover 41% of all addresses on ethereum. Right. So you can see this massive jump here when you start.
00:10:35.288 - 00:10:51.260, Speaker A: When you start kind of like going down that. That rabbit hole. And essentially what this would look like is what happened to me with Aave, where I got dusted 0.18 from tornado cash. And that was me. Kind of like, you know, it was an indirect interaction with those sanctions contracts because I didn't do it. Someone did it for me.
00:10:51.260 - 00:11:21.222, Speaker A: Right. They sent tornado. Sorry, they sent from tornado cash to my asshole dot ETH address. And then you go down the list, and eventually you get to 100% of addresses blocked in the worst case scenario, which is an address has received funds from or sent funds to a sanctioned address through multiple hops as well. So, yeah, I mean, it's kind of like crazy when you. When you kind of look at these things and it's untenable, unworkable. And I've discussed this before, so I won't rehash it, but definitely something to keep in mind, and I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out as well.
00:11:21.222 - 00:11:49.434, Speaker A: And speaking of censorship at the front ends, I guess, like, what happened to me with Ave the other day. Mark Zela Zala from Ave put together this small guide here on running your own front end from zero to hero. So basically it's a guide on how to run your own front end. And it's not something that is kind of, like, straightforward. It definitely involves the command line here, as you can see. But it's a way to kind of, like, set up your own, I guess, like locally hosted Aave front end in order to interact with the other protocol. If you were ever censored from.
00:11:49.434 - 00:12:34.754, Speaker A: From kind of like the front end there. And this is just one way to do it. There's going to be more solutions that come out, especially easier to use. Ones such as just like, decentralized front ends that you don't have to host yourself or just apps that you can download to that do everything for you. So, yeah, this is just one solution, but I wanted to put it on your radar in case you wanted a backup here, in case you get censored from any of these front ends, you can kind of, like, start to realize how to protect yourself here and how to interact with them, how to interact with those smart contracts, even though you can't do so through the official front end. All right, so I guess, like, one last thing here about kind of like privacy is something from Zach Williamson, who is the CEO at Aztec network. And he starts off this thread by saying, in light of the Tornado cash ban, I have some thoughts on the future of privacy networks that I would like to share with you all.
00:12:34.754 - 00:12:56.970, Speaker A: Despite the dark circumstances of the present, there are grounds to be optimistic about the future for web3. Now you can give this thread a read. I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this thread is full of really great information. It's full of history. It's full of kind of like ethereum specific or crypto specific information. It's full of a lot of great opinions and thoughts on the whole thing that we've seen pan out over the last week or so.
00:12:56.970 - 00:13:17.474, Speaker A: So I think that you should definitely give this a read and check it out. But also keep in mind that you don't have to agree with everything that Zack says here. That's actually something that I've been thinking about a lot lately, is that I have give a lot of my own opinions on the refuel. You don't have to agree with everything I say. I encourage you to push back on it. I don't want to kind of create an army of yes men that just agree with whatever I say. But that goes for anyone.
00:13:17.474 - 00:13:51.200, Speaker A: Like, it doesn't. Just because someone has an opinion and puts it out there, especially if they have an opinion with confidence and they put it out there, doesn't mean that you have to follow that, follow that opinion, or kind of like take that to heart or believe in that opinion 100%. I mean, the way I kind of view things is that I have strong opinions, but they're generally weakly held. Because if I come across evidence that challenges that opinion and can actually kind of challenge it enough to make me want to change that opinion, or kind of like debunk what my line of thinking was around that, then I'm happy to change that opinion. It's not like I'm hold. It's not. It's not a strongly held opinion.
00:13:51.200 - 00:14:11.904, Speaker A: It's just a strong opinion, but weakly held. Because I understand that in the face of new evidence, you have to be kind of like pivot. You have to be able to pivot. You have to be able to kind of like be nimble around those opinions. And the same is true for. For anything. So definitely encourage you to give this thread a rate, because I agree with a lot of what was said here, and Zack obviously has a lot of great context since he's working on a privacy tool.
00:14:11.904 - 00:14:51.030, Speaker A: But yeah, you don't have to agree with everything said either. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And speaking of Aztec, just wanted to give a quick shout out here to their latest kind of like update as well, that they are supporting nucleo to enable private multi sigs on Ethereum. So this is currently in beta nuclear enables privacy across transactions, Defi and fundraising, or providing auditability via shared viewing keys. So this is very timely. Obviously another product in the kind of like privacy, I guess, suite that we have, and this is one for multisigs and they still went ahead and kind of like, I guess like launch this thing into beta even though this tornado cash got sanctioned.
00:14:51.030 - 00:15:27.762, Speaker A: So this is kind of trying this, this kind of like is true cypher punk here where they're like, you know, screw up. We believe privacy is a right. We're going to release this software at risk of being sanctioned or at risk of being arrested and we're going to like provide these tools for people to use. So very, very cool to see this. Very cool to see Aztec supporting this. And I'm excited to see, I guess people use this and kind of like to see this come out of beta eventually and become a staple within Ethereum, the Ethereum ecosystem. All right, so speaking of the social layer, superfizz put out a great little tweet today, basically saying, what do you see with a screenshot of the consensus client diversity.
00:15:27.762 - 00:15:57.616, Speaker A: Now, I spoke about client diversity a while ago when Superfizz was leading the charge on getting Prism down from its super majority of over 66%. Well, Prism is now down to 34.7%, but not only that, the rest of the ecosystem has come up a lot. So Lighthouse is at 33%, Nimbus at 17.3%, Tecu is at 14.9%, and Lodestar is, is kind of like lagging here, but still at 0.05%. But the top four here are basically pretty close now, which is amazing to see.
00:15:57.616 - 00:16:36.222, Speaker A: And obviously it can be better. Like I said to you, that I actually, the funny thing is, looking at this now, I actually remember saying that in an ideal world, we would have like 2525-2525 right across the four major clients. Obviously there is Lodestar and some other clients out there, so maybe there would be kind of like a few percentage shared between that. But then I also said that I don't expect that to happen because that's the ideal world, but I would expect something like a, you know, 30% to 35% for Prism and Lighthouse and then a 15, 20% for Nimbus and Tecu. I distinctly remember saying something like that when we were talking about this a lot. So it's actually great to see that that's actually played out, as I kind of like, suspected. And I think that that's just kind of like a really cool thing to see there.
00:16:36.222 - 00:17:14.874, Speaker A: But what I want to talk about, I guess, is the fact that this, what I see here, what you see is ethereum social layout working as intended. This only happened because of the social layout. There was no technical kind of like push here. I mean, yes, we can kind of like make it easier to run clients and stuff like that on the technical side of things, but there was nothing in protocol that forced people to kind of like switch clients, at least not yet. I mean, obviously, if kind of like a bug happened and you got slashed, that is a technical kind of consequence of running the super majority client. But that didn't happen. What happened was the social layer got together.
00:17:14.874 - 00:17:40.902, Speaker A: They said, these are the risks. Right? This is why it's bad to run majority clients. We reached out to everyone in the ecosystem, we reach out to the staking service providers, we explained the risk to them, and then we got them to move off of the majority. I mean, Coinbase and Kraken were over 90% prism at one point. Right now they're down to much less than that. I can't remember the kind of like, the total numbers, actually, if I bring it up here on the left, Coinbase is down to only 42% of prism usage. So under half of what they were.
00:17:40.902 - 00:18:01.374, Speaker A: Kraken is down at 64%. Right. So it's a pretty, kind of like big change there, which I think is pretty amazing to see. But as I said, that is ethereum social layer at work, because it was all social signaling. That's why it has been incredibly important to keep, I guess, that social signaling up when it comes to things like censorship. Like basically the worst case scenarios. Yes.
00:18:01.374 - 00:18:30.852, Speaker A: Maybe talking about socially slashing these big entities is. Is kind of like something that scares people or something that can be construed as FUD. But the reality is, is that if we signal this now, if we signal that we have no qualms about using the nuclear option in order to deal with censorship on the network, then we can make. Then we can kind of like, have, I guess, a greater assurances that these providers won't censor because they'll be scared of it. They'll be like, well, if we start censoring, then we're going to be, you know, cause a shit show. And it would. It would cause a shit show.
00:18:30.852 - 00:18:59.000, Speaker A: And. And these kind of like, entities don't want that now. Okay. There is the kind of like other side of it where if they're forced to do it, they don't really have a choice in it, but they do their choice. If they're forced by, for example, if Coinbase is forced by the US government to censor things, they have the choice of complying or they have the choice to withdraw their stake because you can actually kind of like withdraw your stake and your validators from the active set right now. You just can't withdraw your ETH. That's, that's what I mean by beacon chain withdrawals.
00:18:59.000 - 00:19:30.826, Speaker A: You can actually exit normally from staking with, without any penalties right now. So in the, in the kind of like event that Coinbase is being forced by a nation state or by the US, I guess, to censor, I would expect Coinbase to wind down their staking operations as kind of like the best thing to do for both themselves and their customers and for the Ethereum network. If they decide to start censoring, well, we will use the nuclear option on that. And that's not going to be pretty for anyone. It's going to be a lot of collateral damage. As I said, not pretty. There is one other path that they could take, which is fighting this.
00:19:30.826 - 00:20:01.046, Speaker A: Right? Fighting the, the kind of like the US government in the courts, they have the power to do that, they have the lawyers to do that. But that would be a slower moving thing. It'd be kind of like a bunch of complexity there as well. It might be damaging the coinbase's business, but so would gunner getting slashed. Right. So it, there's all these kind of like game theory at play here. But I think the only way Ethereum can use that nuclear option or that nuclear option can even be considered to be taken seriously from these providers is because of ethereum strong social layer.
00:20:01.046 - 00:20:19.534, Speaker A: And as I've mentioned plenty of times before, a theorem social layer is stronger than ever. And I believe that it's going to keep getting stronger over time. And I believe that, like events like what's happened over the last week, it just continues to strengthen it. So very cool to see that. Very cool to see client diversity on the consensus layer. Kind of like coming along very nicely here. And.
00:20:19.534 - 00:20:58.122, Speaker A: Yeah, I think I'm going to move on to the next update here, which is from Terrence. So Terrence from the Prylabs team has written down some notes on how prism handles blob sidecars in an EIP 4844 world. This helps explore trade offs and whether blobs should be tightly coupled with the block. So this is basically referencing ERP 4844, which is proto dank sharding. Blobs are these new transaction types that are coming with Proto Dank sharding in order to make it so that L2s can get much cheaper fees. Obviously this is due to kind of happen on the network, hopefully the SEC the first half of next year. But if you want to read some of Terrence's thinking around it and around kind of like how to integrate with this within the protocol, you can check out these short notes here.
00:20:58.122 - 00:21:44.564, Speaker A: I'll link them in the YouTube description. So I guess speaking of signaling, Aave has kind of like proposed this arc or this aave kind of request for comments to the Aave Dao. Like calls for the Aave Dao to commit to selecting the Ethereum mainnet running under proof of stake consensus. So obviously we know that all these apps, all these defi apps and everything's going to follow the proof of stake consensus chain anyway. But, but socially signaling, this is pretty important at the end of the day because I think for us hardcore ethereums, we know it, but for maybe the newer people to the ecosystem, they may be confused, especially because there's all these proof of work forks that are spinning up lately. So these top DeFi protocols signaling and saying, hey, we're actually, you know, 100% going to be on the proof of stake chain. We're not going to be supporting these, any of these other chains is a very strong signal for them to send, and I'm glad to see them kind of like sending it here.
00:21:44.564 - 00:22:25.896, Speaker A: All right, so ultrasound money gets another update today with a bunch of kind of like real time stats, as you can see here, and predictions of the ETH monetary system. It also now displays the exact current ETH supply or the countdown to the merge. So you can see in this screenshot the exact ETH supply on the left here, which is 120,126,108 ETH at time of the screenshot. Merge estimate about 28 days and 10 hours away. And then you have under it a supply kind of like equilibrium calculator and a bunch of other information as well if you were to scroll down on the ultrasound money website. So cool to see this update from them. And yeah, I mean the merge is under a month away now, guys, we have like that ETH supply at about 120 million.
00:22:25.896 - 00:22:54.644, Speaker A: We at current kind of like burn. We would actually be like net zero, I think, over the last seven days. So we wouldn't be technically deflationary, but we wouldn't be inflationary either. We would just be at 0% issuance, which is, which is pretty cool, right? But that's kind of like at current grade prices, if the market starts heating up again, you can be sure gas prices are going to go up again and we're going to be in that inflationary ethnic kind of like world. So ultrasound money is going to track all of that for you. You can go check out the website at ultrasound money. I believe it is.
00:22:54.644 - 00:23:13.476, Speaker A: Yeah, ultrasound money. Alright, so ENS has crossed 2 million ens names created. It apparently took five years to get to 1 million names and only 3.5 months to get to 2 million names. This is awesome. I mean, ENS is one of the fastest growing non financial, I guess, like applications on Ethereum. Yes, it has financial aspects to it.
00:23:13.476 - 00:23:31.310, Speaker A: Yes, it has speculative aspects to it. It. Obviously people are speculating on ENS names, but it is itself not a financial application. Right. It's just that it's kind of like a name, kind of like registration service that we all know and love. We all love to use it. But yeah, congratulations to them on crossing the 2 million kind of like total ens names created.
00:23:31.310 - 00:24:01.240, Speaker A: I wonder if it's going to be less than three and a half months for them to get to 3 million. I think it will. I honestly think it will, considering how popular Ens is and how kind of like their growth has been over the last few months especially. So I guess congrats to them again on that. Just wanted to highlight that for you guys. All right, so there's this interesting Gif posted by uniswap today of the ETH USDC pool, liquidity versus ETH price over time. So as you guys know, in Uniswap V three, there is this concept of concentrated liquidity, which is closer to a club model than it is to an Amm model.
00:24:01.240 - 00:24:39.570, Speaker A: Club stands for century limit order book, where basically the liquidity is moved around the price of the assets at, you know, wherever the price is. And you can actually see here that the liquidity is lagging the price. And you would expect that to happen considering that there's no way to know where the price is going to go, you know, in the, in the kind of like short to medium term. So if you're a liquidity provider, you have to be reactive rather than proactive. Being proactive is kind of like gambling, whereas reactive you kind of, okay, you keep your liquidity in this range, and depending on how tight the range is, depends on when you move it. And then if it moves out of that kind of like range, you kind of like move it to that. Now, is this economically been worth it for you? It depends on your size.
00:24:39.570 - 00:25:16.148, Speaker A: Obviously, gas fees come into it and kind of like time it comes into it too. But it's really cool to see this just in gift format where you can see that the liquidity actually follows the price here rather than kind of like the price following the liquidity. I mean, as is expected. Like that wouldn't really make much sense the other way around. But you know, depending on the sophistication of the market maker, they can actually, with some relative certainty predict where the price is going to go and capture a bit more of those fees if they kind of like have that capability. The best market makers do that. I think, you know, that people will know about jump capital, which is a centralized market maker that has been around for quite a while.
00:25:16.148 - 00:25:38.984, Speaker A: In the traditional system, they're in crypto now. They have a huge bankroll and they seem to do this where they, where they kind of like seem to be one of those very sophisticated market makers which try to, I guess predict where the price is going to be and move their liquidity to that. I wonder if their liquidity providers in uniswap. I would be surprised if they're not, that's for sure. But I'm sure there's some on chain data that would show that. But just wanted to highlight this gift for all of you. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to go check out.
00:25:38.984 - 00:26:19.990, Speaker A: Alright, so Connext is now supporting the arbitrum Nova chain. Users can instantly transfer assets to and from Nova directly from other L2s and chains at Bridge dot Connect Dot network. So very cool to see Connect supporting arbitrary min over here. This has actually been pretty quickly come to market with arbitrary Nova and all the supporting infrastructure around it. I mean, it only went live a week or two ago, and now we have these bridges, we have all this liquidity going in, we have these kind of like users on there. It's very, very cool to see how quickly a new ecosystem can spin up, especially one that is focused on kind of like Reddit, right, where Reddit obviously is partnering with arbitram on this. And it's kind of like a Reddit chain where you can do community points and stuff like that.
00:26:19.990 - 00:27:00.445, Speaker A: So very cool to see this getting usage and obviously cool to see that Connext is supporting the arbitrum Nova chain here. All right, finally, to end us out, I wanted to kind of like talk about this shit post that I made today on Twitter, where I said, the easiest way to make a scalable ETH only backed decentralized stablecoin is to pump ETH market cap to $100 trillion. I'm doing my part by buying ETH regularly. What are you doing to help the cause? And then I continued in another tweet saying, for those who love to snort hopium, this would give ETH a price of $833,000 per coin, assuming a 120 million ETH circulating supply. Now, this is obviously a shitpost. Well, at least I thought it was. Obviously.
00:27:00.445 - 00:27:51.420, Speaker A: I obviously don't think ETH is going to go to $100 trillion market cap anytime soon, if ever. That is just absolutely huge. That is bigger than the global stock market, I believe. But my point here is that people have been talking about stable coins recently a lot, especially in the kind of like, advent of the censorship stuff that's been going on and talking about how to do a kind of like a scalable, decentralized, stable coin. It's really, really hard to have a truly decentralized, scalable, stable coin because of the fact that the only truly decentralized asset on Ethereum is ETH. ETH has a limited market cap, right? It doesn't have an unlimited market cap. And in that market cap is only a small percentage of people that will be willing to collateralize ETH in order to generate a stable coin, for example, right? So let's say in, like, one of the best case scenarios, you had 10% of the ETH, you know, in existence being used to back a stable coin.
00:27:51.420 - 00:28:47.012, Speaker A: Now, if it's over collateralized, you wouldn't be able to generate all of that as kind of like a stable coin. So let's say that 10% is $20 billion worth of ETH, and let's say that the clarization rate is 150, minimum 150%. Most people will stick to a 200%, which means that you could only, if I'm doing my math correctly, out of that 20 billion, I think if I'm doing my math correctly, you'd only be able to generate $10 billion worth of a stable coin. That's not much, guys like, at all, right? That's definitely nowhere near enough to service the world, and that's already using $20 billion worth of eats economic bandwidth. All right, let's get ETH to a trillion dollar market cap. Then 10% becomes 100 billion, right? So you get five x. Let's pump that up to $50 billion worth of stable coin that's able to be minted there, that's, again, still nowhere near enough for a global kind of like user base.
00:28:47.012 - 00:29:20.642, Speaker A: All right, let's get east to $100 trillion market cap. I mean, okay, I skipped tension there, but, like, it just, just for the sake of kind of like time here, let's go to $100 trillion, which means that we'd 100 x what's available here. That brings us to a $5 trillion worth of stable coin. Well, maybe we did. That is enough. Maybe that is enough for a global kind of like community to. Or a global kind of like user base to use a truly decentralized stablecoin and kind of like, have it be extremely liquid and obviously being able to be distributed to a lot of people around the world.
00:29:20.642 - 00:29:39.586, Speaker A: Again, that's still not enough. But it's a lot. Right. And it probably would suit our needs for a while, but getting ETH to $100 trillion market cap is extremely difficult. Right. And this is, again, making a lot of assumptions. So I think my main point here is that I actually don't think we're ever going to get a truly decentralized, stable coin.
00:29:39.586 - 00:29:59.384, Speaker A: Like, I'm talking 100% only backed decentralized stable coin that is scalable. We can have ones that aren't scalable. Don't get me wrong. That that'll work, right? I mean, die before I. Sorry. Die before it became multicolored die. So single collateral die was ETH only backed, and it could only scale so much, but it worked as a truly decentralized stable coin.
00:29:59.384 - 00:30:32.970, Speaker A: And there are other things like rye, but again, they suffer from scalability issues. There's different mechanisms there, but I don't think we're going to get to a point where we ever have a truly decentralized stablecoin simply because of the fact that it is an extremely hard thing to do, is extremely hard thing to scale, and I'm not really convinced that we need one. I think that if you want something truly decentralized, if you want to truly decentralize money, you can just use ETH and put up with the volatility. It'll be. It'll hopefully become less volatile over time. Or you can use something that is mostly decentralized. Right.
00:30:32.970 - 00:30:50.242, Speaker A: Which is obviously better than like totally centralized sort of thing, but it's all trade offs at the end of the day. But, yeah, I guess I'm going to end that there because I'm out of time here. But hopefully that gets your brain spinning. I'd love to hear your opinions on it. Definitely in the Discord channel, but I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:30:50.242 - 00:30:55.434, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, subscribe and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
