00:00:00.480 - 00:00:19.806, Speaker A: This episode of Empire is brought to you by Quicknode. Quicknode is an end to end blockchain development platform that makes building web3 apps super easy. No matter what you want to build, you can effortlessly develop any application by leveraging their elastic APIs. Go to quicknode.com, comma, use code Empire. You'll get a free month on their feature backed build plan.
00:00:19.870 - 00:00:20.182, Speaker B: That's right.
00:00:20.198 - 00:00:36.524, Speaker A: Go to quicknode.com. You'll get a free month to start playing around. You'll hear more about Quicknode later in the show. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Empire. You've got Santin me, and then we are very lucky to be joined by Roon Roon. Welcome to Empire, man.
00:00:36.984 - 00:00:39.404, Speaker B: Thanks for having me. Yeah.
00:00:40.184 - 00:01:22.230, Speaker A: For those who don't know, Roon Roon is one of the, is the founder of maker Makerdao, which has two brands that you probably all know, Maker and Dai Roon. I think you are one of the longest running founders in Defi, maybe the longest running founder, which I think you've been building maker for like eight, eight and a half years now, which is pretty remarkable. We are here. I want to discuss Maker's endgame. You just posted, you first proposed this in May of 2022, and then you just published the five phases of the endgame a couple of weeks ago. And I really want to talk about that, but I think it's important to just almost set the scene here and talk about the first eight years of Maker. I know, Santi, you've worked pretty closely with Maker when you were at Parafydia.
00:01:22.230 - 00:01:29.966, Speaker A: But, Ruhn, maybe if you can just kind of set us up with, like, the last eight years and, like, what led us to the endgame? How did we get here?
00:01:30.070 - 00:03:07.354, Speaker B: The really big theme of, I mean, this entire sort of history of maker that's led to where we are now, right? Is this kind of the ebb and flow of sort of trying to become a dao and trying to become fully decentralized and then trying to actually do things. So it started out with, in the very early days of Maker, literally all the way back in early 2015, it was this hyper ideological libertarian project to try to basically transplant the ideals of bitshares onto Ethereum and building a stablecoin based on the original bitshares model. And, yeah, basically into the theory ecosystem. And so we started off as this, like, yeah, like super ideological, maybe like almost like conspiracy theorist type group of early crypto people. And we were, like, just obsessed with, like, Dao concept, actually, funnily enough, even though we were like super ideological back then, we were still considered boomers and way more boring than the average crypto person just because the whole space was so extreme back then. What we did was we ran the entire project through these open Sunday governance calls. I think we called them a governance calls.
00:03:07.354 - 00:03:42.954, Speaker B: Basically it was every Sunday we'd have these calls at a set time on team speak, and then all decisions were made unanimously by whoever showed up to those calls. And we actually ran the project like that for like two years. So all decisions related to payments and so on was done through these open calls where anyone can join. And like, if you were some, like, random person, you could like, jump in and just like, veto everything. And we didn't have a mechanism to even handle that. But what we did have was like lots of like super geniuses and crazy people and early crypto developers and all that. And, yeah, I mean, it was great.
00:03:42.954 - 00:04:18.406, Speaker B: And we got a lot of research done, a lot of thinking, a lot of philosophy done, but we couldn't really sort of build an actual product. Right. Because this kind of, you know, yeah, like total decentralization with no structure whatsoever, especially, like, absolutely. At the earliest stage in a project like this, it just didn't work out, basically. And actually what did end up happening was that, as had always been my goal, I sort of like pulled out of the project after about two years or so. And I was like, oh, it runs itself now. This Sunday calls, they totally run themselves.
00:04:18.406 - 00:04:52.346, Speaker B: But then what happened was that it just became impossible to reach consensus because I sort of had this role of the one that was sort of hurt the cats, kind of. And then once I pulled out, then eventually what happened is people just stopped getting paid. Basically. It stopped to be possible to make decisions around paying the contributors. So nobody was getting paid. And I had to come back into the project. And then this is the first example of ebb and flow where then as I came back and I was like, okay, we got to figure out a way to get forward.
00:04:52.346 - 00:05:40.944, Speaker B: So that's how we set up the die foundation. And we basically were like, okay, we'll just scratch the whole pretend thou thing with Sunday calls and whatever, because that's something for like, I mean, the product needs to be done first before you can do something like that. So we built the foundation as like a proper sort of organizational structure with like a leadership team and a hierarchy and all of this stuff. And then we're sort of set up like it needs to deliver the protocol and then turn it over back to some kind of dao structure and then took about. Yeah, I think it was like three years or something on the foundation. And we delivered simple, well, PSi, as it's called nowadays, a single collateral die. Right, in December 2017.
00:05:40.944 - 00:06:39.332, Speaker B: And then it sort of culminated in the launch of MCD, which is the current version of Dye in also, like, end of end of year 2019. And then after MCD was launched, the foundation was almost done with its work, but it did sort of stay on for another, like, one and a half years to basically maintain and kind of finalize the protocols, security, basically. And then we sort of went back into this mode of, okay, we're dissolving the foundation and we're gonna, like, handed over to the community. Right. And what the sort of the community came up with to run the system once the foundation was gone was the core unit system. And the co unit system was basically, I mean, in hindsight, what it basically was was these, like, black boxes that got a bunch of money. So.
00:06:39.332 - 00:07:37.234, Speaker B: And what the expectation was kind of like, I mean, it was still kind of, I guess, very ideological and libertarian from the early days. Some kind of idea of, like, the free market was sorted out somehow. So we thought that somehow you put a construct like that in the hands of the people, and then they'll use it to self organize these, like, very efficient and market driven and, you know, processes that are. That are going to do what's best for the dow. But, yeah, what ended up happening was, of course, well, I mean, this is like, the big realization, I think, of, like, I think many people across crypto and across Daos is that Daos are intensely political. Right? So when you do something like, here's a thing you can use to, like, take money out of the system, you're creating this massive incentive to sort of have people to basically play this political dynamic that occurs about, like, then who gets the money, right? And if this person gets the money, then does this other person get the money? And. Yeah.
00:07:37.234 - 00:08:31.880, Speaker B: So coinciding with the bull market maker built up this massive budget of something like $45 million per year or something like that through the coordinates. And initially, this was easy because the bull market made sure that the protocol was raking in tons of money and everything was good times. Right? It was the big bull market, and MKR price was exploding. But then as the bull market sort of ended, first of all, the income started drying up in the system. And secondly, it became clear that there wasn't really, like, a connection between paying out the money and getting actual results from these core units. Right. Because increasingly it was more like, it was a question of politics and like, who's getting paid? Not so much like what's getting paid for.
00:08:31.880 - 00:08:44.728, Speaker B: Right. It's more like a question of who. Right. Which is the age old. Again, like, I mean, that's how politics works. Right. That's also how, like, internal politics often works in companies and budgeting and so on.
00:08:44.728 - 00:08:58.634, Speaker B: So that's kind of the thing that led towards we have to actually solve, like, this question of how to, how to allocate resources and governance, how to run a balanced governance system. Yeah.
00:08:58.754 - 00:09:31.964, Speaker C: So this has been so in my mind, Maker was super interesting in the early days of parafy, where we sort of identified that you were the backbone of Defi. Without Maker, Defi wouldn't have taken off. You know, you needed to have a stable unit of account. And maker, in my mind, has been a pioneer in many models, and governance has been something that has been heavily criticized, which is super stagnant. No one participates, and there's very few people that actually vote. And a lot of the MKR supply is held by a few insiders that initially funded the project. But don't vote and don't participate.
00:09:31.964 - 00:09:40.444, Speaker C: And it's a complicated system that if you're not tracking it, if you're not in those Sunday calls, you wouldn't have had any semblance or really appreciation of what was going on.
00:09:40.824 - 00:09:42.736, Speaker B: So, like, I want to get your.
00:09:42.760 - 00:09:55.444, Speaker C: Thoughts on, like, people are very critical of daos because people don't show up. Don't care if things go their way, fine, but if things don't go their way, they complain, but they will still not vote and will still not be active.
00:09:55.744 - 00:09:56.656, Speaker B: So what is that?
00:09:56.760 - 00:10:16.804, Speaker C: What's your view on. And now you want to do this, like, total reorg of creating five different subdals? And initially from the outside in, it makes me skeptical because I don't think that that's like, a viable structure. But I'm curious to get your thoughts on generally, governance and how to solve this problem and if it is even viable to assume that people are going to participate.
00:10:17.704 - 00:10:57.460, Speaker B: As the money increases, the political kind of forces become more intense. And once that realization dawned on me that humans are humans are humans, they'll follow their incentives. And that means, in this context, that means politics. And it's very. Yeah, I mean, politics kind of sucks, right? A lot of people got into Dallas because they don't like politics and so on. And then to find out that actually, it's a big, giant political game almost. It's a little bit disappointing.
00:10:57.460 - 00:11:25.820, Speaker B: And my reaction was actually to be like, okay, well, I guess it just can't be done. I was really sort of. At one point, I just wrote off daos entirely. I was like, look, it can't be done. And the reason is because politics is already paid, you know, an impossible problem to solve. And then you add, like, you know, anonymity to it. And the Internet, everything is over the Internet, right? No one's even meeting in person.
00:11:25.820 - 00:12:12.754, Speaker B: And there's all this, like, speculation and there's all this crypto craziness, and it just seems like an insurmountable toxic cocktail, and you just. It's just not going to work. Like, put a bunch of people in a room and give them some crazy high stakes money game, and it's gonna descend into, like, insufferable politics, and the only people who want to play it are the people trying to exploit it, right? So, yeah, so actually, just like, actually, it was like, okay, look, you know, it can't be done, right? And I was ready to, like, leave. I mean, I wanted to leave entirely. And then the problem is, what I realized is I couldn't even leave because. Because of the voter apathy problem, my own MKR was, like, unsellable, basically. Because if I tried to, like, sell my MKR, I would, like, collapse the system and I would.
00:12:12.754 - 00:13:14.954, Speaker B: I would lose everything, right? So, like, the only choice I had, okay, I have to figure out how to fix it then. And the solution to it is, like, understand human nature and basically build kind of mechanisms around it, really. Just like you do in, I mean, a democracy or something like that, right? And just like, a democracy is, like, messy and whatever has tons of downsides, it still works, and it's still the least bad approach. But in a dao, like, a more narrow focus, the more focused the task of a Dao is, the more it becomes possible to make it somewhat more, I would say, pure in a sense, that you can tolerate and you can sort of engineer it to have much, much less of this human issues. And the key to it all, like the kind of the fundamental silver bullet, if there was such a thing. Right. It's just like rules and documentation and processes.
00:13:14.954 - 00:13:16.126, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:13:16.190 - 00:13:55.534, Speaker C: The hard thing about putting rules in place is that things change. So we were one of the initial proponents of adding USDC as collateral in that transition from single to multiple collateral. Daisy. Hugely controversial, but I don't think if we had passed that during Black Thursday, it was right when everything collapsed. Like, maker felt super precarious, at the brink of like extinction if you didn't add USCC as collateral, because diet deep pegged and it was spiraling out and the keepers, like, there was whole things that were failing. And our opinion at the time and in the forum was that we had to introduce USDC. It was something that was hugely opposed by so many people.
00:13:55.534 - 00:14:41.884, Speaker C: Difference was parafy was actually one of the larger kind of players in the stablecoin game at the time and probably still is. So like, when you talk about setting rules in place, it becomes hard. Like, how do you know which rules are going to work today? And the rules that you're putting in today are going to work in like six months? Because crypto is just a very adversarial, ever changing environment. It's not like the constitution of the United States. It's like certain values principles that we can all agree on. But crypto, it's difficult to codify these things and rules. So I'm curious, in practice, how does it actually work and create a system that is sound but also adaptable to this ecosystem that is constantly changing?
00:14:42.504 - 00:15:14.066, Speaker B: What's basically happened is those fundamental questions around the ideal principles for makers at this point. They've been settled essentially. And I mean, one thing to point to is like, yeah, the fact that for sure, people aren't going to do anything if you don't pay them. So we need to have all these paid contributors. I mean, that was not apparent, like eight years ago. We really thought we would never need it. That was like a fundamental assumption is you don't need to do that.
00:15:14.066 - 00:15:56.836, Speaker B: People just volunteer when they hold the token, just like they do in bitcoin. Right. And as for the real assets, I mean, yeah, it's also just, I mean, it's been. The market has proven it, right? I mean, we've seen Rai, right, and how rye is, it totally works, but it comes at a great cost of adoption to have like pure crypto collateral or LUSD or whatever, right? Like all these, like these projects that basically sacrifice pagan scalability for. For decentralized collateral. And then you've got terra Luna and something proving that you can't bend reality either. So you just end up back in this thing.
00:15:56.836 - 00:16:50.950, Speaker B: If you want to offer something that has a user experience similar to the US dollar, you need to be like. You need to be connected to assets that can guarantee their value in terms of us dollars. Right. And if you don't want that, then, I mean, if you want to sort of untether entirely from the US dollar, then you can't offer something that is stable relative to the US dollar as a product. Right? And so these principles are. Yeah, I mean, basically it's actually like there could be more fundamental principles like this, right? That fundamentals of trade offs, fundamental sort of visions that we may not be aware of or something like that that will materialize in the future. But from my perspective right now, it's no longer the case that there is some giant unanswered question in maker.
00:16:50.950 - 00:18:03.662, Speaker B: And in all cases, what's completely clear and undeniable to me is that you have no choice but to basically settle on. This is the, this is the vision. These are the principles. If you want to achieve decentralization, like, you simply cannot have a situation where the principles themselves can change in a decentralized environment. And that's because if some, I mean, well, and the reason is politics, right? Because if some group or entity or faction or whatever, if they're able to kind of like modify the principles, then like one of the principles they can modify is always going to be to what degree should this system be decentralized? And then human nature and human incentives and all of that, it's going to kick in and you'll always see then what I call it, I mean, the slippery slope misalignment, like the slippery slope towards, well, if it's been possible, do a small power grip, then you can do slightly larger, you know, then you, now you've got more power, now you've got more centralization. And that, that asymmetry allows you to just more easily sort of slippery slope slide towards centralization. Right.
00:18:03.662 - 00:18:56.312, Speaker B: And this is kind of what I actually saw again and again. Right. It's kind of like my big surprise was every time, like I was always the big sort of, you know, like, what do you call that? Right. The big elephant in the, in the dao, right. That had this like centralizing effect over the years. So originally there was always a sense of like, oh, if I pull back out, if I stop being involved in the project, then it will become more decentralized. That seems sort of like natural logic, right? But the problem is, you know, it's this concept of a power vacuum basically that you end up with sort of the possibility, I mean, and sort of not just the possibility, but the incentive and kind of the, the opportunity for others to kind of build the kind of system they want to build.
00:18:56.312 - 00:19:35.524, Speaker B: And the big difference between someone like me and then almost anyone else that could be sort of like deeply involved in maker governance and have a big impact on it in the long run is that I have such incredibly sort of, I guess you could say, irrational exposure to the MPR token that, for me actually, like, long term success of maker is way more important for me than whatever sort of random value I could sort of extract out of the project through like a governance proposal or something like that. Right? Yeah.
00:19:36.624 - 00:20:49.034, Speaker C: Can I ask you a question just on this point of governance? So, like, for our listeners, they might be wondering, so, like, MKR, that token, is a governance token. It allows you to vote on proposals. Now, in this new system, which we'll get to in a minute, you're codifying a lot of rules that over the time we've come to learn some principles of how to build a stablecoin protocol, which I appreciate at the moment, the value of the MKR governance token is roughly 650 million. You have value locked in the maker system to mint the stablecoin is roughly 7 billion. And so I'm curious, the value of MKR has collapsed on a number of metrics, not just the absolute level, but also relative to ETH. What does that tell you? Why is MKR underappreciated? What's the ratio? So that's question two. What's the ratio between the value of MKR and the value locked in the system? Like, what's the right way to think about that? Is that even relevant? But I'm curious, what's that value of the token and why do you think it's underappreciated in the market? Overappreciated? I'm just curious what your views are on MKR.
00:20:50.454 - 00:21:08.364, Speaker B: It's because crypto is an attention economy, and maker has always been exceedingly good at building actual. Well, I mean, we've been very slow, but we've been very good at building solid, actual functional economic primitives. Right.
00:21:09.664 - 00:21:15.604, Speaker C: Well, I feel like you have to be slow because you're the central bank. No central bank in the world should be pretty fast and breaking stuff.
00:21:15.944 - 00:21:35.084, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. I mean, at the same time, there's been a lot of issues to sort of go down a tangent. Right. Actually, maker has been. It's more like, it's not just slow, but also we've been very. We've made the wrong operational decisions, sort of. So maker has spent many years doing a lot of random side projects that turn out to be pointless.
00:21:35.084 - 00:22:03.608, Speaker B: So it's not, I mean, so it's like it's extra slow, right. Because we weren't just like slowly building our core stuff, we were also like slowly building random distractions that the governance process weren't able to do. Like it wasn't able to control prioritization and made a lot of wrong decisions like that. But anyway. But I mean, well, all of that contributes to just this like Boomer label, right? That maker has that. It's just like the most boring, it's like the furthest away from like a meme coin. Right.
00:22:03.608 - 00:22:35.432, Speaker B: That an exciting new shiny meme coin that you could possibly get and yeah, I mean, I mean, kind of the data and the statistics and so on sort of speaks for itself. But I think basically at this point, the market psychology is just so like incredibly entrenched. Right. It's like MKR is like a reverse meme coin in a sense. Right. It's just like fully sort of doomed to not be exciting, of course, until that's not the case anymore. Right.
00:22:35.432 - 00:23:00.316, Speaker B: But from my perspective, I really don't think, I mean, the great thing about fundamentals and surplus cash flow and all this thing, it's just like they can't, you know, it's like gravity, right? So the thing that matters is not, it's never going to be the price of NPR or the adoption of MPR, it's always going to be the adoption of Dai. Right. The actual business. Right. Yeah.
00:23:00.460 - 00:23:22.004, Speaker C: And maybe just if you could comment on the second question, which was how we should, how you think about the relationship between, to your point around the adoption of Dai and the value that is locked in the system relative to the value of the governance token itself, MKR, which is at the moment like a factor of ten, how do you see that relationship evolving over time?
00:23:22.584 - 00:24:27.186, Speaker B: Well, I mean, so the mechanism is. Well, I mean, in the past it's been extremely simple, right? It's really just as the, as the system generates a surplus, it uses that to buy and burn the MKR token. And then with Endgame, it's, I mean, fundamentally it's going to be the same. It's just going to be more sophisticated. So like for instance, the initial kind of, when the burn gets turned back on with this new upgrade that's coming, it'll not just be buy and burn, it'll be buy and make as sort of the default setting, which means instead of directly, just like buying up the tokens and then burning them, it's like using surplus to basically buy 50% MkR. I mean 50% governance tokens and then take 50% DAI and then market make it in uniswap, for instance. So you don't just like sort of one off, kind of transfer the value into the market to whoever's selling at that point.
00:24:27.186 - 00:24:36.934, Speaker B: In time, but rather you build up this more like long term durable value that sits and helps provide liquidity and value for the token in the marketplace.
00:24:38.534 - 00:25:09.936, Speaker A: All right, quick break from the show. There is this kind of overused cliche saying in crypto, but it's true. Bear markets are building and everyone tells you that never knows it. What people don't know is that if you're building apps in crypto and building apps in web3 without using quick node, you are building on hard mode. So quick node is this amazing blockchain development platform. It reduces costs, streamlines the time to market for your app, and it offers consistent performance at scale. For folks that have built apps, you will know that there are a couple key points here.
00:25:09.936 - 00:25:58.024, Speaker A: One quick node offers unlimited endpoints across 18 different chains and 35 different networks. They have response times that are two and a half times faster than any of their competitors, 99.99% uptime and a dedicated 24/7 customer support team. If you've been listening to Empire for a while, you might know that I am no gigabrain developer, but I do know a lot of devs and a lot of great product teams at other places. So when I see Coinbase and Twitter and Adobe and OpenSea and doing analytics, all leveraging and trusting Quicknode to power their business, that's when we get excited and that's when we want to partner with them. They're the best solution for any leading crypto and web3 company that is seeking an end to end blockchain development platform right out of the box. So my message to you, get off hard mode.
00:25:58.024 - 00:26:21.724, Speaker A: Let quick node handle the blockchain infrastructure. Let quicknode handle the security, let quicknode handle the performance. While you focus on building beautiful products for your users, visit quicknode.com. Super easy. You can use code Empire. You'll get a free month on their build plan, so don't forget to use code Empire. Santi and I got to get credit for this one so they know that we sent you and you will get a first month free.
00:26:21.724 - 00:26:45.724, Speaker A: Hope you guys enjoy it. Roon, can we transition into talking about the endgame? And specifically, maybe, I think the best way to do this just because there's so much here, is to talk about the five phases here. We've got the new brand, we've got new stablecoin governance token, a bunch of subdaos that are distributed through farming and governance and AI tools.
00:26:46.264 - 00:26:47.352, Speaker B: Maybe if you could just walk us.
00:26:47.368 - 00:26:50.744, Speaker A: Through the five phases of this endgame that you published three weeks ago I.
00:26:50.744 - 00:27:37.654, Speaker B: Think that'd be a good starting place here. Yeah. So, yeah, so endgame has always had this kind of step by step kind of approach to it, right. That the idea is to, I mean, to the point we were talking about earlier of like, we need to like solidify the rules and sort of like scope out. This is what it is and these are the immutable parts of it. And then kind of decentralized governance and decentralized stack can, an ecosystem can develop around that because the core pillars are fixed. The five phases are basically rolling out and deploying these core immutable pillars until the project reaches then what we call the Endgame state, which is this final immutable state.
00:27:37.654 - 00:28:30.816, Speaker B: It can be described as bitcoin, like where this is how it works, this is what it does, and then there's a lot of opportunity to do things with it. So the very first stage is, I mean, this is what we call the beta launch. It's really kind of like the launch, what do you call it, the starting shot for the whole transition to endgame and the beginning of these phases. So the big focus for the first phase is the new brand and the reason why we need a new brain. I mean, I actually noticed at the beginning of this podcast you introduced that there's like two brands in Maker Maker. Right? There's Maker and this die. And I mean, yeah, we were just discussing kind of like the boomer and.
00:28:30.816 - 00:29:04.146, Speaker B: But also there's the other thing with Maker and sort of the brand is also the complexity. Right. That it's like known and sort of kind of recognized as being. Yeah, this is very difficult to understand. Right. In some cases and, and right down to the brand, it sort of helps reinforce this a bit because today there's like two brands that are actually not naturally related. And so that's something that I really, I mean, even though I came up with the, you know, I came up with the original brands and I sort of, you know, I was really, really sort of emotionally attached to them.
00:29:04.146 - 00:30:05.406, Speaker B: Right. But it's, it's obvious to me, based on modern marketing science, that it's just not a good situation to be in to have the brand itself contribute to the complexity and multidimensionality when someone first gets into it. It should be as simple as possible. So basically, the rebrand is all about working with global top tier branding and user experience agencies to kind of rethink what should a maximally user friendly and fun stablecoin and sort of finance experience for regular people look like all the way from like the brand to the website and the user experience and the products. Right. Everything should be sort of entirely centered around how to make it easy and simple and feel safe, and then also be fun and interesting to participate Ruhn.
00:30:05.430 - 00:30:23.914, Speaker A: Are there any brands, just so I can almost, like, envision something, are there any brands that come to mind that we can start to think about? Like, do you think about other, maybe fintech apps, like a public.com or robinhood? Like, are those who you're going for, are you going for like a, maybe paint the picture for us a little more if you have something in mind?
00:30:24.374 - 00:31:14.736, Speaker B: I mean, it's hard to, I think it's hard to come with a perfect analogy because I think, I don't think anyone else in crypto is doing a great job either, for the most part, with a few exceptions, I guess. But I don't think there's anything I would compare to, like what, what I'm hoping for will be the output of this. But I mean, I guess, like, I feel like Robin Hood might be a good example because it's sort of, you've got this, I mean, you've got the name itself, helps explain the feeling and kind of the experience they want to elicit. Right? Of course, that's, I mean, Robinhood as a brand would not be suitable for currency at all. Right? So we need a brand. It needs to be different than that. Like, it's not, you know, because what we need is something that basically communicates stability and reliability and simplicity.
00:31:14.736 - 00:32:41.274, Speaker B: But then also this kind of, you know, this sort of the fun and the experience and the frontierness of crypto, right, which is what especially make or die in Endgame can deliver with all the new features that are coming. I mean, one last thing I want to call out for phase one is that so because the whole kind of cornerstone of this, like the, you know, the fun, you know, financial inclusion user experience that we aim to develop and broadly distribute across the globe, the cornerstone of that is the farming and the yield use experience, which we want to make available to as many people as possible all over the world. And then I'll just make sure to call out that unfortunately, american users will be blocked from this, but basically everywhere else. For the most part, the goal is to make this available in a way where unlike all, I mean, a lot of crypto is already doing yield and doing farming, but very often it's tied to Ponzi schemes and hastily put together dangerous smart contracts and so on. And so what we want to do is deliver that in a way that's as safe as it possibly can be, which is what maker is all about. And then it's ultimately a stablecoin product you're using. It's not some kind of.
00:32:41.274 - 00:33:06.920, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, thing that's gonna crash or make you lose all your money or so on. Right. But we can still deliver this. You know, this feeling of you can choose to farm different things. It's kind of like, it feels a little bit like a game rather than boring online banking or something like that. Right. So the first feature that we'll launch will be the ability to farm this new governance token.
00:33:06.920 - 00:34:29.004, Speaker B: Right? So as a part of the, as a part of the new brand, there's going to be a completely brand new stablecoin and a completely brand new governance token. And the reason why there's new tokens coming is because while we have a new brand and we're upgrading the project to this new brand and the new architecture and feature set, we don't want to mess with Dai and MPR. So normal people or crypto people or whatever that use Dai and they're happy with Dai, they shouldn't be disturbed by the end game stuff. And same for MKR, you shouldn't feel forced to upgrade your tokens or do something with your tokens or worry about what's going to happen to my money or something like that. So dynamic will remain in place forever, and that will be a key promise of these immutable rules is that they will just stay forever as sort of two, I guess you could say two separate independent products provided by this new umbrella brand. In a sense, then there's also going to be a new stablecoin and a new governance token that will be completely aligned and unified with this brand and have this central focus on user experience and onboarding and making saving a fun experience.
00:34:29.764 - 00:34:37.424, Speaker A: Will the new, how do you think about the new stablecoin taking away from Dai? Or is the new stablecoin just wrapped Dai?
00:34:38.324 - 00:35:03.868, Speaker B: Yeah, so it's, the funny thing about Dai is that what we call Dai is actually like an ERC 20 wrapper of, you could say the real Dai, which sits internally in the maker protocol accounting. So this new stablecoin is actually just a different wrapper of the same underlying thing. But I think the question that's more important is how are we going to seed liquidity for the new stablecoin?
00:35:03.916 - 00:35:08.708, Speaker A: Yeah, how do you incentivize, that's what I was getting is like, how do you really incentivize liquidity for the new stable coin?
00:35:08.756 - 00:36:37.360, Speaker B: Yeah. So Dai today, like the, kind of, the cornerstone of Dais liquidity today is these giant smart contracts called the psms, which are these smart contracts that holds massive amount, like billions of centralized, stable coins that allow people to swap their DAi one to one with USDC and G, USD and USDP. So that provides the kind of, I mean, what that does is it provides a lot of this arbitrage opportunity that ensures that there's arbitrages that then trade against the psms, and then they sort of basically enforce the peg out in the marketplace. And so, and this is also in beta launch. We're also going to launch the first version of what we call the allocation system, which is kind of like the new mechanism that will eventually fully replace the old vault system, like the native vault system of like the old school sort of the CDP system, basically. That'll actually, over time, eventually, not in the first phase, but eventually will be fully deprecated as a feature of the core system, to be replaced by this thing called allocation system. And so what the allocation system is, is this kind of, it's almost like an, it's kind of like a parallelized, well, a set of parallelized intermediaries that generate Dai directly from the maker protocol, and then they sort of go out and allocate it into the marketplace.
00:36:37.360 - 00:37:41.554, Speaker B: So the new stablecoin will have, will sort of take over the liquidity that's currently sitting in the psms. But the big difference is that instead of being, instead of just like sitting in a smart contract where arbitrageurs then trade against it and then arbitrage against Uniswap or whatever their location system will inject that liquidity straight out on, for instance, Uniswap and other places. So my expectation is that right from the moment the new stablecoin launches, it will be like vastly more liquid from the point of view of the average user, because all that liquidity that right now is sitting there so hidden away in smart contracts, really only reachable by meal bots and arbitrages, that will instead be sitting out on the decentralized exchanges in the order books. That means that for the regular user, they're going to likely pay a lower spread, for instance, and also they'll have access to liquidity on more exchanges. Got it.
00:37:41.674 - 00:37:47.722, Speaker A: Okay, that makes a lot of sense. What about maybe walk us into phase two? That was phase one.
00:37:47.778 - 00:38:49.324, Speaker B: So that was phase one. So in phase two, that's like the big, that's like the full launch. And the full launch is all about subdaos one of the key roles that the subdivisions have is to, you know, sort of take over most of the complexity and most of the decision making responsibility that maker governance has today. So it's kind of like, yeah, it's like maker breaking itself into many different, or rather sort of breaking off multiple independent, unique daos that then take over a lot of the responsibility that currently is done top down by maker call, but instead will be done by these independent subunits. And then maker call will be very, very rigid, a lot less flexible than it is today, with a lot less possibility for change than that has been possible in the past in maker core. But the subdivisions will be the exact opposite. So they'll be way more flexible and way more fast moving and experimental and innovative and growth focused.
00:38:49.324 - 00:39:59.722, Speaker B: And on top of that, they'll have this focus on culture and, you know, memes and marketing and narrative and all this stuff that maker kind of just like failed badly at, right. Because it was just like too slow moving and too sort of never, was never built around that as a co pillar. Right. Where the subdivisions are kind of explicitly all about trying to tap into the fact that there are many different demographics in crypto and you can appeal to each differently. Right. So, yeah, those will launch in the full launch, and that's kind of when I think, you know, I mean, if we execute everything correctly and we don't drop the ball on this, that's going to signal a new era of defi and crypto, I think, because it will be basically the simultaneous launch of six fully decentralized bond decentralized daos that will actually embody the true meaning of fair launch, because the only way their tokens would be distributed would, will be through farming. And it will be like completely known in advance, and it'll be completely transparent around, like, who's getting the tokens, how they're getting distributed, what's the risk for farming them.
00:39:59.722 - 00:40:06.054, Speaker B: Right. And it's available to the holders of the new stablecoin, so maximally brought distribution.
00:40:07.394 - 00:40:25.974, Speaker C: I'm curious. The mechanism sounds like. I think it's intuitive. You did mention your crypto is an attention game. When I hear you say you're going to launch six different subdivs, I am worried about how you capture attention and the retention of that attention. How do you think about all that?
00:40:26.134 - 00:41:51.136, Speaker B: Yeah, so, I mean, and I guess you mean, like, ideally what we want to see is this, like massive community building around the subdivisions, right? And a big splash and a big, big influx of attention. But actually think that, I mean, the kind of the tokenomics. And the plan around the roll up is kind of built around that. Instead of being like, you know, a crazy sort of thunderclap, right, from the second it starts, it's a little bit more like a kind of, you know, a step by step thing where ideally what happens first is you get this kind of, you know, hardcore ins. I mean, I don't call it not inside our community, right, but like enthusiast community of people who are genuinely interested in trying out this experiment of we can build up a new, fully decentralized Dao and community and culture from the ground up where we know mathematically, provably, that there's not going to be some founders allocation or foundation or whatever. It's going to be entirely in the hands of the community from the moment it launches and there's going to be multiples of them so they can specialize in different things. And that also means you can have self selection, right? If you've got a bunch of people that want to go in one direction and focus on one thing, then they don't have to politically struggle with people who want to do a different thing.
00:41:51.136 - 00:43:07.274, Speaker B: They just go to each of their own subtitle, right? So my hope is that what we'll see is some relatively small but very aligned communities emerge of people that just find themselves among sort of interesting sort of companions, right, where they can farm these tokens together and then they can use all of these very, very powerful tools that sort of the end game design and the maker makes available to them to generate real fundamental value. Because ultimately, while the subdivision, a lot of it is about sort of what I call intangible value, right? It's about like farming and getting people in and kind of gamification and having fun participating in Defi. But in the end, that's just like, I mean, all of that is just the chariot on top of the underlying, much more important foundation for it, which is fundamental value, where what the subdivisions really do in the end is, as I was saying earlier, they kind of like split out and take over some of these fundamental core functions that maker governance currently runs.
00:43:08.254 - 00:43:14.594, Speaker C: What's been the reaction of existing MKR holders to this proposal?
00:43:16.054 - 00:45:11.394, Speaker B: I mean, there's been, I guess you could say, mixed reactions, right? But I would say overall, like, I mean, for the most part what I've seen is that people who are really deep in the project, initially they were just like, they were as disillusioned as me, and then as they've basically been following this and participating in it over the last, I mean, literally at this point, I think it's like, well, it's a long time, one and a half year, I think, or something. It's a very long time that this massive plan has been fleshed out through all these public calls and super long documents and feedback sessions and iterations after iterations. I think that of the people who are actually deep into the, who have a lot of skin in the game and who are deep into the project at this point, there's a lot of, I mean, excitement and alignment around this. Right. Then there's also, I mean, there's been people, I mean, well, I would say more like funds that have been a little bit more on the, like. They've basically not, they've never, like, fully kind of, you know, understood it, right. Because it takes a lot of effort to understand it in sort of its earlier, in these, like, earlier iterative phases, right, where it's a lot more like how the sausage is made and a lot less a slogan of like, you know, we, you know, resilience and growth through sub thousand AI or whatever, right? And, yeah, I mean, there's, there were some, you know, kind of notable political battles over it, but ultimately, I mean, the kind of voter apathy prevailed, right? The reality is just basically nobody votes.
00:45:11.394 - 00:45:29.554, Speaker B: And so overall, it's primarily me and a few other key deeply embedded MKI holders that have by far the majority voting power.
00:45:32.254 - 00:45:37.204, Speaker C: What are some of the risks that you think about in this new model?
00:45:39.784 - 00:46:37.394, Speaker B: I mean, basically the biggest risk is, I mean, this, I mean, I guess you could generalize it as execution risk, but it's maybe something. I mean, it really is just fundamentally that, like, it turns out that it's impossible to establish any kind of reliable, resilient political dynamic in a Dao. And, like, it just turns out a Dao is impossible. And that may be some kind of law of nature, in which case endgame isn't going to work, but no other Dao is going to work either. I mean, the thing is, every single other dao that exists right now, they just don't even attempt to achieve sort of, you know, real decentralization and remain a complex adaptive system, right? Some are like more simple and don't have to fully live up to this, the reality of being a complex adaptive system. But the vast majority, they just actually end up having a central team and a central foundation or whatever, right?
00:46:37.934 - 00:46:58.830, Speaker A: Ruhn, let me ask you, why is becoming a dao? Or why is staying a dao and being what I'd almost say like a decentralization? Maxi here why is that so important to you? And do you think that you could accomplish the product and the end goal of having billions of people using Daisy? Could you accomplish that easier if you were just a centralized company?
00:46:58.982 - 00:47:02.398, Speaker B: And if you could do that, why.
00:47:02.486 - 00:47:04.314, Speaker A: Be so focused on governance here?
00:47:05.454 - 00:48:06.968, Speaker B: I mean, because I think centralized currency in the age of blockchains and artificial intelligence is the most powerful tool of slavery you can possibly imagine. I mean, so ultimately, I'm in crypto since, you know, 2011, right, reacting to the great financial crisis. And, like, the reality is that this is, I mean, that's where it's all going, right? I think that. Yeah, I mean, I think. I mean, I think daos and decentralized stablecoins and blockchain and then things like open source AI, these are like the two. I mean, these are tools that we simply cannot, like, we can't just, like, sit around and ignore these tools because we have to fight for the future of how society is fundamentally structured, and this is what's available to us. I think it's really the most important and most interesting challenge possible.
00:48:06.968 - 00:48:42.742, Speaker B: Is it actually possible to organize people in a way where there doesn't have to be some big boss, some hierarchy, some king at the top that runs everything, and then it's all about who knows who and who's got the power. Right? But instead, you can actually have people self organize in a way where they'll just each kind of do whatever is in their own interest, but as an aggregate, they end up doing as a whole sort of what's equally and fairly in everybody's interest. Right. And even in sort of the public's interest and the society's interest. Right. Hmm.
00:48:42.918 - 00:49:17.862, Speaker A: How do you grapple with the idea of decentralized governance? Rune, with centralized collateral? And maybe that ties into this topic of real world assets. It's become very clear that there's only massive demand for a dollar denominator, dollar collateralized stablecoin, right. And the best way to do that is with real, or maybe the only way to do that is with, at scale is with real world assets. So on one hand, you've got this, like, I love the mission of, like, very decentralized governance. On the other hand, you're bringing more.
00:49:17.878 - 00:49:20.078, Speaker B: And more, I'd almost call them, like.
00:49:20.126 - 00:49:25.518, Speaker A: Centralized forms of collateral onto the system. Like, how do you grapple with those two things, and how do you think about that?
00:49:25.606 - 00:50:25.434, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think, I mean, and this is also what I'm hoping to accomplish, sort of communication related to this as a part of this, the kind of the new brand and the new way to kind of explain what maker is. Right. And so I think decentralization is kind of, you know, it's not a very useful word at this point because it's become very kind of loaded and sort of, you know, it's got a lot of baggage and it's got a lot of sort of memes and sort of buzzword to it. And I think a much better word to use to describe what is it we want to actually achieve is resilience. So it's really about the overall strength and ability for the system to resist any other kind of force, you could say, that wants to impact it.
00:50:27.944 - 00:51:11.112, Speaker C: And yeah, I'm sort of curious. Like, you know, you say you're going to codify certain rules. A lot of people are critical of governance tokens. A lot of what we've seen in defi farming is the people that initially farmed the token are not the ones that stick around. It's pretty mercenary capital that just moves around. Like maybe if you can, it may not be the case here, but I'm curious how you solve that problem where time and time again you see these people that don't necessarily, as you said earlier, people are out for their own incentives and that's what drives them. And as soon as either the token farm dries up or it becomes less interesting to them, they quickly go to another project and jump around.
00:51:11.112 - 00:51:21.724, Speaker C: And there's a lot of this mercenary capital in Defi. Is that the case here? And how do you kind of mitigate that behavior and activity?
00:51:21.804 - 00:53:15.514, Speaker B: Yeah, so I mean again, there's like, there's a whole bunch of kind of aspects to that challenge, right. But I think, I mean, I think the most kind of fundamental is this question of, I mean sustainable economics, right? Like if you design something like farming the wrong way, then basically what you're doing is like hand away a bunch of money and you're hoping that somehow you'll get a bunch of money back and often you don't, right? And it's just a big kind of, it's just a bunch of hot air, right? And then a bunch, few people get rich and everyone else sits around with a bunch of worthless tokens, right? So the end game tokenomics is designed around this principle of value recapture, right? So I mean the really, really basic kind of driver of how the tokenomics works is that when you have this new stablecoin, you have a bunch of different options available to you. Basically you can farm any of the subdiv tokens that you want to farm, you can also farm this new governance token. And then the final option is this new version of the Dai savings rate. So there'll be of course rebranded, it's called the new savings rate. And these options are mutually exclusive, which is really, really important in a sense that if you choose to farm something then you cannot get the savings rate of the system. And so effectively what that means is the system is saving expenses when you're farming tokens instead, it's ultimately that you could really reduce it down to something like what's really happening then is you are sort of trading your, you know, you're trading the yield in term, in cash terms for a yield in, you know like subd out token terms.
00:53:15.514 - 00:54:40.846, Speaker B: And the system is simply going to equilibrate around. Obviously you should always be getting a higher yield in subdot tokens because they're volatile, but in the long run, you know, it's not, I mean it shouldn't, it wouldn't be possible and it's not sustainable if like to get some kind of crazy high yield in subdotokens. It just doesn't, it's not economically possible to provide yields that are above market because the market's going to find a way to close that gap. So yeah, I mean that's really the fundamental thing because then what that means is you're ultimately paying in the sense that you are like you're letting the system keep the yield in cash terms. And so that value that builds up inside the system then is used to maintain the value of the token in the long run. And it does that through this tokenomics where basically the subdot tokens, they just continuously, they basically continuously funnel value to the maker. Like to sort of make a call by farming the tokens to DAi holders, right, and also to MKR, or rather, sorry, new stablecoin holders and new governance token holders, but then make a call.
00:54:40.846 - 00:55:35.394, Speaker B: Also continuously funnels value to the sub cloud token holders. Initially it's this like relatively crude fixed setup where the internal treasuries of the subdaos receive the equivalent of 3333 MkR per year. Just like a sort of a subsidy that just gives them a bunch of cash denominated in MKR, right? So if the value of MKR goes up, then the subdoubt gets more money for its treasury. And then on top of that there is this like farming functionality of also the subduct opens. This is kind of like a principle that I've learned, right, that in defi with a token you always got to be able to do something with a token. So the thing you can do with subdub tokens is you can use them to farm these new governance tokens. And this is also the equivalent of 3333 MKR that you'll be able to farm per year with each of these subdot tokens.
00:55:35.394 - 00:55:59.334, Speaker B: And then because as the subdot tokens are distributed, maker is able to capture that value because you're not getting the savings rate. That means that that value then stored up inside the MKR token, essentially. And then you get it delivered back on this sort of linear, sort of paste funnel of value back and forth, basically.
00:56:00.954 - 00:56:22.592, Speaker A: Roon, maybe you can take us into stages four and five here, right, so phases four and five. Phase one was the beta launch, which is kind of this focus on establishing the unified brand. Phase two is the subdao launch. So we've got these couple different, I think you said five or six. I think six different subdivisions. Maybe take us into phases three and four. And I'm combining both of those because they're both related to governance.
00:56:22.592 - 00:56:25.504, Speaker A: Right. So maybe. Yeah, if you could walk us through that, that'd be great.
00:56:25.624 - 00:56:55.236, Speaker B: Yeah. So once we've established the subdivs, which kind of. I mean, yeah, it's like the setting off kind of the growth and the expansion of the ecosystem. Right. Then. Yeah, then the next focus is consolidating the governance and kind of like getting ready for having the system actually be able to run itself fully decentralized permanently. And so the first and most important.
00:56:55.236 - 00:57:50.906, Speaker B: Well, I don't know, but the first step that's like a prerequisite that needs to be in place before we can really sort of lock things down fully, is getting the governance, kind of getting the governance into this decentralized equilibrium, which is one of the key characteristics of the decentralized equilibrium, is that outsiders, kind of peripheral participants, even like stablecoin holders, and also just like small scale token holders, they need to sort of be able to be an effective check on the much more powerful insiders and the whales and the master politicians and bureaucrats and power brokers in the system. Right. Basically everyone needs to be held to the rules, no matter what. And it must be impossible for someone to kind of like, you know, fudge their way out of being held accountable to the rules. Right. And they. And then, I mean, yeah, we were talking about all this like thing about like these codified rules and all this stuff.
00:57:50.906 - 00:59:23.514, Speaker B: Right. But so what phase three is all about is basically adding artificial intelligence to the mix to specifically play the very. Yeah, specific role of solving the complexity and information asymmetry that normally exists in a dao. So today in maker, it's like, yeah, there's like 30 people that knows how everything works and then there's like thousands of people that just, I mean, I mean, they don't realistically have a way to like figure out whether the rules are being followed or not, right, in terms of like the internal power dynamics and governance dynamics and so on. Right? So if like, the system today or whatever a year ago was randomly slippery, sloping towards centralization and power consolidation, it would be hard for someone to know before it's already too late. Very fundamentally, that's what these AI systems are about. It's basically to be able for anyone to be able to tell are the rules currently being followed or not? And if they're not being followed or like, if there's risks and sort of inconsistencies, you know, it could be something like, you know, nepotism or kind of like corruption in terms of somebody paying themselves out of a budget or something like that'll be very easy to discover if you have AI that's trained and optimized for kind of like, you know, understanding the rules and then comparing the reports and the data that's being surfaced by the processes of governance.
00:59:23.514 - 01:00:39.396, Speaker B: And then what that means is it can sort of like alert someone on the outside to like, okay, there's some group or some person that is not, that has some, I mean, that is not, you know, publishing the information they're supposed to publish. And somehow all the other checks and balances that were supposed to stop them from doing that, they haven't been able to, you know, they're not working. And that's the kind of situation that then calls for, I mean, the sort of the regular holders to sort of rise up, right, and basically, you know, make some kind of significant change that modifies the balance of power. Like whatever is wrong with the status quo needs to be solved in that kind of situation. And if it doesn't get solved, then what's going to happen is you have like a real governance failure, right, where you're going to have centralization occurring and kind of like the ultimate kind of consequence of this kind of risk is that the whole system shuts down, right. Because in the end you have minority protection. Because what could happen is if somebody manages to really consolidate power to a point where they get central control, they could take the collateral if you don't have mechanisms in place to protect from that.
01:00:39.396 - 01:01:20.874, Speaker B: So to sort of never even go down the path at all. We need these very powerful AI tools that can help outsiders make sure everything is as it should be. And once you have that resilience, that stability, that when things are happening, we can follow along and we can ensure that the rules are followed, then you can crank up the pace, you can parallelize more things, you can do more stuff, you can take more bold bits because you don't have to worry about as these things happen, then something dangerous is going to happen to the underlying power dynamic or balance of power on the system.
01:01:22.254 - 01:01:48.308, Speaker A: Rune, we're coming up on time here. There's two more phases, phase four and phase five. Maybe you could just give 32nd overviews on each of those. I know that's a tough thing to do. We'll put a link to all of the information that you've already written pretty extensively about so people can read it if they have more questions, because I have a few other maybe second order impact questions from this. So maybe if you could give a couple of 32nd overviews on phases four and five, and then we can get into some details that I have.
01:01:48.436 - 01:02:18.382, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So phase four is then kind of. Yeah, well, it's called governance. Participation rewards is sort of the headline of it, right. This is a point where, okay, we've got the AI tools in place, which means now the governance dynamic is able to sort of self police its equilibrium, its decentralized equilibrium. So like sort of, you can actually have the systems or run an autopilot. And if the autopilot, I mean sort of like run itself, quote unquote, right.
01:02:18.382 - 01:03:31.362, Speaker B: And if it starts kind of going off the tracks, you'll be able to know and people will have the means to step in, because the AI tools will sort of help them to identify what's wrong and how do you fix it. And so phase four is then putting in place basically rewards for participating in governance, which solves the problem of voter apathy, because now you get paid to vote basically when phase war starts. But paying people to vote is itself super dangerous unless you've got all these preceding things in place. You've got the rules in place, and they're solid and immutable, and then you've got the AI tools in place that makes it very easy to understand. Are like, are these delegates and these kind of insiders that have, you know, that are, that are kind of like leveraging all of this paid incentivized voting power, are they going off the tracks? And if that's the case, how do we deal with that when they've got so much power, right? Because that's kind of, I mean, once you pay people to vote, you create this massive amount of kind of somewhat unaccountable governance power in the system, right? Because most people who then vote, they're not doing it because they actually care about voting. They're doing it mostly because the caregiver getting paid. All the preceding phases allow that to be done safely.
01:03:31.362 - 01:04:47.714, Speaker B: And then actually to some extent, the system is, you're very close to have the system be fully done. Phase five is then, I mean, it's by far the largest phase of all. But in some sense it doesn't introduce anything new. It's simply then kind of re architects and redesigns and reimplements everything from the bottom up in the most efficient and future proof possible state, which is on its own sort of special purpose blockchain. And the only you could say new feature that then actually ends up being like, it's the biggest feature of all, but it's so, I don't know, like it's so kind of advanced or I don't know what to call it. It's so specific why this feature matters that most people, they don't even know it's a feature. But this is basically this shutdown mechanism I was talking about earlier, this final escalation option that's available in the governance of the system, which today is something called emergency shutdown that allows the minority of mkhlos today can shut down the maker system even if they don't have a majority of the voting power.
01:04:47.714 - 01:05:40.454, Speaker B: And they can do that to then prevent someone from taking central control and fully stealing all the money in the system or centralizing it. The big problem is such a shutdown would be absolutely disastrous in the way that it's built today with the new blockchain. Instead of doing a shutdown, you can do a hard fork. And that means that the system can recover from even the worst case, well, rather many of the worst case scenarios in terms of kind of like governance attack edge cases, which is not the case today. And basically it's not fully sustainable. The power dynamic of today, where once you've got kind of a sovereign blockchain that can hard fork by itself, then you've got something that is, I mean, that reaches a point where like now it's a fully sustainable design that can sort of last through the ages.
01:05:40.914 - 01:06:01.762, Speaker A: Rune, what are you optimizing for here when you talk about the end game? Okay, so when you shared your story over the last eight years, it felt like every, like maybe two or three years ago you tried to leave maker or like take a step back from maker and then you're like, ah, no, no, the system's not set up yet for me to do that. I need to jump back in.
01:06:01.858 - 01:06:05.536, Speaker B: Are you optimizing for like a part.
01:06:05.560 - 01:06:11.184, Speaker A: Of this feels like you're optimizing for you being able to leave maker. Is that a fair thing? Is that.
01:06:11.224 - 01:06:35.784, Speaker B: Yes. Yeah, I mean, that's always been like the litmus test of a doubt, right? I mean, it's pointless if I can't leave, right? So yeah, you could say that's like. I mean, but it's not just like, I mean, of course I want to, I mean, leave and do other things and relax and so on, but I mean, much more importantly, it's just, it's, it's like, it's the fundamental test of whether the thing works or not. Right. Let me.
01:06:35.824 - 01:07:16.408, Speaker A: Can I push back on that? So here's the counter take to all of this. So I really like the grand ambition and everything that you're working towards and it's clear that you've put a ridiculous amount of time into thinking about this. The counter take would be that this completely wrecks die and maker and that AI tools can't paper over governance issues and that you're blocking us users from participating. But a lot of the assets, in terms of the real world assets are actually in the US financial system. How would you. If that. I have a feeling as the endgame continues to get rolled out and built, those will be kind of the three buckets of pushback.
01:07:16.408 - 01:07:18.456, Speaker A: How do you think about those three buckets?
01:07:18.560 - 01:07:50.590, Speaker B: Well, I mean, so, like, dynamic isn't going to change. Right. So even if the new features don't have the kind of the, like, as much of a, let's call it immediate impact as I definitely expect they have. Right. Then they're not really going to alter sort of the fundamental basic features of dynamic. Like what they're going to do is they're going to introduce this kind of future proofed and sustainable self organizing system. Right.
01:07:50.590 - 01:08:15.214, Speaker B: That's going to allow this. I mean, there's definitely sort of, I mean, there's this sort of, you could call it a theoretical underpinning that would allow governance to run itself and not require whales to vote as they do today. Right. And then if that's the only thing it achieves, then dynamically just stays the way they are. But now they don't rely on Wales anymore, then I think that's by itself also success. Right. And then as it relates to, like, real world assets and regulation.
01:08:15.214 - 01:08:51.208, Speaker B: I mean, basically, I mean, it's the number one challenge that any crypto project that cares about success and adoption and growth and so on is grappling with and should be grappling with. Right. And it's, I mean, it's very hard. Like, that's always been, like, it's always been very difficult and it's always been very kind of ever changing. Right. And currently we think we have, like, a good solution, right, of how to navigate global regulation. But the reality is it's going to change over time and sort of having that.
01:08:51.208 - 01:09:10.505, Speaker B: I mean, one of the key things that, I mean, one of the, I mean, that's one of sort of the things that endgame really optimizes for. Right. And sort of buckets under resilience. Right. This is a core component of resilience is sort of adaptability to, like, the regulatory landscape. Right. And the regulatory reality.
01:09:10.505 - 01:10:10.440, Speaker B: And, I mean, one of the things it also does kind of optimize for and make possible is this, you know, what used to be called the Phoenix stance and used to be sort of a meme around endgame, right. That there is a possibility that at some point you have to, despite how costly and devastating it would be, you have to completely untether from the real world, right, and like drop the US dollar peg and all of that. And the mechanism for how to detect when that is required and then step by step moving in that direction, they're actually built into the rule sets so that can dynamically occur. Just like something like the US dollar hyperinflates and just stops being the reserve currency. The ability to adapt to that is also something that has to be codified into the system because it's like these core rules have to be able to carry the system forever, essentially.
01:10:10.592 - 01:10:20.924, Speaker A: Rune, anything else? I mean, I feel like we could go on for a long time here, but I know we're coming up on time. Anything else that you just feel is really pressing and that you feel like we haven't discussed but that folks need to know?
01:10:21.304 - 01:10:50.236, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think actually there was a good sort of rounding of the, I guess the most interesting, more immediate topics to cover. I mean, I think one thing that I want to maybe talk a little bit about is this thing called the allocation system. So we were touching upon that a little bit. This is how there's going to be lots of liquidity for the new stablecoin, right. As it launches. Right. But what's really exciting about that is how that migrates like how the responsibility for that system is going to sit with the type of subdao called the allocator dao.
01:10:50.236 - 01:12:16.194, Speaker B: And these allocator daos will then basically compete with each other to kind of wield the economic power of know, make a call and the dicolliteral portfolio. And I'm really excited about like all the possibilities, like all the business opportunities, all the possibilities, all the jobs basically, that'll be created out of companies and hackers and other daos and so on, sort of like coming with all their little, like all these little building blocks you can build into allocator daos that will sort of funnel dai and new stable to the most optimal places where you can put them. So it's kind of like, it's like today it's a very inefficient version of that is happening where you've got arbitrageurs like locking in Ethereum and then borrowing super cheaply from maker and then going out and doing stuff with it in the ecosystem. And in the future, it'll be the ecosystem itself, organically and sort of competitively, kind of just evolving and expanding and reaching out and finding these economically optimal places to distribute the stable coins to. And then because it's directly distributing there, it's not letting arbitrage just doing the work right. It's going to capture a lot of that value and kind of bring it back into the core of the system. And then that's going to directly then affect things like the savings rate the system can offer.
01:12:16.194 - 01:12:36.474, Speaker B: And by affecting the savings rate of system, it's going to ribble through things like the farming yield and all the efficiency of the system. The system gets a lot more efficient. And it's going to deliver that efficiency to users and to ecosystem participants and contributors and basically take it away from mev bots and arbitrages.
01:12:37.414 - 01:12:58.334, Speaker A: Very cool. This is basically just, there are product updates here, but this is basically a massive budget allocation problem that you're trying to solve here. And it's. Yeah, it's really impressive. So I'm, I think Santi and I are rooting for you, Roon. You got a, you got a big problem at hand. And yeah, this is a budget allocation problem that you're trying to solve.
01:12:58.334 - 01:13:04.354, Speaker A: But really the next couple of years, it seems like are just about the execution. So it'll be fun to see how things go.
01:13:05.014 - 01:13:08.014, Speaker B: Absolutely. Will be fun. Yeah, man, thank you.
01:13:08.054 - 01:13:08.998, Speaker A: We'll talk to you soon, man.
01:13:09.086 - 01:13:11.754, Speaker C: Ruben, thanks for coming on. This was helpful. Thank you.
