00:00:09.530 - 00:00:37.090, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Thanks for the invitation from smartcom. My name is Harriet. It is my great pleasure to share our work around interchange NFT and how those technologies can be used to support global commerce. I'm going to share like a few powerpoints. Okay, first please allow me to introduce myself. I'm Harriet from Binji.
00:00:37.090 - 00:02:04.830, Speaker A: Binghi is a Shanghai based startup dedicating to blockchain innovation since 2016. Bingi is the Cosmos technology builder since 2017. We are the co contributor to Cosmos and Erisnet project and we are also currently lead the Cosmos interchange NFT specification, design and development in 2020. We are really glad and fortunate to be able to collaborate with Channing and Cosmos to develop Cosmos as well as BSN to develop the interchange oracle service for BSN for someone who might not know, BSN is like blockchain service network. It is the largest permissioned blockchain infrastructure globally and you can Google BSN to learn more of this effort. So for the BSN network, we developed the interchange Oracle service for BSN and we are also the developer for two very important BSN infrastructures including like BSN, the permissioned version interchange service hub, as well as its first open permissioned blockchain winsang chain. And besides the public chain protocol work, we are also developing regulation friendly open business systems.
00:02:04.830 - 00:03:18.348, Speaker A: We are the developer for Cosmos Enterprise, blockchain framework, Areta. We also used Areita to support building systems for digital bank, for the culture and art exchange, etc. Today I would like to use one use case we supported last year to explain how interchange NFT technology can be used to support global commerce. Last year, some nfts that successfully transferred from BSN Wentong chain to Ethereum through Eris hub using interchange technology. This effort was reported by many medias on the web and I will explain how this was done. This landmark interchange NFT transfer process involved four blockchain network in both the permission environment, BSN as well as public chain domain. So please see from this chart from left to right.
00:03:18.348 - 00:04:44.490, Speaker A: In BSN environment Areita based application blockchain Ventang chain as well as the interchange service hub Areta hub. So nfts are transferred out from the permissioned environment through the interchange, the NFT hub Aris hub, then get into the public chain space. Such a collaboration illustrates how interchange technology can be used to support global commerce that involves different jurisdiction requirements. For example, in the BSM permissioned blockchains in China, it supports like in the Winton chain environment, it supports chinese artworks, registration and domestic commerce with required compliance requirements such as KYC, AML etc. And for global commerce, interchange technology allows those artworks to circulate to public chain based global markets such as OpenSea with trust worthy data. This interchange entity transfer is achieved, leveraging Cosmos IBC protocol for its advanced capability in supporting interoperability among heterogeneous networks. So I'm going to explain the involved technologies step by step.
00:04:44.490 - 00:05:36.528, Speaker A: As mentioned, we use the IBC protocol for interchange NFT transfer. So I guess many of you might already heard about IBC. Of Cosmos. IBC stands for inter blockchain communication. Actually, besides of IBC, Cosmos also contributed to another innovations to our industry tenement consensus engine and Cosmos SDK. For the discussed use case, the involved application blockchain is BSN Vantang chain which is built using benji using the enterprise permission blockchain Areta. Areta is using the Cosmos SDK and using the tenement consensus engine.
00:05:36.528 - 00:06:39.050, Speaker A: So let me explain these three core technology modules. First, tenement tenement is one of the most important modules in Cosmos SDK which support BFT networks and consensus tenement was open source in 2014, which is really early and it's quite like forward looking. And so since then, tendermint has been used by many blockchains, including both consumption blockchains for the enterprises as well as public chains. I actually put some of the numbers that is a study carried out in 2019. So in that study it shows there are more than 40% of all POS proof of stake. Blockchains are powered by tenement. Tenement is really the most advanced implementation of the BFT.
00:06:39.050 - 00:08:08.626, Speaker A: The advanced features of tendermint such as fast finality allow it be able to replicate the deterministic state machines onto computers around the world. So this makes tendermint can support the interchange hub. Building the Interchange hubs Cosmos IBC Cosmos IBC protocol enables the Internet of blockchains. IBC stands for inter Blockchain Communication Protocol which is a reliable and secure communication protocol that handles reliable transport, authentication and ordering of data across different heterogeneous blockchains analysts to TCP IP for the Internet. You can see on this chart. IBC is on the transportation layer bingie. We also developed a simplified version of IBC called TIBC which stands for TERs IBC which it is a subset of the IBC protocol with some modifications to simplify the interchange connection and expand the application layer capability to support interchange NFT transfer which enables the digital assets which has complicated real world data can be transferred frictionlessly and trustlessly across blockchains.
00:08:08.626 - 00:09:25.154, Speaker A: TIBC with the interchange NFT is the interoperability tag we use to build the multiple hubs and connections to support the transfer of NFT from BSN permissioned blockchains to Ethereum opensea. Right now we already build TIBC bridge for BSN consumption blockchains as well as to Ethereum and to BSc. The third core contribution from Cosmos project to our industry is Cosmos SDK. Cosmos SDK is very modular and extensible and very suitable for build the sovereignty blockchains. Today there are over 6 million in assets amended by public blockchains built with Cosmos SDK. And Cosmos SDK is the most popular blockchain framework in the world. So with Cosmos SDK you can just simply plug the existing modules such as the Tendermint module, the IBC to add those features to your blockchain, and you can also build new modules and share them downstream to enrich and contribute to the blockchain.
00:09:25.154 - 00:11:00.640, Speaker A: Open source ecosystem and Benji we are the open source developers and we are currently supporting the NFT module in the Cosmos SDK and we are also dedicating to develop the enterprise supporting modules such as the id management, et cetera for the Cosmos ecosystem. So as discussed, we're contributing the enterprise modules for Cosmos SDK and so build the Areita enterprise blockchain. Areta is used by many blockchain implementations and for example the Winton chain as well as the interchange hub in BSN environment. And also we use the Areta to build for many of our enterprise customers, including the Asia Digital bank, which is an innovative global digital bank. The open architecture of Cosmos supports independent interchange hubs to collaborate. Right now in Cosmos ecosystem, besides Cosmos Hub, we also supported building the second hub which is called Irisnet and also known as Iris Hub. The focus of Aris Hub is NFT as well as connections to enterprise blockchains and as illustrated in this chart, right now Arisnet is supporting the NFT market such as optic.
00:11:00.640 - 00:12:47.540, Speaker A: The Irisnet's connection with BSN and Ethereum are live now since last year and support the NFT transfer from the BSN environment to Ethereum and the Irisnet connections to the Asia Digital bank. Open permission blockchains are going to be launched soon. We just explained how TIBC interchange NFT and RSNet to support the reliable connections from enterprise consortium blockchains to Ethereum Opensea with the interchange technology. The chinese traditional fine arts, including the paintings and porcelains can be registered in the wintang chain, which supports the China law compliance requirement, and then the NFTs building the real artworks. Digitalized rights can be transferred across the consortium chain including the interchange service hub to the public chain space to support the global commerce. The interchange technology not only allow users from different countries to satisfy their core business needs with blockchain that meets their country's compliance requirements, but also supports the trustworthy communication of information within the cross country business. We are also using the same tech stack and infrastructure to support Hainan international culture and artwork exchange.
00:12:47.540 - 00:13:48.940, Speaker A: We are proud to build the industry leading interchange technology for the mass business adoption. We believe this sets a new paradigm for NFTs and establish how interchange technology can be used to support the global commerce for different jurisdiction requirements. So this will incubate more interchange NFT implementations in the rims of cultural exchange and trustworthy global trades. Cultural communication and commerce exchange promote global collaborations for common development. Blockchain is said to be the value network. We are very proud to be a builder for the Internet of values since 2016 and we look forward to continuously working with blockchain open source community to leverage NFT and interchange technology to support building a better world. Thanks very much.
