00:00:00.320 - 00:00:40.694, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and today's the 21 October 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So we briefly hit all time high on the ETH USD pair today just before. Actually very, very briefly, though, you can see here on Coinbase, it basically just touched it and then we immediately dumped off it. And what was, like, you can see here on the 1 hour candle, like, we just basically touched it and then dumped all the way back to 4100 ish and kind of haven't gone back to all time high at time of recording just yet. But the most hilarious thing about this is that I put out a tweet saying, welcome back to all time high, ETH.
00:00:40.694 - 00:00:55.790, Speaker A: We missed you. And then literally, I. It would have to be like 15 seconds later, I just replied to the tweet with, oh, shit. Lol. Oh, fuck. Lol. Because, like, I put this tweet out and I was just like, I I'm known for being a top signal.
00:00:55.790 - 00:01:16.882, Speaker A: Like, I actually had, like, a hunch that people were using me, um, as, like, a counter signal to trade against. I mean, I don't know how much truth there is to that, but it happens so often that it can't just be a coincidence. And then it happened. And I was like, yep, of course. Of course it had to happen. You know, ETH always loves to do this, right? Gives us the all time high, then rugs us. And the funny thing is, it wasn't actually ETH that dumped.
00:01:16.882 - 00:01:29.162, Speaker A: It was bitcoin. So bitcoin just. I saw. I was looking at the charts and I just saw bitcoin start dumping. And I'm like, no, no. And then it dumped, and I was like, oh, my God, no, I've done it again. So, I mean, it's good that I can laugh about it, I guess.
00:01:29.162 - 00:02:12.236, Speaker A: But, like, this just feels like a leverage clear to me the leverage in the system was getting high again. People, obviously, people feeling euphoric, kind of levering up, because BTC broke through its all time high and ETH, I mean, touched it and now it's come down off it. So, I mean, I don't think this is anything major, like, leverage clearing always does this. I mean, every time you see something like this, it's basically people getting liquidated a lot of the time because of the fact that when people get liquidated, that kind of has to be sold into the market to kind of COVID the debts and stuff like that. So you, you see these sharp drops. Hopefully, by the time you guys are watching this, we're well and truly into the all time high. But I mean, you know, outside of that, outside of me being a top signal, it's just good to see ETH back above $4,000 in general.
00:02:12.236 - 00:02:49.088, Speaker A: Right? Like, it's been, what, almost six months? I think May 10 was when we hit the all time high last time. And people were kind of, like, debating over the last six months, is it over? Like, is the, is the bull market over? We're going to go into another two year bear market. What's going to happen, blah, blah. And, I mean, you'll remember if you're a regular kind of refuel watcher or refuel enjoyer, as we say, that I haven't been bearish at all. Like, even I remember, like, doing the video when, when ETH crashed from, like, what was it, like 4000 the first time or something like that, or crashed all the way down to 1700. It was a pretty brutal crash. And I remember saying, you know, I didn't expect it to crash this much, but I didn't think that the bull market was over.
00:02:49.088 - 00:03:14.576, Speaker A: Um, and, you know, I also believe that we're not going to have these two year bear markets anymore. It's just, there's just too much going on in the ecosystem. But, I mean, it just feels amazing that ETH is back here and it doesn't even feel like six months, really, like, it's, it's October 21 right now, actually. Lockdown in Melbourne ends in, like, less. Sorry, just over an hour from time of recording, which is exciting for me as well. And it's just funny. I've been in lockdown the whole time, but it really doesn't feel like it's been six months.
00:03:14.576 - 00:03:43.124, Speaker A: And it's just amazing to see, like, how, how much has happened since then as well. I mean, think about what was kind of, like, what ETH looked like in May and then what ETH looks like today. So essentially we had 1559 go live, right within August, August 5 or 6th, whatever it was. We've burned 588,000 ETH, which is $2.5 billion ish. The L2 rollout has voluntarily picked up, you know, a lot of steam. We have, like, almost $4 billion locked in L2s right now.
00:03:43.124 - 00:04:20.948, Speaker A: We've had people use them, you know, enjoy them, and it's just been great to see all that there. NFTs on Ethereum went absolutely bonkers, like, captured everyone's attention just went crazy. Right? Like lots and lots of growth of the NFT economy. And then you had like the, the merge roadmap coming to much clearer view as well, like, where we're basically all steam ahead towards the merge now and we've had the resurgence of DeFi as well. Like, I know I've said before that I don't think the DeFi 2.0 term is anything but a marketing term, but we've still had, like a resurgence in deFi interest and things like that, which is, I think, in part being spurred by the Defi 2.0 stuff, but also a little bit of L2 stuff as well.
00:04:20.948 - 00:04:50.682, Speaker A: But all of this has happened since ETH was last at its all time high. And it kind of reminded me and made me think back to, like, all the stuff that happened during 2018 and 2019 and even 2020. Well, it was below its old all time high of 1420. And, you know, it's just amazing how many things happen during bear markets or like during sideways periods or during kind of like down periods. It doesn't really matter. In Ethereum, we keep building no matter what. Even in the darkest depths where there was, like no funding for anyone, everyone was running on fumes.
00:04:50.682 - 00:05:28.730, Speaker A: Money wasn't there, we were still building kind of like these revolutionary and awesome products. So, yeah, I mean, that's why it's, it's impossible for me to be bearish. Like, I literally cannot be bearish. Like, I've tried, you know, just as, like a thought experiment is like, think to myself, you know, what's the bear case for Ethereum? And I just can't find one. You know, if you, if I had a gun to my head and people were asking me what, you know, to give a bear case, I would simply say, well, you know, Ethereum doesn't solve its scaling issues and then it loses its kind of like, market share to some other platform and it fades away. But the thing is, is that like, it's already solved the scaling issues. It's just a matter of rolling the, rolling it out and getting people to on board it onto them.
00:05:28.730 - 00:05:55.850, Speaker A: So, yeah, I don't know if you guys have, like in join the Discord channel and like, try and, try and convince me, try and give me an actual bear case for ETH because I just cannot see one. And that's why I buy ETH all the time. It's why I just spend so much time in this ecosystem is that I just can't find one. And that's exactly why after, even if we, after we crashed that big and everyone was calling for, like, triple digit ETH and for the bear market to happen again. I was steadfast in saying no. I don't see this happening. We're in the early adopter phase.
00:05:55.850 - 00:06:13.806, Speaker A: We're not at mass adoption just yet. We're in the early adopter phase right now. And there's just so much happening, so much growth to be had. It's just impossible. So here's to a, you know, little touch of the all time high at around 43, 75 here. Let's hope that we go back there and go beyond sooner rather than later. But I am amped.
00:06:13.806 - 00:06:30.654, Speaker A: Like, I am super pumped about this. Super pumped to be at all time high. I'm also very, very happy that I'm out of lockdown as of, you know, an hour from now. You know, it's almost midnight, so technically, just wait until tomorrow. But, I mean, for those of you who don't know, Melbourne in Australia has been in lockdown for over 270 days in total. Not. Not in a row.
00:06:30.654 - 00:06:37.686, Speaker A: In total. And without crypto, I would have gone insane. Like, I was. Seriously, it's. It's been. Been brutal. Like, we haven't been able to do anything.
00:06:37.686 - 00:07:02.092, Speaker A: It's like a hard lockdown. No restaurants, no, you know, shopping centers, movie theaters, no going to the city and everything like that. You'll remember, like, my birthday plans got rugged because we went back into a lockdown like twice in a row. And my birthday plans were to, like, go into the city and kind of like, spend some time in the city. Cause I actually live pretty far away from the city and never really get out there, so. Yeah, and I'm just really looking forward to traveling next year as well. Hopefully I can meet a lot of you.
00:07:02.092 - 00:07:19.020, Speaker A: I definitely do want to do a daily meetup at a. At a bar or something in the Melbourne CBD. So that'll probably happen maybe next month, maybe December. We'll have to see how it goes there. I saw that kind of, like, even interstate travel is going to be opening up in November as well. So looking forward to seeing. To seeing people there.
00:07:19.020 - 00:07:59.696, Speaker A: But anyway, I'm going to move on to some other stuff to talk about today. So. Client diversity. So Michael Sproul, who you will remember that I featured his client diversity threads on the refill before he basically put out a tweet thread, an update for client diversity on the ETH two main net. Now, you can read this straight up, linked in the YouTube description, but one chart that really caught my eye was this one. So, you know, you remember how I told you that Prism has like a lot of, a lot of network share, right? They have, they had like 70% at one point, which is bad. We don't want them having, we don't want any one client having more than 66% or even close to 66%, which is two thirds of the network for the reasons I've outlined previously.
00:07:59.696 - 00:08:37.720, Speaker A: And you can see here that the efforts that we've been making to improve client diversity have been having an impact. You can see that Prism has been going down. So from the 70% peak, it is now under 60%, which is awesome to see. And then you can see that lighthouse has been growing a bit as well. It went from like, just eyeballing it here, it seems about 17% to almost 19% now. And then I think, like, uncertain and unknown have been growing too. Now, obviously it's kind of like impossible to get 100% clear view of the entire network and of client diversity and things like that.
00:08:37.720 - 00:09:13.574, Speaker A: But it's just great to see, like, the fact that we're getting better at this, at this. And we've got a way to track it too. Like, Michael's doing amazing work here, being able to track this sort of stuff, because we definitely need to know, need to know these for network health and we definitely need to keep track of it. And we also need to just keep encouraging everyone to run minority clients like Taeku and, and nimbus and even lodestar at this point. And I mean, even lighthouse, like, but the thing is, lighthouse already has a pretty big market share, I guess, like at 19%. But I mean, compared to prism, it's, it's very small. So definitely any of the other clients will do right now.
00:09:13.574 - 00:09:27.810, Speaker A: And as I've said before, that's not to say that prism isn't an amazing client. It definitely is. Right. Um, and that's why people use it. They're amazing team, they've got an amazing onboarding process. But, uh, we definitely, the other teams are just as good. In my eyes, they're, they're just as good.
00:09:27.810 - 00:10:07.416, Speaker A: Their clients are just as good. You're not going to make less money by running one of the other clients or anything like that. So, yeah, once again, encouraging you all to run a minority client or change to one if you're staking on your own. And encourage your staking service provider to also change away from the majority if they are using a majority client. But yeah, go read this twitter thread from Michael. It's got a lot of other great info in it as well. So a walkie from Gitcoin announced a new kind of like initiative called the Greatest Larp, which is basically, they describe it here as an alternate reality game, an experiment in network storytelling, an ambitious gambit for public goods funding, a shelling point for the hopeful in a dystopic world.
00:10:07.416 - 00:10:40.794, Speaker A: A novel Little Slice of the Metaverse fair launched at Lizcon 2021 by Kevin Owoki, Austin Griffith and Gitcoindao's moonshot collective. So essentially what this is, is basically a series of, kind of, kind of like comics and nfts about Anon versus Moloch. And you can kind of mint these nfts and read the comic books and all that sort of stuff. And, and I guess like you can see the little video here. I'm going to get more involved with this. And essentially, you know, Gitcoin and public goods funding has, has always been about fighting off Moloch, essentially. And you know, there's nfts and there's also physical figurines as well.
00:10:40.794 - 00:11:14.526, Speaker A: Unfortunately, I didn't get to it before I got completely priced out. I think like they're going for over five ETH now and I'm, as much as I love my figurines, I am not going to spend over five ETH on, on one. I wouldn't even do that for, for like a one piece figurine. All the ones behind me are one piece figurines. That's a lot of my like 20 grand, right? 20 grand us for um, for, for kind of like figurine there. But um, it's still pretty cool to see this. It's cool to see, you know, the thing is, the Moloch stuff came from like the bear market where essentially people felt like the money wasn't going to the right kind of like initiatives.
00:11:14.526 - 00:11:53.710, Speaker A: The money was going to the wrong people, the wrong kind of projects. I mean, it came off the back of Eos raising like $4 billion in their ICO and eos amounted to nothing. And as I've said before, the eos, all the ETH that they raised, they sold it and they bought bitcoin with it. So it really extracted a lot of value out of the Ethereum ecosystem. And you know, because of that, like it just birthed kind of like this thing where we're like, okay, we need to do better with public goods funding, especially Gitcoin came along. You know, Gitcoin's mission is to defeat Moloch. Is it kind of like defeat, um, the, the God of Moloch and to make sure that we can fund the, the right kind of projects and initiatives out there and it's great to see them doing kind of like more experiments like thegreatestlar.com,
00:11:53.710 - 00:12:18.258, Speaker A: which you should definitely check out. Read the comics. They're actually really good. You know, you can order yourself if you want to spend the money. I mean, I think there's only like five of these things, the physical statues or you can pick up the one of one. NFt, I don't know if it's still for sale, if it's still being bid on or whatever right now, but yeah, definitely go check it out because you'll be able to support kickoin grants. And as you guys know, I'm a big proponent of gitcoin and gitcoin grants and all that sort of stuff there.
00:12:18.258 - 00:12:57.436, Speaker A: So definitely check it out if you haven't already. So Yuga from Coinbase here, who I've talked about before, put out another tweet today, basically saying the AIP 1559 transaction pricing algorithm we developed for Coinbase consistently outperforms all other major exchanges, saving us and our customers thousands of ETH. So he's basically highlighting a dashboard from that Trent van Ness put together, the one that I highlighted the other day. And I think my camera is cutting it off a little bit here. Oh, actually, there you go. You can basically see here that on the right hand side you've got like a list of exchanges. Coinbase is in black and the rest of them are in different colors.
00:12:57.436 - 00:13:51.828, Speaker A: And you can see how much money Coinbase is saving by using kind of like 1559 style transactions and having their own little algorithm that allows them to kind of like save themselves and users money by using this. And you can see the other ones that haven't implemented it yet, like binance and, and ku coin and a bunch of the others, they're much worse off. I mean, just eyeballing it here, that orange looks like binance, they seem to be way worse off. Like much, much like their medium priority gas fee can, can vary between 50 to 100. For Coinbase, it seems it looks much, much lower than that for the, for the medium priority gas fee. So yeah, great to see 1559 working as intended and giving exchanges, which obviously process a lot of transactional activity on the Ethereum network, giving them a way to save money as well. So I mean, this has been like a, I guess like a narrative buster for people who, out there who said, oh, 1559 increased gas prices for everyone, it's really, really bad, blah, blah.
00:13:51.828 - 00:14:59.918, Speaker A: I've talked about it in the refuel numerous times about why that wasn't the case at all. And it's just great to have some hard data around this and actual proof that you can, just like irrefutable proof because it's all on chain that you can show people and basically say, look, how can you say that 1559 increased gas prices and actually made it a worse user experience when you have the biggest exchange in the US and one of the biggest in the world telling you that they're saving money since 1559, transactions kind of came into, came into play here. So, yeah, I mean, this is the stuff that I always reference. Whenever someone kind of comes to me with a question and asked me about 1559, I always say it wasn't 1559 that increased gas prices, it's just the fact that it went live the same time as the NFT kind of boom took off and we had essentially all these kind of things play out at once. So network demand went crazy and 1559 obviously, you know, I think helped with that as well because it actually made it so that you barely have to speed up transactions anymore. I don't think I've sped up more than maybe a handful of transactions since this went live and I do a lot of transactions. So, yeah, I'm just amazing to see some hard data around 1559 and the user improvements outside of the fee burning.
00:14:59.918 - 00:15:31.248, Speaker A: Like, I always love to see that. All right, so, and, oh, yeah, on a follow up of that, like, Trent here basically said that wallets and exchanges that don't support type two transactions or 1559 style transactions are significantly overpaying on their priority fees up to ten to 20 times. So as I just said before, you can see in this chart, like, the overpayments here, but Trent actually quantified it up to ten to 20 times by not using 1559 style transactions. That is not negligible. Right. That's huge. Huge cost for users, huge costs for exchanges.
00:15:31.248 - 00:16:04.772, Speaker A: I don't know what these exchanges are doing, but they need to get on board. It's not even hard to do, like, unless they've got like a really bad system. But the thing is, is that Coinbase has actually been notoriously known for having a lot of legacy tech and a lot of, a lot of old tech because they've been around for so long. So it's surprising to me that a newer exchange like Binance and maybe is even FTX on this list. No, like, binance is probably, I guess, like the newest tier and the most premier exchange. It's just, I mean, it's funny to see that, but, and the thing is, is that like those tips aren't being burned either. Like if it's a priority fee is the tip.
00:16:04.772 - 00:16:45.404, Speaker A: So that's not being burned either. That's just going straight to miners. So unless binance likes that and wants us to keep paying miners more money and hurting their users, who knows? But yeah, I hope they get with the program pretty soon. So alchemy are basically a platform for, I mean, so the easiest way to describe alchemy is that it's very similar to infuria. It's basically full node infrastructure for, for Ethereum, for other chains, and they're very, very popular. But they put together this thread today where they basically are publicizing metrics on some of the crazy growth they've seen within the polygon developer ecosystem. So you can see here thousands of teams and applications already built on Polygon, and the number of active developers is growing two times every couple of months.
00:16:45.404 - 00:17:27.836, Speaker A: So you can see a team's using polygon doubling every two months. It was basically on the zero in June, now it's up to over 2000 in October 2021. And then you can see month on month usage growth reaching 145% as of October. And a bunch of other kind of like stats around here. About 40% of projects are using polygon and Ethereum in parallel, while 60% are building on polygon alone, suggesting that there may be a healthy future for polygon as both a complement to an ethereum as an ecosystem in its own right. Now the cool thing is about this is that, as I've mentioned plenty of times before about Polygon, and again, disclosure, I'm an advisor, but as I've mentioned plenty of times before, Polygon isn't just the PoS chain. Obviously this is all pretty much around the PoS chain.
00:17:27.836 - 00:17:58.710, Speaker A: But they have these suite of scaling solutions that they're developing and have launched before. Like Hermes is live now, ey, nightfall is live. They have a lot more coming on the ZK front. All of these developers that are already working in the polygon ecosystem, they can easily be on boarded onto this other stuff like to these roll ups and these actual true l two s and stuff like that. So this is what I mean by polygon being socially aligned with Ethereum. It means that the people who add the most value, the developers are there already. They're in the Ethereum ecosystem, they're in the Ethereum family.
00:17:58.710 - 00:18:33.184, Speaker A: There's no requirement to kind of like poach them from another ecosystem. There's no kind of like tribalism. There's basically those developers being like, hey, there's new infrastructure for us to deploy to, let's go and do it. And they already are familiar with the polygon systems, with the Polygon team, with any of their bd teams and stuff like that. So this is just incredibly healthy. And I love seeing this growth, especially around teams and developers kind of like launching projects. And you know, the funny thing is, is that I think the same thing's going to happen with, with L2 is where I actually think that eventually, layer one, there's going to be basically no new projects launching on layer one, Ethereum.
00:18:33.184 - 00:19:04.048, Speaker A: They're all just going to be launching on L2s. And that is actually the, the proper way to proper end state for Ethereum. At the end of the day, that is not, um, and not, not something bad, but it's interesting to see that's already been happening with Polygon because I mean, we all know Ethereum, layer one is not a cheap place, it is very expensive place. And I mean, I've spoken about modular blockchains ad nauseam. I'm not going to go over it again, but that's okay, right? And then there's, you know, we have stocknet going live in Alpha on Mainnet next month, OVM 2.0 going live later this month, and I'm sure they're going to remove the whitelist. Arbitrum keeps growing.
00:19:04.048 - 00:19:51.540, Speaker A: You know, there's so many of these projects going to L2s that I do believe that eventually, maybe even within the next year, we won't see many projects launching on layer one Ethereum anymore, which will actually be fantastic because we want users to have a nice first experience with Ethereum. We don't want them going to Ethereum layer one and seeing a dollar 50 uniswap transaction fee as their first interaction with Ethereum and then being like, what the hell is this crap? And going using something else. We want them using L2. We don't want them to have to experience the layer one high, high price there. So, so yeah, really, really cool to see this kind of, and I guess like shout out to alchemy for putting together this thread here. So set protocol announced today that they have crossed $500 million in TVL, which is an awesome achievement here. Obviously I'm a bit biased.
00:19:51.540 - 00:20:31.602, Speaker A: I mean, I used to work at set and full time and I'm still an advisor to set. But I think it's great to see the continued growth of an asset management protocol because I think asset management is not something that gets spoken about too much, but he's definitely something that he's needed for mass adoption. Most people want to kind of delegate their, I guess, investments and management of their assets to kind of like an autonomous system or to like someone that'll manage it for them. And, you know, index cop is building on set protocol and he's a large chunk of this TVL and that's the products that they offer, like a Defi pulse index and the, and the fly products and MVI and stuff like that. So all that sort of stuff, kind of like taking it together. You kind of like get this TVL here, which is 500 million. So I guess, yeah, congrats to them on that.
00:20:31.602 - 00:21:11.490, Speaker A: If you haven't checked out, you know, sets products themselves or index colors products, I highly recommend doing so. Obviously, as I said, I'm biased because I'm close to the teams, but they build awesome products and I kind of like recommend checking them out. So status. So for those who don't know, status is a kind of like older Ethereum project did an ICR in 2017 building a kind of like mobile wallet app with secure messaging and browsing and all that sort of stuff. But they actually build or have a team that's building the Nimbus client. So you've the Nimbus ETH, two clients you've probably heard me talk about just before, about like Nimbus and before I mentioned Nimbus plenty of times. So they're actually part of the ETH two effort as well, which is really cool.
00:21:11.490 - 00:21:56.548, Speaker A: And so today they actually posted a little bit of a blog post here about modular Ethereum. So this kind of like terminology is starting to really take off now. Obviously popularized by Polynyar, not created by them. Apparently it was that the term was actually created back in 2018 by some other folks, but, you know, popularized by, by Polynya and then less like myself and bankless and a few other people have been sharing the, sharing the kind of like vision out there. But expect to see more of this, more of these blog posts that basically reference modular blockchains and modular ethereum and kind of like detail what it is, why it's exciting, why it's like a paradigm shift and having, you know, they link to all of Paulina's work here, that they link to my blog post and my video with David, which is awesome. And Vitalik's post as well. Vitalik was years ahead of all of us on this sort of stuff.
00:21:56.548 - 00:22:33.740, Speaker A: He's just been at the forefront. But I'm just, you know, I suggest reading this post. It's probably not going to be too much new information in there if you've been, you know, a daily refuel kind of like listener or Watcher, because I've spoken about this stuff a lot, but I just love seeing the narrative shift. Like for me, when I want something to kind of like catch fire, when I want like a new piece of knowledge to spread as fast as possible, I try to spread it through narratives. And that's what I've been doing lately with the modular blockchain stuff. I've been tweeting a lot about it, spreading it on my newsletter, spreading it on the, on the refuel, because I want it to be the common terminology that people use when they talk about scaling. I don't want it to modular versus monolithic blockchains.
00:22:33.740 - 00:23:30.008, Speaker A: Um, I don't want people to kind of like think in the old terms anymore where it's kind of like, oh, you know, layer one versus L2, all that sort of stuff. I want people to think in terms of like modular chain consensus, security as one module, data availability is another module and execution as another module. And all of those together make a awesome scalable ecosystem where everything just like works very seamlessly. Obviously over the long term, you know, that's, that's going to happen, it's not going to happen overnight, but that's kind of like what I mean by changing the narrative, making sure people are on board with it, how they understand it, and kind of like evolving the terminology as the ecosystem evolves as well. So great to see status publishing this blog post today. So I only came across this yesterday, but basically influence, which is a strategy space MMO that he's kind of like building within crypto announced that they're actually going to launch on Starknet. So this is awesome.
00:23:30.008 - 00:24:11.478, Speaker A: I mean, this I guess like is the first game I believe, that has committed to launching on Stocknet. And I'm really, really bullish on crypto gaming when done right. Of course, I've discussed before how I think that just because a game, you know, kind of puts crypto in its name and adds nfts doesn't make it a good game. So I'm going to have to kind of like, you know, reserve judgment to see how, how good influence kind of, I guess, turns out as part of a game here. But it's just great to see that they've announced that they're launching on Stocknet. So they detail here, what does this enable for players? Obviously, high scalability and low fees, instant actions, deeper mechanics and crew assignments as well you can read kind of like this blog post for more detail on all on all of that there. I think the game right now is actually live.
00:24:11.478 - 00:24:43.614, Speaker A: Not on Stark. Net, but live and in the web browser. You can go play it and you can go play around with it, but this is just the beginning. I mean, crypto game is going to be so massive. And as I said, like adding crypto doesn't make the game automatically good, but there's just such a wide kind of like design space now for crypto based games that I just can't wait to see what happens. Like, I know there's tons of projects working on like every chain, not just Ethereum or its l two s, but like other chains as well. There's just so many of these kind of like projects are working on gaming and there's obviously been successes like Axie Infinity and things like that.
00:24:43.614 - 00:25:23.500, Speaker A: But I mean, we've really only scratched the surface of what's possible here. And as a, you know, huge kind of like former game. Like, I don't have much time these days, but I do play games from time to time still. I really want to see someone crack that. That nut of making a really, really good game doesn't feel like you're grinding while also incorporating kind of like crypto into it, nfts into it, you know, play to earn mechanics and making it so that it's viewed, like by the mainstream and played by the mainstream. Because right now, you know, even axie Infinity, for example, is not considered a quote unquote mainstream game even though they're massive, right? Absolutely massive. I would say that it is not considered something that I see talked about, like on, on just like mainstream places.
00:25:23.500 - 00:25:53.124, Speaker A: Like, it's not talked about really too much in the mainstream media. It's not talked about in the mainstream gaming channels that I frequent, all that sorts of stuff. And that's not because it's a bad game or anything like that. It's just because we haven't crossed that, that kind of like threshold yet. But I think we will. And I think more and more games coming out will do that and get more people interested. And then it'll just be a snowball effect where eventually maybe it'll take a few years to get there, maybe it takes 510 years to get there, but eventually it'll be weird to launch a video game without having some kind of crypto element, you know, tied to it.
00:25:53.124 - 00:26:46.346, Speaker A: Now, the thing is, is that I can see the dark side of this as well, where basically these massive game companies see this and are like, okay, well, we can make a lot of money by doing this. How do we just abuse the game and how do we, like, make a quote unquote good enough game but add all these play to earn features to it where we can suck as much money out of the player as possible? It already happened with mobile gaming, right, where it's basically, you know, in app purchases everywhere. These games make billions of dollars a year. You know, they're quote unquote free to play, but they have people that pay a lot of money to play them and to advance in them, and they're basically engineered to be money syncs. They're, they're more like, I guess, like a slot machine than an actual video game. I am weary about that happening with crypto gaming. I actually think it will happen or, you know, it may already have happened, to be honest, like, but at the same time, you got to take the good with the bad, right? There's going to be a lot of good.
00:26:46.346 - 00:27:09.312, Speaker A: It's probably going to be a lot of bad. Just the same with the tokens that we see, right? All the tokens. I mean, there's plenty of token scams out there that doesn't take away from the legit projects doing their own token and having their own token and stuff like that. And, you know, there's plenty of rug pulls and other things like that out there. But again, that doesn't take away from the legit projects. So from that point of view, I'm excited to see, you know, where the crypto gaming kind of, like space goes. But I'm also cautiously optimistic.
00:27:09.312 - 00:27:36.918, Speaker A: I think there's going to be a lot of scams, unfortunately, but I guess in crypto we're used to that by now. Right? All right, so finally here, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to cryptowife, who's done this. Awesome. I guess NFT for bankless. So I guess for bankless and, and Andrew Yang. So if you listen, the other day, bankless had Andrew Yang on their podcast, and he seems to be making crypto a, I guess, like, major part of his platform. So his party is called the Forward party.
00:27:36.918 - 00:28:16.312, Speaker A: It's in the US, obviously, and he seems to want to incorporate crypto as a major part of that. So there's this Nft now that I guess, like, Andrew Yang tweeted out about this as well, that you can kind of go to Zora and kind of like a bid on and all the proceeds will be donated to the forward party and kind of like go towards the efforts of, I guess, like, playing in the political sphere. Right? Um, now, obviously, I'm not an american or anything like that, but you can see the bottom right here. There's a little bit of a daily kind of logo there, which is awesome to see. Um, but, you know, I was listening to Andrew Yang on. On the podcast, and I, you know, I've been following Yang for quite a while. Like, he ran, he was in the presidential race in 2020.
00:28:16.312 - 00:28:34.484, Speaker A: You know, he wasn't going to win or anything like that, but he definitely brought a lot of ideas to the table. And I think that he really resonates with me who, you know, on the political spectrum. I don't fall really left or right. I'm. I'm kind of like centrist, or at least I try to be. I try to balance all things in life. That's kind of like a mantra that I have.
00:28:34.484 - 00:28:56.274, Speaker A: Maybe I'm, you know, maybe I'm. I'm. I'm a little bit naive in that, but I just try to keep it balanced. Like, I think if you veer too far towards, like, the, quote unquote left or right, you. You kind of lose sight of things and you can't think as clearly. And I think Andrew Yang is actually a perfect embodiment of that. And obviously, I don't agree with everything he says, and I don't expect everyone to agree with everyone else about everything.
00:28:56.274 - 00:29:44.954, Speaker A: But, like, I'm really, really happy to see that the crypto space is just getting more representation within the political sphere. It's not just been kind of like, Andrew Yang has been a bunch of other kind of, like, I guess, politicians in the US stepping up to the plate, embracing crypto, making it part of their platform. But Yang has a pretty great, pretty big platform, and he has a big platform with a lot of people who are definitely more on the kind of, like, progressive side of things where they're. They're already kind of, like, really big fans of all the technology that's happening, all this, you know, space travel, kind of like anti aging tech, all the kind of futurist stuff you always hear about. So it's great to see him kind of like, embracing crypto as part of that as well. And the bankless guys, David and Ryan, have done an amazing job, kind of like, I guess, talking to him about it, getting him on the podcast, you know, keeping him involved. And David in particular, I think, has been a massive proponent of Yang since.
00:29:44.954 - 00:30:01.370, Speaker A: Since last year as well. So, yeah, if you want to bid on this, NFT, I'm not sure if bidding is still open, but you can go check it out anyway. It's on Zora and it'll be linked in the YouTube description. But on that note, I think I'm going to call it there for today, everyone. So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:30:01.370 - 00:30:05.274, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
