00:00:02.280 - 00:00:26.874, Speaker A: Welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the show for crypto natives. Every week we do short but in depth conversations with the most important builders and investors in crypto so you can filter through what's noise and stay ahead of the markets. I'm your host, Jason Choi. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. The blockchain podcast gets brought to you by perpetual protocol, Figment and aave.
00:00:27.264 - 00:01:19.674, Speaker B: Now, US regulations around Defi and crypto is incredibly important because the rest of the world looks to it. Even here in Hong Kong, the local regulator, SFC, looks to the SEC for a lot of the guidance and a lot of the leadership in terms of setting out what are the laws to follow for crypto. And for me personally, I've always been confused about these different agencies in the US and the entities, and all of them seem to have different views and regulations. I thought theres no better way to make sense of all of this than to have cryptostar lawyer Jake Trevinsky on the show to unpack all of this for us. Now, many of you know Jake as the general counsel for Compound labs, which is the company supporting one of the largest lending protocols today. And many of you also follow Jake on Twitter for his insightful takes around the regulatory landscape for Defi and crypto. So im incredibly excited to have Jake on and welcome to the show.
00:01:20.914 - 00:01:22.934, Speaker C: Hey Jason, thanks so much for having me.
00:01:23.394 - 00:01:31.454, Speaker B: Now, Jake, before we get started on all this regulatory landscape and all this chaos, can you give us a little background about how did you end up at compound?
00:01:32.194 - 00:02:05.314, Speaker C: Yeah, for sure. So I started my legal career about eight years ago. I started at a multinational law firm called Baker McKenzie, where I was doing mostly anti money laundering and anti corruption compliance and investigations. And a lot of that was for Fortune 500 financial institutions. That was sort of how I got my introduction to finance. I came across bitcoin around 2013. Unfortunately, like most people who come across bitcoin the first time, I totally dismissed it and missed the boat.
00:02:05.314 - 00:02:55.434, Speaker C: So shame on me for that. But I guess we all have that story. But I came back to it maybe four years later. After a few years at the firm and then taking a break from private practice to do a federal clerkship with a district judge in California, I joined a litigation boutique where I was focusing mostly on international disputes and investigations. And a lot of that work started to involve ICO issuers in 2017. And around the same time, bitcoin was going up in price. I sort of got back into bitcoin as a personal passion and started working on some of these issues around securities regulation, commodities regulation, and other government enforcement issues at my firm.
00:02:55.434 - 00:03:51.976, Speaker C: And I got to the point where I felt like I am a true believer in the future of this technology. I would so much rather be working with a company that's building in this space to help them get this right instead of trying to clean up the mess of the 2017 ICO bubble. And so in the middle of 2019, in the depths of the bear market, I got connected with Robert Leshner at Compound Labs. And I just thought that DeFi was the most exciting sector within the industry, and that compound was the most interesting and exciting project within DeFi. So I made the jump about two years ago to compound labs, where I am general counsel, as you mentioned, and I've been loving it ever since. I should also say, before we jump in any further, I am a lawyer, but I am not your lawyer, nor do I represent anyone who's listening to this podcast. Nothing that I say here is intended as legal advice.
00:03:51.976 - 00:03:57.404, Speaker C: And also, this is just my personal views. I'm not here to speak on behalf of compound labs.
00:03:57.984 - 00:04:35.334, Speaker B: Definitely, thank you for the disclaimer. And this is an interesting background that you have, and you made a great choice jumping into compound, because obviously today it is one of the largest DeFi protocols. And because DeFi has grown so much, I think a lot of regulators are starting to pay attention to not just crypto, but defi and specific. And before we dissect the current regulatory landscape set by the SEC, CFTC, and the US Senate and all these different entities, can you help us kind of understand what are the major pieces of existing regulations around crypto today in the US? Is there like a general view that the quote unquote government has towards crypto, or is that too generic of a question?
00:04:36.634 - 00:05:59.124, Speaker C: It's not too generic of a question, but there isn't really much of a direct answer because the US government really doesn't have a comprehensive policy toward crypto, and there aren't really very many crypto specific regulations, at least at the federal level. So we're still in the very early stages as a country of grappling with this new technology and figuring out how the government can and should regulate a decentralized financial system, which is very different from what regulators have experience with and what traditional regulations are designed to address. But there are still a number of different regulatory frameworks that are front of mind when we're working in crypto. We're thinking about DEFI and decentralized financial protocols, the main ones you just mentioned. There are the federal securities laws, which are enforced by the SEC, the Securities and Exchange Commission. There are the commodity derivatives laws in the Commodity Exchange act, which is enforced by the CFTC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. There is the Bank Secrecy act, which is the federal anti money laundering laws that's enforced by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, FinCEN, which is a bureau of the US Treasury Department.
00:05:59.124 - 00:07:08.266, Speaker C: And the list goes on. Because really, every different financial regulation that applies to the traditional financial system at least touches in some way on what we are building in crypto. Crypto really touches everything. So we could go down the list of the OCC and the IR's and the FDIC and the CFPB, right? The Alphabet soup of agencies here in Washington, DC, where I'm based, all of them sort of have their own view on crypto. And then you have to think about the legislative side, the elected officials, the politicians who are in Congress, so members of the House and the Senate, and also President Biden and his appointees in the White House. So there's a whole lot going on here in DC. And then just to add more complexity to the regulatory picture here in the US, you also have all 50 states which have their own state level regulatory frameworks, all of which are very different and any one of which could apply given the fact that crypto is a borderless movement.
00:07:08.266 - 00:07:24.434, Speaker C: Right. Crypto, you know, crosses borders. It exists pretty much everywhere. So every regulator you talk to has at least some interest in thinking about how their regulations apply. So there's a lot going on here and happy to dive in deeper to whichever part of that you find most interesting.
00:07:24.854 - 00:08:12.914, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think this is probably the reason why it's so hard to understand what regulators are thinking whenever founders ask us, you know, what. What should we be watching out for from regulators, especially for us based teams? It's always such a nuanced question to answer because there's so many different entities and we're always trying to point it towards resources that maybe give them some sort of a comprehensive overview. And so far, the closest thing that we found is maybe back in March, the financial action task force set out some guidance regarding crypto, and they recently offered some more clarification on it. And now, to my knowledge, the FATF, they don't have any type of legislative power anywhere and they only issue these kind of global suggestions. So how much of the current US crypto laws do you think are affected by that guidance? And how much attention should we be paying attention to what FATF is saying?
00:08:14.164 - 00:08:59.550, Speaker C: It's a great question. So the FATF deals specifically with anti money laundering regulations. So let's zoom in on AML for a second and set aside the securities laws and the commodities laws and all that stuff. We can come back to that. The FATF is an international standard setting body for anti money laundering and counterterrorist financing regulation. We often think about these regulations as the KYC or know your customer regulations, which require financial institutions to identify their customers or the individuals or companies that they are serving financial services to. The FATF is comprised of 37 different member countries.
00:08:59.550 - 00:09:51.972, Speaker C: So the US, for example, is one of the member countries of the FATF. And what the FATF does is it makes recommendations for what those member countries should do with their individual anti money laundering laws and regulations. The FATF came out with its first virtual currency. They describe crypto as virtual currency, their first virtual currency guidance a few years ago. In 2019, they updated that guidance, or at least proposed a draft update to that guidance in March of this year. The guidance was, I think, poorly received by the industry. I found it deeply problematic because what the FATF is proposing is a fairly significant expansion on the anti money laundering regulations, which we can get into a little bit.
00:09:51.972 - 00:10:22.466, Speaker C: But I think what's important to know about the FATF is, first of all, that guidance is not yet final. We're actually waiting for the final guidance to come out on Friday of this week. So we're recording this on June 23. I think by the time this podcast comes out, we'll have some more clarity from the FATF on what their actual guidance is. But once that guidance does come out, it will not have the effect of law. The FATF does not make laws. It only makes recommendations.
00:10:22.466 - 00:11:07.114, Speaker C: The debate will then move to the member countries, to the US Congress, or to the legislature or the regulatory bodies of the other 36 member countries to decide. Do we agree with these recommendations? Which of the recommendations do we like? Which ones are we going to implement? Some of the recommendations leave room for the member countries to make their own decisions about how they want to proceed. So this is going to be a very long process of trying to figure out how the anti money laundering laws and regulations may shift to apply to a disintermediated financial system, which, again, is very different from what the anti money laundering laws were initially set up to regulate.
00:11:07.854 - 00:11:16.030, Speaker B: And you mentioned that a lot of people were not pleased with what the Fat have issued. So what were the specific comments that people took an issue with?
00:11:16.222 - 00:13:11.746, Speaker C: Right. So, historically speaking, anti money laundering compliance obligations only apply to regulated financial institutions like banks or money transmitters or payment processors or other, you know, other finance industry companies like that. Specifically, the definition of a regulated financial institution, which the FATF calls a VASP, a virtual asset service provider, only includes custodial intermediaries, meaning financial institutions that are taking custody of their customers assets. The most recent draft guidance from the FATF a few months ago proposes expanding that definition of AVASP to non custodial market participants, which would be a massive departure from how the anti money laundering laws were set up, and also goes against how the entire DeFi space is designed to operate. Right of DeFi is that DeFi protocols are non custodial, and therefore the developers of DeFi protocols, and the folks who are offering DeFi protocols as implementations or offering interfaces or aggregators to DeFi protocols are not captured by current anti money laundering regulations. If the FATF were to finalize their draft guidance, and then member countries were to implement it exactly as the FATF proposes it, what that means is a huge number of additional market participants in crypto now would have to comply with anti money laundering obligations, including KYC, the requirement of identifying the users of a protocol, or the users of an interface. And I think for many reasons, that would be a huge mistake.
00:13:11.746 - 00:14:41.686, Speaker C: I think, first of all, we believe in crypto that we want to build a financial system that puts inclusion at the top of the priority list. We want to create a financial system that can be used by everyone, where no matter how much money you have or no matter whether your government has issued you a passport or an identity that you can easily use to prove who you are, you should still be able to access financial services in the form of DeFi protocols. So a requirement like this would really strike against the heart and soul of the permissionless, open nature of DeFi protocols. I think secondly, and maybe this is more of sort of a nuanced regulatory point, I think a rule that deputizes non custodial market participants as basically surveillance operators over the financial system would be doomed to fail, because there is no way, fundamentally, for someone who is working in the crypto ecosystem to identify who the other people are, who are using that system. So the rule would essentially require folks to perform a service that they are incapable of performing to comply with an obligation that, by definition, they cannot comply with. So my hope is that the FATF will revise their draft guidance after hearing some of this feedback from the industry, and instead work with us to come up with something that makes a lot.
00:14:41.710 - 00:15:01.874, Speaker B: More sense now, for the founders and operators and investors out there, it sounds like the absolute worst case scenario. If the countries start listening to the FATF suggestions and it's taken to its kind of logical extremes, then all of the DeFi protocols essentially have to become custodial. Is that the kind of main concern?
00:15:03.354 - 00:16:43.404, Speaker C: That's definitely the main concern, and I think the way you put it is very helpful for understanding what's going on here. The problem that these regulators are grappling with is that the regulations that they have enforced for the last 50 years or so require intermediaries in the financial system. That is the point of the anti money laundering laws. It is to deputize financial institutions to perform this service to the government of surveilling financial transactions and then censoring those transactions when they look suspicious, or seizing people's assets, if those people have been engaged in wrongdoing. And if you remove those intermediaries from the financial system, you really hamstring the effectiveness of those anti money laundering laws. So these regulators, who rightfully are concerned about stopping bad actors from abusing the financial system, are trying to figure out, how can we still accomplish that good objective in a world that does not have financial intermediaries? And unfortunately, their sort of knee jerk reaction is to say, well, the solution to this is simply to mandate intermediation, right? If there are no intermediaries in the system, but we need intermediaries to achieve our objective, let's just require the reintroduction of intermediaries. Now, obviously, that destroys much of the value of what we are trying to build, right? The benefits of Defi, for example, are because we are removing these trusted third parties, these centralized intermediaries, from the financial system.
00:16:43.404 - 00:17:40.944, Speaker C: So for us in industry, that idea of mandatory re intermediation is a non starter. So then the question becomes, are there ways that we can try to address these same concerns? Stopping terrorists from using crypto in order to carry out terrorist attacks, which nobody wants to happen. Are there ways to achieve that objective without just reintroducing the intermediaries that were working so hard to remove? So I think in terms of what founders and other folks in the industry should be thinking about, is trying to address those concerns while still staying true to the permissionless nature of DeFi, honoring and putting to the forefront what's special about the technology that we're building and not compromising on it, just to satisfy those regulators, while still thinking about other ways that we can engage cooperatively and collaboratively to address those concerns.
00:17:41.484 - 00:18:29.114, Speaker B: And this actually leads us really well into my next question, which is that recently Elizabeth Warren, which is a US senator from Massachusetts, she made a pretty negative comment about crypto, and most of the concerns seem to be around the same issues that you just mentioned as well. So anti money laundering, terrorist financing, and so on. So I think we kind of understand the worst case scenario here where DeFi protocols are required to be custodial, which kind of defeats the purpose of DeFi. But do you think there is some sort of a middle ground? If there is some sort of regulation that is really set out in the US that is able to preserve the current state of DeFi but also protect users, is that something that's possible at all, or do you think it has to be a black and white kind of thing?
00:18:30.374 - 00:19:53.926, Speaker C: I definitely think that there's a middle ground, and I think we're at the very beginning of the conversation to try to figure out what that middle ground might look like. Elizabeth Warren, she sort of took the heat for being the main detractor or opponent of crypto after she made some negative comments during a Senate banking committee hearing on CBDCs central bank digital currencies a couple of weeks ago. I think if you step back and consider her comments just in the context of what's happening in the country right now, I think it's important to remember crypto is still a very small aspect of what someone like Elizabeth Warren is thinking about. And so it's not all that surprising that she doesn't yet have all the information about what's being built in the space, all of the promise of the technology. Basically, what she said was, as you mentioned, that crypto is really just for criminals, that there's a lot of illicit activity in crypto, that it's enabling terrorism and ransomware and money laundering and all these sorts of things. Things. And then her second criticism, sort of similarly, in my mind, misinformed, but definitely a reasonable concern overall, is the question of the impact of crypto on the climate.
00:19:53.926 - 00:20:50.060, Speaker C: Right. The environmental impact of proof of work mining. Much more a concern for bitcoin than it is for Ethereum, which is moving to proof of stake, or for other smart contract platforms that don't have that same energy consumption issue. Those are valid concerns. I think we need to recognize that. At the same time, I think that Senator Warren is missing a lot of the nuance here. While there is, of course, some illicit use of crypto, just like there is some illicit use of every technology and also of every type of money and financial system, there is actually very little criminal activity that we see within crypto? And similarly, if you're on Twitter, I'm sure you've heard all of the arguments back and forth about the environmental impact of proof of work mining.
00:20:50.060 - 00:21:22.994, Speaker C: There's just a lot more nuance there about use of renewables, the transition to proof of stake for Ethereum, the actual impact of the carbon emissions that miners are putting out, the transparency that those miners are providing to the public about their energy mix. So this, I think, is the very beginning of us trying to discuss what's the reality here? And how can we maximize the benefits of this technology while also minimizing some of those drawbacks?
00:21:23.614 - 00:21:41.384, Speaker B: And to your knowledge, are there any efforts from maybe the crypto industry to educate regulators around the benefits of crypto and the benefits of preserving this non custodial nature of Defi? Or if not, what are some of the things that maybe we as investors, operators or builders in this space can do?
00:21:42.524 - 00:22:29.450, Speaker C: There are many efforts. We need more. Let me tell you what's been happening up to this point, and then what I think needs to happen going forward. Up to this point, at least in the US, there are a couple of organizations that have been very effective in advocating on behalf of crypto and also educating elected officials and regulators on what crypto is, what the promises of it are, and what the issues are that we need to work out. The one that is the most established and has been around for the longest and that most people know is called coin center. The folks you may know from Coin center are Jerry Britto and Peter van Valkenberg. They are phenomenal advocates on behalf of bitcoin.
00:22:29.450 - 00:24:07.874, Speaker C: They've also recently been doing more work and more thinking about DeFi, although because there are only a few people and because crypto isn't that front of mind for most policymakers, the coin center folks have really been advocating mostly for bitcoin and just doing education about what bitcoin is, how a decentralized public blockchain works, and not so much about DeFi in particular. The other organization that I'm a part of that does a lot of great work here in Washington is the Blockchain association, which is a trade association comprised of most of the largest us crypto companies. So that's exchanges like Kraken, its custodians like Anchorage, its venture firms like Polychain or CMT Digital or blockchain capital, its DeFi projects, including compound labs and Uniswap Labs, and the AaVE companies and many others. And through the Blockchain association, we are doing a lot of work now to educate policymakers on Defi. Specifically, I co chair the Blockchain association's Defi working group, along with the general councils of DyDX and maker Mark Boiron and Brian Avello. And we are working very hard now to explain to policymakers what DeFi is, which is an added layer of complexity on top of Ethereum, which is already an added layer of complexity on top of bitcoin, which most policymakers are still struggling to understand. And that's where we are now.
00:24:07.874 - 00:24:55.780, Speaker C: I think that going forward, we need to do a lot more to educate policymakers about DeFi in particular. DeFi really only rose to the level of being worth a discussion with policymakers in the last six months or so. Right? I think even a year ago, when Defi summer was starting, DeFi was still very much a tiny, tiny sector within the crypto industry. And only within the last six to twelve months have we really risen to prominence, to the point where it's worth having these kinds of discussions with policymakers. So this is the time. Time is of the essence. This is a hot topic now, and we need to do a whole lot more advocacy and education around DeFi.
00:24:55.780 - 00:25:43.792, Speaker C: I think the most exciting initiative related to this is a proposal that's working its way through the Uniswap decentralized governance process to fund a 501 C four nonprofit specifically for the purpose of doing education around DeFi. Folks who are involved in this process include me and some of the other gcs I just mentioned of the other major DeFi projects at AAVE and Uniswap and Dydx and others. So that proposal looks like it's going to pass. I think it's, you know, maybe it'll have passed, actually, by the time folks are listening to this, and hopefully that'll give us a better opportunity and a better foundation to do some effective advocacy here in DC.
00:25:43.888 - 00:26:27.678, Speaker A: Now, before we continue, I'd like to take a moment to share some exciting companies that made this podcast possible. One of my absolute favorite products in crypto is Aave. Aave is a non custodial liquidity protocol, meaning you can earn interest on your crypto or borrow crypto assets without trusting any centralized counterparty to hold your funds. I personally have been using Aave for a long time to earn up to 12% of my USD holdings like USDC USDT, or even decentralized stablecoins like Dai, or exchange stablecoins like Binance USD, which totally blows my bank out the water. And if you're new to crypto and worried about security. Aave has been audited by security firms 13 times in 2020 alone and once already this year, which they disclosed fully. So I'm really excited to have a product that I love as a sponsor.
00:26:27.678 - 00:27:09.642, Speaker A: So go on over to aave.com aave.com to check out which of the assets you'd like to borrow and lend. Today I'd like to talk about our sponsor, perpetual protocol. If you are worried about leaving your funds on an exchange that may be hacked, but you are also tired of paying for hundreds of dollars in gas fees in defi, you should really check them out because they have built a fully on chain exchange on Ethereum and XDai that allows up to ten x leverage. Now theyve also released zero gas deposits in addition to near zero gas fees for trading. And if youre paranoid about smart contract exploits like I am, dont worry because they have also obtained protocol level insurance via nexus mutual and unslashed finance to provide automatic coverage for all traders on perp exchange.
00:27:09.642 - 00:27:45.952, Speaker A: Now today, for users outside the US, if you have an Ethereum address, you can already start using perp dot exchange with no signups. So go to perp exchange blockcrench to check it out. That's perp exchange blockcrunch. I'm also proud to call Figmin a sponsor of the show. If you are an investor wanting to manage all your proof of stake assets in a single place, you definitely don't want to miss this. Figmin makes it simple for you to generate returns on your digital assets by managing all your proof of stake investments in one place. Their fully managed staking infrastructure and detailed user dashboards give investors the edge they need to stay ahead of the curve.
00:27:45.952 - 00:28:04.472, Speaker A: Figment has some of the widest coverage in the proof of stake market, supporting over 30 mainnet blockchains like Polkadot, Cosmos, Nier, the graph, and Celo. So it doesnt matter if youre an individual investor or you manage a fund. Figment is easily the go to solution for everything related to proof of stake in your portfolio. So check them out in the show notes below.
00:28:04.568 - 00:28:57.914, Speaker B: And Jake, now I think we have a pretty clear idea about what the regulator's views are in terms of crypto and money laundering and terrorist financing. And what are the efforts to educate the regulators who are primarily concerned about those factors. I'd love to kind of pivot to talking about the SEC because now the SEC commissioner, Hester Pears, also known as Cryptomom on Twitter, she actually had a very open minded approach to regulating crypto, or at least talking about regulating crypto. And when I compare her comments to the comments made by Dan Berkowitz, which is a commissioner from the CFTC, which, as you mentioned, regulates a lot of the futures trading and commodities trading, that seemed like there's a very different and divergent attitude towards crypto. So first, can you help us understand what are the different domains of these two entities and what are the comments that they've made in the past, and what are your thoughts on them?
00:28:58.494 - 00:29:50.242, Speaker C: Sure, it's a great question. And I think, you know, just for starters, it's really important to point out that you do have to think differently when you're talking about these different regulatory frameworks. I think that folks who are not close to crypto regulation and policy tend to think about regulators as one category of individuals or actors. And that's really not the case. The anti money laundering regulators have very different concerns from the securities regulators, who have very different concerns from the commodities derivatives regulators, who have very different concerns from the prudential regulators, et cetera. So I think it's really great that you want to sort of differentiate between and dive into each of them separately. The SEC, as I mentioned before, enforces the federal securities laws.
00:29:50.242 - 00:31:27.334, Speaker C: The purpose of the federal securities laws, to oversimplify a bit, is to close the information asymmetry between issuers of securities and purchasers of securities. The main concern is when you have a trusted third party, an issuer of a security, who is making promises about how investors will make profit by purchasing that security and giving the issuer of the security, their money, their capital to use in order to advance some venture. The issue is closing the information asymmetry between those folks and the investors who are purchasing those securities. The CFTC is a little bit different. The CFTC regulates the markets for derivatives in commodities, which typically means things like wheat or soybeans, or pork bellies or lumber or gold or things of that nature, but also including financial instruments that can be regulated as commodity derivatives, such as options and swaps and margin trading and things of that nature. The two entities are a bit unique in the sense that most jurisdictions outside the US have a single financial markets regulator. And here in the US, just to make things complicated, we have many different financial market regulators, and the SEC and the CFTC are two of them that regulate different financial markets.
00:31:29.514 - 00:32:17.966, Speaker B: Now, Hester Pears, the commissioner from SEC, has mentioned that she was quite open minded to regulating crypto. And I think we've seen examples of regulations or actions against DeFi protocols from the SEC before, and most of them seem to come in the form of maybe some fines when some project has issued tokens in the US as kind of unlicensed securities offerings. So I think that that is pretty familiar now in terms of the CFTC. Now, Dan Berkowitz, the commissioner from CFTC, did make some comments very specifically about these Defi margin trading protocols. So can you help us understand what are some of the comments, or what's the stance that he's taking there? And if he does decide to regulate Defi kind of margin trading protocols or these options protocols, what would that regulation potentially look like?
00:32:18.150 - 00:33:14.826, Speaker C: So, first, it's important to understand the roles that Commissioner Peirce and Commissioner Berkowitz play at the SEC and the CFTC, respectively. Both of those agencies are governed by a group of commissioners, five commissioners each. And out of the five commissioners, there is one person who is selected as the chairman. The chair of the agency will set the agenda for the agency and is basically responsible for guiding overall policy. And the commissioners are responsible for voting on certain important decisions at the agency. But what's important to know is that each individual commissioner does not have independent regulatory authority. So Commissioner Berkovitz doesn't necessarily speak for all of the CFTC, just like Commissioner Peirce doesn't necessarily speak for all of the SEC.
00:33:14.826 - 00:34:23.872, Speaker C: And actually, in the case of Commissioner Peirce, I think most of us in the industry would say it's sort of unfortunate that she doesn't speak for the SEC because she has a very constructive view on crypto. Right. She really does understand not only the promise of the technology, but also the importance as a regulator of balancing the benefits and the promise of innovation against the regulator's mandate to protect investors and to ensure fair and orderly markets and to facilitate capital formation, which is the SEC's mandate. Similarly, Commissioner Berkowitz is only one of several commissioners. He came out with a view on Defi, which I think was one of, if not the most hostile that we've heard from a high ranking official in the US. To paraphrase or to summarize his position, essentially what he said was he does not see DeFi as a benefit at all. He has considered the arguments that we've made about the benefits of a decentralized, disintermediated financial system, and he simply disagrees.
00:34:23.872 - 00:35:39.592, Speaker C: He thinks that intermediaries are good and that a financial system that has those intermediaries, including the banks and centralized exchanges and others, is categorically better than a system that removes those intermediaries. And the reasoning he gives is, well, when something goes wrong, you have intermediaries there who you can go to to make those things right. And so even if DeFi could be consistent with commodity derivatives regulations, it shouldn't be because it's inherently a bad thing. I think that that's really a refutation of the entire concept of decentralization. That is not something that we hear very often from high ranking officials. It's also not something that, in my opinion, reflects the views of the CFTC, which broadly have been very constructive, maybe the most positive out of all of the US regulators. Folks listening may remember Christopher Giancarlo, who was a chair of the CFTC, best known as Cryptodad, after he went to Congress and testified about the promise of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
00:35:39.592 - 00:36:16.954, Speaker C: And his successor was Heath Tarbert, the immediate previous chair, who was also very positive on crypto in general and in fact was fairly positive on Ethereum, to be specific. So I think while Commissioner Berkovitzs statements are certainly disappointing and in my view misguided, I wouldnt be that worried about the CFTC taking a harsh view on the industry as a whole. Like I said, I think were just at the very beginning of these discussions and theres a lot more to work out and a lot more voices in the room beyond just the loudest.
00:36:18.014 - 00:36:48.004, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And that's such a helpful clarification. So thanks for kind of breaking down the implications of the comments made by these different commissioners of these different regulatory bodies. Now bringing it back to the kind of builders and investors in DeFi today. For people who are investing in DeFi protocols or building DeFi protocols, is there anything they should be concerned about or keeping an eye out for? And what type of timeline do you think that we have to expect before we see concrete regulations and clearer frameworks around Defi?
00:36:49.224 - 00:38:16.292, Speaker C: So I think the FATF guidance right now is the most important thing to look for, and that's for a couple of reasons, some of which I've already discussed. Another one, though, and especially for builders who are thinking about designing governance tokens, or for investors who are were investing in governance tokens. One of the most problematic elements of the FATFs draft guidance from March was how it treated holders of governance tokens who are participating in decentralized governance. As I said, the FATF's main approach in that guidance was to say, well, we don't want to have a financial system that has no intermediaries, so we need to either require new intermediaries or we need to just pick folks who, even though they are non custodial market participants. We can nonetheless treat them as if they were custodial intermediaries. And one of the things that the draft guidance suggested was that a holder of a governance token who is voting on parameters within a decentralized protocol, and they specifically call out the stabilization of stablecoins. So I think that was sort of a reference to maker and votes about how to stabilize Dai, although it could apply to any number of other stablecoins.
00:38:16.292 - 00:39:39.888, Speaker C: What they said was if someone is voting on those types of decisions, then maybe that's the kind of person we could deputize as an intermediary who has anti money laundering compliance obligations. That concept would potentially subject any holder of a governance token to those anti money laundering laws, which again, I think makes very little sense as a policy matter and is hopefully something, since the draft guidance came out that we've explained adequately to the FATF. To say we understand what you're trying to do here, this is the wrong approach. But I think that would be the main thing for folks to look for for now, if and when that final guidance comes out from the FATF, what does it say about non custodial market participants like governance token holders, or like interface providers or aggregators or developers? So I think that's the first thing to look at moving out from there, because like I said, probably the FATF will have done whatever it's going to do by the time people are listening to this. The next question is going to be the debates within the member countries about how that recommendation from the FATF should be implemented. And that I think is a process that will play out at least over the next six to twelve months. So that's on the anti money laundering side.
00:39:39.888 - 00:40:45.560, Speaker C: That's probably the most imminent area of regulation that we're going to have to deal with. But I think we also need to watch the SEC and the CFTC, especially because new leadership is just now taking charge at both agencies. In fact, at the CFTC, we still don't have a long term appointment from the Biden administration for the role of the chair of the CFTC. And until we have a chair in place, it's going to be really hard to know what the CFTC's overall approach to the crypto industry is going to be. So that's something we need to watch at the SEC. Gary Gensler just took the position very recently of the chair of the SEC. He is now starting to staff up some of the high ranking positions just beneath him, the directors of the various divisions at the SEC once that leadership really gets up to speed, I think we'll start to see what the SEC's approach to crypto is going to be.
00:40:45.560 - 00:42:46.264, Speaker C: And there's a couple of signs that we have already about what the SEC is thinking about. Most importantly, Chairman Gensler has said that he's worried about market manipulation and other either malfeasance or just inefficiencies in the spot crypto markets. So that means the markets where folks are actually trading spot crypto, right. Bitcoin or ether or other Defi tokens or other assets. And it seems like Chairman Gensler wants to, in some way, take regulatory authority for the SEC over spot markets. And that's something that has never been done before and has, in fact, been a big debate in the US about whether there should be regulation of spot markets at all, and if so, which regulator is the right regulator to do that? Is it the SEC? Is it the CFTC? Is it somebody else? Is it a brand new agency? And so it seems like that's going to be one of the big questions coming to a head in the near term. And then lastly, I would say there is this ongoing question, one of the biggest ones we deal with in crypto, and especially now within DeFi, which is how do we classify DeFi tokens? How do we classify governance tokens or other forms of assets? Are they securities? Are they non security commodities? Are they something else? Do they not neatly fit into any of the pre existing definitions of the types of assets that we're used to? Are they really and truly something brand new and novel and unique that either doesn't require regulation or requires a brand new, bespoke set of regulations that apply to the unique risks and concerns that these new assets raise? And I think that is an issue that we're going to be working through for quite a long time to come.
00:42:47.524 - 00:43:25.974, Speaker B: Yeah. And given how complex this whole landscape is and given how unexpected some of the regulations that are coming might be, I don't know if this is actually. This might not be the primary reason why some DeFi teams are seeking to decentralize. I meant any team who decides to build in DeFi, I think, has the eventual goal of decentralization. But we do see some teams accelerating their decentralization roadmap, maybe dissolving their company and turning it into some sort of a foundation or perhaps even moving offshore just to kind of get ahead of potential regulation. Is that something that you've seen? Is that something that's common as well? And it's that something that you think will be effective or even useful, useful at all?
00:43:26.834 - 00:44:46.384, Speaker C: Well, I guess I would start by saying the reason that DeFi developers are looking to decentralize their protocols is because decentralization is at the heart of DeFi. All of the benefits that you get from a disintermediated decentralized financial system require that there is not a custodial intermediary or a trusted third party that users have to rely on or trust in order for the system to work. So I think, for starters, I would say that people who are thinking about decentralization are doing so because that's what this whole space is about, not necessarily because of regulatory concerns. That said, of course, decentralization is important in many ways for regulatory purposes. I think, especially under the securities laws, decentralization really strikes at the heart of what the securities laws are trying to accomplish. As I mentioned, the main concern of the securities laws is information asymmetry between issuers and purchasers of securities. And when we dive a little bit deeper into the securities laws, you find the Howey test, which is the way that us courts and the SEC define an investment contract, which is one type of security.
00:44:46.384 - 00:46:08.404, Speaker C: And the core element there, or at least what I think is the most important element there, is whether there is a central third party upon whose efforts purchasers of the asset rely in order to receive profit from their investment. Decentralization is uniquely suited to address that concern. If you have a truly decentralized protocol like bitcoin, which I think everyone agrees is not a security, you can tell that there is no trusted third party, there is no issuer or promoter who is relied upon in order for bitcoin to go up in price. And therefore, who needs to make disclosures to the public so that bitcoin investors can understand what they're getting into. And so I think decentralization in the DeFi world addresses the exact same issue. If you have a genuinely decentralized protocol, then what that means, by definition, is there is not some third party that has privileged information or privileged access to the system, such that that party should have to make disclosures so that purchasers of an asset can understand the investment that they're making. So I think decentralization is really important for, for securities laws purposes.
00:46:08.404 - 00:47:32.294, Speaker C: Decentralization has different impacts on different regulatory frameworks, though, as we've discussed already, decentralization doesn't really address the anti money laundering laws in the sense of satisfying regulators underlying policy concerns. Because the purpose of the anti money laundering laws is the exact opposite of decentralization. It is making sure that government does have control of the financial system so that they can surveil transactions and censor transactions. So decentralization isn't necessarily a guaranteed solution for all regulatory issues, but it is a very important core component of development in DeFi. The last thing I would point out is you mentioned a lot of founders are thinking about sort of unique corporate structures. They're either incorporating offshore, or there's a fairly new trend of DeFi projects that are creating foundations. The foundation is then technically the issuer of a governance token or the creator of some protocol, and then maybe the foundation is dissolved or some kind of creative, and I guess you could call it for thinking, and I might call it a little bit unusual or odd types of strategies like that.
00:47:32.294 - 00:47:34.894, Speaker C: I think that that just conveys.
00:47:36.754 - 00:47:37.090, Speaker B: The.
00:47:37.122 - 00:48:21.404, Speaker C: Negative impact of regulatory uncertainty. You see people playing what I think are kind of like structuring games to try to solve regulatory issues that if we just had a more open and collaborative process and discussion with regulators, I think we can, could avoid. So I think as long as we have this sort of gray area of regulatory uncertainty, you are going to continue seeing projects using these creative mechanisms to try to solve those regulatory problems. And I think it remains to be seen how regulators will react to those efforts and whether we can blaze a better trail going forward that doesn't require so much legal engineering.
00:48:22.674 - 00:48:55.824, Speaker B: Yeah, most definitely. Thank you so much for that breakdown. And I think on the same vein, I'm curious if you've seen any other jurisdictions, maybe outside of the US, that could serve as a good model for regulation in crypto. And I know that's a really broad question, given how many entities there are that you just mentioned. But I think there are some. There should probably be some differences between how maybe some european countries regulate crypto, or maybe how some asian countries regulate crypto. And I don't know if you've come across any frameworks that you think could actually be beneficial as a reference or guide for us regulators.
00:48:58.564 - 00:49:58.308, Speaker C: I'm not sure I've seen anything that I think is a perfect fit at this point. I think with the disclaimer that, again, I focus mostly on the US. And so I, of course, follow what's going on internationally. I have less experience and knowledge about what other jurisdictions are doing. I think it's fair to say, at least from my perspective, that countries tend to fall into three categories in terms of their approach to crypto broadly. One approach is sort of what the US has been doing, which is sort of cautiously optimistic but skeptical of the industry waiting to see what happens, what gets developed, what the risks are, slowly learning more and more about what's going on, not really taking any action in either direction, both not particularly supportive frameworks, but also not particularly restrictive or harsh frameworks. That's what leads to this world of regulatory uncertainty.
00:49:58.308 - 00:51:26.864, Speaker C: Then you have everything on the spectrum from the restrictive side to the permissive side. So a second category would be countries like China, which have really decided that crypto is not for them, that they simply will not support development in this industry. Maybe that's not a fair characterization of what's happening in China, but especially after what's been going on with bitcoin mining in the country and regulation of derivatives trading there and the overall tone of the regulatory crackdown there, it seems like a very hostile view toward crypto. And there are some other jurisdictions that are acting similarly, although perhaps not quite as aggressively as China. Japan, for example, for quite a while, has been very explicit about the activity that they support, but also they've really cracked down on a lot of development. And that's why in the last few years, we haven't heard a whole, whole lot about innovation, lot coming out of Japan. Then you can go to the entire opposite end of the spectrum, where you have some jurisdictions that are very constructive, that are really trying to attract development to their cities and bring in financial investment, bring in development teams, try to take advantage of crypto, the benefit of their economy.
00:51:26.864 - 00:51:58.766, Speaker C: Most recently, that's countries like El Salvador, which made bitcoin legal tender. And you hear President Bukele of El Salvador talking about trying to attract more development in bitcoin, but not just bitcoin. Right. More broadly than that. He also, I think, wants to attract developers in other crypto ecosystems, and then there are other smaller jurisdictions that have tried to do the same. Malta is a good example. The Bahamas is a good example.
00:51:58.766 - 00:52:43.524, Speaker C: A lot of these are more emerging markets or jurisdictions that are commonly known as being offshore banking havens that are trying to take more advantage. But I think the bulk of the major jurisdictions are somewhere around where the US is, and I think most of Europe is in that place as well, where there's a lot of skepticism, some cautious optimism, a lot of discussion of new regulatory frameworks that I think are not a perfect match for crypto, and therefore a lot of uncertainty about what will actually happen once we get to the point of adopting new regulations that apply to the financial activity that we see in crypto.
00:52:44.824 - 00:52:56.584, Speaker B: Absolutely. And, Jake, as our final question, and I'd love to get your final thoughts as well this is probably the main question that everybody has on their mind. But do you think regulations will kill DeFi as we know it today?
00:52:58.364 - 00:53:49.110, Speaker C: I don't think so. I certainly hope not. I do think that regulation will influence defi for sure, and without going on for too long. About how I see this all playing out, I think that there are sort of two theories of where DeFi goes, and regulation is really crucial to decide which of these paths we go down. One is DeFi as financial infrastructure for a modern global financial system. What that means is we're not necessarily going to destroy all of the banks and all of the financial institutions. Instead, we're going to help them convert their business models from being custodial intermediaries that have extraordinarily high regulatory compliance burdens.
00:53:49.110 - 00:54:35.282, Speaker C: Because of the fact that they are custodying their customers assets, among other reasons. We're going to help them sort of move to more of a business model as a service provider. Looks a lot more like what fintech is becoming today, where these institutions will package DeFi protocols and then offer DeFi as a product or service to their customers. This is, frankly what has happened in many ways with the Internet. Right? The Internet didn't destroy every company that existed before it. Instead, those companies adapted to use the communications protocols that comprise the Internet in order to offer better products and services to their customers. One theory is that DeFi can do the same.
00:54:35.282 - 00:55:55.908, Speaker C: However, that would require more regulatory clarity from policymakers that tell those financial institutions it is okay for you to engage with DeFi protocols and to use them and implement them into your products and services. A second and totally different way that DeFi moves forward is more of the bankless vision, a world where everyone is their own bank. None of us have to interact with financial institutions anymore. Everyone learns how to buy ether on an exchange and withdraw to their own hardware wallet or to metamask. And they're all interacting with these DeFi protocols natively through third party interfaces that developers are building and maybe putting up on ipfs, so that there is no central point for regulators to go to, to try to shut those things down. I think that if there is more of a crackdown from regulators, it is much more likely that we will see that second version of the world. And I think that in many ways, that would be unfortunate, because I think if regulators really wanted to go after DeFi, there is a lot that they could do to discourage people from getting involved in that way, from withdrawing assets to their own wallet.
00:55:55.908 - 00:56:58.954, Speaker C: That's something that we've seen regulators try to do to restrict the ability of users to withdraw assets to their own wallet so that they can do whatever they please with those assets. So I sort of believe in both of these visions. I hope that both of them will come true in a positive way, in the sense that institutions will be allowed and encouraged to take advantage of DeFi as infrastructure, and also that individuals who don't want to use a financial institution will be allowed to interact with DeFi however they please. But I think that's the big question going forward is what version of this will we end up with? And I think what policymakers decide to do is going to have a huge impact on that in the next, I would say, six to 18 months and maybe even further than that as we continue to rise in prominence and as policymakers continue thinking about how and if they can and will regulate defi.
00:56:59.894 - 00:57:20.134, Speaker B: Yeah, most definitely. And thank you so much for taking the time to kind of break this all down for us. I know a lot of people have this at the top of their mind. They're trying to figure out what's going on, and I think this is a really helpful resource. So for people who want to continue to follow your work and understand what you're working on next and your views on the current regulatory landscape, what are the best channels for them to follow? You?
00:57:20.514 - 00:57:54.474, Speaker C: Sure. So I am on Twitter. I try to keep folks updated on what I'm seeing, along with the occasional meme here and there. So I'm on Twitter if you want to follow me there. I'm also writing a quarterly newsletter, which, if I can get my act together, might become a monthly newsletter covering developments in crypto policy and regulation. That's on substack, so you can check that out at Jchurvinsky on substack. And, yeah, I think that's all for me, most definitely.
00:57:54.514 - 00:57:57.970, Speaker B: I'll include those in the show notes below. So thanks again for coming on the show, Jake.
00:57:58.162 - 00:57:59.594, Speaker C: Thanks so much, Jason. This was really fun.
