00:00:00.280 - 00:00:42.974, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano, and today's 11 April 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So, as we're all well aware of the news from today, Uniswap has received a wells notice from the SEC, which means that the SEC is about to, I guess, like, sue Uniswap, more specifically uniswap labs. Obviously, the protocol can't be sued because the protocol is decentralized, but this isn't really a surprise, I think, to anyone, given that the SEC has been incredibly hostile towards crypto, crypto for a long time now. I think what is a surprise is the fact that they're still doing this, I think, a little bit, because they've lost so many cases against crypto companies at this point.
00:00:42.974 - 00:01:25.382, Speaker A: They've lost cases recently, you know, and they've had stuff thrown out recently with regards to, like, defi, like the Coinbase wallet stuff and all that on chain stuff going on there. And now they're going after what is probably the biggest fish at the app layer. I would say when it comes to crypto and blockchains, generally, I can't think of any other app that is bigger or more use or more widely kind of known than Uniswap. Like, I was thinking about this today, actually, and I was like, in my head, I'm like, hmm. Can I think of anything else that would have more brand awareness than Uniswap as an app? Like, obviously, you know, bitcoin, Ethereum probably have more brand awareness as the infrastructure, as the layer ones. But I'm talking about, you know, from a pure app perspective, I really can't think of anything else. It's really just Uniswap.
00:01:25.382 - 00:01:51.062, Speaker A: So the SEC has decided to just go scorched earth on Uniswap. We don't know the exact details of the lawsuit yet, but of course we can. We can imagine what the lawsuit is going to be about. It's going to be about the unitoken, how that's an unregistered security. They could throw in some other stuff in there around, you know, the Uniswap protocol allowing for trading of other unregistered securities, not just uni, but all the other kind of tokens that they think are securities, so on and so forth. But that's just, you know, speculation right now. But I feel like that's exactly what's going to be in it.
00:01:51.062 - 00:02:19.334, Speaker A: So obviously, I'll cover it when the suit is actually made public, but it's not yet. It's just a wells notice, which is a notice that a company will get from the SEC, where the SEC basically says, hey, we're about to sue you, you know, get ready, which is just so. I hate that. Right. I mean, I hate the SEC just altogether at this point because of the way that they're acting here. But there's a lot to unpack here. So from where I wanted to start was basically defining a few things for people, because it seems people are still confused about Uniswap and about exactly what it is.
00:02:19.334 - 00:02:52.470, Speaker A: So, as I said at the top, the SSE is going after Uniswap Labs, the parent company of that that's been developing Uniswap since basically day one. And I think that their actual kind of name isn't Uniswap labs, like their actual legal kind of entity name. They have a bunch of different entities set up. It's that classic kind of corporate structure that a lot of these companies tend to use. So, yeah, I will be referring to the development team as Uniswap Labs. And then there is Uniswap, the protocol, obviously, the decentralized protocol set of smart contracts that exist on Ethereum. There are different versions of this.
00:02:52.470 - 00:03:10.390, Speaker A: There is v one, v two, v three, and in the near future, there is going to be v four that will go live, I think, in like August or something like that. So that is the. The protocol. When I. So when I talk about the protocol, I'm talking about the smart contracts on Ethereum. Then you have a few other things like Uniswap governance and the Uniswap foundation. So they're separate.
00:03:10.390 - 00:03:45.924, Speaker A: But really, we are going to be focusing on Uniswap labs and Uniswap the protocol. So right now, Uniswap Labs runs the Uniswap front end. So the front end is not decentralized. The front end is run on, you know, classical web two infrastructure. It's run by the Uniswap labs team, and they have complete control over what is displayed on that front end. So they can sensor tokens if they choose to do so, which I believe they have in the past, and they can also shut that down or be forced to shut that down. But does that mean that your access to Uniswap is shut down? No, it's not, because the set of Uniswap smart contracts that exist on Ethereum are decentralized, even if, let's just say, OFAC was to sanction the Uniswap contracts.
00:03:45.924 - 00:04:35.382, Speaker A: And even if 90% of the network was censoring those contracts, you would still be able to interact with them because they'd be 10% non censoring it. You can't shut down the Uniswap contracts because they're actually decentralized and they're actually on Ethereum. They're immutable. You would basically have to take control of the entire Ethereum network in order to shut down Uniswap, because you'd basically doing a regular state transition and essentially remove Uniswap contracts from the chain. Now, to overtake the entire ethereum chain obviously is pretty, I wouldn't say impossible, but like, basically impossible at this point. And, you know, even for nation states to do that, I think that they're not even bothering with that. I think they're trying to choke other points off, which are easier to choke, like the fiat on and off, on and off ramps, and also the front end interfaces, because I did put out a tweet before about this where I said that, you know, the wonderful thing about uniswap is that it is truly decentralized.
00:04:35.382 - 00:05:06.950, Speaker A: You know, not even ofac can stop it. And then I had a lot of people replying to me saying that, you know, the website can be stopped or something can be taken down, people can be prevented from withdrawing from centralized exchange to their own wallets, and then they wouldn't be able to use uniswap so on and so forth. But I guess I think people missed the point of my tweet. My tweet was basically just saying that the Uniswap contracts themselves will always exist on Ethereum. For as long as Ethereum exists. Uniswap contracts will exist on there because it's immutable, it's decentralized, and there is no admin keys or anything like that. So that was the point of my, my kind of tweet here.
00:05:06.950 - 00:05:32.634, Speaker A: So moving past that into basically, you know, moving past the protocol side of things and moving on to uniswap labs themselves. They are the original core development team and still are the core development team behind Uniswap. But what do they actually develop? But what did they actually do? Well, they're not working on Uniswap V one and V two anymore. That was already shipped. It has no upgrade key, so they can't upgrade it. V three was shipped quite a while ago. Now they're not really working on that from what I can tell.
00:05:32.634 - 00:06:12.928, Speaker A: But what they're working on right now is Uniswap v four and Uniswap X. So version one, two, and three are all immutable. There are some parts of V three that are controlled by governance, such as the fee switch, which is, I'm going to get back to because that is obviously going to be a key point in the SEC's case. But with, with V four and Uniswap X, which they're currently developing and is slated for release later in the year, that's what Uniswap Labs is working on right now, among a bunch of other things I'm sure they're researching bunch of different things there. But that's, that's kind of what they're focused on. And they're not the only, I guess, people working on Uniswap, you know, paradigm. I was the first investor into Uniswap, and they have a bunch of people as part of their research arm that work closely with Uniswap on developing the, you know, the next versions.
00:06:12.928 - 00:06:45.836, Speaker A: There. There are also people in the ecosystem building similar things to Uniswap, whether they be competitors or complementary things, that are obviously still part of the Uniswap ecosystem. And then there are all the people building interfaces that plug into the Uniswap. Smart contracts that have nothing to do with Uniswap labs. So to say that Uniswap Labs has unilateral kind of control over anything over Uniswap, or would be completely wrong, and it would be very easy to prove that they don't, because there's no admin keys, they cannot control Uniswap V one or V two. And the governance for V three is controlled by uni token holders. Now, of course, there are arguments to be made around who holds those tokens.
00:06:45.836 - 00:07:17.086, Speaker A: You know, what positions do they hold in the community? Like, what's their sway here? So on and so forth, which maybe the SEC will argue on that or not, we don't know right now, but that's that part of it. And I think that the final part I wanted to focus on was the actual kind of speculation around what the SSE is going to go after Uniswap Labs for. So Uniswap Labs issued the original unitoken. They airdropped it back in, I think it was 2020, like late 2020, during Defi summer. They airdropped it. They created it. They allocated themselves a bunch of it, obviously, and allocated a bunch to their investors.
00:07:17.086 - 00:07:43.598, Speaker A: And then the rest was put into this kind of treasury that Uniswap governance controls there. Now, I think that when you look at it from kind of that perspective, and then you look at things like the fee switch. Cause there was obviously a lot of discussion recently about the fee switch. Like, are they gonna turn the fee switch on or not? And they being Uniswap governance, not Uniswap labs team. And then there was a post recently that said, yeah, okay, well, it's time to turn the fee switch on. Or essentially the people advocating to turn the fee switch on. And then the SEC does this lawsuit.
00:07:43.598 - 00:08:22.462, Speaker A: The timing is kind of suspect. Right? So the reason why the SEC will go after them for the fee switch, in my opinion, and I think it's a pretty obvious reason, is because it, in their eyes, it makes uni look like a security. Because if there is a fee switch where essentially people can stake their uni and get a share in the revenues generated by the Uniswap protocol, then the SEC would argue that, hey, this is reliant on the efforts of others. This means that uni is a security. But in saying that uni needs to, or any token or any asset needs to meet the four prongs of the Howie test to be considered a security, it cannot just meet one prong or two prongs or three prongs. It has to meet all four prongs. And off the top of my head, hopefully, I can remember all.
00:08:22.462 - 00:08:51.352, Speaker A: All of them. All four of them right now. The first one is that there needs to be an investment of money, and then there needs to be an expectation of profit. There needs to be a argument made that it's part of a common enterprise, and there needs to be that. I think I always forget the fourth one, but those are like the three there, but even those three, when you. When you kind of think through it, if you're. If you're a lawyer, if you're Uniswap's lawyer or Uniswap's legal team, the arguments that I imagine they're going to use to argue against this is that there is no expectation of profits from the Uniswap labs team.
00:08:51.352 - 00:09:28.616, Speaker A: Because if you're staking your uni tokens in v three and the fee switch is turned on and you're getting fair renew from v three, that is not reliant on the efforts of Uniswap labs, because v three is already live like, there is no changes being made to v three. Uniswap Labs is working on v four, as I just explained. So the lawyers would basically say, well, how can you say that? People are expecting Uniswap labs to drive, you know, value to the unitoken when it's staked earning fee revenue, when Unisop Labs has nothing to do with v three anymore. They deployed it and that's it. You know, I built and deployed it, of course, but now it's immutable. It's immutable code on the Ethereum blockchain. Uniswap governance has control over it.
00:09:28.616 - 00:09:50.348, Speaker A: And yes, some people, or a lot of people, as part of Unisop Labs, owns tokens in that, but they do not have unilateral control here. They don't have, you know, they're not expected to do the work to drive the. Drive the profits here. The profits would essentially just come from people trading on Uniswap v three. And they do that for any number of reasons. That's not reliant on the Uniswap labs team. So to me, that's a pretty strong argument.
00:09:50.348 - 00:10:09.220, Speaker A: And like, as I said, they have to meet all four. A token or an asset has to meet all four prongs of the heli test to be considered a security. So if it fails that prong, that's. It only needs to fail one of the prongs. If it gets. If they can, if they can prove, they being, the SEC can prove that uni meets the other three, then that's not enough. It has to meet all four prongs here.
00:10:09.220 - 00:10:36.268, Speaker A: In the eyes of a judge, in the eyes of the law, it's not. Obviously, the SEC has said, you know, these things are securities, unregistered securities, but they can say whatever they want. It's not legally finding at all. And the funny thing is, is that even when they settle with teams over the. The tokens being securities, most of the times the settlement is just a fine that the team will pay, and the token is still not deemed a security. Right. So the SEC, as we all know, acts like a mafia.
00:10:36.268 - 00:10:55.216, Speaker A: It goes around, it bullies teams, it bullies kind of projects, it bullies businesses. And it says, hey, pay up. You know, give it. Give me the money here, right now. Pay up and, you know, we'll leave you alone sort of thing. Obviously, Uniswap is not going to do that. Like, they've got enough money, they're big enough to defend themselves, and they know that there's a lot more at stake than just for themselves within uniswap.
00:10:55.216 - 00:11:22.836, Speaker A: So they're not going to lie down and take it. So this is where it becomes a little bit bizarre about what the SEC strategy is here. Like, why are they going after the biggest projects when it's highly likely that they're going to lose? And it's not just uniswap, it's Coinbase, it's kraken, it's binance. Like, binance was done based on breaking things like AML and KYC and sanctions and stuff like that. And they were, and they were fined for that. It was nothing to do with securities. But the SEC regulates, you know, securities.
00:11:22.836 - 00:12:24.332, Speaker A: Right. And tries to, I mean, its mandate is supposed to be to protect investors from unregistered securities or from securities fraud or from scams in general. But the thing is, is that they are trying to, I guess, like, extend their power beyond that with these sorts of things. You know, they're using the, this is an unregistered security thing as like a, as like a kind of subtle thing where they basically put that forward, and then their real kind of agenda is in the background here. So from that perspective, I really don't know what their strategy is. Like, people are speculating on what their strategy is, and there's a lot of tinfoil hat stuff going on, but the more and more the SEC does this, the less tinfoil hat it sounds like. So one of the, I think, big, I struggle to call it a conspiracy theory, but one of the big kind of, like, tinfoil hat things that people think is that the SEC is just being weaponized by the banking arm in the US to essentially slow down the adoption of crypto or, you know, pause the adoption of crypto so that the banks can get on board and get their infrastructure in place so then that they can actually jump on board with this, and they can actually, you know, be in control of this, and they can actually make the money from it.
00:12:24.332 - 00:12:48.240, Speaker A: Honestly, I don't think that's too conspiratorial. I don't think that's too tinfoil hat. Like, we know that the tradfi ecosystem definitely would feel threatened by a lot of this. And there are certain players that are embracing it, like Blackrock, and then there are other players that are not embracing it. And then they're using their political influence to, to kind of, like, stifle adoption here. They're basically going to Elizabeth Warren, who seems to be completely in the pockets of banks these days. They're basically going to her and saying, hey, you know, do something about this.
00:12:48.240 - 00:13:25.114, Speaker A: You know, this is not good, you know, for such and such reason. It's terrorism funding, whatever. They can come up with whatever reason they want to, and then they use that and they weaponize these regulatory agencies against these companies, and they know that within this, they're trying to do something of what's called, like, a chilling effect, where essentially, by suing Uniswap, they're hoping that they scare other Defi companies away from actually continuing to build Defi, and they're hoping that these other teams will just close up shop on their own and consider the risk to be too large. But I think they've miscalculated there, because at this point, no one's doing that. Like, everyone's like, well, fuck the SEC. Like, you know, we've got enough money now within the crypto ecosystem. There's enough people willing to fight here.
00:13:25.114 - 00:13:44.802, Speaker A: I'm not going to stop building what I'm building just because of some rogue agency that's trying to exert this, this, this influence over the industry. And I feel like we really are kind of standing up now and fighting for ourselves. Because it's not just uniswap, right? It's coinbase that's fighting against it. Um, it's, it's, it's kraken, it's binance. They're all fighting. It's going to take years to resolve, but they're fighting. That's the main point here.
00:13:44.802 - 00:14:17.738, Speaker A: So the chilling effect doesn't seem to be playing out here as well. And then the other big tinfoil hat theory that I've seen thrown around a little bit, which I mentioned in the daily way Discord channel today, is a little bit of a joke. But, you know, who knows at this point? Um, and people ask me, you know, does this have anything to do with the ETH ETF? I. Can this have any bearing on the ETH eTF? Honestly, it shouldn't. But given that the SEC is a subjective regulator and doesn't actually do anything based on facts and circumstances, it seems these days they like to do things based politics and how their subjective feelings are. I think based on that, you could say that there is a. There is a link here.
00:14:17.738 - 00:14:56.120, Speaker A: Now, there are two possible links. One link is that they're using this lawsuit as a way to strengthen their next lawsuit, which will be against someone, maybe the Ethereum foundation, over ETH being a security. Like, that's one thing that I've seen floating around. I don't know, I still get that, give that a low chance of kind of happening there. But that's one thing I've seen thrown around there. And the second thing is, I guess, like, a bit more positive for the ETH ETF is that some people have been saying, from what I've seen, which is, it's kind of insane to say this, but I figured I'd cover it anyway. Some people have been saying, well, the SEC wants to get kind of win or wants to look good because they're going to approve the ETH ETF's, and that's going to make them look bad.
00:14:56.120 - 00:15:31.380, Speaker A: So by suing uniswap or going after Uniswap, they can show their overlords, hey, we're actually doing something to, I guess, like a combat what's happening in the crypto ecosystem, or to basically own the crypto bros or to stop them from doing fraud or whatever excuse they come up with. And then when they approve the ETH ETF, it's more palatable for their overlords, basically for their superiors. And as I said before, I don't consider these things to be, like, too tinfoil, hattie. Like, I can see that actually being a thing, because if you look at the politics of it, that that would actually make sense where it's basically like, yeah, we're still combating the crypto stuff. Even though we approve the ETH ETF's, we're still going after crypto. You know, we're not. We're not going weak on crypto.
00:15:31.380 - 00:15:49.016, Speaker A: We're still tough on crypto. And I think that that might be something as well. But again, that, that's far fetched. Maybe it's not. Who knows? Like, I don't know where I stand on that. It's just something that I figured that I kind of spell out for you guys. Um, but, yeah, I just realized I've gone for 15 minutes on this topic, but obviously it's a pretty important topic, so I hope I've done a good job of explaining it for you guys.
00:15:49.016 - 00:16:26.176, Speaker A: Um, but Paul Grewl had a great tweet here as well. He's Coinbase's chief legal officer, just for a reminder there where he tweeted out about this, and he said, sometimes you have to laugh or else you'll cry. You know, he posed the question, how can you square the SEC's claim that uniswap acts as a broker with the court's ruling against the SEC just a handful of days ago? Answer, you can't. So that was that ruling that I talked about, where essentially the court ruled in a, you know, a kind of different favor against the SEC, and then you had basically had the SEC taking a different position today. So this is just them continuing to contradict themselves. There seems to be no recourse for this. There seems to be no one kind of getting in trouble for this.
00:16:26.176 - 00:17:06.544, Speaker A: Gensler hasn't lost his job and other SEC lawyers have been disbarred for literally breaking the law that I talked about the other week. Right. So as long as there's no consequences for these actions, ironically, like, the SEC is doing exactly what they're supposed to be protecting investors from is, is basically lying, you know, doing illegal things. You know, I'm not going to say they're not going to be committing fraud or anything like that, but they're basically acting outside of the law, which is what they're supposed to be protecting people from. So really, in the grand irony of this is that we need protection from the SEC because they're not doing their job here at all. Like, I don't know anyone who would, who would say that they've been hurt by Uniswap or they've been hurt by the unitoken. Like, if they bought the unitoken and they've lost money on it, that's on them.
00:17:06.544 - 00:17:19.792, Speaker A: That's, that's part of any investment. It doesn't matter what it is. It doesn't even matter if it's a security or not. That's part of literally anything that you invest your money into. You know, you buy some trading cards because they're rare trading cards, and they go down in value. Does that make them a security? No. No, it doesn't.
00:17:19.792 - 00:17:44.717, Speaker A: You just lost money on an investment. Right. So. And I don't think people feel aggrieved by that and suddenly going to the government and being like, hey, you know, the government needs to do something about this because I bought some charizard, you know, for $100, and now it's worth like $80 and I've lost money on it or something like that. No, no, that just doesn't happen. So I think that, you know, there's a lot of, I guess, fake protection going on here. And as we know, the SEc is just not protecting people at all, and they're trying to fake as if they are.
00:17:44.717 - 00:18:26.086, Speaker A: But, yeah. Anyway, I think I'm done ranting about that for today. That's a long ass rant on that. As I said, it was going to be in the daily great Discord channel, but I'll keep you guys updated on how that it kind of goes along and what the actual kind of lawsuit entails once it's been published and once we see the kind of documents out there. All right, so moving on to some ethereum core updates, so Nixxio here shared out an FYI around Max Eb. So she said the Max EB spec is being decided on right now, and they're looking for people to speak up on custom ceilings, and a custom ceiling allows you to set whatever number you, you want to compound up to for your validator, for example, 37. And she said, in my opinion, not including this would remove a lot of the benefits for solo stakers.
00:18:26.086 - 00:19:24.498, Speaker A: And I completely agree with this. I think that this needs to be put into the ERP 7251 or Max EB spec here so that essentially all the solo stakers can say, okay, well, we want to, you know, compound our stake up to whatever number you want it to be, you know, 64 ETH, 108, maybe all the way to the max of 2048 ETH so that you can get the benefits of Max EB within solo stakers. Because as I've mentioned before, one of the main benefits, or the main benefit for solo stakers is that you get to compound your ETH stake without having to wait to build up another 32 ETH. Cause right now, if you've got a solo validator, you have to bring 32 ETH, and then any rewards that you get on top of that, you have to wait until you get another 32 ETH in order to spin up another validator in order to start earning staking rewards on that. Whereas in a Max EB world, you don't have to do that. The max effective balance is now 2048 ETH. So you can go from, you know, put your initial 32 ETH in, and then you can compound that stake all the way up to 2048 ETH per validator, which is going to cover the vast majority of solo stakers, obviously.
00:19:24.498 - 00:19:59.936, Speaker A: Right? And then it obviously applies to each validator. So even if you have more ETH than that, you can do it again with another validator. So there's no need to wait for an extra 32 ETH. I mean, I guess, like, if you got to 2048 ETH, you would have to wait for another 32 ETH in order to spin up another validator and then compound that to 2048 ETH. But I feel like if you have enough money to have 2048 ETH, you're probably going to be able to source 32 ETH, right. And getting those rewards isn't going to take very long to begin with because obviously it's percentage based on the 2048 ETH. I mean, I'm actually curious, like, if you were making 3% on 2048 ETH, that's 61 ETH.
00:19:59.936 - 00:20:25.174, Speaker A: A year. So, yeah, I mean, you're gonna make that in, like, in, like, half a year or something like that without you going out and buying more ETH. But I'm sure if you've got a lot of. A lot of ETH already, you've probably got the money to go buy it anyway. So, yeah, I mean, it's a non issue for the whales, of course, but for, like, the smallest takers and smaller solar stakers, you know, our precious solar stakers, this is a big thing. So, yeah, make your voice heard that you think should be part of the spec here. I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description for you to do so.
00:20:25.174 - 00:21:05.072, Speaker A: All right, so I remember I mentioned a couple of weeks ago that we had a uptick in reorgs on the beacon chain after Dencom went live. A lot of this was due to clients not being optimized for blobs too well. And I think as well, on top of that, it was got to do with Mev boost, and some of the relayers are just not being set up correctly or being some bugs in there. Well, you can see here that Terrence casted out today saying the beacon chain real great for the last two weeks has decreased dramatically. So we're basically back to, you know, normal levels, essentially, here. So there's not really anything, you know, adverse happening here. I haven't seen people complaining in the Delaware Discord channel on their rocker pool, mini pools, or solo nodes that they're missing attestations like they were in the past.
00:21:05.072 - 00:21:56.012, Speaker A: And the network health and effectiveness seems to have gone back up overall due to, you know, improvements on the client side of things and also just the network digesting, you know, blobs. Because I remember I mentioned before blobs went live that it is a huge strain on the network initially, and we need to basically be able to kind of process that and deal with that. And we have, and this is really positive because it has a lot of positive effects long term. You know, we can have more confidence in increasing the size of blobs and the count of blobs without increasing beacon chain reorg rates due to there being too much traffic on the P two p layer, which basically means that all the people with lower power devices have a hard time processing the extra size, the blobs, and the extra count of the blobs potentially in the future. But we're also dealing with this with Max EB as well, where essentially we're taking a huge load off the network when all the validators consolidate down from a million validators to even like half of what it is now. That's a 50% reduction in load on the network. I think.
00:21:56.012 - 00:22:42.746, Speaker A: I think it's a like, I think it's that that makes sense. But even if it's not exactly 50%, it's still a huge, huge reduction in network overhead there. And as I said, not to mention all of the other things like the client optimizations and just optimizations generally within the, within the network itself, beyond Max EB, you know, other things that could be coming, like increasing the cost of call data so that we don't have to do with that side of things when it comes to state growth. So there's a lot of different things going on here. But yeah, great to see that this has, this real great has come down dramatically. All right, so we're getting to the point where the final list of eips that are going to be included within Petra is being decided on by the core devs here. And I believe the core devs are still aiming for Petra to go live or Petra to go live by the end of this year.
00:22:42.746 - 00:22:58.350, Speaker A: I am like on the fence about that. We'll see. I remember last year, you know, they wanted Denkun to go live by the end of the year and it didn't happen. So we'll see. But regardless of that, you know, I would say that we're either going to get Den Koon in Q four or. Or Q one. No, not dengue, sorry, Petra in Q four or Q one.
00:22:58.350 - 00:23:39.680, Speaker A: You know, I don't see it going any later than that. I definitely don't see it coming any earlier than that. But as I said, they're in the process of deciding the final list of Erp's that will be going into the Petra, the overall Petra upgrade here now paradigm has put together, or George Os from Paradigm has put together a little blog post here coming at this from paradigms kind of I guess, view on this. And this was published back in January, January 17 of 2024. But it's just a refresher about what they wanted to see within Petra. And they were given their reasoning for this and why they think that these ERP should go in and why they think that certain ERP shouldn't go in. And they also talked about the l one gas limit and all those kind of things there.
00:23:39.680 - 00:24:03.462, Speaker A: So you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But really as it stands today, the headline AIP seems to be the Max EB 7251. There's also the inclusion list, AIP and peer Das. I think we're only at one of those if we get those in. So we're going to decide between peer Das and inclusion lists. I think if I was to bet on which one we'd get, it'd probably be inclusion list instead of peer Das.
00:24:03.462 - 00:24:28.840, Speaker A: But we'll have to see how that kind of shakes out as time goes on there. But yeah, I'll have more updates on this, I think, over the next week or so. So I'll keep you guys updated on that one there. All right, so we have a new restaking protocol that has been announced. It's called Nektar Network and I believe it is from the same people who are doing the diva staking protocol. So obviously you guys know about Diva. I've mentioned Diva a bunch of times on the refuel before.
00:24:28.840 - 00:25:04.058, Speaker A: They're a liquid staking protocol and now with Nectar, you know, new rest taking protocol on Ethereum to, I guess, compete with Eigen layer and some other projects out there right now. But yeah, I mean, you can find all the information about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I think what they're trying to do is go a more kind of like modular route here with how they're building nectar. So you can see here, they say nectar network is modular with opt in modules allowing, acting as an AV's restaker operator or distributor. So basically creating every kind of part of a restaking network as a separate module. So it's not tightly coupled.
00:25:04.058 - 00:25:36.446, Speaker A: You can basically chop and choose which kind of module you want, which ones you want to use, which ones you want to pick from, essentially. So say you're an AV's where you can pick which distributor you want, which operator you want, which restake you want, so on and so forth, which is pretty cool, I think. And then they're going to be using distributed validator technology out of the box. It's all going to be customizable, so on and so forth. I mean, there are a lot of kind of features here that I'll, you know, that are all explained in the Twitter thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below there for you to check out. But yeah, this is interesting because obviously Diva has been around for a little while.
00:25:36.446 - 00:26:18.832, Speaker A: I don't think divas live on Mainnet just yet, but the fact that they're coming out with a rest taking protocol here seems to signal to me that they're going beyond kind of liquid staking and they want to kind of own the whole I guess like integration stack here where you can see that they basically have their clients, which runs on top of Ethereum and then the diva staking protocol and the Nectar restaking protocol on top of that. So it seems like they want to own or like have, I guess, like visibility or have integrations across the entire pipeline here, which I think makes sense, definitely. And I'm all for seeing more competition in the rest taking space because I don't want it to just be Eigen layer. And I also just want more legit competition too. I know that there are other competitors out there right now for Eigen lay. I think one of them is called karak or Karek. I don't know how to say it.
00:26:18.832 - 00:26:46.226, Speaker A: It's k. But as I said in the delegate Discord channel, I feel like that project is, was spun up and then it's trying to basically copy what Eigen layer is doing. And a lot of the people kind of talking about and shilling it seem to be the VC's who missed out on Eigen layer. So. Yeah, I don't know. Like, when I say stuff like that, I'm just like, okay, uh, you. I mean, obviously, you guys know I'm an investor in Eigen layer, but I'm not just saying this because I think that, you know, crack is going to be bad for my bags or anything like that.
00:26:46.226 - 00:27:19.816, Speaker A: And like, no, not, not at all. I just think that when it comes to competition, not every, not all competition is created equal. Like, I think that when you have competition within the restaking space, you would want the competition to be as good, if not better than the existing restaking protocols. Right? Like right now, I. Obviously, Eigen layer is the gold standard, so you would expect Nectar and Korak and others to be either at that level or beyond that level in order to properly compete and encourage a healthy competition in the, in the kind of, I guess, like marketplace of, of, of what we experience within the Ethereum network. So we'll see. We'll see how that all shakes out there.
00:27:19.816 - 00:27:40.936, Speaker A: But I just wanted to put this new one on your radar. You can go check out the full tweet trader for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Immutable has introduced something called immutable nexus, which is an ecosystem of gaming chains. So they say here, many AAA game studios require their own chain due to their size and need for complex capabilities. As always, immutable is here to deliver.
00:27:40.936 - 00:28:24.096, Speaker A: So they're building something called the dedicated immutable ZKVM chains powered by polygons. ZKVM technology for some of the biggest game studios in the world. Immutable nexus is a system of interconnected blockchains consisting of the public immutable ZKVM chain plus all of the dedicated ZKVM chains. On continues as the tweet here, although dedicate on immutable of course, there and then they describe basically what this is going to look like now. Because this is built using polygons technology, I believe that this will probably be opted into the AG layer eventually. So essentially you'll have like all of these immutable kind of chains, or these immutable ZKvms, all these gaming chains kind of on the same liquidity layer, the aG layer and all being able to interoperate with each other because they're sharing the same proving architecture here, which is really cool. I think it's really good.
00:28:24.096 - 00:29:01.204, Speaker A: I think immutable is still the leader on the gaming side of things. Definitely when it comes to crypto gaming, they're really one of the only teams pushing the frontier here, not just in terms of like building the games themselves, but also on the infrastructure side because there are a lot of crypto gaming projects out there. But immutable is obviously more focused on infrastructure rather than building the games themselves. Even though they have built games in the past and they continue to support them, they're definitely interested in building out the infrastructure and getting all of these traditional gaming, gaming companies on board. And if these companies want to launch their own chains, then they're doing it within the immutable kind of ecosystem here. But yeah, you can go check out the full tweet thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:29:01.204 - 00:29:32.672, Speaker A: All right. A very interesting tweet that I came across today from DCF God that I wanted to rant a little bit about, because this is something that I've been talking about a lot for years now, and I get pushback on this sometimes. And I think people don't realize this because it's a, it's a more of a long term thing that plays out. But I'll just explain what I mean here. So DCF God tweeted out saying in June of 2021, Lido's token was $2.60, a $60 million market cap. But today Lido is also $2.60,
00:29:32.672 - 00:30:02.422, Speaker A: but has a $2 billion market cap. The token doesn't rebase, there is no staking and holders never got revenue share despite growing from nothing to over $30 billion of staked ETH buyers made no money. The fully diluted value matters. So what this illustrates, basically, is that the market cap of a token can be very low. So let's just say the market cap's like 100 million or something, or 50 million. And let's just say that 5% of the tokens are circulating. That's why the market cap is 50 million.
00:30:02.422 - 00:30:36.880, Speaker A: So that means the fully diluted value is a billion. Right. So what do you think happens over time as more and more of those tokens come to market and get released into the market? Well, of course they're sold, right? Not all of them. Not all at the same time, but over time they're sold. So you have basically 95% of the supply that is, or that is coming out that you've already. That the market's already priced in at a $1 billion fully diluted valuation here and it's coming out over multiple years. So essentially you have this constant sell pressure or this constant kind of supply side with very little demand side because it's already worth so much.
00:30:36.880 - 00:31:30.084, Speaker A: And because it's already worth so much. The early investors, the ones who get into like the seed rounds, you know, the angel investors like myself and the VC's and everything, they're already up many, many multiples. If these things have a very big, fully dated, looted valuation, for example, you know, a lot of these projects that launched today, they launched like ten, $20 billion fully diluted valuation. The seed investors, the Series A investors, and maybe not the Series B investors, but like the seed pre seed Series A investors, they're all up 100 x plus at that valuation. Now, of course they have vesting. What that means is that if the token price maintains at the, you know, the price that it's at, like Lido has, has done here, the market cap is going to keep growing as the tokens are released into the market, because they're no longer vesting, they're actually unlocked and able to be sold, right? So the market cap goes up, the fully diluted value stays the same and the price stays the same. So essentially, on net, the price will be flat.
00:31:30.084 - 00:31:59.568, Speaker A: Right. And the fully diluted value may stay the same, but no one's making money. And it's because there is a potentially, like an equilibrium of supply and demand where essentially people are buying Lido, just as in this example, because they're like, oh my God, lido so big. You know, it's like 30% of the Ethereum staking network. I'm going to buy it because it's a good buy, so on and so forth. But the problem was, is that Lido opened up, or was originally a very high, fluid, diluted value. So all you're doing by buying into it, and I'm not trying to pick on Lido here, it's just the example that DCF God used.
00:31:59.568 - 00:32:47.028, Speaker A: What you're doing by buying into these tokens as they release a huge amount of supply onto the market, is essentially you're just acting as exit liquidity for the people selling, which are the insiders. Right. Which are the investors and the team, to an extent. And that is the sad reality of what happens, given that this entire ecosystem is now dominated by the fact that it's all private deals. Right? And I'm one of the benefactors of this, guys. Like, I'm fighting my own bags here, because I want to make it clear to you guys that buying this stuff is almost never a good long term investment for the period that it is vesting out. Like, for example, if everyone gets vested out in, like, three years from when the project launches, and then the project's still going really strong, it's growing, it has product market fit, then maybe at that point, it's a good idea to buy the token, or maybe at that point, you could make money buying it.
00:32:47.028 - 00:33:14.716, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that during that kind of vesting period, during that period when things are unlocking, more and more people don't want to buy. So the demand is kind of down and there's more and more kind of supply coming onto the market that was already priced at a really, really high, fully diluted valuation. So you may not kind of lose money. Right. But, you know, if it works out the way it did with Lido, depending on when you buy and sell, but you're not really making anything here. And the only ones making money are the early kind of investors that were done privately. Right.
00:33:14.716 - 00:33:39.026, Speaker A: It wasn't done publicly here, so. And then this is against USD measure, this against Ethan, it's even worse. So when you look at it from that perspective, fully alluded value absolutely matters. It may not matter in, like, a short term period, like, let's just say in a bull market for, like, three to six months, at the heart of the bull market, it will not matter because everyone's just piling in with new money. No one cares what they're buying. You know, everyone's locked up. There's no kind of tokens coming to the market.
00:33:39.026 - 00:34:02.876, Speaker A: So these things are flying. But that's the thing. Like, they're flying because of the bull market effect. They're flying because of traders. But then once a bear market hits, what do you think is going to get absolutely crushed the most? It's going to be these things because investors are going to want to sell. People who vested out are going to want to sell, right? Especially if these things are at just astronomically high valuations and they know it's a bear market. So they're not going to be like, oh, I'm just going to sit on this till the next bull market comes around.
00:34:02.876 - 00:34:39.476, Speaker A: They're most likely going to sell because they're like, oh, I better sell because I want to, I want to lock in the profits. Now I'm already up so much, why would I not sell? This is the same logic I use as well. Like not even just with kind of angel investments and stuff like that, but I use the logic with, you know, that my degen tokens that I talked to you guys about, that I had an airdrop, I made like a 40 x on that because I just got it in airdrop. I just let it sit there and then it went up a lot in value and I was like, well, I just made a 40 x 40 x on this and I sold it because I'm like, why? I mean, I sold half and then I sold most of it the other day again. And I sold it because I was like, why would I hold this more? Yeah, okay, maybe it can go up from here. But I just made a 40 x. Like, come on, that's a crazy amount of money in a short period of time.
00:34:39.476 - 00:35:24.798, Speaker A: Like why wouldn't I actually realize those profits? So the same is true for all of these insider investors, all these VC's that kind of do this here. But they definitely want to be selling into like a demand driven environment, a hot environment. Typically what you'll see is that they'll wait until like the bull market, if they've already got their tokens, they may wait until, you know, the heart of the bull market or until there's lots of demand coming in in order to kind of offload. But it just depends, depends on the project, depends on the token, depends on the VC's, right? Some are more predatory than others and so on and so forth. So at the end of the day, guys like you really do need to be keeping in mind fully diluted value not just because of against USD, but because of against ETH. ETH technically has a fully diluted value of infinity because there's no supply cap on ETH. But all we all know that ETH isn't that deflationary year on year thanks to the burn.
00:35:24.798 - 00:35:47.366, Speaker A: And we all know that ETH has an incredibly stupid amount of demand. It has no unlocks coming because all of the investors were unlocked from day one from the ICO. The ETH foundation has all of their ETH. There's no VC's or insiders or anything like that. And the same is true, obviously, for bitcoin as well. So that's why you typically see, or one of the main reasons why you typically see BTC and ETH just outperforming so strongly is they don't have that overhang. Right.
00:35:47.366 - 00:36:11.598, Speaker A: They don't have that worry. It's not like you're going to have to worry about someone like unlocking and dumping and all those sorts of, of things there. So yeah, hopefully that was a nice little rant for you guys on that because I do want you to be aware of this. I do want you to realize that, yes, these things with high, fully diluted values can go to astronomical heights in a bull market, but in a bear market, they will get absolutely crushed. For sure. That will get crushed. That will go down more than you could even hope to think that they could go down.
00:36:11.598 - 00:36:28.026, Speaker A: Honestly, and I've experienced this many times as this is, this is like my fourth cycle now. It's, it's been, it's been a crazy ride. But anyway, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:36:28.026 - 00:36:29.594, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
