00:00:00.170 - 00:00:42.250, Speaker A: You welcome to Chainlink Research Reports, a YouTube series featuring research across the web, three industry and academia with scholarship that expand their understanding of decentralized technologies. I'm Dr. Jason Anasasopoulos, a researcher at Chainlink Labs and an assistant professor at the University of Georgia. Today I'll be joined by Ola Kunle Alao, a PhD student in electrical engineering at University College Dublin in Ireland. Ola Kunle will be presenting research which explores how blockchain technology, oracles, and smart contracts can help provide financing for renewable energy projects. And now here's Ola Kunle.
00:00:49.790 - 00:01:39.100, Speaker B: Hi everyone. My name is Ola Kunleau and I'm a PhD candidate. I'm working at the intersection of blockchain and renewable energy systems under the supervision of Dr. Paul Kauf. Today I'll be presenting on the topic titled Structuring Special Purpose Vehicles for financing renewable generators on a blockchain marketplace. So this research work was funded by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland and conducted at the University College Dublin island. So this is just a snippet of the first page of the broader research work.
00:01:39.100 - 00:03:18.380, Speaker B: This paper contains the technical details and it was published in the IEEE Transactions of industrial Applications. And by the left side you can find the link, which is freely available for your reading. So the research problem that motivated this work is the fact that 18% of the world's population, that is, about 1.2 billion people, do not have access to electricity, which impedes economic growth and industrialization. And the electricity access challenge can be attributed to the significant investment gap needed to finance new power projects, which requires new and innovative financing options. So, independent power projects, which are entities that are funded, built, owned, and operated by the private sector and constituted via a special proposed vehicle, have become one of the fastest growing sources of investments in the electricity sector. However, the limitations of this traditional finance sources means that funds for these projects are expensive and raised only after a long and arduous process.
00:03:18.380 - 00:05:06.430, Speaker B: So what's an SPV? An SPV is a commercial venture created by one or more organizations to undertake a specific purpose, such as implementing a solar or wind farm. Would it not be cool for the owners of these projects to have access to funding from multiple location independent investors operating autonomously with different risk appetites and disposable funds? On the other hand, investors would like the factualization of such capital intensive assets, enabling them contribute any amount of investments in the project and easily trade those investments later to interested parties in an open market. These investors also want to be guaranteed a share of future revenues in the project. Finally, the electricity buyers of the project, which are called the offtakers. They want a payment structure that reduces their direct and indirect electricity costs. Overall, these parties intend to achieve their objectives frictionlessly, seamlessly and reliably. The inherent characteristics of blockchains, including decentralization, tokenization and immutability, as well as smart contracts that are self executing and persisting, could allow a new spv arrangement that enables these parties realize their ambitions.
00:05:06.430 - 00:07:14.440, Speaker B: Therefore, in the next 15 minutes, I'll be describing some of the mechanisms that would underpin such an arrangement. So central to the idea of representing a traditional special purpose vehicle on a blockchain is the idea of decentralized autonomous organizations, which have recently emerged as a game changing concept enabling new ways of governance, ownership, consensus and asset management. Decentralized autonomous organization dows are organizations which are established and represented on a blockchain, which is a digital and centralized ledger that allows transparent and secure transactions between parties that do not have to know each other. The rules of these organizations are underwritten by interconnected programmable smart contracts, which are algorithmic protocols that self execute based on predefined terms and conditions. So these blockchain based organizations combine decentralized governance and finance principles to enforce specific actions amongst members of the network who do not have to trust or know each other and without the need for oversight from a central intermediary. For example, for example, Dow rules embodied in smart contracts can enable autonomous disbursal of dividends from a venture to certain organization members if, say, a certain percentage of the members consent to that decision. Presently, the market capitalization of Dow tokens sits at more than $44 billion, with a daily trading volume of about $4 billion.
00:07:14.440 - 00:08:36.366, Speaker B: So the next thing is about a very important concept for DAO systems, which is the tokens that will underwrite these organizations. So dows are usually designed based on their founding members vision and mission, and as such, they have no formal way of being structured. So they could be fully decentralized, which means that they'll be developed fully on chain, or they could be blended. That means they would have on chain and off chain components, and their governance and ownership structure could be established at the inception of the project or dependent on this utility tokens. Sorry, this tokens, which could be security tokens, governance or utility tokens. So what are utility tokens? They are usually referred to as user tokens, serving as the medium of exchange in Dow platforms. They typically act as an access point into a DAO, and without them, users are unable to enjoy the available services or products that the Dow offers.
00:08:36.366 - 00:09:54.010, Speaker B: So these tokens are always fungible tokens, which are identical tokens that could be easily exchanged and traded by holders on a public blockchain marketplace and might be end over time as a reward for users that are contributing to the network. Or they could also be sold through an initial coin offering program, which is usually known as an ICO. So icos are simply mechanisms for raising funds for blockchain projects where investors are assigned tokens, granting them certain rights and privileges, such as financial returns, voting rights, et cetera. So, initial coin offering programs icos are repeated to have raised more money through crowdfunding than any other sector today. The next is security tokens. So, security tokens are tokens that represent ownership of an external tradable assets, such as real estates, collectibles and so on and so forth. They can be fungible or non fungible.
00:09:54.010 - 00:11:46.874, Speaker B: So non fungible tokens are unique tokens used to prove asset ownership. So true security token offerings stos companies can publicly sell equity of their projects, represented as security tokens on the blockchain, which grants holders an ownership interest or right to share of NNS governance. Tokens are fungible tokens, and they usually double as either security or utility tokens, but they could also be minted separately. So the next question becomes, what type of tokens will be used on the right transactions on the Dow, particularly for our own application. So in our current use case, we opined that fungible tokens are more appropriate, as these generators are physical assets that can be valued and quantified. And considering that the aim of our structure is to enable the affordability of electricity, we also believe that non fungible tokens wouldn't be appropriate because it would achieve the opposite, since non fungible tokens don't really have an inherent value, and they are just subjectively priced, depending on, say, demand and supply, or whatever prospective owners believe they are worth. So our proposed framework is underpinned by three mechanisms, mobilization, collateralization and settlements.
00:11:46.874 - 00:12:46.126, Speaker B: So again, shareholders are constituted at the project's inception and provide early development funds for the project. So for the project to be fully constructed, shareholders require funds from traditional financial institutions, for example, commercial banks. And these money usually comes from just a few. Let's say a $10 million project would come from, say, just three or four banks. But in our own structure, we aim to expand access to finance, which has been quite limited or constrained by the existence of just a few banks. So to expand access to finance, we propose that these funds would be obtained from lenders situated anywhere in the world. And this is permitted using our mobilization mechanism.
00:12:46.126 - 00:13:56.898, Speaker B: So first, the asset is tokenized or fractionalized as a security. Thereafter, shares of these security tokens are traded on a public blockchain marketplace. So the shareholders allocate some of the tokens between themselves, which represents the option equity provided at the SPV's inception. Finally, they sell the remaining tokens through the proposed mobilization mechanism of our blockchain SPV platform. So the decentralized lenders are incentivized to buy these security tokens because owning them grants them access to future revenue streams in utility tokens in a way fully governed by the smart contract. So once the project starts operating, the power is sold to the offtaker as the wind blows or sunshines. So these offtakers, who are the primary sources of revenues for the projects, could include schools, homes, businesses, or anyone that needs electricity.
00:13:56.898 - 00:15:39.142, Speaker B: So a blockchain enabled smart meter would record this electricity consumption data from the offtakers, which are the buyers of the electricity, and feed it to the smart contract for settlement purposes. So a new challenge arises here, particularly for this decentralized and trustless arrangement. What if the offtakers do not have the funds, or they are not willing to make the payments for the electricity they have consumed? So, for this reason, we propose a collateralization mechanism which mitigates the credit risk posed by the offtakers. So this mechanism autonomously manages collaterals, which are like escrow accounts reserved by the banks of the electricity to head credit risk. In that way, these offtakers are incentivized to fulfill their payment obligations to the SPV without the need for a traditional third party mandating them to do so. The next thing that happens is holding those collaterals can result in margining risk, the risk that future cash flows can be limited due to payment of margins. However, in our case, we address such a risk using the last proposed mechanism of our structure, which is called the autonomous settlement mechanism.
00:15:39.142 - 00:17:14.550, Speaker B: So this mechanism enforces prompt smart contract payment once electricity has been consumed and metered and such metered data is sent to the smart contract. So margining risk intravenous arrangements are quite significant because, for example, in the UK, it takes from a few months to up to two years for electricity transactions to be cleared and settled. So stablecoins is just one of the very important features that our proposed structure is based on. So we know that cryptocurrencies are quite volatile. So look at bitcoin, look at ethereum. Just imagine one of these volatile cryptocurrencies is used to make an investment in the energy project today, and in a year's time, the value of such cryptocurrency has fallen, which I mean, is quite possible. Looking at how the spikes and dips happens so quickly, then that means the whole purpose of investing in such a project is defeated, since the returns should include the net present value of the project or of the investment with the profits.
00:17:14.550 - 00:18:13.658, Speaker B: So we propose the use of a stable coin such as makers die stablecoin, which is also underpinned by decentralized governance and finance principles. So coins like this are usually pegged to relatively. So no currency is fully stable. But fiat currencies such as the US dollars and euros can be considered as relatively stable currencies. So these coins are pegged to such cryptocurrency, to such fiat currencies, to mitigate volatility risk. So the next assumption is use of oracles. So going back to the need for these oracles, so the smart contract doesn't have an eyes or ears as to what's happening in the real world.
00:18:13.658 - 00:19:17.754, Speaker B: So for instance, let's say electricity has been consumed. How does the smart contract know when it was consumed and what amount was consumed to be able to initiate a transaction? To initiate a transaction from the buyer, the electricity, to the seller. So that's where the role of oracles come about. So what do they do? Oracles transmit information from the real world to the smart contract to invoke or initiate certain actions. So there are different types of oracles depending on the applications. There are software oracles such as Ago Chainlink, and you'd have hardware oracles, such as blockchain enabled smart meters in our kind of applications. A prime example would be the Brooklyn microgrid, which is one of the earliest real world use cases of blockchain mini grids.
00:19:17.754 - 00:20:55.690, Speaker B: So you have a blockchain enabled smart meter that would get the actual consumption and relate to the smart contract. But there's also a potential risk in this arrangement, because a malicious actor can game the data stream to affect the transactions that will be initiated by the smart contract. So this is a possible risk of using such integrated, decentralized, autonomous organization, also based on finance and governance principles. So this is just like a case study that we employed to demonstrate the walk ins of our proposed structure. So this case study was a solar power plant in one of the sunniest towns in Africa, in Toru, Uganda. So before I go further with demonstrating the functioning of the proposed structure, I'd like to say that any renewable energy, a solar farm or a wind farm or a small hydro farm, can be employed to showcase could have been employed to showcase the workings of our proposed arrangement. Also, any project finance structure arrangement can also be employed.
00:20:55.690 - 00:21:59.982, Speaker B: But the most important thing here is the interest rate. So projects such as the one we used as the case study would really have an interest rate of about 8%. But we believe that by reducing the risk of the project, which is usually reflected in the cost of capital, we'll be able to have lower interest rates. So we've been able to reduce risks such as credit risk, which is a major risk in a project like this in Africa. We'll also be able to reduce like margining risk, liquidity risk, because now we are decentralizing investment. So instead of having for, let's say a $10 million project, instead of having tree banks funding these projects for large quantum of money, you would have millions of people investing in such projects. So it's easy for people to trade.
00:21:59.982 - 00:23:13.850, Speaker B: They could enter exited position easily at any times. And we've also seen that our structure could also minimize third party and legal risks that could arise due to the transactions between parties. So the next thing is the collateralization mechanism. This is just like a technical detail of how the smart contract enforces proper right good behavior for the offtaker. That's the person that buys or the entity that buys the electricity. So you'd see that the broken amber line just shows how the reserved account in the smart contract becomes depleted as that offtaker fails to maintain a certain margin that was designed into the smart contract at its inception. So as such, escrow account gets depleted.
00:23:13.850 - 00:24:34.130, Speaker B: If the optica doesn't maintain the certain margin, the optica could get kicked out of the smart contract. Importantly, this action happens without interference, without input from anybody. The smart contract autonomously achieves this. In summary, we've shown the risk metrics, different risks. To compare traditional spvs against blockchain spvs, we can see that account risk and security risks stands out the most. I mean, blockchain based applications would also be prone to volatility and design risk. But in the research work we've noted that such risk can be minimized based on the design and the integration of other blockchain based applications to the overall blockchain environment, which would be used to mobilize the funds and guarantee payments for investors.
00:24:34.130 - 00:26:22.790, Speaker B: So we concluded that security risks are the main challenge of the blockchain based platform, because once the smart contract is deployed on the blockchain, it becomes immutable. That's unchangeable. So any programming error in smart contract code can expose, um, the dow to security attacks resulting in financial losses. So a popular example would be the Dow attack, where $70 million was stolen by Manchester smart contract using a flaw present in a single line of the DAO code. So by again, hedging cryptocurrency volatility risks in the DAO using the stable coin service, the SPV also becomes vulnerable to security risks inherent in the integrated service. Then finally, the hardware oracle, which in our case is the blockchain enabled smart meter, which relates the optical electricity consumption data to the smart contract, exposes the DAO to security risks due to possible tampering and manipulation by people that are physically present on the site where the smart meter has been installed. So although the stablecoin and oracle services are maturing technologies, we still believe that they pose this risk and this risk are still persisting.
00:26:22.790 - 00:26:57.060, Speaker B: We hope that future research can help the community address some of this threat and risk going forward. So that brings us to the end of our presentation. Thank you for your time and for listening. If you have any questions, you can reach out to myself and porkoff on our emails on the screen. Thank you.
00:26:59.350 - 00:27:33.920, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks, Kanley, for this great presentation. So I just have two questions that I'd like to ask you about the system you proposed. The first question is about security risks, since you talk about security risks in general. And so I was wondering, what do you think from your perspective would be the most significant security risk involved in tying the grid to a blockchain based trading system, as you've discussed here?
00:27:35.330 - 00:28:34.094, Speaker B: Okay, that's a really important question. So in the earlier slides, I mentioned that we would have two types of oracles. That's the software and the hardware oracle. So lots of research has been going into the development of decentralized, secure, robust oracles, such as like Chainlinks platform, which I think is kind of much more easier because you can easily control the flow of information on the software compared to the hardware, where you'd have a physical meter that is getting the information. So that meter would have to be on site and can already guarantee the protection of an onsite facility. So I think that would be like a major weakness for such arrangements. Right.
00:28:34.132 - 00:28:38.670, Speaker C: So the physical smart meter would be the most significant threat.
00:28:39.090 - 00:28:40.480, Speaker B: Yes, that makes sense.
00:28:40.930 - 00:28:49.414, Speaker C: Thank you very much, kunle, for your time and this excellent presentation. I'm really looking forward to learning more about it in the future.
00:28:49.532 - 00:28:50.980, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you.
