00:00:09.240 - 00:00:24.350, Speaker A: So our next speaker is head of success at Guild, which managed to have a community from zero to 200k members. And so we'd like to hear about what you did for gamification. Then we come on board.
00:00:24.382 - 00:01:08.884, Speaker B: Hannah, thank you so much. Thank you so much for everyone coming today. I hope you can hear me. My name is Hannah and I'm head of success at Guild XYZ. And today here, I just want to have a quick chat with you about how we scaled our community at Guild from zero to 200k without any tokenization, but with gamification. So if you're not familiar with Guild or you need just a bit of reminder, like what's Guild? Guild is actually a homepage and toolkit for on chain communities. Here you can see a slide of everything.
00:01:08.884 - 00:02:12.636, Speaker B: That's almost everything that's possible with guild. Basically, Guild is designed to automate membership, build advanced membership structures, tokenize. Tokenize communities, run gamified quests, as well as like building loyalty point systems and all in a CBA resistance way, which basically means that we do have a lot of integrations that actually enables you to build proof of humanity, proof of personhood into your own community while you're keeping the community safe without any c bills. Here on this slide, you can also see a few more features that I put there to get a better understanding of what else is actually within our tool. But if I were just talk about it like that would be for another talk a lot of things. So let's focus on communities now. Basically, whether you are a member of any community or you are building one, there are these values that we all can share and we all can resonate with here.
00:02:12.636 - 00:03:07.784, Speaker B: I just put here a triangle community in the middle. As usual. The top three things that I realized while working with thousands of communities within the past few years is even if, like the different, like community structures, the community goals can vary. Like, there are these core values deep inside that actually almost the same for everyone and we all can resonate with it. And here are the three values that I put out here. The first one is recognition and rewards, engagement and enjoyment and growth. Recognition and rewards actually entails that whether, when you are within a community, you want to feel valued, you want to feel incentivized and rewarded for all the efforts that you are putting into the community, as well as all your contributions, engagement, and enjoyment.
00:03:07.784 - 00:03:47.078, Speaker B: In short, communities should be fun in any way. We go to communities and we join communities because we want something that we can engage with. Because there is the whole hype around. There is the engagement around and we want to feel that like, okay, there is this place where I have the opportunities to have valuable contributions, connections and everything else that comes with it. And the final one that I put here is growth, which actually entails both personal growth and community growth. Because I think when you want to join a community, you're part of a community. You do want to have self development.
00:03:47.078 - 00:04:49.784, Speaker B: You want to, you know, whether you are sharing your skills or other community members are helping you to improve. This is one thing that's important personally for you, but on the other hand, you want the entire community to succeed, you want it to grow, you want to make an impact and be part of the goal that the community has. When I joined the team around two and a half years ago, I started as a community manager and the main focus for me was to, okay, we have a product, let's build a community around it. I know that there are communities who do the opposite way. There is every single type when you have the community and you're building something together, but we had it the opposite. So our situation was building a community around the product while building the product around the community. When I joined, we always said that we want to create something that has the mutual benefits.
00:04:49.784 - 00:05:42.380, Speaker B: We don't want to create a community only to just, hey, that's Gil, you should use it. It's cool. No, we want you to be part of it. I will share more things about how we did it, but the co creation and collaboration was a really big, really key part of it. Speaking about what we valued here, I put our value stack like what we put the biggest focus on over these past few years. When we were building, we always focused on building game like experiences, matching opportunities with members, and as well as like focusing on co creation and what was really unique about that, like how we wanted to create, how we wanted to achieve this is all in a scaled way because we are really a small team. Actually, we started like 18 of us or something like this.
00:05:42.380 - 00:06:13.314, Speaker B: 16 of them are developers as usual with the product. So it was like the two or three of us who were like, okay, let's build a community. And we wanted to build it in a scaled way. We wanted to have the organic growth, to have the growth boosted by automations, scalable solutions like scaled solutions. Because we said the team won't be the one growing. We were like, we don't want make it harder, just make it smarter, do it however you can. And we were really fortunate.
00:06:13.314 - 00:06:43.644, Speaker B: We were the ones building the product. We had, you know, a lot of impact and efforts put into that. Now, I want to talk about these three things. And the first one that I mentioned was building game like experiences. We always say that, like, communities should be fun. Communities should be something that, you know, have. Have a game kind of game, game like experience in it, and it should be done, like, from onboarding to activations.
00:06:43.644 - 00:07:21.868, Speaker B: We actually have. I put here a few different, like, features and elements of guild. And I just want to give you an insight, like how we did it. One of the biggest, one of the most successful campaign that we had were Guild pins. Guild pins are sold on nfts, kind of like a proof of membership, proof of join collectibles. And what we did, we didn't want to just launch it, say, like, okay, we have this new feature, new reward type. We actually did a whole campaign around it with partners, and we did it all in a gamified way when we first started doing it.
00:07:21.868 - 00:07:59.850, Speaker B: Imagine it, like, we partner up with someone and we launched a guild pin within their community. So we said, like, okay, uniswap, Stargate base. They have all their pins. And we made a whole leaderboard, a whole system around it. When we first started, like, dropping the guild pins, like, daily, weekly, we actually didn't tell anyone where the next gale pin is going to be. We actually shared just clues, riddles, some secrets to share, some secrets to unlock, which actually made it more exciting than just rather writing a new feature announcement. Like, hey, this is possible with guild.
00:07:59.850 - 00:08:39.822, Speaker B: Like, hey, actually, we want you to find it, like, what's possible with guild. So we had the whole system around it. We had the leaderboards where the faster they were and the more pins they were holding, like, they were more on top, on higher on the leaderboard. And then we just rewarded them with actually, like, physical pins and, like, a love package from guild when they were in the top 100 leaderboard. And then basically what we realized is there was this really big engagement around it, like, really big product adoption. And we wanted to make it, like, possible for everyone else. We wanted to make it possible for everyone who is building a community, who is building a guild.
00:08:39.822 - 00:09:17.562, Speaker B: So leaderboards became our best friends. We actually launched a point engine, which actually enables everyone to do their custom point system. So you can call it an XP, you can call it a gem, you can call it spice, anything that resonates with your brand. And basically, you can decide which actions, which activities within your community or with your product. Product you actually reward with these. And on the other hand, what we also realized, and I'm not sure if you throw it around. But quests are kind of the history, like the dry quest, like do this, do that.
00:09:17.562 - 00:10:33.960, Speaker B: What we really need, the new meta is actually secrets to unlock. So we also created this system where basically there are these membership tiers, there are these roles and tasks within your guild, and you can decide whether you want it to make only visible for role holders or only visible to, you know, to everyone at the very beginning, and then just making it more secret by hiding it. So it's all up to you what you are making with this. But the main point here is when you have the game like experiences, it can result in long term growth because there is the adoption, there is the engagement around which is more successful, rather just announcing anything that's happening within your community or your product. The second one that I got here is matching opportunities with members. So when you have these gamified experiences, you actually have a lot of people within your community. And what everyone should be focusing on is engaging around high value initiatives, which actually means that there are so many members within your community who has these different but shared interests.
00:10:33.960 - 00:11:39.704, Speaker B: Let's say, for example, I will tell you everything, like to better understand it, but let's say someone is a developer, someone is building a community, someone is just here for the hype and they are just collecting your guilt pins. These are the people who you should actually focus on based on the facts, based on the things that you actually value. And this is what it means when you are just engaging and re engaging around these high value initiatives. To better understand this slide is guild is best described with three primitives, requirements, roles and rewards. Requirements can be like off chain and on chain like identities, tasks to do or collectibles held sets alive lists. So here you can see that, for example, we can actually track and what this is what we did with our community also like we tracked like who is holding our guild pin. So we know that like how to engage them further and how to make them like more excited about like what's coming next or else someone has like 100 gem.
00:11:39.704 - 00:12:26.618, Speaker B: So they are on top of my leaderboard, maybe. So I know that like these are the people who I want to have a closer connection, who I want to have like reward more and so on. Or for example, speaking about off chain and on chain requirements, we actually track that. Like who is a guild admin? Because as I mentioned earlier, one of the biggest focus that we had was building together. And we actually tracked for example, who are the guild admins with over 1000 members. So we knew that, okay, they are looking for something to build. So we actually, like, if you are going, going and just checking the slide, you can see that we actually rewarded the guild admins with access to alpha features.
00:12:26.618 - 00:13:27.594, Speaker B: Or if we are talking about the on chain side of it, we actually checked on chain actions like how many contracts they deployed. So we know that I'm not going to give access to the same group chat for someone who is collecting guild pins and someone who is actually a core part of the base ecosystem and, you know, like developing and just looking for aligned, looking for really similar, sorry, looking for people with really similar interests to connect with. So these are the requirements. The roles are actually the unit that makes up your membership structure. So it can be a pin holder, an OG collector or a guild builder as well as like based. It all depends on you, how you call these roles. And here comes the most important part is when you have these people all within your community, you actually, based on all these data, you can actually reward them and you can actually give them a reward that actually resonates with them.
00:13:27.594 - 00:14:20.886, Speaker B: So for example, when talking about the campaign, how to keep up the hype, there's going to be like ten more pins. You know, we are dropping. What we did is actually just, we just gave them a rule and rewarded them access to a really unique chat. And as I mentioned earlier, we didn't announce where the next pin is going to be. So what we did, we created this gated chat and we put there like five minutes earlier, like everyone who already had a pin had a five minutes, five minutes before the public announcement went up. And they could be actually the very first ones to just mint it. And then there were these speculations going on, like, hey, what do you think guys? Where's going to be the next pin? And then basically that connections can make, connections can happen or it goes to the same when they are already on your leaderboard, they are already collecting, they are the OG collectors.
00:14:20.886 - 00:15:07.980, Speaker B: You can just not only give them access to your chat, but also just reward them with a loyalty NFT. So it's going to be there in their wallet address across every applications. So they can be like your proud advocates, like, hey, I'm part of this community. I'm so proud to be here and join these different campaigns and different actions and then they can have that loyalty NFT with them. Or when we are talking about admins, like as I mentioned earlier, we actually granted them access to alpha features. So it wasn't only like, hey, you know, there's this alpha feature, just, you know, put it into your community we actually had a really close connection with them with, you know, through telegram chats or discord channels and so on. And we actually gained a lot of feedback from them.
00:15:07.980 - 00:16:10.534, Speaker B: So we worked closely together on these different AAva features and listening to them, what the actual needs of on chain communities are. And same goes for the developers. When you have the developers within your community that you want to just identify, you can actually just guarantee them access to a telegram group where they can actually rather build something within. For example, if we are talking about the base ecosystem, they can actually build something which is in connection with guild within the build ecosystem. So there are a lot of cross collaborations that we can work on. The third one that I wanted to talk about is all in connection with everything that I shared earlier, which is co creation and advocacy. Once those opportunities are matched, once you really know who your members are, like, this is the key for your community to succeed, you can actually focus on all this co creation and advocacy.
00:16:10.534 - 00:17:08.622, Speaker B: This sentence building with passion, why do it otherwise? Is actually within our white paper that we launched on the very first day when we started the community. And then this is something that we still focus on and still want to highlight. Whether we are talking with someone, even if it's our community or the base community or any other partner that we have, it's like just build it with passion. Because actually when you are a community manager, the vibes that you are just giving out in the community, you almost get the same back. So it's always important to show your interest, match the opportunities and focus on co creation together. Here are the main three tiers that we had within our community. The first one are the wardens who are the community buildsters that we talked about, the knights who are our core contributors, and the guilders who are just members within our guild.
00:17:08.622 - 00:17:54.294, Speaker B: They just have to join our guild and then they become a member. They become a guilder. So how we actually co created with our wardens is through these alpha features, through these feedbacks that we had over calls, over text, anything. And also we just wrote up a lot of success stories which was not only about chilling, but also just giving some inspiration to other community builders. Like it was something, for example, that we did. We had these different closed events for the wardens where one community builder just came up, they shared what they've been building, we brought up something on mirror about them and then we could actually just share it with other community members. This is something really key within the success team.
00:17:54.294 - 00:19:14.626, Speaker B: Also that if you have the proof, like you can say anything that you know, it would be cool if you would do this or do that when you have the proof, like, hey, XYZ did that, and how successful they were, it's going to put more impact on them also. So this is how we co create it for mutual benefits with the Knights. They are our core contributors and the biggest advocates within our community. And what we realized is once you focus on your most active members who generate value within your community, they will actually just be the biggest advocates within the community. We had, for example, a lot of opportunities where one of our knights actually just introduced us to a new partner, like, hey, I know that you are working on this, how cool it would be if you partner up with XYZ. So once you just grab these people with, you don't even need to be, like, you know, tokenized or just not talking about token rewards, but if you just put your efforts and put your thoughts and your focus on them, you will have a lot of value generated together. And for example, one of my favorite projects that we build with Guild is actually a community dynamics telegram bot that one of our knights did.
00:19:14.626 - 00:20:14.568, Speaker B: They actually created, like, do not dashboards about, like, how other guilds, how other communities are growing, you know, how many mints, how many pins were minted, and so on. Until this day, we are using the dynamics dashboard, like, on daily basis. And this is something that they know because we talked about this on our social media also. We just, you know, keep granting them access to everything to fail early. So this is working, like, really good for us as well as, like, when there was something, there was a major event, for example, in the crypto space, they were engaging and they were just suggesting to run community led events. So it helped us a lot because this is something that you don't have to do as a community builder, as well as, like, when you have these fresh eyes, you know, on your community, they can have such amazing ideas, like, hey, we should do this, we should talk about that. And maybe you are so focused, you know, you are so much in your bubble, you don't see that, like, what they actually see.
00:20:14.568 - 00:21:00.020, Speaker B: And this is something that you can actually just, you know, create values with them. And on the final side, I also wanted to mention our members, because it's not only the smaller groups that you have, whether we are talking about 100 person, a ten person, but also, like Gilders, who were actually our members. And how we co created with them is not only skill sharing and guidance, because I think it's also a co creation and advocacy. When you go into a community. I'm sure you had this experience. You go into a community, you're getting lost or you don't find anything, and then they are actually helping you, and they are just there members supporting the community that they are part of. So it can be such a great way to just share your skills.
00:21:00.020 - 00:21:42.956, Speaker B: Just share whatever, you know about that thing that they are asking about. And beyond these, we also had, like, member crafted content, which, you know, it's one thing that you can create. Sorry. One thing that you can just retweet or talk about on your socials or just grant them, you know, special perks, but also, we're using it on daily basis. So, for example, one member crafted content is a telegram sticker pack. Like, we know that, like, in the crypto space, it's such, you know, a big part of our, like, culture, the whole cult here. And then this is what they have with not only guides, just, you know, making these sticker packs, helping one another.
00:21:42.956 - 00:22:14.936, Speaker B: So, as a whole, we actually really, really like advice to anyone who is starting a community or building a community to just find your people and just focus on them. And then there's gonna be the organic growth happening, and they will be having the. The same. Sorry. So they can have, you know, and attract, like, really similar people to them. So these are all the things that I had for today. Thank you so much for being here.
00:22:14.936 - 00:22:33.294, Speaker B: And I hope that you got some, you know, insightful tips that you can take home with you if you are looking for, if you can find me actually, on any socials at Igban Han, or you can find Guild at Guildxyz on Twitter, telegram, and so on. So thank you so much.
00:22:38.674 - 00:22:40.174, Speaker A: Do we have any questions?
00:22:52.974 - 00:23:33.948, Speaker C: I want to start with the thank you for your presentation. It was very insightful and impactful, I guess, for all of us as a community builders. So my question is about the onboarding of the new users, if you can maybe, like, everything's all right. So if you don't mind, what I'm curious about is the onboarding part of the new users, if you can give us maybe, like, some tips in terms of also, like, where this landscape is going and how we can make it happen, like, way, way easier for new members to join and to easier understand what the project is about and what basically they're going to be doing inside of it.
00:23:34.076 - 00:23:46.480, Speaker B: Hey, everyone, I'm here. Oh, my God. I wonder why it hasn't happened for 20 minutes. Sorry, but I've been listening. Thank you so much. No worries.
00:23:46.512 - 00:23:47.204, Speaker C: No worries.
00:24:01.224 - 00:24:18.856, Speaker B: Okay, let's see. So regarding the onboarding, do you have anything going on now or you're just listening? You are just, you're just interested of what we are seeing at other communities.
00:24:19.040 - 00:24:44.934, Speaker C: I'm trying to understand where all of this thing is going with onboarding of the new users because most of the guys basically get out of the project because, for example, for them, they cannot understand I'm jumping in this community. It's hard to understand what's happening in there and how we can ensure. What are the tips behind that. So those people getting like educated decision to join these communities and it's basically about the onboarding, how I get it.
00:24:46.274 - 00:26:19.176, Speaker B: Sorry. So what we actually see here and what we experienced is one of the biggest tips that you can, you know, just take home with you when we are talking about onboarding is really clear instructions, like really clear system. So maybe you experience it already when you're going into a discord server and you see that like there's like 30 different channels, like, oh, my God, what's happening here? How can I get involved? This is a tricky part about being a community builder because you actually have to guide your members to the initiatives that they want to get involved in. So when we are talking about onboarding, these roles can actually help you a lot. When they, for example, join your guild and they immediately, based on their shared interest, their own chain history, what, what are they are doing on Twitter or on discord? Like based on these things, you can actually just narrate them into which channels they should be active at as well as like, this is one thing when we are talking about specifically with guild or in general onboarding. But for example, when we are talking about discord and someone is getting onboarded on Discord, it's really, really key to have the information out there from the very beginning what the community is doing, what are the different roles, how you can get involved. But here's the tricky part is because you don't want everyone to get a reaction role, whether you really want to onboard them properly.
00:26:19.176 - 00:26:27.560, Speaker B: And this is where the data comes into the picture. So I would say information, data. And then it should be all good.
00:26:27.752 - 00:26:38.346, Speaker C: If you're guiding the human being through all of the processes and actually giving him a chance to be in the right spot. That's what you're trying to say, right? Could you a bit louder or.
00:26:38.450 - 00:26:40.690, Speaker B: No, no, no. I was just coughing. Sorry.
00:26:40.882 - 00:26:47.122, Speaker C: So what you're saying is the user should have like clear guidance, like where he can find what basically.
00:26:47.218 - 00:26:48.506, Speaker B: Absolutely. Okay.
00:26:48.530 - 00:26:48.850, Speaker C: Gotcha.
00:26:48.882 - 00:27:14.874, Speaker B: Gotcha. So it helps a lot. So they are not like just jumping right into the middle where for example like developer discussions are happening and they maybe potentially, for example, if they are getting onboarding in a wrong way, which means that they are just jumping into developer discussions as a pin holder or community manager, they can actually just cause distraction which can actually scare away the aligned members.
00:27:19.014 - 00:27:19.558, Speaker C: Thank you.
00:27:19.606 - 00:27:34.864, Speaker B: Thank you so much. Is there anyone? I still have some voice and still have some. If not, thank you so much for everyone coming here today.
00:27:34.944 - 00:27:35.424, Speaker A: Thank you. Anna.
