00:00:00.330 - 00:00:56.302, Speaker A: My name is Iger and today I want to talk about birds and decentralization, but mostly birds. And I'll start with a little bit about myself. I've been in tech for a little bit short of like 20 years. I've been working in different spaces, like started with network security, did my own mobile game startup, like worked on the mobile and desktop browsers and some fintech and stuff like this before blockchain. In the blockchain, I did work a little bit in the Ethereum foundation on the research to make sure that you are not storing the whole Internet on your computer. And then I'm one of the core contributors to the Aragon nodes, one of the core dev teams, and the CTO of Gateway FM. And for the Gateway FM, my marketing department sent me a slide, but since there is no shilling like here, I had to edit it a little bit.
00:00:56.302 - 00:02:08.306, Speaker A: But basically we are an infrastructure provider. We provide a very robust and fast RPC endpoints distributed globally, validators, and we help other layers, ones and layers two to reach mass adoption. And when I started working on this deck, initially it was supposed to be like some practical examples of difficulties of decentralizing the infrastructure players. But then I thought that it's going to be a bit more interesting and more useful to help to share how we think about decentralization at Gateway FM, and to give you a little bit of a mental model of decentralization that allow you to think of decentralized products a little bit more thoroughly than maybe just typical labels of permissionless and decentralized and stuff like this. And then we apply this mental model to a couple of cases. So what's the best way to talk about decentralization is of course using the game from 2013 that's called flappy birds, when you navigate your birds through different obstacle and try to keep it alive. So that's what my mental model is based on.
00:02:08.306 - 00:03:33.002, Speaker A: And basically this bird is our decentralization. And we know that each product is basically it consists of different layers, it might have some UI, some governance, some rpcs, some distribution methods, and each method has its own obstacles to decentralization. And our goal in the end is try to keep this bird alive and to pass through all of these fields. And why is that a problem? Like why decentralization is a problem is because the decentralized tech in general is relatively new, right? So the Satoshi Nakamoto's white paper was written in 2007 and eight, but we've been building software and before the different things as a community, like using centralized methodic for a very long time. So whenever we kind of find some issue or something we need to solve, we kind of default into the mode of centralization, like some examples are here. But then if you want to actually decentralize, to put a hole there, then you need to sometimes think like basically from the first principles about how can you get rid of this trusted third party or how can you decentralize things, actually? So that's the bird. But also, one more thing that I wanted to add is that what we want is a mass adoption of technologies and not the technology for the technology's sake.
00:03:33.002 - 00:04:26.946, Speaker A: Right. So one thing that I added here is some kind of a fire of market forces in the bottom. And that means that, let's say if you are building a decentralized model, but it's not practical to use, then your bird will go down too much. And then basically you will not be able to decentralize because you will not gain adoption. But apart from that, there is one more player in this game, and that's a little bit of like a storm at the top of this. And that's basically the technical feasibility, because of course, you might come up with some, like, our mind is very powerful, right? We can come up with something that couldn't exist and can't exist right now. So we can come up with some super cool payment network with instant settlement that will unfortunately require everybody to have an infinite battery on their phone, which we don't have.
00:04:26.946 - 00:05:23.022, Speaker A: So that's basically the current level of technology where we have is on top of this. So that's the model. And again, as previously, like a protocol developer and now an RPC provider, CTO, I want to apply it to those two cases. So basically, if we talk about the blockchain network, we know that the first thing we want to talk about is the block production because each network usually has two classes of nodes, right? One class of nodes, which basically everything, it just validates state transitions, but it cannot write anything new to the blockchain. But then there are some other nodes that's called maybe miners in proof of work, validators in proof of stake. They could be called like, sequencers, yada, yada, yada. But the point is that they can write something new to the blockchain and they need to be decentralized.
00:05:23.022 - 00:06:04.346, Speaker A: And the things that users care about is two things is throughput in like transactions per seconds or whatever, and then the settlement time. And those two are different because maybe you have a network that settles every minute, but then it settles 60 million transactions in each block. But then you have like a TPS of like a million transaction per second. But then it doesn't mean that your transaction will be settled quickly. So these are different things. And that's where we are also limited by hardware. Like if we have infinite cpu, there wasn't speed of light and actual connections, network connection between different computers.
00:06:04.346 - 00:06:48.880, Speaker A: We could have been really golden here. So yeah, that's the first part. And then you can see that there are different classes. Like if you just have one centralized sequencer or like one centralized block production node, then maybe it's not that much of a decentralization. But then you have different blockchains that use center mint consensus that can have anywhere from two to couple of dozens, like validators, and that's more decentralized. And then we have chains like gnosis chain or ethereum that have beacon consensus that have hundreds of thousands of validators, which is good. But you also need to think about not only the number of validators, but who owns them as well.
00:06:48.880 - 00:07:39.806, Speaker A: The next thing is about ownership and the governance and processes. Again, we know very well about how to build software as a corporation and how to build it efficiency. And efficiency is important because if we just come together and do something decentralized and never ship anything, that's not very useful, right? And then we also are limited by the current legal field because we don't want people to get in trouble for working in our dow, for working on our protocol. And we unfortunately saw some examples that are not awesome in here. The next thing is the developer infrastructure, because maybe you're building the blockchain not for yourself, but for other developers who will build on this blockchain. And that's where the developer experience makes sense. It's very important.
00:07:39.806 - 00:08:35.746, Speaker A: And you are limited by the quality of nodes, the data availability, the PTP. But then we know how to, again, make a good documentation on, I don't know, gitbooks, we know how to post videos to YouTube. Ideally we want everybody to use to run their own nodes, but it's not really plausible in terms of developer experience. But then we go to infrastructure providers. And then if you run to infrastructure providers, then if you want to have practical decentralization, at least we need to make sure that you have more than one. And then those providers are not hosting your node in the same place and not are under sort of registered in the same country basically. And the last thing is about user experience, because again, your chain is used by somebody and maybe your developer toolings and the rest is good.
00:08:35.746 - 00:09:20.590, Speaker A: But then the only way to use your blockchain is one game that's distributed through Steam and that's it basically. Then it might as well not be a blockchain at this point. So that means that, yeah, we know how to do good ux, how to distribute and get users for the centralized solution. We use Google for that. We use some kind of marketing techniques and we have limitations of like App Stores and just in general the web technologies that are getting more and more centralized. But yeah, that's one of the more important aspects and that's about a blockchain network. Now let's talk a little bit of the infrastructure provider.
00:09:20.590 - 00:10:53.760, Speaker A: So the first thing that comes to mind is of course, at least to me, where do you host your nodes? And there are three limitations from the users that are very important. Users want a low latency, users want a high uptime, and users want to actually trust, which a lot of the people forget that the data that comes from the nodes that you tell that it comes from the node that actually comes from the node. Because if you do like a naive decentralization, any malicious player can do something and respond to the calls whenever they want. And then you can end up in some situation when some bridge, let's say, or some oracle tells you wrong balance and you mean some tokens and you're in a big trouble. But if you usually people use clouds again in traditional deployments, I know, even in RPC deployments, but then it's difficult to centralize. Like we at Gateway, we're trying to work with independent data centers, but then you very quickly go into the issue of both node qualities, quality in general, and then also on supply chain, because as it turns out that especially after the COVID it's really difficult to get ssdiscs into your data center, especially if you are a smaller player, if you are not Google, not Apple, not Amazon. So that's a little bit of a tricky thing to square.
00:10:53.760 - 00:11:49.006, Speaker A: Another thing again is the governance and processes. It's very similar to the blockchain nodes, but since the RPC provider needs to be actively monitored, then basically you also need to care about uptime here, because if you have like a Dao and everybody is happy, but there is no one to wake up in the night to restart your nodes, to actually receive an alarm, that also is not very helpful. And again, it's the same thing that we used to work with product managers, roadmaps like paying salaries, and we don't want people to get in trouble for working for us. The next thing is payments and of course depends. Your decentralization depends on how you get money from your customers. And customers want something safe, something familiar and something cheap, basically like this. They want to trust your payments method and stuff like this.
00:11:49.006 - 00:12:48.914, Speaker A: And you as an infrastructure provider has expenses usually like either in us dollars or euros or something. And then it's very easy to maybe integrate with stripe, which is centralized or like just visa directly, maybe stablecoins. But stablecoins, we know that not all of them are very decentralized, even though they are theoretically smart contracts on the blockchain. So it's also one more thing to look after and the final thing is also important and that's monitoring and disaster recovery. And basically, again, since I'm coming from the background in the information security, I know that a lot of hacks, like a lot of the data that's being leaked is actually diagnostic data that's being leaked. Somebody forgot to not log your password in the logs. And then of course you never protect your logs or people never protect the logs as well as the whole infrastructure databases, don't encrypt them, stuff like this.
00:12:48.914 - 00:13:49.718, Speaker A: So you have really a privacy implications of monitoring and of course the uptime implications because you want to wake up and fix your service. And that means that again, at least in our case at Gateway, we think about this in the way that, let's say if we promise you that we give you our pc service in Turich in Switzerland, which we do, we also store all the monitoring data in the same data center. So it's distributed across data centers. So at least you know that if you're talking to Turich, then all your data is always in Zurich. All your HTTP metadata is also in Zurich and it's not sent to some third country that then will analyze it for their own purposes. And here we are, a little bit limited. And again, I looked around, I saw some projects, but let's say we cannot get anywhere from pagerduty because that's the only centralized service that can actually call any number in the world and wake you up in the night.
00:13:49.718 - 00:14:29.060, Speaker A: It would be a really cool distributed, I don't know, projects to offer that. And then you're limited about encryption because if you're doing backups, you want to do encrypted backups. Let's say you put it on IPFs or Filecoin or Arviv, but then somebody can download it. And if your keys are compromised at some point in time, you cannot really remove this data. So you need to be really careful with your encryption and re encryption mechanisms in here. So that's a little bit about the infrastructure providers. And as a conclusion, I wanted to zoom out a little bit on the world and see us as a community.
00:14:29.060 - 00:15:22.354, Speaker A: And a lot of you are here working on different obstacles, maybe somebody working on doing decentralized identity, somebody is working on decentralized governance, somebody is working on payments, file storage, computes, distribution mechanisms, whatever. It's really cool. We are playing the same collaborative game and trying to keep this bird alive for as long as possible. But apart from that, we also have some teams that are moving the storm a little bit up and they're building new technology, new encryption, maybe new hardware that helps with the blockchains. And then there are a lot of educators that help us to move these market forces down and kind of they make distributed technologies more familiar to users. So now we are not hitting some balls there. So it's pretty cool we are all together here.
00:15:22.354 - 00:15:58.740, Speaker A: And yeah, you are basically learned how at least the gateway we think about decentralization. So we always are happy to talk to the protocols and other people who think the same way. You can contact me on any of these things. There is our website and we are here in this lime hoodie. So yeah, feel free to always contact us. And yeah, we have some 5 minutes for questions. There is a question there.
00:15:58.740 - 00:16:05.114, Speaker A: Hi there.
00:16:05.152 - 00:16:28.370, Speaker B: That was really interesting. Thanks for splitting it up into all these different sections and speaking unanimously about everything. I just wanted to know about what your thoughts are on. We're on decentralized policy since there's so much regulation and forward focus on this. Is this something that anyone talks about like decentralized networking policies?
00:16:29.510 - 00:16:49.846, Speaker A: Yeah, I think unfortunately there are different types of conferences out there and usually the policy conferences, not East Denver, but some people are working on different. If you're talking about the government policies, for instance, that's what you're talking about. That's how I understood it.
00:16:49.948 - 00:16:51.382, Speaker B: SEC related?
00:16:51.526 - 00:17:52.632, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. So FCC or like Mika, regulations in Europe or something like this, they're unfortunately a bit more closed and they are using much more traditional ways of discussing this like any other law. And some players from big players I see from the space they go and advocate for this, but I don't think enough to be honest, because we saw that, let's say Mika initially wanted to, for any who has non custodial wallet to have a full audits of everything that's done in non custodial wallet, which is difficult. So I think we don't do it enough as a community. I don't see any more questions, I think. Yeah, that's it. Just drop by and come to me or dm me on Twitter or telegram and, yeah, let's continue the conversation.
00:17:52.632 - 00:17:53.850, Speaker A: Thank you very much for coming.
