00:00:01.690 - 00:00:31.190, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Swapnil. I'm a theoretical computer scientist for training and I specialize in compilers. At Nethermind. I lead the Starnet teams. Starknet, as you might already know, is a validity rollup. It uses ZK Stark to prove and compress computation from off chain onto Ethereum. And together with these zk proofs and the amazing community that we have in Starknet, we are scaling Ethereum since start and go to scale Ethereum, we also get a chance to work with some of the most smartest people in the industry.
00:00:31.190 - 00:01:22.440, Speaker A: We also focus a lot on developer tooling and developer experience for the Saturn developers. In the past we've also worked with protocols to educate them about Saturn and also port their protocols onto Saturnet like we worked with Ave. The skills that you get to learn if you choose to work at the start team at Nethermind are CK, Sox, p to P consensus, database design and so much more. And lastly, you'll also get a chance to make Ethereum the global settlement layer. Some of the cool projects that we do under the Sarm bella at Nevermind are Juno, which is a full node implementation in Golang, and the goal of Juno is to decentralize Starknet. So working on Juno you learn about ZK Starks, p to p consensus incentive design and so much more. Then there's Voyager, which is a block explorer and the goal of Voyager is to make the data of Startnet accessible to everyone.
00:01:22.440 - 00:02:15.170, Speaker A: The biggest problems we solve and the Voyager team are actually ingesting all the data for the entire network, then segregating it, indexing it, and making our data pipelines. So the skills we use are database design, algorithms and data structures and cloud computing. Then there's remix project for Startnet and the idea of that is to enable a Startnet experience inside the remix editor and make remix the best place to start a new Startnet project. Experience with compilers, static analysis tools and just rethinking about the developer experience is what we are doing at the remix plugin. And lastly, take it from me, I started as a compiler engineer and now work on decentralizing Starknet, making the data accessible to everyone and just helping the developer community. Working on Softnet has put me in touch with some of the smartest people and just some of the newest ideas that are in the industry. So yeah, come join one of the best teams in the industry.
