00:00:00.170 - 00:00:42.662, Speaker A: Binance smart chain has joined the Defi party in some style, and, if Twitter is to be believed, uniswap Ethereum. In fact, every single other chain ever created, every major religion, and some islands in the South Pacific are all now officially pointless, worthless, and extinct. Except, of course, it isn't even remotely true. The last two weeks have seen some serious Defi capital swing into action on binance smart chain, with the total value locked bungeeing from under a billion dollars to over $10 billion in just three weeks. And there's only one way to express that properly. Whammy. The BNB token casually slid into the DMs of number three in the mindlessly meaningless metric, otherwise known as market cap above Gavin chain and Charles chain.
00:00:42.662 - 00:01:17.698, Speaker A: So yes, binance means business. But don't they always question is, why now? Well, it's probably two things. Firstly, the cost. There was always going to be a moment when it became so crushingly expensive to interact with Ethereum that a lot of people just had enough. But the evidence also seems to suggest that it's new big money making its first move into farming and defi activity. The binance ecosystem makes it easy to do this with its buffet of on ramps and trading options. And when you consider the cost of a transaction is just a couple of cents, it's no wonder speedy innovation cannot afford to be held up by these kinds of bottlenecks.
00:01:17.698 - 00:02:07.874, Speaker A: And while money talks, money also walks. Now, diehard ETH Maxis might have the loudest voices bleeting about developer modes and community. If another developer can literally copy past to your code and access willing capital elsewhere while offering better incentives because it's cheaper to run, well, then yeah, money won't be walking, money will be sprinting with the finance ecosystem. BSE is in a prime position to capture a ton of value in DFI, although let's be honest here, most of it is actually tied up in pancake swap, where there is $3 billion locked up compared to Uniswap with a measly 30 billion. Now, however you feel about finance and BSE, I don't think we can afford to ignore it any longer. And it's highly likely big capital positions in major layer ones will begin seriously examining the DFI opportunities on those chains. And that's why I'm a officially announcing ETH killer season has begun.
00:02:07.874 - 00:02:16.980, Speaker A: That's it for today. For more videos, check out our YouTube channel, get subscribed, and to keep up with all the latest defi news, head on over to thedefiant IO or just join our Telegram channel.
