00:00:19.520 - 00:00:54.162, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. I'm Tom Shaughnessy. Welcome to Disruptors by Delphi, an invite only twelve guests per year seminar series where we host the brightest minds in crypto, not only to educate the Delphi team, but to share the guest vision and knowledge for the entire space. Today, we're thrilled to host Zucky Munyin, founder of Occlusion, for our fifth episode. Cosmos started the 2014 era as a project for reimagining how blockchains were designed. Its core ethos, application specific blockchains, are potentially an end safe for dapps. This led to technology with a deep focus on fault isolation, interchange, security and modularity as a key ecosystem thriving without its founder present.
00:00:54.162 - 00:01:16.144, Speaker A: Aside from bitcoin, Cosmos extraordinarily decentralized system is now poised for potentially rapid growth. In this session, Saki will dive into why Cosmos is on the cusp of truly becoming Internet blockchains. This is also the first time we're host disruptors live for our members and the public, who will get a chance to participate in Q and A at the end of the presentation. With that, let's dive into disruptors. Episode five.
00:01:18.404 - 00:01:51.024, Speaker B: Awesome. I'm Zaki Bunyan. I have been involved in the Cosmos project since its inception, and I'm going to tell Cosmos is an interesting project, I think, for a lot of people, in the sense, for many people who are in blockchains, it's always been there. You've always had. Since 2019, there's been an atom token. People have been talking about Cosmos since 2017. It was, you know, it's been an.
00:01:51.024 - 00:02:42.474, Speaker B: It's been part of the ethos for a very long time, but it is neither sort of ascended to ubiquity nor collapsed into irrelevance for all of this time. And I think a lot of people who are in the blockchain space kind of don't have a lot of context on the project. We haven't told the whole story for a very long time. And so this is kind of a unique opportunity to come back, tell a little bit of the story of cosmos, and sort of bring some context to, like, why it's suddenly become so. It sort of reemerged as something that's a little bit top of mind. So with that, why don't we get started? So a big part of Cosmos is the lore. The lore of Cosmos is the.
00:02:42.474 - 00:03:47.150, Speaker B: It sort of starts with this key thing, which is we started back before the entire cryptocurrency industry as we know it today really existed. So I kind of like to point to people to this underfollowed YouTube account and this underfollowed Twitter account that contains a lot of the history of cryptocurrency. We had this little conference in an office park in Mountain View back in 2015. Vitalik flew in. Vitalik brought Vlad with him, Vlad brought Ethan with him. Jay and Ethan met for the first time at this conference, probably the first time Vitalik really encountered the idea of doing BFT based proof of stake up until that time, basically. And Jay sort of talking about doing, taking classical consensus research and applying it to the idea of proof of stake.
00:03:47.150 - 00:04:41.286, Speaker B: There was never any real discussion of there was never any real discussion of doing proof of stake in this way. So I guess, again, Cosmos is an old project. It's best thought of as a pure project to Ethereum, rather than an Ethereum killer, or sort of like one of the projects that sort of spun up in 2017 and 2018 after the sort of product market fit of Ethereum. It was really started in 2014. So Jquan originally came up with the idea for Tendermint, which was basically the idea that at the time, kind of the. The mental model was okay. There'd been all of this academic research into distributed consensus, but nothing had taken off proof of work.
00:04:41.286 - 00:05:51.744, Speaker B: Bitcoin was the first thing that ever took off. But Jay really had this vision that we could synthesize these two knowledge bases, that we could synthesize classical academic BFT research with the sort of insights and system architecture of bitcoin and produce something that was really valuable. And so basically, the idea that we see in Cosmos today, like, the core ideas that Jay had at the time, is one sort of this robust classical BFT instant finality based consensus system, and then also the idea of on chain white clients. So, like, that there would be white clients between the chains that would allow the chains to send messages between each other. The thing that is probably most powerful about this whole cosmos thing. So that was the first piece, the original Jaquan vision. But Jay really needed help to turn this vision into a reality.
00:05:51.744 - 00:06:52.310, Speaker B: And so at that conference that I, Jay and Ethan met each other at this conference that we organized, and I was friends with Jay at the time, which is how I invite, which is how Jay came to that conference. And Ethan was friends with Vlad from college, Vlad Zamfir from OG, Ethereum stuff. And that connection became, like, the first person who was really willing to put in the work to turn Jay's ideas into production quality software. And Ethan really built this whole philosophy of safety critical software design that would allow tendermint to become this super robust system that is today. At the time, I was talking to everyone who was building a next generation blockchain system. I don't know. There was this in California, in the Bay Area at the time, in the Silicon Valley, there was this, like, a bunch of people who kind of had a hobby ideas of next generation blockchain.
00:06:52.310 - 00:07:14.940, Speaker B: So, like, Arthur Brightman was here, Martin Koppelman was here. We all kind of would hang out on the weekends and talk Dominic Williams was here. We would all talk about. Hang out on the weekends and talk about next generation blockchains. A lot of people were trying to make sharding work. I found sharding really frustrating. I came across Mark Miller's ewrites.org
00:07:14.940 - 00:08:00.730, Speaker B: website, and it basically described this system of mutually suspicious, so that is not shared security, interoperable systems. And I was like, okay, we can take tendermint and Jay's ideas of on chain like, clients. Combine it with this, and we get, like, a really scalable system. And in my mind and my experience, the world that I live, this was the origin of origin of cosmos. So that was sort of the key pieces to how we got how cosmos sort of was originated as an idea. It was not really designed around. So at the time when we built this, there were like, sort of started to imagine this.
00:08:00.730 - 00:09:07.446, Speaker B: There was, like, there were hardly any dapps. The entire sort of dap ecosystem that we imagined didn't really exist. We thought there was early smart contracts. There were ideas about DeFi, and we were like, how do we build this thing in escalable manner? So what we did is we ended up pioneering a lot of the ideas that became mainstream in cryptocurrency. So proof of stake slashing, delegation, IBC, the validator community, all of these things we basically had to invent from scratch in order to make cosmos reel. And that was basically the work of 2017 and 2018 to get all of these pieces out. Even though we invented a lot of this stuff, you see that lots of other teams ended up, at least in the short run, becoming more well known for a lot of these ideas because we never really had a robust business and development and marketing effort that, like, other ecosystems, really drove.
00:09:07.446 - 00:09:56.764, Speaker B: Instead, we were always sort of this, like, principles first ecosystem. The other thing that has been a challenge for Cosmos is that other than is that our, like, founder, Jay, has largely retreated from the ecosystem and, like, sort of does. Isn't really involved in any aspect of cosmos anymore. You know, one of the tests of decentralization is like, what happens if all the. If the founder just sort of like, moves to the Bahamas and like, abandons the project, does it continue? And Cosmos has succeeded in the absence of J and largely and continues to thrive as a development ecosystem. There are probably, there are 30 or 40 entities that work on core Cosmos software. It is this extremely decentralized system.
00:09:56.764 - 00:11:04.604, Speaker B: There is generally no one to talk to. When you're like, I would like to talk to Cosmos. You instead, like, you instead find that you have to talk to a bunch of random people who have different sort of networks and access to people. And then we all hang out in telegram chats and slacks and signal groups and work on this. So why is Cosmos still relevant? Why do you have protocols that are like sort of top tier protocols, like DydX sort of adopting the Cosmos software, like eight years after we started this project? And one of the things that we did is we relentlessly focused on differentiation. So the kind of standard thing was, okay, we've seen Ethereum, we've seen this giant developer community of Dapp builders who build smart contracts and front ends and build their protocols and their communities around this. And basically everyone else decided, let's just do that.
00:11:04.604 - 00:12:22.820, Speaker B: And our value accrual story for investors is going to be the frat protocol thesis, which is basically you have some underlying network token, you have applications on top of that network token. Value accrues from those applications to that network token. And your path to success is to recreate the sort of explosion of developer interest that Ethereum did and has subsequently been followed up by Solana and various other application platforms. Cosmos has always believed that the end state is that you have to give developers sovereignty and control over their applications. That this idea of building on top of a platform that is sort of owned collectively by someone else, by like that is owned by another set of token holders, is not necessarily a long term thesis. And so, and what we're starting to see is more and more projects also building along that. But, you know, that was kind of like the steel manning of like kind of the long term vision that the Cosmos developer community has always believed in, which is like, okay, we see the success of all of these platforms.
00:12:22.820 - 00:13:11.894, Speaker B: We see their tokens go up, but we honestly don't believe that this is actually what blockchains look like in the long run. And we're just going to keep building towards that. The other thing that has been really successful for Cosmos is that we released incremental components of the whole vision where each component was a standalone product. So first tendermint came out and tendermint was this system that could generate consensus. And we found early users for tendermint. Then we built the Cosmos SDK, which was this system that provided proof of stake on top of tendermint. So if you just look at the spin outs of those original products, you have polygon.
00:13:11.894 - 00:14:46.322, Speaker B: This massive multibillion dollar economic system is essentially built on 2018 era Tendermint and Cosmos SDK. That early version of the system has been good enough to drive user adoption of hundreds of millions of people on top of cosmos or on top of blockchains. Binance and binance smart chain are also users of 2018 2019 era Cosmos tech. So part of the vision was always, let's build stuff that's relevant because we are building stuff that can be incrementally adopted without having to adopt all of Cosmos as a whole, which took far longer to build out than we ever imagined. The other thing that is somewhat unique about Cosmos is that we decouple the research implementation and go to market of the things that we build into separate orgs. So what we do when we're a big part of the way in which we build is this mentality of, okay, the implementation piece of a piece of software in cosmos. So the research piece is like, how do we get tendermint working at all? How do we improve the performance of tendermint? How do we get all of these pieces? How do we build proof of stake in a way that supported millions of delegators? All of these pieces of fundamental research that we do then.
00:14:46.322 - 00:15:46.962, Speaker B: Frequently, there are an ever expanding number of implementation orgs that build out the software, but frequently the entity that then does go to market. The classic example of this is, you know, ICF did the, like, sort of hold, like, so informal systems, which is one entity sort of, in the cosmos ecosystem, did the R and D for, like, sort of a lot of the R and D for IBC. The implementation was done at an entity called interchange Berlin. The go to market was fundamentally done by an entirely new project, osmosis. And this is typical of cosmos, where teams are able to pick up pieces of technology that, like, one team has built and do a go to market on top of it and frequently make a lot of money doing so. So it's. So these are the sort of incremental pieces of, like, what is cosmos? But let's talk about, like, just sort of like.
00:15:46.962 - 00:16:30.554, Speaker B: Again, to be more specific, what are the pieces? And I've referred to them before, tendermint core is this consensus engine. It basically makes blocks, and it is the only block making system that is actually decoupled from applications. You can actually build arbitrary things on top of it. Everybody else's block making system is tightly coupled into their specific blockchain. Their specific tendermint allows you to build lots of different blockchain designs on top of it. You see this incredible diversity of doing things. We built one application framework for building things on top of tendermint called the Cosmos SDK.
00:16:30.554 - 00:17:00.380, Speaker B: I think it has one of the most confusing names. It's basically a toolkit for building proof of stake blockchains. One of the things that you get with the Cosmos SDK. Anything that's built on top of tendermint can theoretically use IBC. But it's a lot of work. You do see in teams like Penumbra and enoma actually building alternate implementations of the whole IBC stack in rust to live on top of tendermint. But it's the easiest path is just use the Cosmos SDK.
00:17:00.380 - 00:17:54.518, Speaker B: It's a block building toolkit. You get all of these outputs of years of research are very scalable, proof of stake system in terms of the number of delegators it supports. And our IBC system for bridging between the blockchain, for communicating between blockchains. Yeah, so the Cosmos stack is tendermint core Cosmos SDK. IBC is like, why is IBC an independent piece? Because IBC is being implemented for stacks that are outside of the Cosmos SDK. Both things that are based on tendermint, but it could actually support any sort of fast finality blockchain. So there's like a lot of work going in from the composable finance team on near and like Polkadot substrate and substrate support for IBC.
00:17:54.518 - 00:19:28.904, Speaker B: So we can bring all of the substrate stuff into the wider IBC ecosystem. And so this idea that you can only do IBC with the Cosmos SDK will slowly fade into irrelevance over time. There's also a team called Polymer, and Polymer is also building sort of IBC clients for beyond just the Cosmos SDK stack. So we imagine that there is this coming world in which most roll up frameworks, most blockchain building frameworks, most blockchain building SDKs will be out there able to support IBC. Okay, so you build all this stack, like, why, why not just build, like, the most scalable l one in the world? And the belief that we have is that the end state of DAPPS is an application specific blockchain. You start out with smart contracts as your developer toolkit because those are rapid prototyping environments you can build stuff, you can get it out there, you can acquire users very quickly, you can take advantage of the network effects of existing platforms and their go to market to get your dapp out there. But this does not actually allow you to build a sort of final end stage application that competes with centralized apps both in the web two space or cryptocurrency exchanges in the DeFi space.
00:19:28.904 - 00:20:27.804, Speaker B: What you want to build is a thing that is a credible competitor, but decentralized for a centralized exchange, for a centralized experience. In order to do that, you need to be able to have full stack customization. You have to be able to customize economics, the software interfaces, the cryptography to your specific use cases. The other thing is that while MEV is kind of the hot topic of the day, the Cosmos community, the Cosmos devs have basically been talking about it since 2015, 2016 as, okay, there's going to be value in the block proposal system. There's going to be value that you're going to have to figure out MEV mitigations. All of this stuff is going to require you to. All of this stuff is going to require you to like, if you don't have your own blockchain, you are going to leak value to the platform from the economic transactions of your DApps users.
00:20:27.804 - 00:21:34.162, Speaker B: And ultimately, why would anyone want that? Like, that is not the optimal economic. That is not optimal economics. You want to capture and internalize that, the MEB to your application, your token holders. That's the optimal. So why did we so like this belief, these articles of faith have always been demotivation for the Cosmos devs to keep building this thing of application specific blockchains, even though the number of application specific blockchains has grown much more slowly than, let's say, the number of dapps on large scale smart contract platforms. The other piece of it that's important though, to understand is so like, and like, we think that like a little bit of the DyDX story kind of validates this hypothesis, right? First they built on it. They built two versions on Ethereum l one, then they built one version on the or, one or two versions on the Starkware L1.
00:21:34.162 - 00:22:31.474, Speaker B: And now they're building on top of cosmos. Like that journey of I'm built of like, we have to build our app many times our team matures over time. We understand exactly what it is we need to develop the killer application experience. We think that that pretty much drives the sort of growth and adoption of cosmos. Tendermint BFT is the other, you know, so tendermint BFT, I think, continues to be our crowning achievement that, like, we were able to create this, like, consensus system that basically legitimized proof of stakes in the eyes of many skeptics. We always felt this incredible burden when we were building tendermint. I think that was what makes tendermint a better and more useful product than, like, so many other consensus engines, because no one else felt like they just, they had to, like, bear the entire burden of, like, convincing the world that, like, proof of stake could be real.
00:22:31.474 - 00:23:33.254, Speaker B: That was our burden. So there's this incredibly rigorous process for developing tendermint. Okay, so our thesis has always been that like, sort of universal adoption of our application specific blockchain thesis would take time, and it would take time for that entire worldview to sort of populate through the world, but it is going relatively well. IBC has been live for about a year. There are $10 billion in IBC connected chains today, 2.5 million IBC transactions in the last 30 days, and $330 million of USD. And like high side, there were billions of dollars being transferred a month at the peak of the bull market.
00:23:33.254 - 00:24:24.724, Speaker B: We largely built IBC for a world that doesn't exist yet. The best, the smart contract environment that really does natively does. IBC doesn't exist yet. The application specific blockchain ecosystem is only in its earliest stage. Like, IBC continues to be sort of a technology from the future that has sort of been backported to the present. The other thing is that we always saw that bridges were going to be giant targets for hacks. And so when we saw that bridges, because we believed in this, we made extensive use of formal verification in the development of IBC.
00:24:24.724 - 00:25:26.894, Speaker B: And we think this is why so far, IBC has remained extremely resilient system. It's also really the first system so light clients were in, like Satoshi, the original bitcoin white paper, but never actually appeared in widespread use. The Cosmos IBC system is really the first system that took white clients and put large amounts of economic value on top of it. And it continues to be very resistant to compromise. And then the third thing is, few people appreciate how much thought we put into regulatory compliance with the design of IBC. We really wanted to make IBC relayers very much like sort of Internet service providers and not really linking the bridging process to the money process. And we've always made bridging permissionless, and we've always made it natively part of the blockchain consensus.
00:25:26.894 - 00:26:17.934, Speaker B: So there is no special set of bridge operators relayers are not some sort of elected or permissioned role. Anyone can do it. Probably, like the final thing or another sort of key piece of the vision is we really think that it's just insane to imagine a world where the future of finance stops because of a programming error or a hack in one blockchain. An exploit in one blockchain should not bring down the future of finance. That is one of our core beliefs, is that Cosmos should function. If any one chain in Cosmos goes down. We've had chains like osmosis has halted for a couple of days because of a programming error and an exploit.
00:26:17.934 - 00:27:22.582, Speaker B: You're going to see this across. Like, we think that this is an inevitable part of building blockchains, and that, like the Internet, where, you know, if, you know, even if a Google or Amazon goes down, the Internet keeps trucking along. Cosmos is designed so that even if major blockchains in the ecosystem go down, the entire system will continue to function. So these things have been. So these have all been sort of core principles to it. One of the things that we have been trying to figure out then is how do we bring all of these core principles together to start building something that is more like the user experience of building on top of a traditional l one design, an ethereum, a polygon or a solana. And we finally have come up with a system architecture which is basically what we call interchange security.
00:27:22.582 - 00:28:01.630, Speaker B: And it's basically using IBC to horizontally scale tendermint. Basically, these sort of core tendermint primitives about staking and slashing, we turn them into IBC messages. So instead of running one tendermint blockchain off of a staking token and a security token, we can run like a sort of very large number of blockchains. And each one of those blockchains can do different things. So now you retain the property of fault isolation, but you still have this sort of large scale extensibility, and you don't have to build a token value, build a validator set, et cetera. People can build on top of Adam. And so this is like one of the.
00:28:01.630 - 00:29:01.752, Speaker B: This is sort of the sort of core transformation of 2022 and 2023 of the cosmos ecosystem is turning Adam and all of the cosmos chains down the sort of core cosmos application specific blockchains into platforms that can be extended. So the rest of blockchain, like, the rest of blockchain has basically sort of started to, like, embrace, like, core ideas of cosmos. And it's sort of come into this, like, modular thesis. So it's kind of honestly, like, again, it's like looping back into the lore of cosmos and how we all started. So the modular blockchain architecture has become, like this very common thing that, like, large scale entities in blockchain have sort of. And it has become the Ethereum endgame. Right? The Ethereum endgame is we are going to become the surface area for building modular blockchains.
00:29:01.752 - 00:29:37.314, Speaker B: There are going to be all of these l two toolkits that build on top of Ethereum, zkevms, fuel, optimism, arbitrum, all of these things. This has sort of become the embrace vision. So this is actually where cosmos started out. Back in 2015, when Jay and Ethan were like, let's do. Or back in, like, 2016, when Jay and Ethan had finally really decided to do a public chain architecture. They really basically wanted to do a roll up centric architecture, but none of the technology was there. We thought it would take a while.
00:29:37.314 - 00:30:27.044, Speaker B: The pieces, like data availability, sampling and all to come together. But basically, the original idea for Cosmos looks a lot like Celestia plus optimate. That was the original idea. I was the one who was like, this isn't going to work, guys. We got to do something in the interim. And so we largely like the sort of cosmos Celestia connection is more than just, oh, we share a bunch of software pieces, and largely, the Cosmos Ethereum connection is less like, oh, we are competing ecosystems. We basically all think of this as a set of convergent components that we expect to become one, like, the future of finance all looks like this is all the same thing, basically.
00:30:27.044 - 00:31:22.014, Speaker B: And IBC is a system that is flexible enough to not just do tendermint to tendermint or l one to l one, bridging and connections. It's flexible enough to do roll up settlement as well. And we have teams like Polymer and Celestia that are thinking a lot about how IBC will be adapted to the roll up settlement ecosystem. So this finally comes down to, ok, another big theme of what's going on right now is that we are coming back to. We're coming back to the Cosmos Hub like we launched IBC in 2021. We've seen this explosion of chains all developing all kinds of different features, in some ways competing against the Cosmos hub. But I do think that there's been, like, a rallying of the ecosystem, especially sort of post collapse, around Adam and the Cosmos hub as kind of the future.
00:31:22.014 - 00:31:47.024, Speaker B: We designed the original. So the original Cosmos white paper almost entirely focuses on the network. It doesn't really focus on, like, what the Cosmos hub is supposed to do. It doesn't really focus on what Adam is supposed to do. And our sort of vision for this was essentially, once Cosmos was live, it would be up to the community to sort of design the. To, like, figure out what Adam was actually for. It's just sort of like this.
00:31:47.024 - 00:32:54.250, Speaker B: It was like you start out as a meme coin for the cosmos ecosystem, and then you become something more. So when we get to cosmoverse in Medellin in the fall, we are sort of rolling out this thing that we are tentatively calling the Atom 2.0 white paper, and it's basically designed to build a new community consensus around the role of atom in the hub. Basically, our themes are like, how liquid staking is going to impact the security budget, how do we move beyond this mechanism of, how do we move beyond our current crypto economics and atom issuance mechanisms? How do we align our ecosystem better with atom as a token and then this creation of the atom economic zone around interchange security and Adam as a platform, this is the future that we're building towards. So, yeah, this is the first shot, the first time I've done, like, a big cosmos overview talk in, I don't know, a couple of years. And so I hope you guys all enjoyed it.
00:32:54.402 - 00:33:00.274, Speaker A: Nice. Sucky. Thank you so much, man. So how long has this journey been for you? Since. Has it been since 2014 for you, or has it been.
00:33:00.314 - 00:33:31.112, Speaker B: I mean, I have been so, like, I. I started, I think my first commit in the Tendermint repo was, like, 2014 era. Like, definitely have been, like, reviewing code and talking to Jay since 2014. I have been. And then I wrote my first check. I wrote the first check into for the Atom fund rate to create Adam 2016. It was the first money in 2017.
00:33:31.112 - 00:33:59.532, Speaker B: I was, like, maybe like a quarter time working on the project. 2018, I was full time on the project. And I do a lot of things now, like, sort of exist at scale, but, like, you know, I'm like, the other thing about Cosmos is it is this weird, dysfunctional family much more than it is a startup. It is definitely not a startup company. It's a weird, dysfunctional family. Everybody fights, everybody quits. No one actually ever leaves.
00:33:59.532 - 00:34:21.104, Speaker B: Everybody's just all in the same. We've been in the same chats trying to make this whole thing work for a very long time. I think one of the things that, again, is difficult to get onboarded into, but once you get onboarded into is just the social layer of Cosmos is really powerful, and it's just impossible to quit.
00:34:21.564 - 00:34:40.820, Speaker A: So, I mean, you've been here for a long time. You're clearly not here for the money anymore. You're here for the love of the game, to Cosmos. Like, to build Cosmos. But I don't know what would give you, like, freedom to leave. Like, when would you be so happy with what you've built that you're like, cosmos is good? I could. I could pull a j.
00:34:40.852 - 00:35:29.524, Speaker B: Now I'll be, I'll be like, honestly, I've seen that future, which is the future of, like, you go and you meet all the NFT kids and they're like, we don't really care about your consensus algorithms or, like, we're grateful that, like, all of this exists, but, like, no one, we don't care. Like, thank you for making these things, but please go away, old man. And the. So this is the future that I have been like. I also imagine that blockchains, I think the core blockchain infrastructure is, like, maybe on the order of five years away from just being in an acceptable state. There are still a bunch of things that don't really work well enough from my point of view, that aren't really acceptable in their current state. Like, smart contract languages still suck.
00:35:29.524 - 00:36:00.508, Speaker B: Like, trying to get this modular thesis out the door. The bridge, like, IBC exists, but the bridges that most people use are terrible. And so there's, like, a lot of, there's a lot of pieces that are still part of kind of like, what I view as sort of the work of the last, you know, decade that need to be sort of, like, finally landed. And then, you know, I'll go do some. You know, I used to do biotech before I. Before I got into cryptocurrencies, before I got sucked out of the blockchain rabbit hole. You know, I think you're going to.
00:36:00.516 - 00:36:02.748, Speaker A: Be here for a while, Zucky. I don't think you're going anywhere.
00:36:02.836 - 00:36:09.584, Speaker B: Maybe biology and I can make our, like, FDA free country and, like, you know, I can get back to biotech.
00:36:09.924 - 00:36:37.804, Speaker A: Happy to be a part of that if it rolls out. I mean, so just to go into your presentation a bit, I mean, you mentioned the game as application specific blockchains. I think that that's kind of a revelation for the majority of the space as a strong potential architecture of the future. And I know you guys have been working on this for a long time, but could you kind of walk us through some specifics? Like, why does an application want full sovereignty? Why do they want full control over the technicals? Like, why that stuff matters?
00:36:37.964 - 00:38:21.594, Speaker B: Let's give you a couple of, let's break down a couple of different examples of why this is compelling a little bit. I'm not entirely speaking for DYDX, but I understand why their architecture matters. They went to the Ethereum, they built on top of the excellent starkware thing, which gave them this very scalable architecture, great user experience, billion plus dollars, frequently in daily volume, clearly a great success. But they're like, we can't decentralize the system because starkware is just the settlement system. It's essentially this state verification and bridging system, and it doesn't have any mechanisms for decentralizing the proposer architecture. Then when you say, okay, we want to be decentralized, so why can't we use a Solana, why can't we use any of the DyDx feature, be built on top of that? And they realized that they wanted to actually be able to reach into the internals of what's happening in every validator and basically say, I don't want to just configure what happens, what gets executed on a block after the valve, I want to be able to configure what happens in the validator's memory in the validators block proposal system. If we can do that, we can build a user experience that is comparable to centralized exchange, where you have users canceling and making orders and changing prices and all of this stuff, and you're not waiting multi second latencies, you can actually build this really compelling, coherent architecture for a system.
00:38:21.594 - 00:39:20.134, Speaker B: You also look at something, you can compare osmosis and Uniswap. Uniswap is pervasive, Dex, a huge brand, but it is fundamentally leaking value to flashbots, to Lido, to Ethereum. Stakers mostly live in the world where I just assume the merge has happened, and I imagine what that world looks like, but they've leaked. Uniswap has leaked billions in value to the miners. Uni token holders don't get any piece of that. And now you have Uniswap on numerous blockchains. They've adopted this, go everywhere there is an EVM, but now you're just again distributing value and sharing value with the block producers and the stakers on all of these different chains.
00:39:20.134 - 00:40:30.704, Speaker B: That Uniswap goes on and getting sandwiched is a core problem, but they're dependent on a team that isn't Uniswap to solve it, whereas osmosis gets to own solving, getting sandwiched. They have many tools. You can yell at people at the social layer, you can condemn block producers who are sandwiching users on osmosis today. And you could build cryptographic solutions with threshold encryption. You can build on chain protocol stuff. We have this whole thing that's coming to tendermint called ABC I, which is basically a toolkit for allowing any application specific blockchain to build their own MEV mitigation solutions into their protocol. Yeah, I think this is the fundamental question is it's like, what is, at the end of the day, the root problem of a uniswap is the fact that they don't control their own block space and that they have to wait for solutions from the Ethereum core devs for their core user experience problems.
00:40:30.704 - 00:40:52.044, Speaker B: And in the long run, we don't believe anyone will do this. We believe that as things become, and the teams that own this now, and steel man, the application will have like on edge over, like the over the teams that sort of were assuming that someone else would fix this for them.
00:40:52.824 - 00:41:06.160, Speaker A: Now that's super interesting, Zaki. So is it safe to say that in your opinion, the reason for app specific blockchains and sovereignty, all roads lead to MEV mitigation? Or do you think there's other reasons for doing so?
00:41:06.232 - 00:42:26.234, Speaker B: All roads in blockchain? Read to me. The central fundamental question of blockchains is, can we manage MeV in a way that keeps block production decentralized? And can we? Because you see people, you see the policy wonks on Twitter, some of them screaming for MeV regulation. If we got to regulate our way out of MEV, the whole blockchain thing was pointless. Like, to me, either we build in protocol solutions and we use cryptography and distributed systems and crypto economic punishments and incentives, and we can manage the beast that is mev. And then what? You get something that's amazing, which is fair marketplaces as public goods, which are not a thing that exists before, and then it's all worth it. All of this is worth it if we, like all of the speculation, the scams, because if at the end of the day, what we have produced is a set of software that produces fair public markets, this seems like an enormous thing to have built for humanity. This is a monumental historical achievement of our space.
00:42:26.234 - 00:42:40.424, Speaker B: And if we fail, and we have to depend on the SEC to protect us against the, the MEV bots, like, you know, like it wasn't any better. We should just all use, you know, we can go back to using the Nasdaq.
00:42:41.284 - 00:42:53.260, Speaker A: So up that vein of regulations you mentioned that there's a component of cosmos that has some, I mean, at least regulatory, like, input into it, into your design here. What exactly was that again?
00:42:53.412 - 00:43:37.600, Speaker B: Okay, so, like, let's, let's talk through the, like, sort of regulatory viewpoint, because all of this stuff has come top of mind. Um, one component of cosmos is, okay, so you have all of these different interconnected sovereign blockchains. Well, maybe it turns out that complying with all, like, like, the Communist Party of China's view of regulations and, like, uh, the OECD's view of regulations is just impossible. Maybe we. You can't. You can't have one set of neutral regulatory systems that, like, like, maybe neutrality is not possible. You know, maybe neutrality is just too unacceptable to, like, the governments and the sovereigns of the world.
00:43:37.600 - 00:44:40.428, Speaker B: So the cosmos view of that would be, okay, we can have neutrality, but we can have interoperability between these sovereign systems. So, you know, if you. If we fundamentally cannot escape the regulatory, the sort of regulatory constraints that we live under, and there's no neutral compromise, acceptable cosmos has a modality of it. And I don't know, there's this meme going around right now about Empire Ethereum and rebel Ethereum. Cosmos is basically like, that should just exist all the time, right? You should have these rebel blockchains that run with anon validators and, you know, are doing all kinds of crazy stuff, and then you're going to have blockchains that have, you know, where most of the validators are, the centralized exchanges or like, other known financial entities, and are going to be a lot more conservative. So that's like one component of our sort of regulatory philosophy that we've manifested. The second component of our.
00:44:40.428 - 00:45:08.024, Speaker B: Of our philosophy that we've manifested is. Or the second component of the system is. The other component of the system is we tried to make bridging because we think bridging is like, we think regulation. We've already seen this. Bridges, it was always inevitable. It was obvious for years the bridges were going to get hacked. What was the regulatory for exchange regulation.
00:45:08.024 - 00:45:49.544, Speaker B: First, exchanges get hacked. Then it attracts regulators. Then regulators start paying a lot of attention to this thing that keeps losing people a lot of money and also gifts North Korea, like, large amounts of money. Right? So obviously, bridges were going to be the place where trek, and, like, the whole point of Cosmo, of IBC is we made bridging inherent to the idea of a blockchain, right? Like, you can't really separate. There isn't some special bridge functionality. Like, just every cosmos chain comes with bridging built in. And so there is this, like, it would be tough without sort of banning the idea of blockchains to take the cosmos stack and say, okay, we're going to regulate bridging.
00:45:49.544 - 00:46:24.234, Speaker B: And so that's why we've always sort of built the system sort of with a view. I mean, like the, this is not intended to be an attack on the Ethereum view of this, which is this like, social slashing piece, but this is an alternate way of achieving a blockchain ecosystem that can exist in the real world regulatory environment without like, well, preserving the values of censorship, resistance and economic freedom and the ability to sort of exit these systems. And we think this is a plausible way of doing it.
00:46:25.294 - 00:47:03.946, Speaker A: Nice. No, that's fair. The regulatory side is always confusing and a bit of a delayed moving target. But I wanted to go back to the idea of cosmos and interchange security. I had a good question from Ceteris, from Delphi, who wrote a Cosmos report recently, which I recommend people check out. But one of his questions was that interchange security is a clear bootstrapper for new apps, and it's a value driver for the hub. But why would a successful app continue to pay security to the hub when it becomes successful? It seems like sort of adverse selection where a successful consumer chain takes off, and once they've reached product market fit, it's kind of like a less reason to stay, I guess.
00:47:03.946 - 00:47:04.970, Speaker A: What are your thoughts there?
00:47:05.082 - 00:48:45.436, Speaker B: Yeah, so, okay, one component of it, there's a couple of views of this. One is one component of this is, okay, what logically belongs in the interchange secured zone is a set of sort of things that are almost on the scale of being public goods. There's things that are directly related to staking atom functionality. Atom economics, we have some stuff that's announced, like neutron that's out there, and Quicksilver, which are users of interchange security. I think that story of long term alignment there is really strong because they want to kind of, if you're building a liquid staking solution, you want to sort of gravitate to, like, your point of origin for the whole staking system. And neutron also has this like, sort of staking driven beginning, like sort of origin of its economics, but like, wants to be like a larger sort of atom related economic area. And that's sort of what I think of as like, the initial set of applications is like being the other thing, though, that is basically in this economic negotiation between the option to leave, which is well supported within means that I think negotiations between decentralized systems are really awkward and no one really has a really good understanding of it.
00:48:45.436 - 00:49:46.452, Speaker B: But there's a lot of incentive in the interchange security system to figure it out, because it's like, if you're overcharging an application for what the cosmos hub is providing, they will leave. And that means that there should be this. There should be pricing pressure to prevent adverse selection. And because IBC is available to everyone and is not tied to being part of interchange security, not trying to, like, take, like, one really powerful network effect and tie it to, like, the weaker network effect of interchange security. And honestly, the thing. Okay, so, like, I mean, I have long been an interchange security skeptic. I was like, who's going to use this? Like, does it make any sense? Like, most of the reason why I've been doing, like, interchange security BD, is mostly because Yelena is amazing.
00:49:46.452 - 00:50:16.244, Speaker B: And, like, Yelena has basically been leading the charge on interchange security over it. And I really like working with Yelena, so I do. So I literally go out and have been shilling interchange security. The thing that has shocked me is how big demand has been. It has just been really unbelievably much more than I anticipated. It's. I think the term that has come out from David at Galileo is induced demand.
00:50:16.244 - 00:50:46.406, Speaker B: But honestly, it's like no one really knew that they wanted this thing. And then as they've seen it come together, suddenly more and more large players have been like, oh, I can see launching a product in the interchange security, and we already have. I do think that p two p validator is an amazing vendor. Quicksilver is an amazing vendor. We're getting really top quality talent. And this comes back to one of the things that has been a change in cosmos. In 2020.
00:50:46.406 - 00:51:29.804, Speaker B: We went on the strategy for the Cosmos hub. We were like, we need to build these features, like the gravity decks and the gravity bridge, and we need to pick a vendor and invest in that vendor. This was a total failure, where we selected the second or third tier vendor for every single thing, and someone else in the cosmos ecosystem has beat them in the market. Everybody working on the Cosmos hub looked like an idiot. And what has been a big success now is that we have core teams like inclusion, building the liquid staking protocol, informal building interchange security. But then they're not. Building informal is not building the next ten applications on top of interchange security.
00:51:29.804 - 00:52:10.004, Speaker B: We've instead created. We defined the shape of a thing, and then we're like, other vendors can plug in here. And now we've attracted top tier teams to build on top of the Cosmos hub. Whereas before, we were, like, sort of adverse selecting and everybody's like, I can go raise more money and, like, build my own zone. And, like, why would I want to give anything to Adam? And so I think we are starting to figure out, like, what the economics should be to, like, attract top quality talent to the, like, atom ecosystem and to other cosmos ecosystems that, like, we had not gotten right in last year, basically.
00:52:10.824 - 00:52:39.856, Speaker A: So, Zuck, you mentioned earlier that there previously was this invisible value leakage, like, all this mev. That uniswap drives and all this money to the miners and these mev searchers, etcetera, that was previously really unknown. Now we see it. People talk about it, flashbots, people invested, et cetera. It's just hard to conceptualize for people what that looks like. If Uniswap were built on Cosmos, obviously yields would go up. There'd be less mev.
00:52:39.856 - 00:52:59.502, Speaker A: But you're also paying for security, so your issuance is going that way. I don't know. How do you view the consumer perspective of staking for something like a cosmos based uniswap, where there isn't that Mev leakage, but they're also paying for security? Like, the whole farming bootstrapping changes.
00:52:59.688 - 00:53:13.934, Speaker B: Okay, so, I mean, this is. This is the dream. We'll see if it all. We're. We're trying to put the pieces together. I think you can offset if you like. We think we're able to come up with.
00:53:13.934 - 00:53:40.506, Speaker B: We think we're going to be able to come up with an economic construct. Like, this is the problem, right? Is, like, so the issuance. So, like, the. Like, one fundamental problem. And this is like, this is my cosmoverse. Like, an encapsulation of my cosmoverse presentation. Like, the short version, which is the fundamental problem with Adam, is, like, we intuited the staking versus lending problem.
00:53:40.506 - 00:54:18.278, Speaker B: That is that, like, staking has to compete with defi yields. Back in 2016, we built this adaptive issuance system. But now the problem is that when you bring. When you try to use atoms in defi, your opportunity cost is like a 20% yield over on the Cosmos hub. And a lot of defi is kind of still born on cosmos because it's competing against these super high yields with the base money. The risk free rate is too high. And so, to overcome the risk free rate being too high, you have things like osmosis, which printed this massive amount of tokens to do two things.
00:54:18.278 - 00:55:15.476, Speaker B: One is to market IBC, because IBC, it turned out, needed huge kick in the pants of a yield farm increase to really get off the ground. And then the second problem is you needed to overcome the adaptive additive issuance, which is going to slow down the growth of liquidity. And they needed to overcome that with this massive generation of osmosis. We have a couple of things that we think. One is, you know, Sunny's innovation of superfluid staking and, like, the ability to sort of share is to have assets that are both providing DeFi liquidity and staked against. So you have, like, this dual use of the same asset is one potential way in which you can have economic stability with lower inflationary levels. And then the second piece is, I think you're going to start like, we want to really pioneer with the Atom 2.0.
00:55:15.476 - 00:56:03.844, Speaker B: White paper started this idea of capturing some mev and using it to sort of burn tokens. And so, yes, in order for all of this to work, we have to figure out the next generation of proof of stake, which is lower staking yields, spending, less, inflation on the security budget, trying to get to essentially eventually, like, first moving. And so these things are a little bit not entirely fleshed out. I've got, like, six weeks to do. And not just me, like Sam and lots of people, lots of really smart people on our team are working on this. Sam Hart from the ICF. We're building this whole new vision for the economics of proof of stake, starting with Adam.
00:56:03.844 - 00:56:23.164, Speaker B: That I think if we start now that we know what MeV looks like, we know what liquid staking looks like, that these things are not just vague concepts that we dreamed of. In 2016, we can start modernizing proof of stake tokenomics, and this will create, I think, a much better consumer product.
00:56:24.264 - 00:56:43.274, Speaker A: Nice. Yeah, it's going to be a lot of coffee over the next couple of weeks, but excited to see what you guys come up with and the next steps there. And I guess the other just. We're kind of working backwards here, but you kind of opened that. A lot of the space is kind of culminating around the modular vision, like e with roll ups. Celestia, take your pick. It's kind of all.
00:56:43.274 - 00:57:00.836, Speaker A: We're kind of all moving towards some middle ground here. You guys have interchange security. If Celestia is successful, if ETH with roll ups is successful, like, where does that leave cosmos? Or is that not. Is that too Pvp of a question? I'm just trying to, like, conceptualize the.
00:57:00.950 - 00:58:23.802, Speaker B: It's unclear to me how, like. Okay, so I think you, like, I will describe my, like, short term answer or my, like, long term answer. My long term answer is, is that, like, ultimately when you get to the full modular vision of these things, like the full, the full form modular vision is tokens are mostly just like sports teams, right? Like we own this token with our friends because we want to be part of this community. But the technical differences between these things and the incremental advantages matter less now. The thing is, it's going to become exponentially harder to launch a new sports team over time. And so there is this lock in effect of like the tokens that can make it to this sort of modular world. And so I do think that there's basically like, it's less PvP and more like, okay, there's like going to be a first, second and third place finisher across the line for like being like, you know, the, you know, Manchester United or whatever of the, of the, or, you know, the 49 ers of like a name brand sports team across the line on the modular of like the postmodular world.
00:58:23.802 - 00:59:21.078, Speaker B: And it's gonna be like really hard and really expensive to launch a new sports team past it. So I do see think of it that way as kind of like the mechanism. The other thing though, that I think the biggest thing that should be, that is somewhat concerning. I think, for the, like, the, like, ethereum is getting a lot of things right with their sort of pursuit of the end game. The thing that worries me the most is like one of the things that has been, that was like a challenge, again, like part of the Dydx story is, well, they like went to all of the l two s and all the l two s are like basically single companies. And they're like this l two, this single company. It's like, when can we solve our decentralized order book? And they're like, yeah, we'll probably have to bring, we're probably going to have to plug tendermint into our existing software stack like two years from now.
00:59:21.078 - 01:00:14.354, Speaker B: And they're like, we don't want to wait that long and why can't we just use tenderminibc? And I do think that the thing that about the way cosmos is being built is we're going down the modular vision in this crazy dev collective way where the Atom fundraiser participants kind of, and Atom holders today are like sustaining these creation of all these public goods that feed back into value around the cosmos ecosystem. Whereas somehow there's going to have to be a transition between the current vendor centric ETH, l, two other blockchain toolkit world to this collective. If we want to retain the early values of cryptocurrencies in this space, and that's going to be a messy transition.
01:00:17.614 - 01:00:41.974, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it is getting interesting. It sounds like we're all culminating in the same direction. And I guess a technical question we had from Alex Shittovani and our team was, I guess, longer term, do you think apps will opt into v two, which is the partial validator set, versus v one, which is the full validator set for ics, or. Yeah, I'm trying to think through that as well, kind of live.
01:00:42.874 - 01:02:12.124, Speaker B: So our biggest challenge, I think the biggest challenge with subset security is really that there isn't a one size fits all answer for how to subset things. Another thing that, like, is it's, you know, again, in the convergent evolution of this stuff is, you know, Sriramkhana has this project called Eigen layer over on Ethereum, which is basically interchange security for Ethereum. And we're all trying to figure out, I think both the interchange security team and the Eigen layer team are trying to figure out this subset of validators based security. The biggest problem with it is the biggest challenge is always, what do you do? Like, binance decides to suddenly join your subset, right? And you have, like, a bunch of little validators in your subset from the cosmos hub. And then, like, one of the top ten validators join suddenly becomes 90% of the crypto economic security from the cosmos hub. How does that map to your validator set? And I think, ultimately, we're not going to be able to, like, v two is going to become less of a cookie cutter solution than v one was. And the honest answer is that we have so much demand for v one that it's really not on the top of anyone's mind how to make v two work.
01:02:12.124 - 01:02:19.444, Speaker B: And I kind of want Sriram to figure out some of this stuff so we can steal it.
01:02:20.944 - 01:02:48.904, Speaker A: That's fair. I mean, the thing that I always struggle with, with Adam was, I mean, not to, like, beat the horse here, but was just the value for all side, right? Like, it's. But on the flip side of that, it's just incredible how far you guys have come without it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean, on the flip side, I mean, you guys have, like, authentic, philosophically aligned, like, a religious following for cosmos because of its architecture, despite that, which is also the flip side.
01:02:49.204 - 01:03:39.734, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, like, what's at the trajectory? It was. We launched Adam in 2019, did reasonable. It was still the bear market. But then as the sort of defi summer bull market thing, the dominant thing in our ecosystem became terra. It became the 800 pound gorilla. It seemed like, it seemed like even in the hearts of the faithful were like, are we really going to be able to, is Adam going to stay relevant? One thing that I think is honestly cool about Cosmos is that, like, Adam could fail and Cosmos could still succeed, which I think is cool and not something that very many, like, basically no other blockchain ecosystem has. Right.
01:03:39.734 - 01:04:47.034, Speaker B: You know, everybody is, everyone has tied themselves to one token and it either succeeds or fails and everyone dies, or, you know, everyone lives and dies by that community. But the atom value accrual needed a lot of improvement. And, you know, the pieces to do that have been coming together in the chaotic way that they come together, the way chaotic way everything comes together in cosmos. But, like, I think, like, one of the, like, one of the things that is the whole atom 2.0 wipe presentation is actually to. And like, the kind of, like, why I'm doing these kinds of talks again is, and, like, why there's frankly demand for it is to, like, you kind of, it's like you have to draw this through line of where did we come from? What have we been? What has, what work has been going on over the last, you know, year or two? How does that connect to Adam value accrual? And then how does that define the work over the next couple of years to kind of where we think we can really start positioning Adam and, like, you know, you, you know, I. Atom is not my only token, right? You know, I built sommelier.
01:04:47.034 - 01:05:17.154, Speaker B: I'm a huge, I'm a big contributor to the goric ecosystem. Probably have investments in, like, almost every, you know, like, you know, at least like a big chunk of different cosmos chains. Like, I, you know, I wear a lot of hats. I'm like, not, you know, trying to be an Adam Maxi. But there is a lot of, like, I think the cosmos ecosystem needs a couple of things. One, it needs a token where number go up to really drive the idea. Ultimately, that is a big part of the cryptocurrency adoption cycle.
01:05:17.154 - 01:05:56.090, Speaker B: It's being the feedback loop between the core architecture ideas, the meme and the token price. That's just frankly, part of it. Second thing is, Adam is still the biggest funder of public goods in the ecosystem. Like, if we want this technological vision, like, we could try and we are trying to, we have a thing called the Cosmos Builders foundation where we're trying to bring more value together from all of the, you know, bring more coordinated public goods funding now from, like, all of the different ecosystem treasuries that are out there. And that's part of the work. But like, still, Adam is the thing. And also Adam is the most accessible asset.
01:05:56.090 - 01:06:24.370, Speaker B: It's the one that's listed on the most centralized exchanges. So these are all reasons why I think the success of Adam is a winner for everyone in cosmos. And so why we shouldn't really give up on Adam and just sort of let it fade out into the sunset. Having done its job of giving birth to cosmos, I think there's still, frankly, a lot of work for Adam to do. And so I think it is worth my time to try and get Adam value accrual fixed.
01:06:24.542 - 01:06:30.694, Speaker A: It's got to be annoying for you. You're like building as a dev and people only care about number go up. It's such a distraction.
01:06:31.274 - 01:06:36.374, Speaker B: Honestly, I don't know. I like being a cryptocurrency dev. I knew what I was getting into.
01:06:36.754 - 01:07:05.780, Speaker A: Yeah, that's fair. So I have a technical spicy question for you that I'm not sure I 90 or 100% understand, but I'm going to love this your way. So one of the things you mentioned was IBC getting adopted for rollups. I guess the question there becomes how do you think about cross chain interactions with fraud proof? So the synchrony assumptions seem to limit the capabilities of the cross chain apps. And this is a question from John Girl, who's on our research side.
01:07:05.932 - 01:08:02.174, Speaker B: Yeah, fraud proofs are a tricky thing. So one thing that Mustafa, Mustafa from the celestia team or like Celestia founder and I both agree on is it's like really unclear. Okay, so Cosmos view of rollups is there are just chains and bridges. And that the modular architecture is you are decoupling data availability, execution and bridges into separate components. The Ethereum roll up vision is very much tied to this idea of data availability and bridging. Living on the same chain, maybe. But the cosmos vision and the celestial vision is less tied to that.
01:08:02.174 - 01:08:46.424, Speaker B: So there's a couple of solutions to the synchrony assumptions. One is you can have high latency IBC. So IBC, few people know this because no one is using this feature, but IBC already has the capability built into the protocol of packet processing delay for fraud proofs. You can actually, right now these are consensus level fraud proofs, but you can actually configure an IBC channel with some number of block delay between when the packet is received and when it is executed to allow for a fraud. Now, I believe on all operating IPC channels this value is set to zero. But it does exist. It's a forever.
01:08:46.424 - 01:10:09.412, Speaker B: And so one could imagine a future in which like, oh, like we want to do, we want to put fraud proofs into our system and we're going to have like a 30 minutes delay or something on IBC channels. But maybe the answer is more that fraud proofs actually belong more at the p two p layer of the system, and that what you actually want is just a set of validators, et cetera, that are signing off on the interchange communication. And the way you deal with the synchronic assumptions is they're the ones who get the fraud proofs at the p two p layer rather than having to push your fraud proofs on chain. P two p layer fraud proofs can be really fast. The synchrony windows can be a minute or two. And so because you don't have to worry about validator censorship, which is what drives up the. So this was a really complicated way of saying, I think the Ethereum community has really tried to, or like Ethereum has really been pushing this like, vision of rollups where there's like one way, but like the, I think the, in a world where like the modular architecture is the winning architecture and everything is modular, we're going to see lots of different parameterization of how bridges plug into the marginal architecture.
01:10:09.412 - 01:10:12.744, Speaker B: And I think IBC can be flexible enough to support.
01:10:13.444 - 01:10:37.514, Speaker A: Nice. It'll be interesting to see. And the 30 minutes delay sounds like it's a good improvement there. And I guess just thinking through what you've seen from Celestia, what you've seen from ETH's plans, what are you like? Is there anything that you wish you had for cosmos? I know it's very different technical architecture, so you can't map one to one here, but I don't know, is there anything that you love that they're doing that you're, I don't know, maybe jealous of or wish cosmos had?
01:10:40.694 - 01:11:42.492, Speaker B: What are things I'm jealous of? You know, the trade off space between, like, the trade off space between, like, fast finality. Like, like, I feel like people are only right now rediscovering things I knew years ago about the trade off space between big validator sets. Fast finality, censorship, resistance, these are all things that in that community of people who used to hang out in 2015, 2016, we talked a lot about. And I feel like the wider blockchain, crypto, Twitter is just discovering these ideas, that there's a lot of trade offs between them. And I kind of like that. Like, there's some ways in which I like that Ethereum picked, like, almost exactly the opposite set of trade offs to cosmos where they're like, let's have 500,000 public keys in the validator set. Let's not do, like, instant finality.
01:11:42.492 - 01:12:17.324, Speaker B: Let's have this, like, mechanism by which, like, if there's censorship or, like, a big part of the network goes offline, we have built in recovery. Now, the downside, like, what are the trade offs? Why did we not pick all of these things? Like, one is you have super big validator sets. It makes white clients on this on chain, white client vision a lot harder. Like, there are people who are trying to solve this as a research problem, but it's a lot harder with hundreds of. To, like, build on chain white clients. It's a lot harder. You know, if you have, like, for, again, for IBC and finality, we need.
01:12:17.324 - 01:12:57.510, Speaker B: We can't have the bridge. Like, the bridges cannot automatically recover. The IBC clients cannot automatically recover from any situation in which two thirds of the Val, like, one third or, like, one third of the validator set has gone offline. Like, there are sort of impossibility results in consensus where you can't have automated recovery for these things. And so we were like, hmm, we picked opposite trade offs. But I like that this thing exists that that picks trade offs. I think the things that I, like, wish they had listened to me on is I was like, guys, delegation and liquid staking are inevitable.
01:12:57.510 - 01:13:34.284, Speaker B: It was obvious in 2019. Why did you not design for it? I told you that this was inevitable, and you decided to fight it all the way and still lost because you can't fight economics. So that has definitely been annoyance. I also think, you know, it's like the fixed slot size on Ethereum, where you have these 32 each slots, and so you have these, like, are more public keys than, like, you're getting value from, because you don't actually have 300,000 logical entities. You have far, far fewer. And so maybe we should. That's not exactly the optimal place in the tradeoff space.
01:13:34.284 - 01:14:21.004, Speaker B: But on the whole, like, really happy that, like, all of this stuff happens on the Solana side, I think that it's so exciting to see parallel execution running in the real world. A lot of people had hypothesized about whether or not parallel execution was going to really be useful or everything. I think the jury is still out about how much of a win parallel execution is on Solana, but I'm really glad that that exists. And so, yeah, I mean, it's like, with cosmos, we couldn't make. We have never been able to make all possible choices. So I'm really glad that we have different blockchain communities making different technical choices, and we get to actually compare and contrast.
01:14:26.184 - 01:14:48.586, Speaker A: Kind of the good debate around why you guys are where you are and what you're working on. So that's helpful. Zucky, last question for you. This comes from Alex Golding. On our side, Misin Labs is integrating Sumia. What do you see as enabling now that you couldn't do previously? And we might need just a brief intro to Sumi a for those that.
01:14:48.610 - 01:15:15.634, Speaker B: Might not be okay. Well, similia is an on chain defi strategy execution manager. This is mostly an atom talk, but like, I had given an equally long and complicated talk about sommelier. It's a live protocol right now. It's managing aave vaults, but we have a lot more strategies coming. It is primarily focused on ethereum defi right now. It may end up doing a lot of cosmos defi stuff.
01:15:15.634 - 01:15:55.824, Speaker B: One of the things, though, that. So the way I describe, like, I'll just kind of say, say this is tendermint is our baby. It's. I feel like it's my baby in many ways, or it's like I'm like one of the parents of this child that is tendermint. But sometimes there are parts of the baby that are ugly. And, like, two things about tendermint that I hate the most and that I think are the ugliest parts of the baby are the way the mempool works on tendermint. Like, what actually happens between when you submit a transaction and it gets in a block, is like an incredibly stupid system, in my personal opinion.
01:15:55.824 - 01:17:19.414, Speaker B: And the other piece is the block propagation algorithm that Jay came up with was actually kind of okay for 2015, 2016, but has not really weathered the test of time. So one of the things that we have done is we sommelier, we have partnered with Mistin Labs to integrate their narwal system, which is their next generation transaction processing and block propagation system, into tendermint. And we should have a demo of that relatively shortly that we can do a bunch of. Have a little party about. There's a long way between that demo and a full production implementation and a lot of tricky technical trade offs. And I find what Mistin is doing on the consensus system trade off space completely fascinating. But one of the easiest ways in which we could take the latest and greatest of non Cosmos R and D and plug it into, you know, the time tested nature of tendermint is to take the sort of ugliest parts of the baby and, like, kind of make a Frankenstein monster.
01:17:19.914 - 01:17:21.574, Speaker A: That designer baby.
01:17:21.954 - 01:17:23.854, Speaker B: A designer baby, exactly.
01:17:24.834 - 01:17:49.114, Speaker A: Well, Zucky, I really, we really appreciate you coming on. I mean, this was the first live disruptors for us. It was a mix of storytelling, and then what's new for us is a somewhat of a technical q and a to kind of expand upon your great presentation. So I think everybody appreciates you coming on, sharing your story, and also just getting us more up to speed on everything going on in cosmos and everything you're doing. So I think all of us appreciate your time today.
01:17:49.854 - 01:17:52.314, Speaker B: Yeah. This was great. Thank you for the opportunity.
01:17:52.934 - 01:17:53.774, Speaker A: Thanks so much. Zucky.
