00:00:00.320 - 00:00:39.990, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 8 June 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get right into it. So last night I was lying in bed and I saw that this new kind of Twitter account popped up called Ethereum fear, or the Ethereum fear and greed index. Now, for those who don't know, there has been a bitcoin kind of like fear and greed index out there for quite a while. And basically what this indicator does is it measures the general sentiment of the market according to, like the market movements of different kind of crypto assets out there. Now, you know, people will kind of look at this and say, okay, well, well, you know, we're in extreme fear territory.
00:00:39.990 - 00:01:07.968, Speaker A: That means that the bottom is now and people can like buy up here and make money. And if on the flip side, we're in the extreme greed territory, that means that that's a top signal you should sell. Blah, blah. Now, I haven't done any back testing on this. I don't have access to historical data for the bitcoin one or even for the Ethereum one. So I don't know how much, you know, efficacy there is to something like this. But what I wanted to talk about today was just kind of like the general fear and greed of the markets and how that plays into basically everything.
00:01:07.968 - 00:01:56.444, Speaker A: I mean, I wrote about this in the Daily Gwen newsletter today as well, so you can go check that out. But essentially, I guess, like, what I, what I think about when I think about fear and greed is that the emotion of fear is much stronger than the emotion of greed. When you, when you really think about it, you, I mean, I know I do, but, like, you probably feel worse when you see your portfolio fall for 50% in value rather than when it kind of like doubles in value, right? So if you, if you kind of go from like 10,000 to 20,000, you, you feel good, right? But you, you want more than that. But if you go from like 10,000 to 5000, you feel really crappy. You're just like, oh, my God, that's, that's really, really crap. I just lost, you know, half my money and you don't know when it's going to come back and you just feel like, you know, this fear, right? We've all felt it before. Um, you know, all of our portfolios, if we didn't, if you didn't sell all of our portfolios, got basically halved if you were sitting in ETH, um, or even anything really.
00:01:56.444 - 00:02:23.444, Speaker A: I mean, more than half of you were sitting in other kind of, um, kind of tokens and coins out there, so. And this is kind of like what drives the overall kind of bull. And bear markets, you know, when everyone's kind of greedy but not on like the extreme greed side. Yeah, but people are greedy and they're like, okay, well, you know, we know there's going to keep going up. We're really bullish generally. We think a new bull market's coming and then it kind of like, becomes a self fulfilling prophecy on, whereas on the other side, you know, people start getting fearful. They don't want to buy anymore.
00:02:23.444 - 00:02:48.052, Speaker A: Right. Like when you're greedy and you feel like the market's really bullish, you buy more, right. And you put more money in and you take more risks. And the general, that's kind of like what keeps the bull market going for for quite a long time. But that's the same thing can play out during kind of like bear markets or downturns in that, that fear seeps in. And then people start thinking to themselves, well, I need to protect what I have, so I'm going to sell now. You know, some people will sell the bottom, some people will sell before the bottom.
00:02:48.052 - 00:03:17.728, Speaker A: Some people will try to buy back in. Some people weren't all that sort of stuff. So there's that. And there's also on the flip side is that there's two other things that make kind of like fear more powerful. And the reason why bear markets are so brutal is the second thing is that people will wait for the price to go back up and to sell. So this is why you get these things called dead cat bounces, where the price goes back up to some high level, but then doesn't maintain it and just dumps and goes, you know, way lower than what it was. And that's because people aren't bullish anymore.
00:03:17.728 - 00:03:42.350, Speaker A: They were just waiting for that to spike back up so they could sell into it, essentially because they're like, well, I want to protect what I have. And the third thing is that people aren't putting new money in. They're not bullish. They don't want to, you know, they're not risk on, they don't want to get more exposure to crypto. Now, this is all short, medium term stuff, like long term. I mean, generally, unless you're buying, like, extreme tops, it's fine. And it's hard to tell what the top is going to be like, you know, no one picked the top at 4.4k
00:03:42.350 - 00:04:09.000, Speaker A: ETH that I know of. Maybe there were some traders out there who were saying, oh, well, we're a bit heated, we're going to go to three k. But you know, we went to like 16, 1700 in like a week or something like that. So I don't think anyone picked that. No one picked like it falling so much. And now we're hovering around 2500, uh, bitcoins hovering around thirty three k, I think, or something like that. So, you know, from that perspective when you kind of look, look at the way the market has just changed like dramatically in a month.
00:04:09.000 - 00:04:53.560, Speaker A: It went from like, you know, everyone was euphoric, everyone was making a lot of money, everyone was like super risk on and putting lots of money in and all happy about it. Now we're in the opposite side of things where like people are fearful and as you can see from this kind of like indicator here currently or at least the last time this was posted, we're at like the neutral stage and I think there's been an update since this tweet. Yeah, so there's been a couple of updates where we kind of went from neutral into fear territory. And that's because the price dumped again today, right. We were at like I think 28, 2900 about 24 hours ago and then today the price started dumping again. We went down to like 2400 or something like that, you know, and I still think that's kind of like fine. We're just sitting in that range that we have been between two and three k, which kind of like makes sense, I guess.
00:04:53.560 - 00:05:33.982, Speaker A: Like after a brutal drop you usually see like ranging happening. But still people get fearful, right? Because they're like, well what is, you know, what if this is going to go below two k? What if it's going back to like, you know, triple digit digits or whatever? So people start getting fearful. They start selling based on this fear. And this is where the term panic selling comes from as well, is that people just, just get really panicky. Whereas, you know, obviously on the flip side, people get really greedy and kind of like take loans out, take leverage out. I mean, leverage on the way up is like really frothy. And that's why you see that, you know, all these longs end up getting like absolutely destroyed when the market turns down because people just got so greedy and have taken on all this leverage and all that sort of stuff plays out there.
00:05:33.982 - 00:06:01.000, Speaker A: So yeah, just a bit of just general market commentary. Again, I don't think kind of like I've got anything to say, you know, based on kind of what the market's doing right now, I think, as I said, it's just ranging. I don't know if it's going to go down below two k. I don't know if it's going to go above three k in the short term, obviously long term, you know, still obviously bullish. Like, I don't think I even have to say that anymore. But in the short term, you know, while we're kind of like ranging like this, I don't think anyone's going to be greedy. I think, I don't think anyone's going to be risk on.
00:06:01.000 - 00:06:42.488, Speaker A: People look for a signal. They're like, you know, maybe if we go above three k again, people be like, okay, well, is the bull market back on? Or, you know, but they'll still be cautious because they'll be still thinking to themselves, oh, this is just like a relief rally or a dead cat bounce. We're going to go back down. You know, if we get over 4k again over the next couple of months, are people going to be risk on again? I think so. I think if we were able to get over 4k again, again and like reached the old, I mean, the new all time high of around four point four k, I think the bull market would definitely be back on in a big way because people would just use that as a signal to say, well, you know, we recovered from such a brutal dump in, you know, relatively quickly, so let's go risk on again. But until that happens, you know, the ranging is going to persist. And I think the ranging is, is fine if you're a long term investor.
00:06:42.488 - 00:07:07.298, Speaker A: I mean, I'm not. This is an investment advice, but if you're buying now, you should still be prepared for downside. Like, if you're buying at 2500, you should really be prepared for 50% plus downside. I mean, I did this in 2018 where I bought ETH at $220 in October and it dumped to $80 by December. And I was mentally prepared for that. I said to myself, I was like, I'm in this stuff in this kind of thing for the long term. Like, I don't plan to ever sell my ETH back then.
00:07:07.298 - 00:07:41.242, Speaker A: You know, I kind of said to myself, well, I'm not going to sell any ETH till the next bull market anyway. And I know that's coming because of all these kind of value being created here. But in saying that, like, now I'm at a position where I'm just like, I don't really care what price I buy at because I'm never selling my ETH. But, you know, your situation might be, you know, very different to mine. So when you do buy, just be prepared that, you know, for that downside risk there. Like, yes, you obviously buy because you're, you think the asset's going to go up, but it depends on what kind of investor you are. If you're a long term investor, then generally, you know, you might be buying or dollar cost averaging in over time as you kind of get more money in to buy.
00:07:41.242 - 00:08:20.548, Speaker A: But you should still be prepared for, for further downside. Not to say that it can happen, sorry that it will happen, but it can happen. There's always the possibility of that, you know, no one, as I said, no one was saying that ETH was going to $1,700 at with seventeen hundred dollars a week later. So always be prepared for the worst and also the best. I mean, you know, being prepared for the worst can, can sound a little bit negative here, but I think as long as you are mentally prepared for both scenarios to play out and you're a long term player, I think generally you're going to be okay. And, you know, focusing on the price is just one aspect of this ecosystem. The beautiful thing about Ethereum is that you can focus on, you know, so many other things without focusing on the price.
00:08:20.548 - 00:08:42.494, Speaker A: You can focus on all the use cases, I mean, defi, nfts, daos, all this sort of stuff. You can get involved with communities. Everything's still very vibrant. I mean, I haven't seen much of a drop off on my metrics that I monitor. People are still reading the newsletter, people still watching these refuels. Generally people are still active. And I think that's because they know that there's real fundamental value drivers here, especially within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:08:42.494 - 00:09:39.510, Speaker A: Now, if you talked about something else, like maybe the bitcoin ecosystem or like a lot of the other smaller ones, their communities are probably, you know, fleeting because they were just here for the gains in the bull market. But I think Ethereum is at a point now, I mean, bitcoin's at a pretty good point now where it has a very big group of true believers and true community members who actually want to hang around and, you know, use all the kind of like cool stuff that's being built and help where they can. And really, these dow markets are the best times to make a name for yourself. I mean, you know, there's less noise out there, much less noise out there. And you can basically find these gem gems of projects that you really believe in and really think I'm going to be big, dedicate your time to them and, you know, get rewarded for it as well. And if you hold on to their tokens, if you get, if you buy tokens and stuff, you may be rewarded down the line. Now, obviously, that's the, on the, on the more risky side, if you kind of, like, speculate on tokens, but you can still kind of work for these protocols and work for these daos, I'm going to have, like, risk free exposure to these sorts of things besides your time.
00:09:39.510 - 00:10:22.346, Speaker A: You're really not risking any capital there. So I think, you know, that that's what I did during 2018, 2019. I focused a lot on growing, growing kind of my own personal brands to where it is today. You know, I might do a video on this one day on kind of like, how I went from basically unknown within the crypto community to where I am today, because I think there's a lot of people out there who want to do this. And actually, this brings me on to my next kind of thing that I wanted to talk about was a tweet from Trent van Epps here, who said that if you're interested, are you interested in working on Ethereum but worried you're not technical enough? Well, Trent has zero dev experience or computer science experience. He's, and he can confirm that there's tons of space for educators, communicators, ecosystem managers, project and project product managers. Just simply dive in because we're waiting for you.
00:10:22.346 - 00:10:45.816, Speaker A: And this is exactly what I'm saying. And this goes even further to say that you don't have to be a developer. Like, I think there's this kind of notion within this ecosystem that you have to be technical, you have to be a developer. You have to basically have like a computer science background, all this sort of stuff. No, like, there are so many people that I know that don't have this at all. Trent is obviously one of them. I'm good friends with Trent, but myself, I am not technical, really.
00:10:45.816 - 00:11:04.192, Speaker A: I learned all of this stuff, kind of like with on the job, so to speak. My, I have no finance background. My technical background stops at developing WordPress websites. Like, I was never a coder, like a real code or anything. I did kind of dabble in it. But you can learn all this stuff on the job and you can learn the high level stuff. You don't have to basically do the coding yourself if you don't want to.
00:11:04.192 - 00:11:32.728, Speaker A: If you think that you're not, you know, that's not something you're interested in doing, then don't. As, as Trent says here, you can be an educator, and an educator comes in many forms. You can do videos, you can do podcasts, you can do blog posts, you can do Twitter threads, you can do so many different things. You can do graphic design, whatever, marketing also, same thing comes in very different kind of flavors there. Project and product management, community stuff. Like there's so many things beyond, like business development. There's so many things beyond development in this ecosystem.
00:11:32.728 - 00:12:22.604, Speaker A: And these people are actually probably more sought after than developers at this point for a lot of projects. And I have a lot of projects contacting me for marketing community people all the time. And unfortunately there isn't actually very many good ones out there. So if you're someone who spends a lot of time in this ecosystem and you think that is something that you can do, I'm telling you right now, you don't need a background in marketing or community management or anything like that. If you have been active within some discord channels, if you've kind of like been active within the community, if you have the knowledge of, I guess like the crypto ecosystem and the ethereum ecosystem, you are leagues ahead of anyone else and your leagues ahead of people from the web two world as well. Because I think what a lot of people miss is that the requirement, I think the core requirement for working in this space is that you basically understand the space. Because if you don't understand how crypto and the ethereum ecosystem works, then you're probably not going to do as well as someone who doesn't.
00:12:22.604 - 00:13:00.654, Speaker A: And not to say you can't learn it, of course you can learn it, but you already have a leg up if you're active within the ecosystem. So definitely, you know, if you are someone who's sitting on the fence about this, I'm happy to kind of like, you know, talk to you a bit. If you want to dm me on Twitter or discord or whatever, I'm happy to kind of like give some, give some context there. But generally all it takes is, is to just go for it. At the end of the day, there are plenty of projects out there that are happy to, you know, either train people on the job, help you out wherever, or kind of like let leave you to kind of like, you know, do it as you, as you kind of like feel is the right path forward here. So yeah, definitely have a think about that. If you're thinking about working in this ecosystem.
00:13:00.654 - 00:13:47.340, Speaker A: I can't think of anywhere else that would ever rather work than in this ecosystem. There's just so much going on, so much fun stuff happening. Doesn't matter if the market is bullish or bearish, the fundamentals and kind of like the journey that ethereum is on is still, there's still a lot left to be explored there. So yeah, it'd be cool, cool to see more and more people kind of coming into this ecosystem and jumping into non developer roles here. So alchemyx today on Twitter announced that the ALCX farming rewards are back on for the ETH ALCX pair here. So if you were kind of like farming this, this kind of pair on sushiswap, you actually have to migrate your liquidity from the alchemic kind of dashboard and migrate your SLP tokens, your sushi liquidity provider tokens to sushiswap here. So if you haven't done that yet, you know, you be sure to do so.
00:13:47.340 - 00:14:30.564, Speaker A: You also get sushi rewards and you get double ALCx rewards as well right now. And they also teased that al ETH, or all ETH or whatever you want to call it, is coming very soon. So this week. So sometime this week, I'm not sure when, maybe the weekend, maybe during the week, who knows? But that's what a lot of people have been waiting for. Like obviously people who've used Alchemyx knows that there's al USD, but al ETH is basically a way to use your kind of like ETH as collateral and then keep stacking ETH while doing so, which I think is really, really cool. And especially, you know, during a down market where if you want to stack ETH at these prices, this is probably like some, some, something that might interest you if you're into stacking Ethio. So definitely go check this out if you haven't yet and migrate your liquidity if you haven't yet.
00:14:30.564 - 00:15:14.194, Speaker A: So Samuel from Rari Capital today announced that the Rari capital have introduced something called a grant station. So Rari is interested in funding different kind of grants for different kind of projects out here, but they're most keen on privacy. So kind of like tornado cash, Ferrari users, and decentralization user built front ends for fuse, which is their money market on Rari capital here. So and a bunch of other things like chatting, user analytics, artwork, foreign language mods, integrations and so much more. So there's a kind of list here for grants for batch one that you can see here on this notion doc. This will be linked in the YouTube description, of course, and there's a discussion going as well. All grants will be approved by the DaO and of course.
00:15:14.194 - 00:15:44.290, Speaker A: But yeah, I think this is really cool. Just another kind of like, grants program coming out of a defi app. If you're interested in making some kind of like, money, I think that they pay out in rari tokens and you're interested in kind of building things and just getting more involved. As I was saying before, you don't have to be like a developer or whatever. I mean, I know that they're saying here that they're keen on developer focused things, but they still, you know, want other things like foreign language mods, like translations for their site artwork, you know, user analytics, integrations. Not. None of this stuff really requires developing or coding or whatever like that.
00:15:44.290 - 00:16:07.470, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out and check out the kind of batch, sorry, the grants batch here to see if this is something that you're interested in. There's a few things. I'm just scrolling through it right now. I think this is really cool. So. And rubber capital is definitely a legit project within the defi space, so definitely go check that out. So Ali on Twitter today put out an interesting tweet where they said rollup is the parachain killer.
00:16:07.470 - 00:16:52.424, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, parachains are basically these things. This concept of like, I guess like app specific chains or app specific blockchains on the Polkadot ecosystem. So what they can do is essentially you can create your own blockchain using the parachain of framework using substrate, which is a development framework. And then you can connect this parachain into Polkadot to share Polkadot security. So they're distributed proof of stake or delegated proof of stake system in Polkadot. Now, the reason why Ali is saying that rollups are the parachain killer is because with rollups there is zero cost or rent to plug into ethereum because they are naturally, I guess, already secured by Ethereum because you're just saving the roll up. Kind of like proof to a theory I'm here, or posting the proof to a theorem here.
00:16:52.424 - 00:17:14.416, Speaker A: Whereas on a parachain, they must raise a massive dot bond. So to actually bond themselves to Polkadot. So the polka dots relay chain, it's main chain. You can think of the relay chain like the beacon chain for ETH two. But for parachains to bond into it, they have to basically put up a massive stake of dot. And I don't know how massive this is, but it's definitely not cheap. It's, I think it's millions of dollars.
00:17:14.416 - 00:17:54.944, Speaker A: So they have to do that. And to do that they do what's called, I guess, initial kind of like token offering where they basically sell tokens for dots and then use that dot to bond into the polkadot kind of like ecosystem here. I personally like, I've known about this for a while, since Polkadot was first put forward. I've always been bearish on this idea. I think that it's ridiculous. I think that it kills permissionless building on these kind of networks and I think that it kills the neutrality of things. It just basically means that when whoever has the most money is able to build to kind of tap into the polka dot security, and if you don't have money to essentially bond dots, well, then you can't tap in and you can't be part of the Polkadot ecosystem.
00:17:54.944 - 00:18:24.446, Speaker A: You're essentially your own blockchain. And also Ali says that there's zero governance risks with roll ups, whereas if you're an undesirable parachain, you can be evicted. So Polkadot has an on chain governance system. So if they don't like your parachain, say you create a parachain for dark net, the darknet market, and say, okay, well, we're going to do all these kind of transactions on here. We're going to let people buy drugs and other kind of contraband. If the Polkadot kind of governance system didn't like that, they could kick this parachain off the network. And, you know, I probably think they would.
00:18:24.446 - 00:18:50.766, Speaker A: And this is another thing that I have been kind of bearish on within Polkadot is the fact that this could happen. Because this can't happen for roll ups. No matter what roll up you build, the ethereum network cannot kick you off. They cannot bar you from posting proofs to the chain because of its censorship resistant properties and because it is not an on chain governance system here. So that's why Ali says that the zero governance risk in saying that. I wouldn't say the governance risk is zero. I would say that it's near zero.
00:18:50.766 - 00:19:14.760, Speaker A: But it's definitely not zero. Because technically, if the community wanted to within Ethereum, they could bar someone from doing something on Ethereum. Now, not to say that this would ever happen, but I'm just saying it's technically possible. So I wouldn't say there's zero governance kind of risk here. There is definitely a non zero chance, even though it is incredibly small and basically impossible. Basically zero. But it's not, you know, zero.
00:19:14.760 - 00:19:46.464, Speaker A: So if we're going for correctness. It's not, it's not like 100% zero here. And with roll ups you get immediate liquidity because you can bridge kind of in and out here. And you also get immediate finality for ZK roll ups and optimist. And, and with parachains you get optimistic finality here. Now what that means is that like with ZK rollups, you get the, the finality of the ethereum chain where it basically, this says, yes, okay, this is final, this is secure, and the security is all handled by the Ethereum chain, whereas with parachains it's optimistic. And fraud proofing is not even implemented yet.
00:19:46.464 - 00:20:08.680, Speaker A: This isn't a bash polkadot or anything like that. But I mean, I have been bearish on Polkadot for quite a while. I sold my dots a long time ago for ETH. I held them since 2017, like late 2017 since the ICO. Because back then I actually thought it was an interesting idea. But then, as you know, the years went on, I kind of kept looking at it and I was like, yeah, this is really weird and kind of like bearish. I don't know how this is going to work.
00:20:08.680 - 00:20:45.794, Speaker A: And I thought that it was already VC captured because the VC's had a lot of the tokens and they were staking them and I didn't like the delegated proof of stake system because we saw it play out with EOS and saw how bad it was and saw how it becomes a cartel over time. So just generally, I just became very bearish on Polkadot. That's not to say that I don't think some of the tech that they've built is really cool. I think the substrate platform that they've built is pretty cool for developers, I've heard. But generally, I'm just not very bullish on that. I am very, very bullish on a roll up centric Ethereum coupled with sharding and ETH two, obviously. And I think that's the best approach going forward.
00:20:45.794 - 00:21:30.566, Speaker A: But yeah, I don't think that polka dot approach is very good. And I don't personally think Polkadot has a long term future here. I think that they're competing in a sea of other Ethereum competitors and they're definitely not at the top of my list for who I would say is winning. You know, in terms of like, you know, who's close to coming second to Ethereum. It's definitely not polka dot. But anyway, I'm happy to be kind of like proven wrong here and maybe you have a polka dot bull thesis or whatever but yeah, just, I'm definitely more bullish on Ethereum and its roll up centric roadmap. And speaking of road roll ups, there is, there is, I guess when we talk about roll ups and L2s in general, people are bearish on the fact that they can't communicate with each other, which I think is wrong because there are already protocols out there that allow users to communicate cross chain and cross l two.
00:21:30.566 - 00:21:53.518, Speaker A: And one of those is called hot protocol. So I've talked about, I've spoken about connects a lot before, but not so much hot protocol. So you can see here that litter Cohen, I think his name is. Yeah, I think that's how you say it. Sorry. Basically says, basically put together this thread on how hot protocol works. So for those who don't know, hot protocol is a L2 kind of bridge system where you, you can basically go from one L2 to the other.
00:21:53.518 - 00:22:43.978, Speaker A: It also works cross chain and things like that. And they aim to be able to do this very fast, like basically near instantly. So I showed the other day on the refuel that polygon, two ethereum withdrawals using hot protocol is 1 minute and 30 seconds instead of 3 hours, which is obviously a massive improvement here. And in this thread, little Cohen goes on about kind of like why this is not a centralized solution. This is actually decentralized. And how it all works, the TRDR is that essentially there are market makers that sit between the L2s and take on the, I guess like withdrawal delay risk. But, and I take a small fee for this, but the way they can do this and the way that you can basically have instant liquidity on, sorry, instant, kind of like asset transfers or near instant between L2s is that you get issued an IOU token, essentially that the market maker takes the risk, risk of on.
00:22:43.978 - 00:23:09.070, Speaker A: So you, you basically, and they show it in this chart here. You know, if you're Alice and you want to go from ethereum to, to optimism, you would send for ETH to the hop protocol bridge. They would issue you for our ETH or for h. Sorry, for hoppy. For our ETH. I was reading something else there. For hop ETH, which basically represents a claim on the four ETH, you would take that for hop ETH to the amm, where the market makers are providing this liquidity.
00:23:09.070 - 00:23:36.858, Speaker A: You trade it for four ETH. The market maker gets the four hop e, which is equivalent to. For ETH. And then you get that for ETH on optimism. Now the reason why it's equivalent to ETH is because the market maker can use that for, for that, that kind of like for hop ETH to claim the ETH once it's been kind of like processed. And because there's, there's obviously delay on it going through like withdrawal delays and things like that. And, you know, whether that be cross chain or cross l two.
00:23:36.858 - 00:23:57.550, Speaker A: So go read this whole thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But I thought this is really cool because I do truly believe that if we are going to be in a multi chain ecosystem, I don't think it's going to be particularly multi chain. I think it's going to be multi l two. Then bridges between the l two s is going to be critical. So hot protocol and connects other projects to keep an eye on here for now. There are other projects out there.
00:23:57.550 - 00:24:32.864, Speaker A: I think maybe in stealth, maybe I'm missing one that I'm not thinking about right now. I think Thor chain is also tackling this, but I haven't looked too much into that. And I think they're more tackling like cross chain rather than cross l two, whereas I think hot protocol is definitely focusing on cross l two here. So yeah, anyway, I'll link this in the description. You can go check out the full thread. Speaking of l two s, arbitrum had another massive announcement today that they have partnered with the graph to offer developers the subgraphs so they can collect and access data on the arbitrum one network, just like they can on Ethereum. This is absolutely massive.
00:24:32.864 - 00:25:02.342, Speaker A: I mean, I've talked about the graph before and what service they provide to Ethereum. Basically all of the data that you see on, you know, front ends of your favorite defi apps is mostly powered by the graph. So like all those APY numbers, all that kind of like additional context you have on different defi dashboards, things like Zappa, you know, pretty much powered by the graph. So obviously we need that at L2. And that's why Arbitrum has powered with the graph here. So I think, I thought this was really, really cool. And just another kind of like team that Arbitrum has powered has kind of partnered with.
00:25:02.342 - 00:25:32.482, Speaker A: And we're not far away now, I think, from Mainnet, arbitram for public users. Obviously it's on Mainnet for developers, but I'm really, really excited. In the next couple of weeks, hopefully we see something there. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. Moving on to the next update. So the Ethereum name service team has announced that they have donated 180 ETH to get coin grants which I think is worth doing the head math right now, half a million dollars or something like that right now. So, and this is because the ENS is a nonprofit, non, sorry, a nonprofit public good.
00:25:32.482 - 00:26:01.554, Speaker A: They got it start with Gitcoin grants and now that they're better funded, they want to give back. And I think this is really cool. I mean, this is a massive amount of ETH being donated here. And with the Gitcoin grants matching round coming up on June 16, I believe the next Giga grants matching round, it's going to mean that there's a lot of funds up for matching here. So I thought that was really cool. If you want to kind of read more about this, I've got a whole blog post here that kind of goes through the rationale, you know, what, what they, what, how do they came to this decision, what they hope to achieve with it and things like that. It's a short blog post.
00:26:01.554 - 00:26:54.638, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description and you can go check it out. So the Ethereum push notification service, or epNs, have teased today that they're going to be on Aave on Polygon, it looks like. So they've tagged both Aave and Polygon here and you can basically use, I guess, the push notification service on these apps soon, I believe, where you can get like push notifications for things like your Aave kind of health factor being too low and for you to kind of like top it up or if there's liquidations available on the iv platform and you can maybe go be a liquidator or something like that. So this is really cool. I think APNS is one of the coolest project in the space right now. And disclaimer here, I'm a small seed investor in AP and SEO, but I invested because I think it's just a really cool idea. I think that push notifications really haven't made very much inroads yet within Ethereum because no one has really bought the, sorry, no one has really built them.
00:26:54.638 - 00:27:26.600, Speaker A: But that's exactly what EPNS is doing here. They're building them out. They've already got integrations with, I believe, uniswap and things like that. So, you know, with Ave, just the next stepping stone here and on Polygon as well, it's going to be really valuable to a lot of users on I believe. So, yeah. Looking forward to seeing kind of that play out and that be delivered to Mainnet. Alright, finally here, I wanted to give a quick shout out to this video that Pooja shared on Twitter, which is basically a video of Danny Ryan Vitalik Buterin going through the details of the first beacon chain upgrade, so named Altair.
00:27:26.600 - 00:27:55.722, Speaker A: Now, you may know Altair from my refuels. I've been talking about this and from my newsletter where I basically mentioned it is the first major east two network upgrade going live mid year ish. So July ish, I believe, or August ish. And if you want to know in depth about what's coming to the upgrade, you can go check out this video so I won't go through it all, all the kind of, like, all the kind of things happening, all the features happening. This video will give you a complete breakdown. So I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check it out for yourself. And I believe that is it for today, everyone.
00:27:55.722 - 00:28:04.974, Speaker A: So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
