00:00:01.720 - 00:00:40.510, Speaker A: Nice to see you all. I'm Vidor from Solflare, the first Solana Wallet. And today I will be talking about the nerve wracking and also pretty exciting journey that we had in an attempt to onboard EVM users to Solana. But first, a few words about solflare. So solflare, as I told previously, is the first Solana wallet. We built it back in 2020. And the fun fact is that around 20% of all circulating Sol is staked through solflare.
00:00:40.510 - 00:01:41.234, Speaker A: It's pretty much known as the staking wallet, and our goal is to create the best Solana only experience. We're basically here for all of you. Whatever our user base tells us to do, we usually do. We're very security focused and oriented, and if you really need this very powerful toolset, you can always come and use solflare. Obviously, as I said, we are a Solana only wallet. We've seen efforts from these other teams that try to evolve into being EVM wallets and supporting some other chains, but that's sort of didn't feel right for us because like, we're Solana maxes and we don't really want to like dilute the Solana audience elsewhere. We didn't want to dilute to EVM, so we basically told ourselves, let's bring EVM to us.
00:01:41.234 - 00:02:32.850, Speaker A: Onboarding retail was hard at the time. It's still pretty hard right now. And we didn't really want to fight with other wallets because that doesn't make the pie bigger, that's just splitting the pie. So luckily, at the time, Metamask was coming up with something that would allow this. I don't know, you probably all remember if you worked on any non EVM blockchain. Everyone's dream was like, let's get into Metamask because it's the most used crypto wallet still having between 25 and 35 million monthly active users, and it's effectively a great distribution channel. It has a bunch of users.
00:02:32.850 - 00:03:42.214, Speaker A: So metamask at the time shipped something called snaps. Snaps are these plugins that have the possibility to expose functionality that developers build. So what we ended up doing is we built a Solana plugin. So to give an example from the same seed mnemonic phrase that your or your or EVM users, EVM wallets are derived, the same seed can be used to derive Solana wallets and also sign Solana messages and transactions. Metamask at the time, or still didn't implement the functionality to show your Solana balances, accounts, NFTs and EVM is so far behind from that that we decided we need to build that middle layer. So what we built is this embedded software wallet, which is an engineering masterpiece, if you ask me, because it's the same code base as the software extension. It's embedded within an iframe, within the DAP, and it communicates with Metamask's Solana specific APIs.
00:03:42.214 - 00:04:34.154, Speaker A: This is possible thanks to the wallet adapter and wallet standard, that the metamask wallet, based on it being detected, can be injected and it will say detected. When you have Metamask installed, I will show you a demo of how this works, and I will try to highlight things that are important along the way. This might be a bit small, but I think you can see it. So the first thing that I want to show you is that I don't have any wallet installed. I only have metamask, basically installed. That's my only extension that I have. I go to, let's say, my favorite NFT marketplace, tensor, and I click connect wallet.
00:04:34.154 - 00:05:19.130, Speaker A: What will happen is that it will say that metamask got detected. And I need to emphasize that I do not have a Solana wallet here. Once I click that and I approve the connection, this little embedded widget shows that's basically a full blown wallet where I approve the transaction. I can look at my portfolio here, I can look at my nfts here. I don't have any, but I'll buy one now. So let's buy an SMB gen three. I click buy, and what actually happens is that solfler takes that transaction, simulates it, and it pops out this little metamask thing.
00:05:19.130 - 00:05:52.158, Speaker A: I hope you guys can see. And that's basically metamask saying, hey, you need to sign this Solana transaction. Once you do that, very quick confirmation times on Solana that NFT just disappeared from there. And we can almost immediately see that we bought an SMB with metamask here. Awesome. Well, let's proceed with the slides. Cool.
00:05:52.158 - 00:06:48.404, Speaker A: So you might then be thinking, okay, yes, metamask user comes to Solana, but they have no soul, right? So it was very important within the experience for the users to be able to easily and quickly onboard. We looked at a big amount of bridges and we found a good partner in dbridge. Dbridge allows bridging assets natively from any evm blockchain to Solana, and you're able to bridge stuff from e to whatever other evm chain to Solana in less than 30 seconds. No amms, no wrapped assets, just, you get straight solar USDC depending on what you bridge. If you're a dev and you want to have this supported in your app, it's pretty easy. A few lines of code so you can just install the software wallet adapter. If you already support software, you already have this included and just initialize it.
00:06:48.404 - 00:07:30.214, Speaker A: It's pretty simple. We built this as infrastructure because we firmly believe that the next emerging set of dapps will happen on Solana. And once that happens, this is a great shortcut for any broader crypto audience within a few clicks to be able to come to that dapp, click a button, instantly connect with metamask, bridge their assets, and enjoy the Solana experience. And it is our hope that they stay. Thanks, that was my talk. If anyone wants to talk about anything similar on this topic, this is my telegram. And yeah, thanks everyone.
