00:00:00.360 - 00:01:12.698, Speaker A: This is a pudgy penguin, and the same team that brought these penguin NFTs to life on the shelves of your local Walmarts and targets are now entering into the l two race with their consumer focused blockchain, abstract. The team behind pudgy penguins spearheaded one of the most remarkable comebacks in NFT history, and it has to make you wonder, how is igloo Inc's approach going to be different from what we've seen before, and will it actually be transformative to the landscape of consumer crypto? As I've been doing research for this video, I even found some of my own personal beliefs about how I see consumer crypto playing out being challenged. So let's break down everything you need to know about abstract and their approach for bringing consumers on chain at scale. Hey everyone, it's Jen. As you know, my big content focus right now as a creator is covering consumer crypto. So of course when abstract was announced, I was immediately interested. Now, before we dive in, I want to take us back to September 2023, when Frame was announced.
00:01:12.698 - 00:02:04.892, Speaker A: For those of you who don't know, Frame was intended to be an Ethereum aligned roll up with the goal of creating a home for NFTs, which streamlined royalties and a creator fund. Fast forward to June 28. This year, Igloo Inc. Pudgy Penguins parent company, actually acquired Frame and announced that Frame co founders Saigar and Beans would be contributing to a new Ethereum l two abstract alongside the rest of the Igloo team. At the time, I think what was particularly interesting about this announcement was the excitement coming from the NFT subset of crypto Twitter, and this announcement gave fuel to the speculation of a pudgy penguin tokenization. So now it's been a few months since Abstract was announced, and here's what we know so far. Abstract is currently in Testnet, and you can bridge over Sepolia eth to abstract.
00:02:04.892 - 00:03:25.316, Speaker A: And from my conversations with Lucanetz, it seems that a few apps are actually slated to deploy their test nets this month. Now, I do want to take some time to talk about abstract's approach to consumer. Earlier this month, Luca published a blog post, what is consumer crypto? Which lays out the vision for abstract? And if we read in between the lines, we can actually see a bit of how they're planning on building out their ecosystem, which apps they'll want to bootstrap first, etcetera. At a high level, Luca defines consumer crypto as the adoption of blockchain powered applications that serve billions of people in their everyday lives for personal use and for the adoption, he actually splits it up into three phases according to spending habits. Phase one with discretionary spending, can really be defined as consumer apps that occupy a person's free time, with the breakthrough apps being more prone to virality and can be defined as fun. And they're built on web3 rails to basically address the barrier to entry for businesses that have to deal with things like fees, geo restrictions, chargeback, risk and censorship. Consumer categories with indiscretionary spending include gaming, social trading, casinos, betting, digital collectibles and tokenized culture.
00:03:25.316 - 00:04:14.152, Speaker A: So from Luca's perspective, this is the first phase that will drive consumer adoption to its 1st 50 million users. Then phase two can be defined by necessary spending. So after there are 50 million users, you can expand into necessary spending where crypto and web3 are integrated into more aspects of life beyond free time. The goal here would be to hit 250 million users. These categories include defi, DPIN, SaaS, digital media, digital commerce and payments. And finally phase three with essential spending. Basically, after the breakthrough adoption happens via necessary spending, you get to the adoption of essential spending where users can do anything on chain that they could otherwise do off chain.
00:04:14.152 - 00:05:06.872, Speaker A: And this is where we would hit the billions and billions of users. Luca defines the essential spending category via online banking, credit tokenization via RWAS, insurance data, the Internet of Things, identity and voting. These three categories really lay out the roadmap for abstract. Lucas big thesis for why the big breakthrough adoption moment hasn't happened yet is simply because of the approach that other ecosystems have been taking. He considers these general purpose blockchains and ultimately believes that the approach of general purpose blockchain chains is insanely fragmented. So where does abstract differ? You can actually see that here. Abstract is basically focusing on curating something like a digital Disneyland for phase one, then expanding the goals as they are met.
00:05:06.872 - 00:06:42.926, Speaker A: Interestingly enough, both Pac man from blast and Luca have compared blockchains to being like cities. Pac man believes in a more ground up approach focused on infrastructure to bring builders and subsequently users, whereas Luca is thinking of cities more as a what can we build to attract people? What activities can we have that is going to bring in users? And this insight overall from Luca is definitely different. Like I said before, it did challenge how I view consumer adoption happening. Ultimately, I did find the breakup of the different phases to be a little confusing in certain parts, but I can see his vision and his point that we need fun viral apps and experiences to attract new users on chain, and that I actually really agree with the app layer in any ecosystem is insanely important. It's going to be insanely interesting to watch abstract build in this approach because it really feels like they are now targeting users who have yet to come on chain. And it does make me wonder a little bit, like how will the crypto natives that are here, especially like the defi whales and the degens, receive abstract as an ecosystem? And then what does flywheel adoption look like in abstract phase one? You know, I'm not too sure, but what I will say is it's clear to me that abstract's edge is twofold. It's the potential of distribution, which the team has proven out with pudgy penguins in terms of social reach and organic viral campaigns.
00:06:42.926 - 00:07:19.694, Speaker A: And then it's the relentlessness to build their vision. I think it's absolutely fantastic that we have so many competent teams building in different approaches to ultimately achieve the same end goal. Bringing more users here, bringing more users on chain. It's going to be super exciting and fun to see how this all unfolds. I'm insanely excited for the abstract testnet and to basically try all the apps I can and see how their global wallet infrastructure is. And as I fuck around and find out, I will of course keep you informed. So that's it for this one.
00:07:19.694 - 00:07:24.390, Speaker A: Until the next one, guys. Bearish or bullish, keep building, keep farming, keep learning.
