00:00:00.330 - 00:00:26.358, Speaker A: Guys, welcome to the Defi state. Gm. Gm. And you know I really mean good afternoon if you're on the east coast, and good night if you're in Europe. This is a weekly show brought to you by hashflow. For those of you who don't know me, I'm Nicole Benham, the host of this show and head of community for Hashflow. If you're eager to learn and expand your mind, you are in the right place.
00:00:26.358 - 00:00:55.450, Speaker A: If you're worried about the market and what's been happening, you're in the right place. We'll get to that. Also, if you'd like to share this space with your friends, you can click on the arrow at the top right of the space. Copy the link, tweet it out to your feed, text it to your friends, whatever works. We have our CEO Varun here, who interrupted the music prematurely. That's okay. And we have a special guest, Lee Drogan.
00:00:55.450 - 00:01:24.630, Speaker A: He is the general partner and CIO of Starkiller Capital, an institutional investment management firm applying quantitative strategies to the blockchain based digital asset space. Previously, he was founder and CEO of Estimize, now the largest financial estimates platform in the world, which was acquired by Extract Alpha in 2021. Welcome, Lee. How are you? You're going to have to unmute.
00:01:26.810 - 00:01:28.460, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, guys.
00:01:28.830 - 00:01:30.380, Speaker A: Thanks for being here.
00:01:32.270 - 00:01:58.274, Speaker C: I was going to say, Lee is one of the most insightful people I know, so I think he understands markets really well. And every time I've spoken to him, well, not many times, but anytime I've spoken to him, it's always been a pleasure. In terms of his insights, this is your chance to ask him any questions about what is going on and let him seal the show there.
00:01:58.472 - 00:02:17.750, Speaker A: Okay, well, let's start with the most obvious, which is what everyone's talking about. Obviously, a lot has been happening in the market. The FTX situation. What's your take on everything that's been happening, and where do you see things going from here? Should we be worried?
00:02:19.150 - 00:03:37.330, Speaker B: Well, I think we should divide it into two different conversations. One is the more philosophical aspect of CFI versus defi, and one of the reasons that protocols like hashflow within DeFi are so needed to provide the kind of large institutional liquidity that allows firms like Starkiller to trade and self custody their assets on chain, instead of risking exactly what we've just seen with having a firm like FTX, which is centralized custody of those assets. So that's one conversation. The other conversation is around. Okay, what happens now in the market? And I think maybe we should take that one first and then come back to the second. Here's the problem. Alameda is going to liquidate their entire firm now, and it is somewhat opaque regarding exactly what's on their balance sheet and how much in the way of assets they still have to go in terms of liquidation.
00:03:37.330 - 00:04:55.110, Speaker B: That's going to throw a tremendous amount of supply onto the market for a specific set of coins. But at the end of the day, a lot of things are correlated. So specifically, Solana, there are unlocks yet to go, and they are going to be liquidating those as those get unlocked over the next couple of days and weeks. The theory here is that basically whatever is on Alameda's balance sheet will end up inside of FTX eventually and going to the FTX depositors. So I think at the end of the know, the market is going to have to digest all of this supply that's going to be thrown onto it over the next x number of days to weeks to months. The other thing that's going to happen is funds that had a minority of their assets trapped on FTX are going to have to manage risk, and that may mean having to sell off certain assets. There are definitely going to be funds that got hit so hard by this that they're going to have to liquidate completely, and that's going to further exacerbate some of the selling.
00:04:55.110 - 00:05:27.862, Speaker B: So there's a lot of supply coming to market from a whole bunch of different places. Now, on the good side here is we just got a really nice CPI print this morning. It looks like we've definitely reached the kind of apex of inflation, at least in the US. Maybe not in Europe, but definitely in the US. The terminal interest rate in the US is definitely going to be lower than everybody expected it to be yesterday. The dollar is falling. All of these things are really good.
00:05:27.862 - 00:06:18.950, Speaker B: And the real shame of it all is that had this thing with FTX not happened, we would likely be at bitcoin twenty five k e, two thousand or higher at this point today. So that's kind of generally how we see things for us in terms of our strategy. We are a kind of quantitative, trend following type firm, and we have no beta exposure here right now, thankfully. But that's mostly because of the models. But those models were turning pretty good late last week, which is why I say it's really a shame, because there was a very nice, in all kind of aspects of the word trend that was developing.
00:06:20.330 - 00:06:26.040, Speaker A: Lee, how bad is this compared to the three AC and Luna situation?
00:06:27.370 - 00:07:33.150, Speaker B: Well, the three AC luna situation set off a wave of liquidations that were incredibly acute in nature over a short period of time. What we're seeing right now is we've just gone through the shock, and we haven't yet seen kind of the liquidation, the really illiquid market liquidation event that may still take place as firms have to unwind. So that's kind of the fear here, is that normally, these things that trap there are roughly, we think, something like $9 billion still trapped on FTX. When you take that much money out of the market, specifically from market makers, which had a lot of money on there, and large funds, you put the market in a situation where there's probably another aftershock or two to go, where the selling really cascades.
00:07:36.770 - 00:07:50.820, Speaker C: This is, again, I'm asking for everybody else to. So do you think that this mostly applies to assets that were mostly illiquid on FTX, like FTT, or do you think that's going to also translate to other assets as well?
00:07:51.750 - 00:09:00.390, Speaker B: Unfortunately, because the crypto markets are so correlated across assets, you're obviously going to see Solana continue to be used as the asset of liquidation for these firms to get liquid, specifically Alameda. And so everything underneath the Solana chain, all those other assets, are going to be highly correlated. So you're talking about things like render and serum and all the other dexes on there, all the other lending protocols, likely more selling to go. The one place I think that you might see some relief is actually in bitcoin, where in times like this, you do see bitcoin become somewhat of a safe haven, and there was a little bit of just in kind of the tradfi markets. Bitcoin, over the last couple of months had actually kind of become a little bit of an end of the world trade, in a sense. Right. Economically, not socially or politically, but economically.
00:09:00.390 - 00:09:38.390, Speaker B: People were definitely hiding out in bitcoin to some extent, and so you may see some relative outperformance there, potentially, as other assets get sold off. Today, it's interesting, we're seeing eth kind of double outperform. So, you know, this is obviously kind of a pair trade between Solana and ETH, where it's likely that things like the Solana chain is likely impaired significantly for quite some time, and that should marginally help some of these other chains gain TvL and inflow of assets.
00:09:40.330 - 00:09:51.306, Speaker C: And do you think this is going to be mostly, the risk would be concentrated in Solana assets, or do you also see risk associated with any altcoins in the ethereum or other ecosystems I.
00:09:51.328 - 00:10:41.160, Speaker B: Think, yeah, probably less so in the ethereum ecosystem. Those are the first things that you're seeing kind of really bid today, like bid hard, and they also fell the least. So things like polygon, Maddox is all the way back up to 112. Right. And that's way above where it was a couple of weeks ago. So it's definitely pretty obvious the market is telling you what it feels the long term as we shake this out and Solana kind of gets shook out, where traders want know place their bets on the long term growth of these networks. And it's very obvious know polygon is at the top of that.
00:10:49.990 - 00:11:05.830, Speaker C: Was going to say, because I did notice some upward trends today, and I wasn't sure of what caused this bidding today because the last two days have been a bit of a catastrophe. So it was an interesting change today to see the trends.
00:11:07.130 - 00:12:19.870, Speaker B: Yeah. One thing that could be going on is that, and again, in a situation like this, and we've seen this in the past, where market makers pull back liquidity from the market and they basically turn their machines off, sometimes specifically within CFI, when markets get illiquid, they tend to get volatile in both directions. And so we definitely saw that yesterday, and we're definitely seeing it in the opposite direction today. I think we're likely to continue to see significantly higher volatility in both directions than we've seen recently, which was actually a very low VoL environment up until this week, literally, because there's less liquidity. There's less liquidity on CFI. And so if you were, say, Alameda, and I'm not saying this is exactly what's happening, but it's one possibility. If you were Alameda, it would be easier today, as a lot of other market makers are kind of pulling back to move things in a specific direction for the purpose of then selling them later at higher prices.
00:12:19.870 - 00:13:09.418, Speaker B: That's one theory of what's going on. The other thing is just all throughout the risk asset markets, there is a tremendous amount of short covering in long duration assets going on today. If you look at the equity market, the most beaten up stocks, the most heavily shorted stocks are the ones that are up tremendously. The best example here is Redfin. Redfin is up 32% today, and they basically declared their business was useless yesterday, and today it's up 32%. So this is capital flows specifically. It's one day of capital flows.
00:13:09.418 - 00:13:30.600, Speaker B: And everything that we know about trend following and momentum driven markets is that one day does not make a trend. And that I would be very careful with seeing this as something that would have immediate continuation to it.
00:13:31.850 - 00:13:35.510, Speaker A: Varun, what's your take on all this as you listen to Lee?
00:13:37.370 - 00:14:26.280, Speaker C: I don't have a particular take besides the fact that bear markets are the best time to build. And I think fortunately we haven't been impacted as bad as most people and we have enough Runway for next four years, and we are still pretty committed to the roadmap that we have out there, including the governance, the hash rows, and then deploying to different chains and adding new products and so on. I think the roadmap has already been public and I don't think anything along those lines has changed. We were just kind of quiet this week, just wanted to feel at what is happening in the market, but I think, I feel like that's not going to change anything. So we're like, let's just get back to building, bring back everything.
00:14:26.830 - 00:15:54.920, Speaker B: One of the positive aspects to this year that I think has been building in the crypto market for a while is that there are too many chains and there are too many teams with subpar, non scalable protocol products that got funded. And that was definitely actually weighing, in a sense, on the market because it had spread out the demand for ownership of different protocols and different chains in a really kind of morbid way. I actually think that this shakeout where, and it's terrible that this is happening, but there are a lot of protocol teams where they got their entire treasury trapped on FTX, and they're not going to be able to access that for quite some time now. And so a lot of teams are going to know hashflow is in a really great position liquidity wise, with its funding and everything. And I actually think this is going to be a good thing long term, as we shake out all of these chains that shouldn't exist and all these protocols that got funded that shouldn't have in the medium to long run, this will be a good thing.
00:15:56.730 - 00:17:03.690, Speaker C: I think I resonate with you there, because, again, I think this is, again, a reminder why Dexes are so important in the space. Which also brings me to your other question, because I think I remember earlier you mentioned around how institutions and custody is so important for you guys, and I was curious to hear your thoughts. As a user who trades on exchanges. On a scale of one to ten, how important is self custody? Right? Because some could argue that many people who trade high frequency or trade more frequently, they would much rather have an experience where they lock in the funds as a deposit, and the centralized experience is far more seamless. But at the same time, it also exposes them to the risk of custody, like what he saw with AptX and so on. Now, defi trading experience, obviously, is wallet to wallet, which means you have much higher security in terms of you self custodying. But then obviously the gas issues and the UX may not be as seamless as centralized venues, for example.
00:17:03.690 - 00:17:12.430, Speaker C: So I was curious, in that sense, what kind of things do you guys value more when you are on the other side trading on these platforms?
00:17:13.570 - 00:18:25.798, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, this is one of the most important questions. And why Varun, when we met, the concept of hash flow to me several years back was so interesting because the problem hadn't been solved. And the biggest thing to us is that there simply isn't enough liquidity in deFi, and that if you're trading on something like Uniswap, there are all sorts of ways that you can get front run in the pool, and it's not there yet for trading size. And so institutions simply can't do it unless they have to. And there are situations where we've had to in order to get specific exposure to what we want. But we've done a lot of trading. I'd say the majority of our trading on CFI, literally just for the purpose of the liquidity and spreads and ability to twap something.
00:18:25.798 - 00:19:58.850, Speaker B: Right. That's a big thing as well, literally just being able to twap something over a four hour period, something like that. The other reason why CFI exchanges are, or have been useful is because the perpetual swaps, the perpetual futures, are much more liquid than they are on chain with something like GMX or DyDX or any of those other perp protocols. My hope, and I think this is what has flow is building towards, is that over time here, we build enough liquidity inside of DeFi that we don't have to take the risks of having stuff on a foreign exchange in order to trade those perps at scale, or in order to trade spot at scale. That just isn't as liquid on DeFi. The other problem with DeFi is largely the kind of self custody aspect of the security of your wallet. I think that as that develops over time, that should solve more of the willingness of people to actually keep everything on chain, which I'm not one of these crypto libertarian, not your keys, not your coins kind of people, but it very much has been a lesson to everybody that in a sense, yeah, it is not your keys, not your coins.
00:19:58.850 - 00:20:44.290, Speaker B: If you're not careful about what exchanges, and even as we've seen the last couple of days, even the exchanges that you think are way above board, that are the most trustworthy, they still legally have the ability to take your money and lend it out elsewhere. And they are in a sense a bank where they won't always have 100% coverage on deposits at all times. And we just saw what happens when you have a bank run. So I think the industry needs to move over time towards a DeFi centric custody and trading environment. But there are a handful of variables there that we definitely have to solve.
00:20:45.190 - 00:21:33.166, Speaker C: So on that note, I had a couple of questions there. Two ways I see DeFi custody could work out is one is you obviously just directly trade from your wallet, so you don't give your funds to anybody, just go connect, and then you swap. And then the other aspect could be where you use some kind of a smart contract for the purpose of custody. And then you have, let's say an exchange, just provide proof of reserves and then at some point you can obviously take funds out of the smart contract. What that shows is your exchange liquidity is always transparent, or how much in reserves they have is always transparent. But obviously the funds are not necessarily in your custody. But that does allow for more interesting things you could do as an exchange.
00:21:33.166 - 00:21:49.000, Speaker C: Right. And I wonder, where does that sit in terms of ideology, in the sense that do you think smart contract custody is superior? Or would you to a centralized custody solution? Or would you rather say they're both almost the same thing?
00:21:50.810 - 00:23:13.060, Speaker B: In the best world here, the self custody would still be the best way to do this. It's pretty obvious that with ZK roll ups and the other technology, not only on Ethereum l two s, but elsewhere, that we're going to get to a point where the concept of gas fees and transaction volumes and speed is not going to be necessarily an issue anymore. And when we look at hashflow, right, the kind of market maker RFQ process solves a good portion of the need to have an order book, right. I still think order books are a really good way to organize something, but this is a really great way to do it as well, and solves a lot of those problems too. And so that would be the optimal solution is you continue to self custody. What we're seeing from firms like binance and some of the other centralized exchanges now is they're trying to move towards what you're talking about. And so all things being equal, that would be a much better solution than what we've had obviously, basically since Mount Gox up until now.
00:23:13.060 - 00:24:27.850, Speaker B: But certainly I think the technology exists, and the desire exists to get to a point where everything is self custody and we can get the kind of liquidity that we need, and you won't have to trust, because the trust is inherent in the code. My whole interest in this space, I started investing in bitcoin back in 2013, but really got more interested in the whole space in early 17 for the specific reason that it solves the concept of having to have trust. And I still think that is the core piece of why we're all here in this industry and investing, whether it be in liquid tokens or private companies in crypto, is because at the end of the day, if you can limit the amount of trust you need to have in any counterparty, you can take more risk in other ways because you don't have the counterparty risk. And that is an unmitigatedly great thing for the economy and individuals.
00:24:32.590 - 00:24:39.420, Speaker A: Very quickly, just because I keep getting this question in my dms, can you go over what a bank run is?
00:24:39.970 - 00:24:40.334, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:24:40.372 - 00:25:42.074, Speaker B: So a bank run, which is exactly what just happened to FTX, is pretty simple. A bank takes deposits, and it then lends out those deposits to borrowers and makes a spread. A brokerage, in a sense, does very much the same thing. It takes deposits and then it makes loans. They may be margin loans, they might be other kinds of loans. Now, depending on where you are located in the US, Coinbase doesn't lend out its user deposits, but FTX is an international brokerage, or at least the international part of FTX is. And basically, they didn't actually have a dollar internally sitting there for every dollar of deposits or every dollar that is owed to an account holder.
00:25:42.074 - 00:27:35.894, Speaker B: And so what happens in a bank run is when people start to withdraw all of that liquidity in a very short amount of time, it's very unlikely that a bank or a brokerage like FTX will actually have all that money sitting there. And at some point, if they cannot raise that level of liquidity by selling off assets or calling in loans fast enough, then you get a situation where they're insolvent, which is what happened, and then they have to shut off withdrawals. In this case, Sam did something that was possibly legal, but just terribly immoral, where he lent out the user deposits to his own firm, Alameda, because they had a massive hole in their balance sheet from the terra collapse. And now it's simply a question of how much money does Alameda have on its balance sheet, and when can it repay some of, or all of that loan? And then at that point, either in bankruptcy or not bankruptcy, those funds will be able to be dispersed. But one of the reasons, and we can all argue about regulation within crypto, but I think the biggest argument in crypto is basically, should the kind of securities and banking regulations that were put in place 100 years ago that were a result of the bank runs from the Great Depression, should those be the rules that govern crypto? And I think it's a very important conversation, because they are absolutely necessary within DeFi. I'm sorry. Within CFI, we just saw the result of what happens when you don't have adequate reserves to cover or adequate liquidity and reserves to cover a bank run.
00:27:35.894 - 00:28:25.480, Speaker B: You get the situation that FTX is in now, but DeFI is different. DeFi does not suffer from the same need for these kind of liquidity reserve regulations because the money is just always there, because you can't move the money, you can't lend that money out. It's all collateralized. It's in a smart contract. You can't have a human screw with it. And so I think when people talk about crypto regulation, they're kind of talking past one another, because it really is two very separate things. It's CFI, which needs to be heavily regulated with the same laws that we've had for 100 years, and it's DFI, which needs very different laws and very different regulations, because there are very different things that can go wrong.
00:28:27.450 - 00:29:00.894, Speaker C: On that question. Actually, if you were to think about regulated DeFi, what exactly comes to your mind? What would you even regulate about DeFi, or what would be an okay trade off in terms of regulation? But look, we think some regulation is actually a good thing. Right? On the other hand, there's also a limit of it. You have to draw the line on what's okay and what's not okay. What's, in your opinion, a good. Where can that line be drawn? Where you think this is a good trade off and it's a good regulation, and what kind of regulation is bad?
00:29:00.932 - 00:29:41.470, Speaker B: One. Yeah. My basic framework for this is that we need some kind of finra. We need a finra for defi. And what that basically means is that the important variable in DeFi is basically one, the people, and two, the code. It is not the actual operation of the institution itself. Within CFI, the current securities and banking regulations, they focus a lot on the institution.
00:29:41.470 - 00:31:20.110, Speaker B: They don't really focus on the people so much, and they certainly don't focus on the code that runs these banks or brokerages. So when I say it needs to focus on the code. What I mean is, I think we should have a system where there is an organization that is somewhat certified by the government, like FINRA, but it's more of an industry organization. And that organization should basically look at a couple of variables. Who are the people behind the team? Are they anonymous or are they public? What are their backgrounds? Have there been background checks on them? Who are the beneficial owners of the equity in that project? What are their backgrounds? And then a code review. Basically, there are enough good audit firms at this point, and they don't always get it right, and sometimes there are errors, but there's a really big difference between a rug and a really poorly designed protocol, and something that just happened to have an error that nobody caught, but was way outside the purview of the auditor. When we look at the history of hacks and rugs in DFI, almost everything, I'm talking like, 98% of stuff is stuff that was easily caught.
00:31:20.110 - 00:32:06.442, Speaker B: And I'm not talking about the total dollar value of hacks and rugs. I'm talking about just the pure number of protocols that have gotten hacked or rugged. These were easily caught things that an auditor could have very easily seen and caught and said, this protocol is not reasonable, and we cannot certify it. And so I think we should have a process of certification. And that certification is, in a sense, a whitelist where anybody can publish to the chain. Any code is basically, I believe, code is free speech in a sense. So you should be able to publish anything to the chain no matter where you live around the world.
00:32:06.442 - 00:33:21.726, Speaker B: But this kind of FINRA esque organization should do background checks and all of this. And then the protocol should be able to have something in both the code and on its website and in its documents that says, we've been certified by this organization. And at that point, you have to say to people, look, if you're willing to go outside of this FINRA organization and their whitelist, it's up to you. Like, you take the risk that you want to take, but at least we've certified these handful of variables for this stuff. I think that's the most important thing. And then you get into the conversation about KyC AML, and I think it's kind of, let's not connect two things. But Sam did have, I think, a good take on how to do KYC AML, where basically a wallet could be KYC AML'd by a CFI exchange that goes through all that process, and there could be an on chain way to check that, a specific wallet had been KYC AML'd, and then the protocol could allow it to trade.
00:33:21.726 - 00:34:21.538, Speaker B: I think that that may be a really good way to do it. But the last kind of piece of this is, and this is a very deep philosophical belief that I have about DeFi, which is, I don't think that any rules the government writes or the way that regulators act should make a fundamental difference between somebody who lives in the US and doesn't live in the US. This is a global asset class. It's a globally accessible product. And attempting to create these kabuki feeder kind of barriers that don't really exist on chain is not the right way to do this at all. But that's going to be the biggest fight that DFI has with regulators. Because all of financial regulation all around the world up until now has been 100% dependent on the concept of local regulations.
00:34:21.538 - 00:34:52.910, Speaker B: Because financial systems have been local in nature, because banks have been local in nature. This blows that whole concept out of the water. And I think as we negotiate with these governments, in a sense, that we should stick really deeply to the philosophical framework that any regulation has to, in a sense, admit that there should be no difference between somebody who is accessing these protocols onshore and accessing the protocols offshore.
00:34:54.530 - 00:35:27.130, Speaker C: Okay, that is extremely insightful, Ashley. So I think that's something. Lots of people talked about it, but I think this is one of the most crisp ways to describe it. And my follow up question there was going to be. Now, philosophically, I 100% agree with you. But my question is, how do we actually make it happen? Who's fighting the fight, and what's the right way to fight the fight, and how do you materialize that vision? What's the approach?
00:35:27.550 - 00:37:40.258, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, that's a really great question. I don't want to be, again, kind of morbid about it, but I don't think that we're at the point in the US specifically, and definitely not in Europe or most parts of Europe, where governments are yet willing to admit to the last point that I made, which is the fact that the concept of DeFi blows open the local regulatory framework and that they have to rewrite rules or write completely new rules that admit that. I don't think any governments are there yet, even though it's kind of obvious, for whatever political or philosophical reason, in the US, the republican party seems to be more open to this kind of libertarian esque concept. I don't think either party is ready to admit that the government should, in a sense, give up local regulatory control of the rules that get made for DeFi. And so if that assumption is correct and that you literally are facing off against both parties who just don't want to give up control regardless of their political leanings, then I think you have to kind of admit that it's probably not the right time to cut a deal with them because my academic background is in war theory. And one of the big tenets of war theory and kind of negotiation in general is that in order to end a war, you have to have both sides that believe that it is more valuable to both of them to end the war versus continuing to fight. And the problem right now is I don't think either side, be it the government or everybody in Defi, kind of including us, believes that it is in their interest to stop fighting.
00:37:40.258 - 00:38:50.266, Speaker B: I think the government still believes that they can crack down on this and maybe kill it. And I think everybody in Defi still believes that they can just ddos the regulators into accepting kind of our view of things. No matter what. It's going to take time, I think, for both sides to realize, specifically the government to realize this isn't going away. It's better if they cut a deal and make some rules to rein this in and give people some protections versus just pretending that they can put it back in a box. And I think that everybody in DeFi is going to realize that the uber libertarian view of no regulation whatsoever and complete autonomous control and access is just simply never going to be the end state of this at scale. In order for Defi to scale, there's going to have to be a truce between governments and DeFi so that we can expand the addressable market to a lot more people than we have right now.
00:38:50.448 - 00:38:54.720, Speaker A: Lee, so what kind of regulations would be helpful in this case?
00:38:56.050 - 00:39:51.354, Speaker B: Well, I think it's exactly what I talked about, which is I think we need a finra type organization to whitelist things because I think that would go a long way to the regulators being able to say to individuals, look, here's a whitelist. We stand behind this organization that is doing the whitelisting and they do a good job. And if you go outside of know, caveat emptor, right? It's on you. So I think that's the biggest thing. And then I think the second thing is this concept of money laundering and KYc AML. I think that actually may be the harder one because I think DeFi is going to fight that the most because there is a significant amount of libertarian like the government should have nothing to do with my money. They don't need to know the identity.
00:39:51.354 - 00:40:34.480, Speaker B: They don't need to know where my money is whatsoever. And this is where I diverge from some of the more militant views in DeFi, which is no, governments need to be able to tax you, and they need to be able to see, in a sense, into the PNL of your earnings and stuff like that. They shouldn't have control of your money, which they do right now. I think that that's something that we're all fighting for, is loosening that control or taking it away from them, but they have to be able to see it. I think that's just something as a society. We can't give up. It destroys the concept of collective action and government itself.
00:40:34.480 - 00:40:42.830, Speaker B: And so I think that's kind of the fight that DeFi is going to have to give up in order to come to some kind of agreement.
00:40:44.610 - 00:41:17.978, Speaker C: I should have one follow up question there. Do you think this fight currently that exists is because your governments are not incentivized, because they want to maintain their power of the dollar, and therefore they are disincentivized to even work with crypto? Or do you think it's more of a function of DeFi is still not big enough for them to take it seriously and they're just trying to do something, but there are bigger things to worry about that this is not that significant, or is it a mix of both, rather?
00:41:18.144 - 00:42:56.410, Speaker B: Well, I think it's about power, but it's not about power over the dollar. I think one of the things that's starting to happen within government in some of the conversations that we've had and we've had with others that are very involved in higher level conversations, is that they're starting to realize that the US dollar is the most important and most powerful export of the United States. And this again goes back to this kind of uber libertarian versus more neoliberal view of crypto, which know, do we need to get rid of the US dollar altogether and go to something like bitcoin or some other asset that isn't state controlled or whatever, or is the best thing that we can do right now to enable everybody around the world to seamlessly own and move us dollars in a digital format? I tend to believe in the latter more than the former. And I think that the US government and both parties actually are starting to realize that that is an incredibly important piece of us economic policy and international relations policy and global power. And so I think they're coming around to that. But it's still more about control over the banking system. People like Elizabeth Warren, who really is the most powerful politician when it comes to the banking system she's driving.
00:42:56.410 - 00:44:25.480, Speaker B: She's the one that you need to negotiate with still. Basically, she believes, based on all of her experience, which rightfully so has been accurate, that the banking system needs to be heavily regulated because of people like Sam, because of Lehman, because of Bear Stearns, because humans are really bad at managing risk in a centralized way and counterparty risk, and that you need these banking institutions to be completely transparent. So she thinks that the best way to do this is to have a vice grip over these institutions regarding their liquidity and all of those things. What I think she hasn't come around to yet, and what I think none of these politicians have really come around to yet, is the fact that within DeFi, the fact that it's so transparent already and that you can't have humans screwing with it. If the code is good, it solves that problem off the bat. Without the type of regulation that they've had to put in place in the United States and in Europe to solve what happened in the great financial crisis and going all the way back 100 years to the Great Depression. So they're still operating off of this framework, which is fair, that we need these regulations, but they haven't quite realized that they can still have the same kind of safety, but they have to give up control, in a sense.
00:44:27.710 - 00:45:01.886, Speaker C: Now, I was going to say that one of the biggest value propositions of DeFi is transparency, the amount of time and human capital that is spent by the regulators to ensure our customer protection through surveillance. DeFi does it for nearly free. Right. Basically, everything is available in real time. Anybody can query and have instant answers that it basically solves your regulator's biggest problem without going to the trouble they already have to regulate the centralized institutions.
00:45:02.078 - 00:45:37.998, Speaker B: Absolutely. And it's not only that, and I think this is where the great financial cris happened. And ironically, there's a clip of Sam in front of the CFTC board or Congress. I don't remember exactly who it was a couple months ago talking about why the great financial crisis happened. And it's basically because of opaque counterparty deals where we couldn't see all the leverage in the system. Ironically, he ended up doing exactly what he said was so bad, which is really the shame of it all. But that's the thing, is, crypto solves that problem.
00:45:37.998 - 00:46:09.158, Speaker B: If you don't have these off chain counterparty relationships and lending relationships, if it's all on chain, we can see all the leverage regulators can see all the leverage, and when you can see all the leverage, you can manage risk. It's when you can't see the leverage in the system. It's when you can't see that FTX had lent all that money to Alameda. That's when you can't manage risk, and that's what we need to move beyond. And I think that's the real promise of defi. At the end of the day, I.
00:46:09.164 - 00:46:42.930, Speaker C: Think I 100% resonate with everything you said, by the way. I think that may have been the last questions for me. Well, maybe have one more question. This is more product related justice. Want to recurse back up to. Earlier in the talk, you mentioned something about TWAP, and I was kind of curious about how important is that feature from a product perspective, as an institution trading, as a tv feature? Is that something you guys use frequently? Just curious.
00:46:44.490 - 00:47:30.770, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's an incredibly important feature, because the concept here is that no matter how large your liquidity pool is within your protocol, you're never going to be able to get a quote that is for 2030, $40 million. That is ten bips wide. Right. It's just not going to happen, and nor should it. Right. That's an unreasonable assumption. And so, literally, just being able to TWAP, even if it's over a ten minute period, I think is an incredibly important aspect of what D five protocols need to be able to provide to larger institutions.
00:47:30.770 - 00:48:11.054, Speaker B: We also don't want to move the market around sometimes, and especially if it's a smaller, more illiquid coin, let's say we want to get into or out of three or $4 million of something that might trade eight to $10 million of spot per day, then we need to be able to t whop over a three or four hour period. And if you can do that, then because the market makers are in the system providing liquidity, you won't actually move the market that much. So, yeah, I think it's very important.
00:48:11.252 - 00:48:37.980, Speaker C: The reason I ask is because we are pretty well positioned because we already work with market makers to provide liquidity. So I was just curious to see how important that feature is, and it's something we can do there. But that was me doing some product research on this call. But I think that's all the questions I have. Nicole, unless you've seen more questions pop up in the.
00:48:39.870 - 00:48:59.566, Speaker A: Mean, Lee did a great job at answering mean. We unpacked a lot. Lee, thank you so much for being here. This was really helpful, especially to a lot of people who didn't really understand what's going on. Yeah. Thanks again.
00:48:59.748 - 00:49:01.710, Speaker B: Absolutely. Yeah. Glad to.
00:49:01.860 - 00:49:24.040, Speaker A: By the way, for those of you who were late to this space, this space is being recorded. You can listen to it on Twitter. We also released it on YouTube. So if you want to go back and listen, we have it there. So, Varun, thanks for being here. Lee, thanks for being here. And we will see you on the Defi state next week.
00:49:25.290 - 00:49:26.500, Speaker C: All right, thanks, guys.
