00:00:00.320 - 00:00:37.746, Speaker A: It wasn't until 2020 when a good friend of mine who now works at Coinbase told me about this new blockchain, Solana. It was really fast, really cheap, and so we tried sending a transaction, settled in under a second cost, like under a penny. And that's when we had our come to Jesus moment. Like, maybe this is the blockchain that can actually scale to a billion people and be used as that global computer. In web two, we were used to just importing stripe, you know, create a payment link, create a subscription, maybe use Braintree. In web3, you have to look at what is happening on channel, you have to parse through a transaction to determine what exactly is going on. And it results in just a massive headache.
00:00:37.746 - 00:00:46.790, Speaker A: Decided to submit to the Solana summer hackathon. And so we kind of forgot about it for a few weeks. But then a month later, we found out that we had won the payments track.
00:00:48.730 - 00:01:16.764, Speaker B: Well, thank you so much for joining me, Arnold. Really excited to have you here and talk about what you're building with sphere. I think probably some of the hottest new company to kind of come about within crypto focused on payments. We'll get into this a little bit later. But how you and the team uniquely approach the payments side, how you decided to build on the Solana infrastructure stack, I think is interesting. So, yeah, just super excited to have you here. Thank you for joining.
00:01:16.852 - 00:01:23.556, Speaker A: Yeah, no, thanks so much for having me. I've been watching these for a while, so big fan and super excited to get into it.
00:01:23.628 - 00:01:35.098, Speaker B: Appreciate it. Well, we'd love to just start the podcast, just a little bit. Brief background on yourself, how you got into the crypto world before diving into what you're building at Sphere.
00:01:35.194 - 00:02:10.164, Speaker A: Yeah, no, absolutely. So, found out about crypto in a weird way pretty early on. It was 2009. My little brother used to fill out these surveys online on the bus to middle school, and he showed me that you can make money. We come from first gen families, so we're always thinking about how we can help out. And so you would, like, fill out really random answers, like, how many times do you exercise per week? What are your eating habits? Things like that. And since we were like, 1312, the only way that we could get paid was in bitcoin.
00:02:10.164 - 00:02:36.480, Speaker A: And I remember thinking it was really funny. It's like this magic Internet money you don't need a bank account for and had no idea what it would scale to eventually. And it was just a very magical experience. In the same way that maybe being on the Internet in the early days was a very magical experience, but ended up trading a lot of that bitcoin in for like gift cards, World of Warcraft subscriptions.
00:02:36.940 - 00:02:39.960, Speaker B: I don't want to think about World of Warcraft subscriptions. Get you.
00:02:41.380 - 00:03:11.440, Speaker A: I don't want to think about how much bitcoin it was. But fast forward to 2014. 1516 people in college talked a lot about Ethereum. The notion of this decentralized global computer, super fascinating. And in particular, as things like tether USDC started to materialize, it just made a lot of sense. My co founder is my best friend from college. He comes from the Caribbean, I come from Asia.
00:03:11.440 - 00:04:05.610, Speaker A: And things like local fiat, volatility, having to flee countries just because you're losing 25%, 50% of your net worth overnight was very real. Not having access to bank accounts, not being able to get credit cards, having to work at like seven elevens and like laundromats just to get loans, it's a reality that we live through. And so when we saw this new version of finance that was permissionless, decentralized, and could give folks access to digital dollars, it just made a ton of sense. But, you know, the developer tooling was fairly immature at the time. I think open Zeppelin had like, just started. There wasn't a lot of Defi didn't really exist at that point, and there were a lot of icos. And so when things were pumping and dumping, it scared us off from the space for a couple of years.
00:04:05.610 - 00:04:53.630, Speaker A: Although we always thought it was very interesting and had some ETH pretty early on, it wasn't until 2020 when a good friend of mine who now works at Coinbase told me about this new blockchain, Solana. It was really fast, really cheap, and so we tried sending a transaction, settled in under a second cost, like under a penny. And that's when we had our come to Jesus moment. Like maybe this is the blockchain that can actually scale to a billion people and be used as that global computer. And so over the next few years, we tinkered around in the ecosystem, still working full time jobs. But as Solana summer rolled around, it became much more clear that there was something special happening here. The amount of activity, the amount of developers that were building cool things.
00:04:53.630 - 00:05:29.354, Speaker A: And so I quit my job a couple of months in Luigi. It took him a little bit longer, my co founder, and we just tried to create interesting software, did a lot of data and indexing analytics. That was our original idea. It was to create something like covalent on Solana. But we realized that although it was really straightforward to create awesome technology. From our point of view, it was really tough to monetize it. In web two, we were used to just importing stripe, create a payment link, create a subscription, maybe use braintree.
00:05:29.354 - 00:05:54.598, Speaker A: There are a lot of options, rapidadian, and it's very straightforward. The process is extremely streamlined. But in web3, none of these traditional payment platforms support crypto. And the way that data is parsed is just so different. You're not just querying a database using some SQL, maybe you write a script. In web3, you have to look at what is happening on chain. You have to parse through a transaction to determine what exactly is going on.
00:05:54.598 - 00:06:43.072, Speaker A: And it results in just a massive headache over a weekend. We figured how hard could it be to just make something ourselves? It turns out to be maybe nothing, you know, like crazy ZK roll up, research, problem type hard. It's more of just, there's a lot of plumbing and a lot of frustration that as we talk to more of our friends who are developers, we're running into the same problem. You have to think about threads getting orphaned. How do you reconcile them? You have to think about, again, how to parse different transactions. How do you give businesses, developers the information that they need to meaningfully run their software companies, turn it from a fun side project into a profitable business. And so over time, we decided that maybe there was something here.
00:06:43.072 - 00:07:08.434, Speaker A: Decided to submit to the Solana summer hackathon. Going in. We had a ton of traction, two votes, one from me and the other from Luigi, I think maybe a dozen followers on Twitter. And so we kind of forgot about it for a few weeks. We figured like, maybe people don't want this. Maybe this is just a problem that us and a couple of our friends had. But then a month later, we found out that we had won the payments track.
00:07:08.434 - 00:08:10.690, Speaker A: And, you know, 6000 people joined the discord overnight, 20 different venture capital firms scheduled meeting with us. We had no idea how they found our calendly. And it was just crazy. And we figured, okay, maybe there is something here. At the time, I was going to go back to school, Luigi was going to work for a fairly prominent DeFi protocol on Solana. But we decided to pause both of those things and just jump deep into sphere, which at the time was more of a no code e commerce platform because we figured that maybe there's more interest there. But it turns out over time that what developers want are just very simple, straightforward ways to really customize their payments experience, whether it's payment links, recurring payments, being able to make their own front end or be given a front end out of the box, as well as all of these ancillary features that you're used to getting from a large company like stripe, but otherwise is a massive pain to create yourself.
00:08:10.690 - 00:08:25.174, Speaker A: And so it's been a long slog since then and I'm sure we'll get into it. But yeah, that's, I think, a fairly good high level overview of how we found crypto and how we decided to work in the space full time.
00:08:25.262 - 00:08:43.102, Speaker B: No, it's a beautiful background and I think, kind of famous entrepreneurial story is in the beginning, no one really pays attention and you kind of keep going about your thing and eventually at some point in time, people start to take notice and then eventually everybody loves you.
00:08:43.166 - 00:08:48.968, Speaker A: Yeah, hopefully we'll get there. It's been a fun last year for sure.
00:08:49.064 - 00:09:16.866, Speaker B: Well, I think maybe to kind of like frame the entire conversation and then we can kind of like dive deeper into what you've uniquely built at sphere, but maybe touch upon like the current state of payments. And you kind of did this a little bit on your intro, but talk about payments as they exist today in the web two world and maybe even how that relates to some of the things that you've seen while building on top of a blockchain.
00:09:16.978 - 00:10:04.360, Speaker A: Yeah, no, absolutely. Payments in web two, very complicated. I wish I could show everyone a graph of how the clearinghouse works just in the United States, let alone when you're doing cross border payments. But there are so many different entities involved. Just from a simple transaction, like paying for something through a credit card. Of course, you have the gateway, you have the payment processor, you have the card network, the acquiring bank and the issuing bank. But once a payment ultimately needs to be settled by the clearinghouse, which is you can think of sort of as the last body to determine that banks are appropriately crediting and debiting their customers, it just gets very convoluted.
00:10:04.360 - 00:11:04.956, Speaker A: And as a result, when companies like Stripe first started out in like 2009, it was an intense effort to craft around the system that we had largely been grandfathered into. You can imagine sort of like a code base. It starts off really clean, really simple, and then over time, new things pop up, new frameworks, new, I suppose, regulations and new companies. And just like fitting that all together into what you originally created results in a very large web of different things that you need to take into account. And so maybe if I were to broadly categorize this, I think in the west we've seen quite good payments infrastructure develop over time on top of this really complicated backend. So you have stripe, you have zelle, PayPal, Apple Pay, Venmo. In urban areas, you have a bank almost on every corner.
00:11:04.956 - 00:12:12.160, Speaker A: And for the end user, the customer, because that infrastructure exists, it doesn't seem that complicated. It seems fairly straightforward. You have a commercial bank where you can use a debit card, you can have a savings account, you can take out loans. But if you look at other areas of the world, you're starting to see that same cycle play out, but in uniquely and in interesting ways. So where Luji is from, for example, in the Caribbean, I think there are like seven licensed merchants that can use stripe just because they need the buy in of the government and of the local banking system. And folks, there are a lot more distrustful of the banking system compared to, like, the United States, just because of the history of politics and of irresponsible financial practices. And if you look towards areas like southeast Asia, Latin America, they all are engaging in a lot of financial innovation towards getting to a similar to western experience.
00:12:12.160 - 00:13:17.802, Speaker A: But because of the way that their demographics are and how these countries geographically are laid out, penetration can be difficult. And it has resulted in a new wave of doing consumer day to day finance. A good example of this would be all of the real time payment systems that you see throughout the world. Funnily enough, although the talk of the town these days is fed now, coming out this summer, real time payments has existed at the big bank level since 2017 and adoption has been quite low. There is some debate here of whether or not that's intentional, because banks may make yield off of loaning credit out, but compared to the rest of the world, the US is, last time I checked, like 1%, maybe 2% of all transactions are happening through RTP because it is controlled by a fairly small number of banks. And the goal of like Fed now is to spread that out to local credit unions, regional banks, and really democratize access to 24 7365 payments. In the rest of the world.
00:13:17.802 - 00:14:12.466, Speaker A: RTP is actually quite popular, depending on where you look. So in the Middle east, the MENA region, Southeast Asia has been doing a lot of work on this with Thailand, with Pompeii, Singapore as Paynow. India of course, is upi. And if you look towards like Latin America, Brazil has picks. These real time payment systems make payments quite cheap and quite fast. The issue is the fact that it's still on that really complicated backend that I mentioned before. And when you are built on top of this complicated backend, you have to think about things like compliance, overhead, you have to think about if you're like large bank, like Citi, 300,000 employees, about a 10th of them, 30,000 people, are literally there just to make sure that your payments are compliant, that they are being approved correctly, that the banks have the right amounts of money, that they are managing liquidity effectively because there's currency conversion involved.
00:14:12.466 - 00:15:01.012, Speaker A: And what it means is that people have withdrawal limits, they're not free to spend the money that they want. They may have transaction limits. And of course, there's a breakdown in composability when you're trying to send money across borders, because all these systems are very different. And so I'm sure we'll get more into the promise of web3 here, but maybe a controversial take in the web two payments world is progress is being made locally within given jurisdictions. Payments are getting quite good again, depending on the region, especially when you look outside, or rather when you look at urban areas. For example, the southeast asian region has seen quite a surgence or resurgence in terms of both credit card payments. I think Singapore and Malaysia are over 90% for bank accounts.
00:15:01.012 - 00:17:22.436, Speaker A: But when you look outside of these urban areas and you start to deal with the underbanked and unbanked populations, it's still an unsolved problem, especially given that a lot of these folks might be traveling across borders or be sending money to different countries, to relatives, to friends and so on. And so the controversial take is, given that there is surprising progress in these local areas, one could argue that, for example, in the United States, crypto might not be as necessary for a payment system, which there is some legs for that argument, given how long we've had to create modern payment rails. I think the biggest promise of web3 is in addressing that composability element, and maybe not to bore the listeners too much, there's this international messaging standard for payments called swift that is regulated by a lot of countries they buy in. There's a standard, you can think of it as like an API, although it's very outdated, and they're already looking at blockchain to see what sort of improvements might be made. The issue, again is that really complicated backend, because when you start thinking about how do you create a universal system, when all these different jurisdictions have different regulations, when they have different KYC requirements, and how do you convince local banks within these regions to make that technology buy in, to hire developers to connect ultimately to swift or to ISO 222, their latest standard, or what have you, their real time payment systems, it becomes very hard. And so that's why? We've seen different rates of development in different regions in terms of adoption of these more modern payment rails. So to return to your original question, which is web two payments, what does that system kind of look like? It is something that we have learned to deal with, but there is massive opportunity to simplify it, especially for these emerging regions where they might not have the resources to be able to cleanly deal with 700 different data fields in a given payment transaction compared to a behemoth like JPMorgan or Citi or what have you.
00:17:22.508 - 00:18:18.826, Speaker B: Amazing. No, the backend crust, as you mentioned, is fairly large. I think being in the west and particularly within the US, we've kind of become obfuscated to a lot of the buildup, as you said, in the backend infrastructure, and kind of been spoiled with the abstractions that have been layered on top. And it's been interesting. I mean, if you ask people like if I send a cash app request to you and you send it to your account, to my account, it kind of is in my account, but it's not in my bank account. And then you have those another 48 hours where ultimately it has to settle and kind of jump through those hoops. Zelle has kind of added a couple layers of abstractions on top of that where they can do it a little bit more instantaneous.
00:18:18.826 - 00:18:48.994, Speaker B: But it's just kind of an agreement between all the banks. And so it's very interesting, just like the levels of abstractions that have currently built up, but it's really not instantaneous under the hood. It's much more. It still has a lot of room to be desired and you can definitely see how the blockchain rails can facilitate quite a bit more transfers and kind of upgrade the entire ecosystem. But that being said, it is kind of a hard challenge and something that you can chip away at.
00:18:49.082 - 00:19:38.200, Speaker A: Yeah, no, absolutely. And I think those examples are so critical for getting normal folks to understand how the system could be improved if I were to send you money. The common conception is that money is literally being sent to you when it's not. Banks maintain local ledgers with every other bank. So if you have 100 banks, they need to have a connection with every other bank. Of course there are subgroups and there are ways to aggregate it a little bit better, but because they have to maintain local ledgers, in computer science we would call this an o of n squared problem, where for every additional player, every existing player needs to connect with them and it just results in massive inefficiencies. Because if there's ever fraud if there are chargebacks, banks can't settle in real time.
00:19:38.200 - 00:20:31.350, Speaker A: They need to maintain reserves, that liquidity management that I mentioned before, just to make sure the math works out and people have the appropriate amount of crediting or debiting, depending on the direction of a payment. But yeah, it's one of the most surprising things, I think, and part of the reason why there is no composability between your cash app and your Venmo blockchain. Super interesting way to deal with it, as I'm sure we'll get into later. But I think that was one of the most stunning, I suppose, realizations, because this is not just a us thing, just across the world, because if you go to a local bank, they need to maintain a certain amount of their reserves in cash, just in case there is a demand for currency conversion. It results in a ton of this overhead, which results in higher fees, of course, and longer settlement times.
00:20:31.650 - 00:20:59.730, Speaker B: It is wild. Maybe continuing on the track we started about where the current infrastructure currently sits in the web two world, could you maybe touch, particularly on the payments of companies within web two? You mentioned stripe, Braintree are obviously the popular ones. There are others. Can you kind of touch on how they build on top of these kind of more legacy infrastructure that has been built up over time?
00:20:59.850 - 00:21:32.482, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So there are a couple of degrees of traditional payment platforms. Some act as a gateway. A gateway is like the entry point for communicating with a payment processor. They are the ones who will encrypt your card data and send it along to the payment processor. But ultimately, it is the payment processor that needs to communicate with the card network and the banks. And so companies like Stripe and Braintree act as both a gateway and a processor, and they have the sufficient licensing to be able to do that.
00:21:32.482 - 00:22:25.300, Speaker A: Money transmission. That's probably one of the biggest issues that we're seeing for early stage fintech startups, especially in payments, especially in blockchain. It is that licensing that you need in order to send money on behalf of someone else. But there are differing levels of how closely these institutions, or rather these platforms, interact with messaging standards like SWift. The closer that you're doing the bank to bank transfer, then you need to plug into Swift to send xml, and as of recently, JSON to other banks. But if you're more of a rapper, maybe you're a merchant of record, maybe you're a company like a lemon squeezy that is getting more into licensing. It is mostly the interaction with the visas, the mastercards, and ultimately the acquiring and issuing banks that will settle between the customer and the merchant.
00:22:25.300 - 00:23:02.036, Speaker A: Fortunately, for a lot of fintech companies, it has been abstracted away. But the closer that you get to the bare metal, which is where the most exciting opportunities for improving the current system are, that's when you run into, again, 700 different data fields, 13 are actually required. Maybe in one country you need 50 of them, and in another country you need 25. And neatly reconciling that into a single infrastructure, just a massive headache, which is why so many people are hired, literally just to do this. Email approvals and that compliance overhead.
00:23:02.148 - 00:24:36.548, Speaker B: It is amazing just how many people, as you mentioned, are there strictly on the compliance side that are not particularly adding a lot of value, but are there just because over time, the regulation has kind of decided that they needed to be there? I'm curious, over the long term, how much can be abstracted into code and much more simplified. I think it will take a while for that journey to happen, but I'm excited nonetheless that it's a journey that you and the team, and more broadly, the crypto ecosystem has been worked upon. I think originally, one of the reasons why I got so excited about the blockchain industry was kind of that financial institution within your pocket on a blockchain, anywhere in the world for anybody. And I got a little frustrated by some of the fees on some blockchains. But I think now that's starting to be more of a solved issue and you can go back and to actually focus on the applications like payments, what you're building at sphere, which I think critical to ultimately unlocking some of the use cases that blockchains enable, but also just bringing forward more financial health worldwide, which I think is extremely important. But on that topic, I think blockchains are obviously, I'd say, probably superior back end infrastructure. But one thing that they're nothing as good at is kind of the privacy aspect.
00:24:36.548 - 00:24:50.676, Speaker B: Everything is open, everything can be read on chain, particularly with sphere, you're focusing on payments. How do you deal with kind of everything being out in the open, in an open ledger?
00:24:50.788 - 00:26:03.440, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. So it kind of ties back into compliance, because the reason why you can't just make everything private, let's say, waving a magic. Wanda, if you're a us based company, and the government believes, FinCEN believes that terrorists are using your platform, they want to make sure that the addresses involved are not OFAC sanctioned. And broadly, you have these sanction checks within traditional payment rail systems, too. But that being said, evolutions like Token 2022 with confidentiality are super exciting because you can hide amounts, but you can always identify who is sending the initial payment and who is receiving it, just in case there is a question of whether or not there's suspicious activity. Beyond token 22 or 2022 and confidential transfers, there are a lot of exciting developments that could also help this problem. Of course, on the zero knowledge side, you have folks like elusive and light protocol who are making great strides to make payments more private, which for certain use cases.
00:26:03.440 - 00:27:21.900, Speaker A: If I spend $10 on a hoodie from salon and monkey business, most people don't care. But if you're doing your payroll, for example, through crypto, you probably don't want to make it public to all of your employees how much exactly everyone else is getting paid. Or if you're a will and you want to send $10 million to another account, or maybe it's part of a business deal, you would probably want that hidden as well. And so it'll be a very interesting confluence of regulatory clarity and these developments on the zero knowledge side that I think will lead to the next big unlock for payments, which to your point is likely privacy. But there are some interesting steps that you can take right now to obfuscate it a little bit more. Generally speaking, part of the issue with transactions is that it can be sometimes hard to index and determine what exactly is happening, and you can use things like pdas to make it a little bit less obvious where the ultimate destination of a given transaction are. We think that of course, for this to be adopted by retail audience, to be used by serious enterprises at scale, think of the apples, the Nvidias, the Microsofts of the world, you do need to bake in a level of privacy.
00:27:21.900 - 00:28:28.862, Speaker A: It just demands a level of regulatory clarity regarding what exact information might be required just to avoid people from North Korea or Iran. Again, if you're a us citizen from using these platforms, and of course if you're from the US, then you have to depending on again, these sanctioned countries have to hide the front end. But the beauty of the blockchain is that anyone can interact with these decentralized smart contracts, which has always been our approach. Peer to peer token transfers, wrap some metadata on top, facilitate robust pricing options, things like discounts, taxes, free trials, but ultimately stay true to the spirit of a decentralized peer to peer token transferred. So that way, at the very least, people are knowingly engaging in what are now public transactions. But over the next few years, we're pretty optimistic after speaking with some of the ZK teams, that there will be some significant progress here I think just.
00:28:28.926 - 00:29:46.110, Speaker B: Like the infrastructure took quite some time for it to be robust enough where you could actually send a transaction for a dollar and it not charge an actual dollar, where now it's actually fractions of a penny, it took some time for that to happen. And I think just like privacy, as you mentioned, it will take a similar amount of time, hopefully less, for these privacy solutions to come online because it is an important piece. And I think all these building blocks, because blockchain is relatively new and I still a relatively small industry, these building blocks are all getting built simultaneously. And it's kind of cool to see them come together in real time. Now that the infrastructure is starting to be more robust, we have payments. We're starting to get more interesting DeFi applications, including payments that privacy as well. And really, like you said, it's all kind of enabled by composability, which is that unique kind of unlock that the web two doesn't have because they're all individual silos or individual ledgers that they're trying to settle and they're much slower, much more inefficient.
00:29:46.110 - 00:30:15.646, Speaker B: So it is fascinating. The pieces are all kind of coming together. If you squint, you can definitely see it. And I think it's happening at a small scale today. And I think we're all pretty optimistic that over the long term that scale will only increase as these pieces become more frictionless. But to that point, ultimately, the catalysts were kind of moving from like store of value to more of a medium of exchange. Over the long term.
00:30:15.646 - 00:30:26.706, Speaker B: Can you kind of talk about what do you think will be the catalyst for adoption of crypto payments? What do you think is going to be kind of like the spark that lights the fuse?
00:30:26.858 - 00:31:26.320, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. I've been thinking about this one a lot, because up to this point, it has been that store of value, a vehicle for investment in many cases, like speculation, shout outs to pepecoin. And the next real unlock will be when we can transition away from that to a medium exchange, and then all these really interesting, more mainstream applications become possible. I think the way to think about this is to split it into two possibilities. The first is you have something similar to what happened in the early days of the Internet. If you look back to the nineties, people went on the computer went on the Internet, someone might ask for their credit card information and they would be totally sussed out. Is this a scam? Why would I ever put my bank information onto the Internet? And over time, you just saw the introduction of genuinely useful applications, PayPal, eBay.
00:31:26.320 - 00:32:54.966, Speaker A: Eventually movement on the mobile side with the development of the iPhone led to Snapchat, Instagram, Uber, Lyft, all these apps that we know and love. Now, I think we might go through a similar cycle in crypto where up to this point we have these very well defined use cases of for Ethereum, like ultrasound, money for Solana, being able to utilize the currency as a way to deploy programs and pay for transaction fees on a really fast global state machine. But in this first category, there needs to be some use case that leverages the decentralized aspects of this ledger in order to convince people that there is a reason to hold these tokens and to use these tokens. There's a couple of exciting prospects on this side, like teleport with the decentralized Uber DpIn. Of course you have helium, you have hivemapper, you have render, Onikoi Proto. A lot of very interesting protocols that might be able to convince normal folks that there is a use case to these tokens beyond just holding them, but I think we're still waiting to see what that might look like. I think on the NFT side we saw some really interesting attempts at this step in last year, really took off, had an incredible mission and people were using it even though they might not really care about crypto.
00:32:54.966 - 00:34:06.746, Speaker A: Just because there is that prospect of being able to turn healthy habits into currency and being able to mint cool nfts. We have sort of seen this on the community and art side of nfts as well, wherein of course there is that element of maybe someone will buy your NFT for more money down the road, but some people are just going to buy a one out of one piece. Maybe there's a community that they're really attached to and are just willing to hold it forever. If these portend the future of these assets, then it's incredibly exciting to think about what sort of legitimate real world use cases could justify ordinary folks wanting to use tokens. But I think that it's a more nebulous territory, because if you were back in 1999, when could you say that a genuinely useful Internet application would come about? Amazon existed, Napster and Skyward shut down. But could you predict that YouTube would exist in five years? I think it would have been really hard to say. I think we're in a similar situation with web3.
00:34:06.746 - 00:35:05.629, Speaker A: I'll call them real world use cases. That's one way to do it. You give people a reason to have the token other than maybe the token will go up, or maybe you need the token to deploy a contract or something like that. I think the second category is to start off at the top of the funnel. Jordan from Solana gave me a very convincing, I suppose, our argument for this, which is if people don't really want to use crypto right now, how do we get them? How do we incentivize them to use it from first principles? Well, they need to have it. They need to hold crypto, they need to be paid in crypto, they need to have a good amount just to be able to use it, because if they don't have any, then of course you can't use it as a medium of exchange. I think this is somewhat cyclic in the past, wherein during the bull run, a lot of people buy the coins because they think they'll go up or maybe they want an NFT or something.
00:35:05.629 - 00:36:05.930, Speaker A: And as a result, some small percentage of that gets onboarded into web3. Maybe you got into web3 because of nfts. Maybe you got in because of the icos in the last cycle, and with the coins that you have left now you're wondering, all right, what can I actually use with these coins? I could stake them. Maybe I could use a swap program. Maybe I could borrow and lend them. And in the last cycle, maybe I can use them for applications ranging from decentralized forums to bounty programs, to trading on various protocols and for payments, for buying merch, for buying software as a service, for buying developer tooling. And I think that when we start at the top of the funnel and figure out ways to give people crypto, maybe it's through payroll, maybe it's through interesting loyalty and incentive programs for having the coin.
00:36:05.930 - 00:37:02.930, Speaker A: That's when the world starts to open up and it starts to become a little bit less cyclic, where we don't have to depend on interest rates being low or there being a ton of extra liquidity in the system to compel people to have a lot of the coin and therefore want to use it. There was an interesting story. I spoke to this, I guess you could think of them as a crypto og whale from ten years ago, and he was saying, there are a ton of people who have crypto, they just don't have a ton of things to spend on them right now. And it's a real problem for them because could they off board it? Maybe, depending on the jurisdiction they're from. But it is when we figure out how to make more cases like that where people have a ton of these coins, and then you have that consumer demand to drive merchant adoption, where I think that second unlock can happen. But it's a very interesting question.
00:37:03.950 - 00:37:44.692, Speaker B: It is interesting, just the challenge of onboarding people within crypto, because once they're in, it's kind of like a blue ocean. You've left the seaports, you can go explore. There's a lot of things to try out, but it's hard to metaphorically hop on the boat and go out to sea. And so I definitely do agree. Whether you can get paid in crypto or be onboarded in some other form or fashion than just directly through an exchange, I think is paramount. And kind of get. Getting people comfortable with kind of signing with their private key, doing things on chain.
00:37:44.692 - 00:38:15.070, Speaker B: I think even going back to the early Internet analogy, just getting people signed up for dial up and being able to play around in AOL was kind of a feat in its own. And then once they're online, they started being like, okay, this is kind of cool. I enjoy this experience. I can do interesting things. Yeah, I know. It is going to be quite a journey. I think in terms of going back maybe a little bit to the payment side of things.
00:38:15.070 - 00:38:34.708, Speaker B: You mentioned one, just kind of payments as a whole, and other, I would say maybe more recurring kind of subscriptions. Could you talk a little bit on, like, how sphere specifically is trying to work in, say, subscriptions into what you're building?
00:38:34.844 - 00:39:15.318, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I think subscriptions is one of the most interesting unlocks on blockchain, because especially on high throughput networks, you can get much more efficient price discovery on both the merchant and the consumer side. So I'll explain what that means. Historically, we've seen one time payments from the early days. Maybe if you go to 2013 or 2014, you could buy a fake id or use Silk road or something, and it's a one time payment. Great. But over time, we've seen more companies explore what else you can buy through one time payments.
00:39:15.318 - 00:40:37.516, Speaker A: Coinbase commerce comes up as an example. Circle has a payments API for one time payments, and it is a very interesting use case, of course, because you can buy things like merch, as I mentioned before, you can buy access to groups, you can pay for software. But when you look at recurring payments subscriptions, it's always been difficult on older blockchains just because of the gas and latency considerations. If I'm paying like a $10 subscription and it cranks, let's say every month on the point at which it cranks, if the network is congested and I'm paying like $30 in gas fees, that's a non starter for a user. Whereas if you use a high throughput blockchain like a Solana, then you have some quite strong guarantees that no matter when you crank for the next billing period, you will get a very reasonable end price for the user. So that's the why. Now, what is the historical evolution of how gas and latency and the development of blockchains make subscriptions much more interesting from a technical perspective? But in terms of price discovery, we like to think about what people pay for in web two so you can buy access to, again, paid things like paid groups.
00:40:37.516 - 00:41:45.750, Speaker A: Maybe you're buying a slack membership, maybe you're buying Zoom premium or something. But if you're paying for things on demand like AWS comes to mind, and platforms generally, people are monetizing their APIs and they want charge per call. The way that it works in web two right now is you need to get invoiced at the end of every billing period. And so if you're a large provider like an Amazon, maybe that doesn't matter as much because you have so much money. You already have all these data centers readily available to adjust the output that might be expected for a given month. But if you look one degree down to other cloud platforms, or anyone who's trying to monetize an API from seed to series c or what have you, then it becomes a lot more difficult, because then you need to predict what your expected compute will be for a given month if you want to adequately service your customers. If you run EC two on AWS or compute engine on Google Cloud, you'll probably go with the most reasonable, cheapest machine that you can get in order to service your clients.
00:41:45.750 - 00:42:39.090, Speaker A: And of course, upgrading to a more hefty machine is not that difficult. But in terms of how you might be able to price your API accurately based upon that customer demand, which will likely fluctuate, it's a lot more difficult to do in real time given the nature of payments. I can't charge a transaction in real life every time I make an API call because these card networks have minimums that you need to fulfill in order to submit a transaction for it to make economic sense. If I have to pay twenty cents, eighty cents, whatever, for one API call, that's just not going to work out. For someone who wants to monetize their API long term. On a low cost, high throughput blockchain, though, you can get very close to real time. Maybe you batch them in like five, maybe you batch them in ten, even 100.
00:42:39.090 - 00:44:24.166, Speaker A: But because you can submit as many transactions as you want, in effect, quite cost efficiently, you can figure out a much more efficient way to determine what is the optimal price that your customers ought pay for your API. And the best part of it is that it's permissionless. Luigi has experienced this coming from the Caribbean, but if you need, say, a stripe account to monetize your API just to get started selling software as a service, it's a non starter because that company is not available in its jurisdiction. If you're a developer and you want to buy software from, let's say, a different country, maybe you're in India and you're trying to buy software from the United States, then you rack up international transaction fees. If you do want to pay via Cardinal, assuming that paying by credit card is something that you would prefer to do, when you start thinking about all of that overhead that we mentioned at the beginning of this, you're talking five, maybe 7% total just for being able to start selling your software and also to be able to buy software. We think that's one of the most interesting unlocks that you can get when you start allowing for a more robust payments experience in this context, subscriptions on chain, because of course there's that one time use case. But when you start adding the layers of recurring payments, of invoices, of post payments reconciliation, of analytics, of on and off ramping, and you can get to an experience that is almost at parity with web two, then it becomes a lot more compelling for people to move over, given that otherwise they would have to pay insane fees, assuming that they have access at all.
00:44:24.166 - 00:45:09.640, Speaker A: A close friend is from Kenya and he wants, for example, to be able to use Shopify's API, but he can't do so because his local bank sets maximums on the amount that he can pay in a given month. There are all these nuances that just make it really tough for a budding developer from the emerging world to reasonably use traditional software systems that depend on traditional payment rails. And so when you make it permissionless and you are able to get that much more efficient price discovery, we're super excited to see how people will take that and run away with it. What sort of unique applications can be made when you just increase the total size of the pie of developers who can get access to the best tools and who can start making money from their best ideas.
00:45:10.440 - 00:46:01.074, Speaker B: Rather amazing that the smaller charges and even the fairly large charges are the things that get penalized the most for the extremely small costs. It doesn't make sense, as you said, and you need to get to some level of kind of middle ground where the costs, you can kind of batch those, and with extremely large transactions, again, you can get charged on a percentage base where it's just so high that you're like, all right, I'm not going to do this either. And so it's very weird how they've kind of like carved out their own niche in the middle ground. But I think it would also surprise people outside of the payments world that in general, I think the average credit card transaction is 2.9% plus. Thirty cents per transaction. Yep.
00:46:01.074 - 00:46:39.440, Speaker B: So you're getting charged a a percentage base of almost 3% plus that 30 cent transaction fee, which makes it insane for these small transactions and even larger ones. But could you talk a little bit about ultimately in your mind, why is this kind of current pricing structure the way it is? Is it just because over time the middlemen and the back end infrastructure just got so large that they each needed their own cuts and we've kind of built enough abstraction layers on top of it now that we kind of continue to roll with it and just keep paying these middlemen?
00:46:40.020 - 00:47:36.566, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. For sure. There is an element of monopolistic pricing wherein just to get to the stage where you can compete, you need so much licensing and compliance overhead where they have some freedom to set prices. I would say the other facet of that is also true that you mentioned, which is that because of all the additional layers of abstraction that you need to build on top of, in some sense they need to charge a flat fee for it to make economic sense for them too. And then of course the card networks will require you to have, I guess you could think of it as some skin in the game when you're submitting transactions, so that way they don't get spammed, and that way they can reasonably evaluate whether or not a given transaction is like high or low risk. And so if you look at web two payment platforms, it's very interesting that they all seem to offer about the same rate. PayPal is a little bit higher at about, I think, 3.5%
00:47:36.566 - 00:48:22.558, Speaker A: and some change. But broadly, if you look at stripe square rapid Adian Addian is a little lower because they have a much more enterprise angle. It gets about 1% for most players, it's about that 3%, 2.9% and some flat fees on top. And it's interesting that no one has tried to overcompete in that pricing. And I think part of that is that first point, which is they sort of have enough of that high capital entry cost that they bought into where they can sort of set the tone for folks. And it's reasonable enough where most people are willing to pay for it, at least in the west and in countries where gdp per capita is high enough.
00:48:22.558 - 00:49:15.202, Speaker A: But when you start looking at countries like Kenya, Nigeria, where gdp per capita is like $2,000, all of a sudden twenty cents per transaction starts adding up really quickly, especially if you're paying for something and it's like $2 and that's a 10% transaction fee. Yeah, it's very interesting to think about, in addition, how if you look at some older blockchains, how much that matters to these people, because even an eight cent, 14 cent, 80 cent transaction fee is not so different from web two. We really need that ten, 101,000 x for folks in these emerging markets to just have the easiest buy in of their lives. Although there are a lot of other additional benefits beyond just the transaction fee. If you're not from these regions and you want to use like a permissionless.
00:49:15.306 - 00:49:58.860, Speaker B: Network, I'm along with you, very much a fan of high throughput blockchains. But when you're looking at kind of the realm of possibilities on where to build sphere today, there's a plethora of options out there. More notably least in the earlier stages, everybody was very prone to Ethereum and different L2s. Could you speak to kind of like, did you evaluate, like, the L2 ecosystem? If so, why did you ultimately choose to, again, like, focus on the high throughput networks versus a lower throughput blockchain with a L2 on top of it?
00:49:58.940 - 00:50:53.484, Speaker A: Yeah, no, L2s are very interesting. I have a couple of friends who work in a couple of those ecosystems, and I think that there is a lot of very interesting scientific work being done there, and it's very exciting to see where they might develop in the next few years. I think part of the issue for us is that we wanted ultimately to optimize for block finalization speed and cost. And when we started, it was just clear that Solana had the best confluence of that as well as developer tooling. The ecosystem at that point had been around for a couple of years. You had like anchor some general best practices for how to construct programs, how to think about them, and we are looking closely at l two s just to see how those ecosystems develop. Zksync, I think, started their alpha, I believe, a couple of months ago.
00:50:53.484 - 00:51:36.346, Speaker A: Hermes, I guess, Polygon. Zkvmdev also kicked off in March. You have l two s like scroll, the Zke EVM equivalent ones that are coming out later. So it'll be very interesting to see what those look like in like a year or two from now. Are they able to have like fraud proofs live for the optimistic chains, for the ZK roll ups? Can they get computation speed down fast enough? Can they decentralize their sequencers sufficiently? And so definitely keeping our eyes open to it. But I would say for right now, when we think about the developers that we want to serve, they don't really care what the backend is. All they care is that it's really cheap, really fast, and it's permissionless.
00:51:36.346 - 00:52:51.930, Speaker A: They can just connect the vault and get started. There are some things to be said about the user experience when you're going from, let's say, JavaScript in Python, making web apps using react to thinking about the complexity that exists in let's say, the L2 ecosystem. Like how do I choose between loop, ring and optimism? How do I think about ZK versus optimistic roll ups, even if I choose one particular one for some reason? Beyond that, what do I think about the total amount of liquidity which might be fragmented if, let's say I want to use an optimistic roll up, but my end user wants to pay from one of these upcoming ZK rollups. And posting back to the layer one is also very interesting because then you run into some of the data availability stuff that has come up since the last few years. So maybe as a summary, we have thought about it, it seems promising. I think the transaction fees are still a little bit too high right now. The average for most l two s is like 814 cents per transaction, which is again almost what stripe does, just like flat.
00:52:51.930 - 00:53:27.690, Speaker A: And we want that to be a ten x. Maybe they're able to improve it by an order of magnitude with like dank sharding, but I guess we'll wait and see. And in terms of onboarding users, that was an additional challenge that we had to think about, which is like, when I'm utilizing like metamask and I have to like manually like connect an RPC URL just to be able to switch networks, and there are ten different one of them to choose from, how seamless would that be compared to monolithic chain where I just download app extension, copy and paste a public key, click send, and it just works.
00:53:28.470 - 00:53:56.366, Speaker B: I think you said it beautifully. Ultimately, I'm definitely aligned with you. I think over time it's going to be less about the technology stack for the consumer and more is it fast and is it cheap. And that's the true thing. I mean, whatever architecture ultimately enables that. But again, to your point, like $0.14 is still too much and really is kind of the web, two numbers.
00:53:56.366 - 00:54:31.382, Speaker B: And I think whether it's something that gets venture investors excited, or even entrepreneurs and builders such as yourself, it really needs to be at minimum at ten x increase, if not more so and if we're not getting that, we're kind of recreating some of these older ecosystems where we so maybe have faster finality and quicker settlement, but we can do better. And so the fast and cheap, I think, thing is going to win long term just because it's kind of dumb. Everybody likes things to be faster and cheaper.
00:54:31.526 - 00:55:05.986, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it's a great point. And if you think about the innovation that's happening in real time payments right now, even like let's look at Europe like tips. Their real time payment system, settlement system is like two cent euro cents per transaction. We have to be ten times better than that for blockchain to really be a very compelling use case for the average consumer. And they're getting their settlement down. I mean, it's supposed to be instantaneous. And so if we're competing at like 100, 500 milliseconds, that makes a lot of sense.
00:55:05.986 - 00:55:54.640, Speaker A: But the instant that you start talking about minutes, half an hour, an hour, that's when I think it becomes a lot less compelling for the folks, especially in these emerging markets where there's so much work being done on the RTP. Of course, permissionlessness and composability will always be unique advantages that blockchains have. But when you're pitching to a larger enterprise, when you're pitching to even a startup, it's worth thinking about how much they immediately care about decentralization and permissionlessness. And of course, it depends on their geography. If they're from the west, they probably are more okay with it. If they're from countries where there was recent political conflict, maybe they're less okay with it, but broadly they're customers. I just want like a ten x user experience.
00:55:54.640 - 00:56:17.360, Speaker A: And so I think there will be a lot of work that needs to be done when we're thinking about not just competing within the web3 ecosystem, but all the billions of dollars that are going into renovating traditional payment rails, because it is getting quite fast and it is getting quite cheap. And Solana, the cost is just insane.
00:56:17.940 - 00:57:27.746, Speaker B: Yeah, no, it is remarkable. I think that focus on products is the key thing that I think will ultimately pull us out of the bear market and really the thing that has kind of been lacking, I wouldn't say it's the fault of entrepreneurs by any means. Again, like, we've just kind of been building these blocks, whether it's infrastructure to kind of enable these products getting built. And I mean, at times during the bull market, people would pay hundreds of dollars or thousands of dollars for transactions. It works during bull markets, but in bear markets, it's much harder. And especially if you're trying to build a business at scale, it's just the economics don't work at all. And so really having that infrastructure being built and now the applications that can really take advantage of that and build unique applications that are truly ten x 100 x better, I think is the amazing part of what you're building at Sphere, can you maybe elaborate a little bit on your personal story? You've talked about it initially where you kind of did the hackathon, you submitted the project, you didn't know if it was going to get traction, and then you're going to win.
00:57:27.746 - 00:57:39.232, Speaker B: I think it's an amazing story. Could you maybe dive a little bit deeper into that process and for other entrepreneurs out there, just the journey that you went through to get into the point that you are now today.
00:57:39.426 - 00:58:13.924, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Maybe to paint the picture. So I was living with Luigi, my co founder. He's my best friend from college. We nerded it out about math. I convinced him to do software will be my claim to fame, I hope, way back when, and have been hacking on projects together for almost a decade now. And, you know, doing the analytics thing and trying to monetize it, it was just such a challenge that we felt like maybe that there was that narrative of, okay, we're solving our own problem, we're making it easier for folks.
00:58:13.924 - 00:59:27.600, Speaker A: It was incredible to see the general support of the Solana community, and I think that's one of the best parts of this ecosystem. Maybe reminiscent of previous cycles when everyone thought ETH was dead, but there was just that core group of passionate users. Similarly, posts like Mount Gox, like the bitcoiners, who were like, listen, we don't care. We really believe in this future, and we're going to continue to hold and believe in this in the future of this. And so being able to interact with that community, get their feedback, see what things that they would want, has been our focus from day one, which is why we shifted away from more of like a shopify product to more of a stripe like product, just because the bottom line is, if you abstract away the Solana, if you abstract away the blockchain. It really is just a pull of building something that people want, and I think it's easy to get lost in the weeds of this really amazing technology. A couple of friends who are more on the research side describe it as a nerd trap because you can get into so much technical detail, whether it's optimizing for block finalization, optimizing for consensus, there's just so much interesting theoretical work to be done.
00:59:27.600 - 01:00:57.436, Speaker A: But as we have really obsessed about building things that people want, I think it became a lot more clear, especially from the early stages, how we ought take a direction in terms of both the product and our personal conviction. And with events of the last year, like FTX blowing up, like the circle DPEG, we always had the same attitude, which is despite these macro events, the thesis hasn't really changed until there comes a day where RTP gets global composability and transactions are under a penny and settlement is along those lines. Blockchain, at least for payments, is still an extremely promising use case, and it was informed largely by our personal histories just from seeing again what happens when you give centralized authorities too much trust. That has always been a very attractive part about this ecosystem. It's amazing to see cats on Twitter have 100,000 followers and being able to have a voice, whereas in traditional industries that would be seen as ludicrous. The decentralized nature of it is extremely exciting and I think speaks to the global nature of what we're all building on and contributes to that meme of how the space never stops. It's always 24/7 there's always something happening, and it's because the entire world is connected from our personal experiences.
01:00:57.436 - 01:02:12.740, Speaker A: Luigi grew up playing runescape. I played a lot of games growing up as well. And it just felt so similar to your point about AOL and having instant messenger and starting from this base primitive of being connected to the Internet and building on top, creating these really rich experiences where you're able to form friends and have things that really stick out in your life. We just notice the exact same things in blockchain, wherein you start with nfts and then you realize that there's this whole community around it, and then there are these really big brains in Defi who are building really interesting applications. And then it goes into deep end, it goes into gaming, all these different sub verticals. Blockchain has been able to empower them, no matter who they are, through this incentive alignment, which I think is a very unique thing that you wouldn't find even if we see things like CDBCs roll out, public permission chains roll out, wherein we're starting from the bottom up rather than the top down, which is so different from what we're used to. Traditional IP distribution is you have someone make Pokemon or Yu Gi oh, and you are able to produce tv shows and distribute large amounts of products.
01:02:12.740 - 01:03:14.614, Speaker A: But in web3, it has almost become a meme. But that community ownership and being able to work with the ZK folks closely while they're still in their early stages, and being able to design products for each other, that has been amazing. The journey, I'd say, over the last year has been very unique in the summation of our lives. We've been, as I mentioned before, doing random projects throughout the years. Whether it's more in traditional markets, whether it's more on the consumer side, and the overflow of that core base that is willing to interact with you, I think is one of the superpowers that blockchain has. It's so hard to convince other people in traditional verticals, 100 of them, to love your product enough to give you feedback. But in blockchain, they are willing to do that from day one, just because they want to see the whole space succeed, whether it's because of where they come from, their political beliefs, or what they want the future to end up looking like.
01:03:14.614 - 01:04:10.372, Speaker A: And so to return to your original question, for any budding entrepreneurs, take it with a grain of salt. I'm also just getting started, but I think it would be really good idea to plug in with that community and to figure out who your core group of cult fanatics are and to just work with them and build something that they want. Because that's how all viral movements have begun historically. And we can go into the whole PG advice. But yeah, that has kept us in the ecosystem despite corn going down and regulation and all these other things that would normally kill an industry. It's the fact that there is this amazing technology and that there is this cult group of passionate users. Those two things in of themselves, I feel like, justify the experiment of building in the space.
01:04:10.372 - 01:04:21.804, Speaker A: And that's why we're laser focused on taking those two primitives and trying to see if ultimately there's stuff that people want in the broader world.
01:04:21.932 - 01:05:08.306, Speaker B: I think you put that beautifully. I mean, it is kind of. It's fascinating that people in crypto will give you feedback on your product just because they want to help you out. If you go to, as you mentioned to any other industry and you're like, hey, I built something do you want to try it out and test it? And they're like, no, go away, pay me. Or like in the blockchain world, because people are so interested in the technology, they want to see it succeed and they want to help the industry grow, that they're willing to do it for free. And often they'll bring their friends and they want to do it just to be the first, which is remarkable and it is very unique. And I think that framing kind of made a light bulb go off on my head that, I mean, we are early.
01:05:08.306 - 01:05:51.048, Speaker B: There is a lot of critics, but as you mentioned, there's a lot of people that are excited about the technology, not only on the engineering side, but also on the user side. And when that happens, both sides come together. I think you can make something pretty magical. So, no, just definitely appreciate your time. Arnold. I think it's been a fascinating deep dive in kind of the all thing payments. Look behind the curtain on how the financial rails across the world work, what you're ultimately aiming to build with sphere, a ten x better product improvement on those rails within the crypto industry on a high throughput blockchain like Solana.
01:05:51.048 - 01:05:59.996, Speaker B: I think it's a very promising future. And really thank you again for coming on the podcast. It was a lot of fun and I really wish you and the team all the success.
01:06:00.148 - 01:06:09.160, Speaker A: Thank you so much, man. Also really enjoyed this conversation and appreciate you taking the time. Excited to see this. Yeah, it was awesome.
01:06:09.540 - 01:06:10.500, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you again.
