00:00:00.320 - 00:00:14.758, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Guy refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano. Today's the 19 November 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So what a big, big last 24 hours. A lot to get through. So I'm gonna get right into it.
00:00:14.758 - 00:01:00.656, Speaker A: I spoke to you guys about the Constitution Dao yesterday and how it was this dao that was pulling together a bunch of money in order to bid on one of 13 original copies of the US Constitution. That auction happened today via Sotheby's, and there was also another auction happening as well at just before that happened. I think it was from pranksy or something, and they were taking ETH as, as bids. They weren't just bidding in fiat currency, they were also using ETH. And then you can see here, antiprosynthesis put, put out a tweet saying ETH is money with a, with a screenshot of the live stream where you can see on the right hand side there's a bunch of fiat currencies. And then it priced an ETH down the bottom. So, you know, the funny thing is, this brings me back to like, all throughout, I think it was late 2018, all throughout 2019, a lot of us hardcore ETH people back then were saying, yes, ETH is money.
00:01:00.656 - 00:01:25.800, Speaker A: Like, it's so obvious to us even back then that ETH was money. And we got so much pushback for this from everyone at the time. It was quite annoying, actually, because there was endless debates about this. And I was just like, what's there to debate? If people use ETH as money? It's liquid. You know, people are using it for multiple different things. Then why isn't ETH money? And, you know, in a piece that I wrote in January of 2019 about what made ETH valuable, I actually included this. I was like, well, ETH is being used for all these things.
00:01:25.800 - 00:01:43.838, Speaker A: Of course it's money now. It's pretty much undeniable, right? I mean, ETH is not being used just within the ethereum economy as money. It's being used outside of it as well. Sotheby's is not a small auction house. They're, they're very, very large. They handle, obviously, like very big auctions and they're pricing things in ETH, which is just amazing. So that's the first thing.
00:01:43.838 - 00:02:19.060, Speaker A: Second thing, unfortunately, the constitution, Dao did not win the constitution. We don't know who won it. But I think they hit their limit because not only did they have to pay, I think it solved, sold for $41 million and they had $45 million. But on top of that, they also needed to pay kind of like the fees and kind of a bunch of other costs on top. And it just got out of their kind of like price range there, which is fair enough. So unfortunately didn't win. But I still stand by what I said yesterday about how this is a really, really cool showcase of how Ethereum can be used to formulate these daos that allow for rapid financial and human kind of capital coordination, which I think is amazing.
00:02:19.060 - 00:02:49.700, Speaker A: I mean, that's one of Ethereum's kind of like showcases, sorry, one of its main use cases, and we can showcase that by doing these sorts of things now. I think the cat is out of the bag for sure. I think, like pretty much, you know, I wouldn't be surprised to see all the top mainstream kind of like media websites today report on this and report on kind of like how there was a bid from this, this Dow thing. I don't know how they're going to going to write about it. They're probably going to get it wrong because mainstream media does that. But I'm looking forward to seeing all those headlines because it really is kind of like a defining moment in Ethereum. And not just in Ethereum, but in the Dao space specifically.
00:02:49.700 - 00:03:26.998, Speaker A: Because if you remember back, you know, daos have got, I don't know, they got like a mixed kind of like relationship. Like we had the Dow in 2016, mid 2016 that raised a lot of money at the time, raised a lot of ETH at the time, I think was almost 20 million ETH or something, something crazy like that. But obviously it was worth a lot less back then, like $1020. But then, you know, that blew up. Obviously it got exploited and we had the whole Ethereum, Ethereum classic hard fork and blah blah, right? Rest is history from there. Then 2017, we had ico mania, which kind of like wasn't, I mean, there was some kind of like Dow attempts, but not really. There wasn't.
00:03:26.998 - 00:03:57.470, Speaker A: It wasn't really about the dows, it was about the icos. It was missing the Dow portion to it. And then over the last few years, those have been quiet. Up until recently, I think up until maybe the last twelve months ish, they've been very quiet. And even up until like really recently we had like pleaserdale go live, I guess like a few months ago bidding on nfts, you know, that was a big deal, but, but much smaller than I guess, like what this is the constitution Dow. And I think we're just going to keep bigger and bigger daos. Like, I wouldn't be surprised to see billion dollar daos that are just kind of formulated to, to kind of do these sorts of things.
00:03:57.470 - 00:04:43.285, Speaker A: Like, I know that there are other daos out there that have, like, treasuries full of their own assets, right? Obviously, the uniswap down all that stuff, but I'm talking about DaO specifically formulated to just do something more, less so than daos that are kind of like part of a project, like an existing project, more in the vein of like, what constitution Dow tried to do. So I am really excited to see what, what the future holds here. You know, the one thing that I kind of, like, dislike a bit about crypto is the lack of kind of experimentation a lot of the time, because you may think that we're doing so much experimentation, so much innovation, so much stuff's happening all the time. But if you really boil it down, a lot of it is not a zero to one innovation. It is not kind of like taking us to the next level. It's kind of tweaking what we already have. And the reason why that happens is because it's very lucrative to tweak what we already have.
00:04:43.285 - 00:05:15.442, Speaker A: Like, look at all the EVM side chains that are worth billions of dollars, right? Their native tokens, and they've made their creators a lot of money. Then look at all the different kind of, like, forks of all the popular defi projects. Look at the forks of Om, like Olympus, dow. Just, you know, all these money games, all these Ponzi's. People love to play these things, and the people creating them love to create them because that makes them money. But they're not innovations, right? They're not zero to one innovations. Those things require not only kind of like, special kind of founder, but also require people to actually make the effort to do it and make the effort to get involved with it.
00:05:15.442 - 00:05:40.794, Speaker A: And unfortunately, you know, I think, like, over the, I mean, in the short term, there's just too much noise. You're not going to see much of that. But over the long term, you'll see, like, all the key innovations as they've come along and you'll be able to kind of look back on them and see them all. But in the short term, it just feels like the space is ruled by Ponzis because, I mean, a lot of it is. A lot of it's ruled by Ponzi's and scams and quick money making schemes. And to be honest. I mean, if there's new people coming into this ecosystem, they have no context about anything, right at all.
00:05:40.794 - 00:06:18.044, Speaker A: They're just coming in, they're like, okay, what am I going to do? They see these things and, and they kind of, like, get involved with them. They don't know the differences between them. They may not even know that it's a ponzi or that it's like a kind of money game, as I've called them before. So from that perspective, I don't blame it. But the people that have been here for a while, they definitely should be doing better than what they are. Like, a lot of them, a lot of them are just, like, doing quick cash grabs from what I've seen, you know, and I would, I would like for there to be, I guess, much more innovation and much more kind of experimentation happening there. And, I mean, at a larger scale, it is happening at the smaller scales, but I want more kind of constitution dao esque things happening, to put it kind of, like, put it bluntly.
00:06:18.044 - 00:06:39.164, Speaker A: So hopefully we can get more of that going forward. But, yeah, it was cool to see all this. Cool to say that ETH is money. No one can deny Ethy's money anymore. Like, if you are denying that ETH is money, then really, I don't even want to talk to you because it's just silly to deny it. And on top of that, maybe I'll just give a little jab here. Where's BTC? Where's bitcoin? Right? Like, you know, I just.
00:06:39.164 - 00:07:11.940, Speaker A: When it comes to bitcoin, I don't want to make fun of it, but it's just so hard not to because of the fact that it has failed at everything that it's tried to do. And Ethereum has basically usurped it, like, long ago. And everything that it's tried to do, the only thing left is pretty much market cap. And for people to keep going on about, you know, bitcoin is going to be the world reserve currency, it's going to be money, it's going to be digital God, blah, blah, blah, blah. How, like, where, where's the evidence of this? Like, I don't get it. And I know that people say this because they've got, like, a bias, and I've also got a bias towards Ethereum, of course. But, you know, they've got a bias.
00:07:11.940 - 00:07:36.050, Speaker A: They have, like, an allegiance to it, and they really want it to be bitcoin. They don't want it to be Ethereum. And that's fine. I mean, if people came along to me and said, hey, you know, Ada or Cardano's native token is going to be like, the world reserve currency is going to be money I would tell these people to piss off as well. Right. But at the same time, there's no evidence of Ada being used as money like ETH is. So when you have all these evidence staring you in the face, it's kind of hard to deny at the end of the day.
00:07:36.050 - 00:07:50.750, Speaker A: So that's kind of like my. My view on that. But, yeah, bunch of other stuff to get through. So, moving on, Jerry Brito from coin center. I tweeted this out last night. A lot of you may have missed this because it kind of came out. Actually, no, it came out at, like, almost midnight, my time.
00:07:50.750 - 00:08:13.768, Speaker A: So maybe you didn't miss this, but there was a lot happening. But still. Anyway, I'm going to go over it. So he tweeted out, GM, some good news. A comprehensive bipartisan bill has just been introduced in the White House to. Sorry. In the House, on the White House to fix everything wrong with the infrastructure bill's crypto tax provision, including the unconstitutional 605 I individual reporting mandate section 605 I, um.
00:08:13.768 - 00:08:33.248, Speaker A: Now, I've said this to you guys before in the refuel, that the infrastructure bill, it doesn't go live until 2023. Like, early 2023 live. I mean, like, it doesn't come become law until early 2023, and we have ample time to amend it until then. Right. And that's exactly what's happening. There are bills being introduced to amend this stuff to fix it. You can see in the, in the thread here the detail from Jerry.
00:08:33.248 - 00:08:54.104, Speaker A: He screenshotted each part of the bill and kind of, um, uh, put his own little commentary on it as well. So you can go read all of this. But I guess I just wanted to highlight this because I wanted to show you guys that it's not the end of the world. And the market doesn't think this either. I know the market right now is kind of like in. I don't know, as I said before, I don't think the market's bearish. Is kind of like in no man's land, it seems to be bitcoin that's being weak.
00:08:54.104 - 00:09:35.454, Speaker A: ETH seems to be gaining on bitcoin. So, you know, ETH is fine. And I don't think the market cares about regulatory stuff generally. Like, you know, it's funny, people always point to the china ban of mining as, like, you know, the reason why we crashed in, maybe, I don't know if I buy that as like, the sole reason. If you go back and look at kind of like the chart for bitcoin in May, it had done not leading up to May. It had done an amazing run, right? It had gone basically up only from ten k to 64k with no major crashes from what I, from what I can remember. And then, you know, obviously, like, it went sideways for a bit and then ETH caught back up and kind of like, you know, a lot of the other.
00:09:35.454 - 00:10:16.276, Speaker A: A lot of things in the market caught back up and, and then bitcoin, you know, rolled over, basically, and, and tanked from there. People always point to things to explain. I'm not saying it wasn't a factor, but at the end of the day, that was a huge regulatory action, right? That was literally China actually banning bitcoin mining. Um, but this, this stuff in the US is totally different, not only because it doesn't go into law for a while, but because it can also be appealed and changed and because there's a lot of money. A lot of money, guys, like, literally tens of billions, if not hundreds of billions of dollars, uh, on, you know, uh, worth of kind of like capital behind a lot of the, um, the crypto billionaires, the exchanges, uh, the regulatory, uh, uh, advocacy groups and all that sort of stuff. They're all going to fight for crypto. They're going to fight for us.
00:10:16.276 - 00:10:35.430, Speaker A: We're not a fringe thing anymore. I think what ends up happening is that people still think crypto is fringe. We're almost, you know, we were a $3 trillion asset class. Obviously, we've come down because of the, the price action lately, but essentially, we're not a fringe thing anymore. So there's no use thinking about it like that. It's not like the US can come along and basically be like, oh, it's just this pesty little thing. We'll just get rid of it.
00:10:35.430 - 00:11:05.814, Speaker A: It's fine. No, it's so deeply ingrained into so many people's lives now that literally we're winning on every front, pretty much. And the reason they're fighting us, because they know we're winning. I remember listening to a podcast on bankless. Cathy Wood and other people from Ark were on it, and Cathy was saying that banks are hurting from Defi, not from, you know, people kind of like, I guess, switching, so to speak. But they're kind of like margins. So their margins being like their new growth is actually hurting because instead of, I guess, like probably younger, younger people make up a big portion of this.
00:11:05.814 - 00:11:35.936, Speaker A: Instead of them putting their money into a bank. They're putting it into defi, they're putting into crypto. They're buying crypto with it. And we saw recently the action from the Commonwealth bank in Australia, the largest bank in Australia, say that they're going to, going to kind of be supporting crypto in their, directly, in their app, which is absolutely massive. Right. And the funniest thing about this is that, you know, I was talking to, like, the bat that bank I. To the Commonwealth bank, and I was like this hilarious, like, you know, they, they kind of, like, say that crypto is risky, but then they go ahead and kind of, like, support it.
00:11:35.936 - 00:11:53.160, Speaker A: And I think it's because they, they're being forced to, because they obviously have all the data to see how much money is outflowing from their, from their bank to these crypto exchanges, and they're missing out on easy revenue. And they're going to do it. Right. They're going to integrate it and all the, all the banks are going to do it. They've been doing it. And more institutions are going to get involved. Crypto is inevitable.
00:11:53.160 - 00:12:25.134, Speaker A: So these, that's why I think that these regulations, no matter what they are, at least in the US, in China, it's a bit different. But in the US, you know, western democracy, in places in Europe, it's just very, very different to, to something like China or to Russia or somewhere else where it's kind of like, you know, I mean, not a, not a democracy, right. Where things can't really be changed very easily. Not easily, but like, through kind of like the democratic process. So whenever I see regulatory stuff, I'm like, okay, that, you know, that exists. I mean, it means we're winning. Like, let's just deal with it and kind of move on.
00:12:25.134 - 00:12:53.742, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, you can find this. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, Jerry's thread here, and also the link to the bipartisan bill, which I think is really, really cool. This has been introduced already. So zero hedge shared an article basically saying that Ethereum based holdings among institutions is up 19% in Q three, but bitcoin holdings dip according to SEC filings. So this is not just zero hedge saying this. I know zero hedge is a bit of a controversial source. Their source is actually the SEC filings.
00:12:53.742 - 00:13:19.276, Speaker A: I remember showcasing this a little while ago and basically saying that institutions have pretty much stopped buying bitcoin and they're buying ETH now. And it seems to be even more true. Like, in Q three, I think that was for Q two and Q three seems to be the same thing. And all the kind of things point to this, you know, Coinbase ETH volume being higher than BTC volume. Right. ETH outperforming bitcoin. I know it's kind of like in a range right now, but really, I mean, it hasn't broken down.
00:13:19.276 - 00:13:46.456, Speaker A: Usually Q four is very weak. ETH is very weak against bitcoin. No, that's not happening. This Q four, we're halfway through Q four guys, like, hasn't happened yet. I don't think it's going to happen. So when looking at all that, I mean, I don't even, you know, this isn't even surprising to me because if you're an institutional investor, if you're a traditional finance kind of investor and you're looking at what to invest in, right. BTC and ETH, you could probably argue at this point, BTC and ETH have similar risk profiles in terms of kind of like investing in them.
00:13:46.456 - 00:14:21.288, Speaker A: Yes, I know people say Ethereum has more execution risk because it has all these major upgrades coming, but I don't actually consider that a risk, to be honest. I feel like that's, you know, it's not to under, under undersell, like how important these upgrades are and how difficult they, they are to get. Right. But I have so much confidence in the Ethereum ecosystem that I don't consider there to be a risk there. And these traditional institute, you know, institutional investors, they have to probably. No, they have to definitely not probably. They have to definitely take a kind of like more risk averse view, but they seem to be kind of like much more warm to ethereum these days to eat when kind of like looking at assets to buy.
00:14:21.288 - 00:15:16.660, Speaker A: But as I said, like, you take away the risk portion of it, you look at bitcoin, you look at Ethereum, right? What does Ethereum got? And that bitcoin doesn't have everything, right? And not just that and everything being like the fundamental value, all the, all the things building on it and everything like that. I'm also talking about the fact that these institutions can look at ETH and say, okay, well, the Ethereum network is generating, you know, say, $50 to $80 million of daily fee revenue on any given day, 80 or 70, 80% of that is being burned, which means it's literally removed from the supply and it's indirectly being fed into the ETH value. Right, over time, because removing from, from the active supply, and I've spoken about this before, then you look at DeFi, you look at staking, how big that is as an industry, not just for Ethereum, but for other chains as well. And DeFi, you look at NFTs, you look at the cultural stuff, you look at daos like you look at anything in crypto. It's all Ethereum. All roads lead to Ethereum. And L2, scaling.
00:15:16.660 - 00:15:39.222, Speaker A: I mean, there's so much happening that I'm even forgetting things that are happening. So when you take all that as a holistic approach, if you're an institutional investor or traditional finance investor and you're looking into the ecosystem, it's very, very rare that you're actually going to be looking at much got to do with bitcoin. You know, bitcoin, you might say, okay, they got the futures ETF. Cool. Okay. El Salvador approved it for as a, as a kind of like currency. Yeah, I guess that's cool.
00:15:39.222 - 00:16:11.672, Speaker A: But you know, what else are you hearing about it? The only thing I ever hear about bitcoin and taproot. I mean, no one even cares about Taproot. You know, the funny thing about Taproot is that it was such a measly upgrade. The bitcoin Maximus had to actually lie about what it did. They had to oversell it because it actually didn't do what they said. And it's ironic because they always give have a go at the quote unquote altcoiners for, you know, the deceitful marketing. But, you know, from what I've seen and from all the research I've done on Taproot, it really doesn't bring quote unquote smart contracts to bitcoin in any capacity, in any practical way.
00:16:11.672 - 00:16:51.426, Speaker A: It does not bring it in a way that Ethereum brings smart contracts to the world. So outside of all that, like, what else is bitcoin got? And I know I, again, I don't want to just kind of trash bitcoin the whole, the whole bloody episode today. But I just, I'm getting to a point now where I just, when I see people kind of like ignoring ethereum and ignoring kind of like Ethereum being the flag bearer of the crypto industry, even though all the signs are there, I kind of look at that and I'm like, okay, well, you're in denial, basically. And I, as I said, like, I get that. Like, I have an ethereum bias, obviously. And if I see other things happening, I may be, you know, other, on other chains, I may be in the same position. But at the same time, you know, the thing is, is that it's really just like a theory.
00:16:51.426 - 00:17:14.866, Speaker A: I'm regardless of the, you know, people use other chains because the gas fees are high. Well, I mean, ethereum is also, is still the center of innovation, the hotbed of innovation. It's still where all the most exciting things are happening. I've looked at all the other chains. I actually don't really see anything in the other chains that are a zero to one innovation that would be enough for me to kind of like, dive deeper into. People say, oh, this chain uses this consensus mechanism. Like, I'm sorry, guys, but that's not really, doesn't really matter at the end of the day.
00:17:14.866 - 00:17:45.472, Speaker A: Like, it doesn't matter that much. It's marginalized. You know, maybe it's a marginal improvement on Ethereum's proof of stake, which is, by the way, six years worth of research and development went into that consensus mechanism. And people say, oh, there's these products that exist here that don't exist on Ethereum. And I'm like, okay, well, they're just clones of Ethereum apps, or they're just ports of existing apps that were on Ethereum. And then I look at Ethereum, what's happening on there, even in, despite of the, of the high gas fees, and I kind of like, see that? And I'm like, okay, well, Ethereum is doing so much more than is innovating. So much more than any other kind of, like, ecosystem.
00:17:45.472 - 00:18:13.690, Speaker A: So why do I care to pay attention to other, other ecosystems? Also, my time is limited. So, yeah, anyway, that's another rant. I always go on these rants, right. And I have a lot to get through. So just wanted to kind of highlight that, that, um, you know, ETH has a lot of institutional interest for a variety of reasons, and I don't expect that to slow down anytime soon, especially leading up to the merge. Guys, we still got the merge coming. That is going to be memed into like, every corner of, like, the finance world that a 90% issue introduction is coming for.
00:18:13.690 - 00:18:43.978, Speaker A: For a network that already burns 50 plus million dollars a day of its native asset. Like, come on, guys, like, how can you not be bullish either? Literally the best asset ever. Not investment advice, but I'm getting myself too bullish. Anyway, more bullish stuff to come. Time, speaking of institutional investors, time. Time magazine is actually going to be holding ETH on its balance sheet as part of its deal with crypto investment firm Galaxy Digital to educate readers about the metaverse. Again, more institutions piling into this stuff, more of them getting involved with Ethereum.
00:18:43.978 - 00:19:17.270, Speaker A: I mean, I didn't even mention the metaverse. Before, when I was talking about the use case of Ethereum, there's just so much I didn't mention daos, didn't mention social tokens, so much going on. Very hard not to be bullish. And for another bullish piece of news, Binance, who, I never expected Binance to do this this quickly, but they have completed an integration with arbitrum one, so the current arbitrum L2 network and have opened up the ETH deposits. So you can go directly from arbitrum one to binance with your ETH deposit. No seven day withdrawal, no going through layer one and paying gas fees. You can go direct to binance to off board.
00:19:17.270 - 00:20:07.394, Speaker A: And they've said that they're going to be doing kind of like withdrawals soon, which means you'll be able to go directly from binance, the biggest centralized exchange in the world, to arbitram one, without paying layer one gas fees. It's amazing. I mean, this is incredibly bullish news. I did not expect finance to move this quickly on this, especially because they have a competing interest in BSC, which I'm going to talk about in a little bit as well. But this is just, I mean, it's insane. Like, I am so looking forward to the other centralized, big centralized exchanges like Coinbase getting a kick up the butt to basically tell them, hey, binance is beating you again with, with what? With what they're doing. Please, please, please hurry up and do your integrations, because I really do think this is a massive customer funnel getting people onto your centralized exchange to onboard onto these L2s and to off board as well, because if you allow them to on and off board while they're going to keep using you, there's a network effect to be built there.
00:20:07.394 - 00:20:34.544, Speaker A: So I really, I don't understand why other centralized exchanges are dragging their feet here. They should, this should be their top priority because we haven't even scratched the surface, haven't even started with the L2 rollout yet. We're already at 5 billion TvL, and I'm telling you, when arbitrum and optimism, Zksync stuck it, when they all do their tokens, it's game over. There is going to be so much money pouring into these things, there's going to be so much activity happening on them, and it's just going to be incredible. And as I've said before, they're still in their early stages. We've got stress. So much more to go.
00:20:34.544 - 00:20:53.856, Speaker A: All these L2 networks, seriously, the exchanges need to do these. So I'm very very happy about this. Like, kudos to Binance on this. I've been very critical of binance in the past, very critical of CZ in the past. But he, you know, they seem to be on the right track here. Cz even tweeted about it from his own account, which I thought was really cool. So amazing to see.
00:20:53.856 - 00:21:10.974, Speaker A: I'm super pumped about that. And speaking of, I guess, like on and off boarding vehicles, Zksync has partnered with crypto.com today. So crypto, crypto.com also supports arbitrary right now. You can actually on and off board using crypto.com to arbitrary right now, which is really, really cool.
00:21:10.974 - 00:21:37.690, Speaker A: They're obviously not as big as binance, but still, it's a way to do it. And now they have ZK sync on board too. I mean, zksync seems to be everywhere right now. I think next year is going to be a big year for them when they actually finally launch. But that's amazing. Sticking with L2 stuff, Connext has a new chain alert for us. Optimistic ethereum is now available with connect, so you can use connects bridging servers via xpollinate IO to go from optimism direct to other l two s and side chains.
00:21:37.690 - 00:21:56.074, Speaker A: So you can check out more in details in the medium post here. But this is amazing. You know, this is all coming so quickly. Seriously, guys, I did not expect this to come this quickly in terms of like bridging integrations with centralized exchanges. These l two s growing as fast as they have already. Major upgrades like OVM 2.0 and arbitrary nitro coming soon.
00:21:56.074 - 00:22:18.484, Speaker A: It's all happening. And oh man, I am ecstatic about this. Like, I am literally so happy about this. And you know, the funny thing is, is that like, it's not just this kind of like l two s as well. You know, even the, I've come around to the fact that these EVM side chains, they're so good for Ethereum because they're still EVM. Like Ethereum is going to be scaling at L2 via the EVM as well. Like obviously with arbitrary and optimism.
00:22:18.484 - 00:23:01.534, Speaker A: And then EVM compatible ZK roll ups like Zksync and Starco is going to have a transpiler that is the moat and the network effect there. So even if these developers are deploying to other chains, like EVM side chains, they're still using solidity, they're still using the EVM. There's still kind of like, there's still a network effect forming around aetherium, even though, you know, it's not technically ethereum. It's still kind of like in that kind of world, in that universe, and it's still incredibly additive, I think, to a theorem. So super excited to see that. But yeah, I know I'm like extra bullish today. It's end of week and you know, I'm just on a high, really, like after seeing all these news today over the last kind of 24 hours especially, I watched the constitution Dow bid live and that was just like a real cool community thing that happened today on Twitter.
00:23:01.534 - 00:23:27.460, Speaker A: But yeah. Great to see this integration from Connext next here from Alex Miller from grid. So the grid lattice support is now on the official metamask extension for chromium browsers, and they have some more lattices in stock. What this means is that if you, once you update your metamask, you'll be able to use it with the lattice one, which has been a pain point for users. I know. And now you're able to do it, and they have more lattices in stock. So if you haven't bought yours yet, definitely go check it out.
00:23:27.460 - 00:23:46.928, Speaker A: I've spoken about the grid lattice a lot. It is by far the most secure hardware wallet that you can get. Yes, I know it's more clunky. It's not like a little kind of usb key that you get with a ledger, but it will give you like a full screen. You'll be able to see what your, what transaction message you're signing. You're able to see what transactions you're signing in full so you can protect yourself. Um, it has like tamper resistance.
00:23:46.928 - 00:24:15.346, Speaker A: It, I mean, it has so many security features, it's insane. Just go look at the website. Um, and, uh, you know, the fact that they've kind of like been out of stock is amazing because that means that people are actually waking up to them and buying them and kind of like getting involved with them. And now that it has metamask support, I think they're going to get even more sales from this. So absolutely amazing to see that. Really, really excited about that. Uh, tuba put out this interesting tweet today where they said new projects should airdrop their tokens to people who have held their uni ens, etc.
00:24:15.346 - 00:24:56.012, Speaker A: Airdrops creates an incentive for people to hold their airdrops in expectation of future rewards from other projects. This is how we win together. I actually think this is an interesting idea for a few reasons. First reason is that I agree with tuba here. It creates an interesting incentive not to dump your tokens because you're expecting another airdrop from another project later on down the line at some time, right? But at the same time, on the other end of things, it's kind of like a risk. Like, do you take the risk that if you hold these tokens, say the tokens, I'm just gonna pick up a random number. Say you get tokens, token price is $50 each, and say you have, like, $10,000 airdrop, and then over the next six months, the token price drops to $10.
00:24:56.012 - 00:25:35.164, Speaker A: Your airdrop is now worth $1,000, but then you get another airdrop on top of that, and that air drop is worth, say, $10,000 again. Yes, it was better. You were, you were kind of like, better off holding the token that kind of lost the value, right? So that you got this new token. But in saying that, was it really worth the risk for an extra thousand dollars? I don't know. It's up to people to kind of, like, come to the terms of that themselves. But at the same time, you know, they could work the other way where the token price either stays flat or goes up against USD over time, and then in six months time, you get another massive airdrop and you kind of compound from there. But I don't know if that's gonna, I don't know if that's gonna achieve.
00:25:35.164 - 00:26:11.104, Speaker A: Like, it comes back to what goal the projects are trying to achieve. Like, are you trying to get, like, alignment? Are you trying to get them more involved with your dow? Are you just trying to kind of, like, make it so that people don't dump the token straight away? I don't know. Because what's gonna end up happening if this starts playing out is that imagine, you know, everyone that held their Ens tokens gets an airdrop next week from some other project, but then that doesn't happen again for six months. In those six months, people are going to keep waiting, but then they're going to sell. They're going to sell anyway. So I don't know. Unless it's confirmed that these other projects aren't going to give tokens to anyone except these people that hold these, you know, certain.
00:26:11.104 - 00:26:59.094, Speaker A: Certain other airdrops. I don't know how effective this will be, but I still think it's a decent idea. It's probably better than the way airdrops are done today in terms of a token distribution method. But at the same time, it can't just be to the holders of these other airdrops, because you can imagine that if ENS only airdrop tokens to the holders of the uni airdrop? Well, I mean, there's probably a lot of people who didn't hold their uni airdrop as part of and still had an ENS name, and they would have gotten nothing. So it's probably not the kind of like rights incentive alignment a lot of the time. But there are some things you can do here and there are some synergies that I think that can be had and still an interesting idea nonetheless. So AavE announced that AavE Arc, the first Aave Ark market, which is the institutional arm, is being introduced here.
00:26:59.094 - 00:27:34.236, Speaker A: So you can go and look at this on mirror. They're introducing it with fireblocks, as the proposed first whitelist are. So you can check out in the background the fact that it's going to have KYC because it's servicing institutional clients and working with fireblocks, which a lot of you may not know what flyer blocks is, but it's basically like enterprise grade kind of infrastructure for. It's like playing with centralized exchanges, playing with. With all the stuff that needs kind of like regulations and all that sort of stuff. But, yeah, this is, this is really cool. I think there's a bit of controversy around Aave arc when they first announced that people saying, if we introduce KYC into defi kind of defeats the whole purpose.
00:27:34.236 - 00:28:11.068, Speaker A: But the thing is, there's room for both because just because Aave Ark has KYC doesn't mean that the normal aave markets will ever have KYC. And then some people brought up the concern of, well, the liquidity is just going to go from the normal Aave markets to the. To the other arc markets because they have more money, because they're institutions, right? They're managing other people's money. Yes and no. I feel like, you know, there may be a segregation where it becomes the retail portion and the institutional portion, but that segregation is going to exist regardless, I think, in general, and I think that the institutions are still going to go into the retail area because that's. There's going to be money to be made there. There's going to be, you know, lots of users there for them to tap into.
00:28:11.068 - 00:28:59.404, Speaker A: So I don't know. I don't really think it's too much of a concern, but, yeah, great to see Ave continuing along with this. I got a couple of other things I want to get through just before time's up here. So I want to talk about this from our old mate Edgar. You'll probably remember, Edgar, from all those kind of like, real discussions about how Mev and was going to reorgan and whatever. I talked about that, like, a few months ago, but he shared a link today to a GitHub issue where he said, there's an incredible thread of BSc, or binance smart chain validators threatening to dump the whole chain and move on because the BSc devs just merge shit to master, which means they merge any kind of, like, updates to the protocol to the master branch, which is like, the main net branch, don't test anything, and the validators can't keep in sync, and then they're like, all kind of like, blaming binance for not kind of, like, fixing it. I.
00:28:59.404 - 00:29:34.440, Speaker A: This is my shocked face, guys. Like, I warned about this such a long time ago. All BSC did to achieve their scalability was reduced block times up the gas limit and make it seriously expensive for validators to run the, run the kind of, like, software, because of the fact that it's. That the state is growing at an unmanageable, unmanageable pace. And, you know, you can see here there's a lot of people complaining about this. They're saying, you know, I'm tired of trying to keep my node synced. Even with NVMe, which is SSD, 196 gig of ram, all possible configurations in sync mode, my node loses sync very quickly.
00:29:34.440 - 00:30:18.920, Speaker A: So that means that the harder requirements for BSC are, like, you know, above this. And you remember that Solana has similar requirements in terms of RAM. And the reason why they work is because they're in massive data centers, and that's still just as expensive, if not more expensive, than BSC. And this comes back to what I've been saying, like, for so long, is that the reason why Ethereum isn't just going to increase the gas limit to juice out more scalability, isn't just going to reduce the block time, isn't going to make it really hard for people to run nodes, is not only because we want to preserve decentralization, but also because we want to preserve network health. Like, if you can't even sync the chain, like, any, if no one can sink the chain, if no one can actually run the chain, then the network falls over and dies. And then what ends up happening is that you need to do what's called a regenesis, which means you remove all the old state and start again. But that's not a solution.
00:30:18.920 - 00:30:48.022, Speaker A: That's like a, you know, it's not, it's not like a long term viable solution. It's literally a very huge centralization vector. Um, so, yeah, I mean, you can read through this and see all the comments here. I just thought I'd highlight it because it's just so many people warned about this, like, so many people. And at the time, we were ignored and scoffed at and laughed at because there was money being made. But this is exactly why ethereum is being developed the way it is. And this is exactly why we've chosen to keep Ethereum layer one expensive to use, because we want to be able to verify the chain.
00:30:48.022 - 00:31:05.056, Speaker A: We want to be able to keep the network alive 100% of the time. We want it to be healthy, and then we'll just do all the scaling. Layer two, it's fine. It's no issue. And I said in the Discord channel today, I'm like, I wonder if BSc becomes a roll up. Imagine they do that. Imagine they just convert their chain to a roll up.
00:31:05.056 - 00:31:30.408, Speaker A: They fork optim optimism or arbitrary. They fork one of the ZK stuffs and they call it binance smart chain roll up edition or something, and then they continue on their merry way. That would be fine. They get all the Ethereum community on board as well. No one would hate BSc anymore because it would basically be something that was paying Ethereum for its security, you know, using eat. They could even keep, they could still keep BNB and all that sort of stuff. And they would be kind of like symbiotic instead of parasitic to Ethereum.
00:31:30.408 - 00:32:04.518, Speaker A: And so I'd be interested to see if they do that. I actually think, as I said before, the EVM side chain layer ones are a higher chance of becoming a roll up than like the standalone layer ones, like Solana and Cardano and a few others out there, like Polkadot and stuff like that. I mean, then, I mean, I actually don't think Polkadot would ever become a roll up or anything like that. Solana maybe. I mean, I don't know, it kind of like, it gets a bit murky, but they're actually, they could actually work well as an execution layer, as I've explained before. But then the bunch of the other ones out there, Cardano, no, that's never happening. They're cultish too strong.
00:32:04.518 - 00:32:23.118, Speaker A: They don't want to. They don't want to do that. And Charles would never, would ever before that. But I do think, you know, BC could do that. So I'm interested to see if they, they pivot to this because it gives them way more scalability. They don't have to worry about all these issues they have to worry about here. They don't have to worry about consensus or keeping it consensus, liveness, all that sort of stuff.
00:32:23.118 - 00:32:42.884, Speaker A: They can simply outsource that stuff to Ethereum mainnet, just pay main net with the fees, generate, sorry, pay main net for fees and then just worry about doing the execution. They could still have an EVM, kind of like implementation and everything. That'll be fine. As I said, they probably just fork optimism or arbitrary. It's a free world. Everyone can. They've already been forked, so you can just keep forking them if you want.
00:32:42.884 - 00:33:11.314, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm curious to see how that plays out. And I guess wrapping up on time here. So last thing so the second merge Community call will be held on December 3 at 1400 utc or 09:00 p.m. Eastern time is us time. So Trent says here that they'd love to hear from apps, wallets, explorers and infrastructure providers, and there may be some content overlap from the first call. So if you fit into any of those categories, definitely go check out this link, which I'll put in the YouTube description for you. Cool to see.
00:33:11.314 - 00:33:35.834, Speaker A: You know, the mergers plucking along, I know, doesn't mean too much noise about the merge lately, but that's good. It means, you know, progress is being made in the background when there's major updates to kind of like be announced and people out there into the ecosystem, they will, and I will for sure cover them on the refuel. But for today, that is it. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone.
00:33:35.834 - 00:33:36.614, Speaker A: Bye.
