00:00:00.170 - 00:00:43.094, Speaker A: Welcome to our webinar today, harnessing the power of digital assets and blockchain in 2024 strategies for traditional finance. My name is Doug Schwank from digital Asset Research, and I'm pleased to be the moderator with two great panelists. Sergey Nazroff from Chainlink and sandy call from Franklin Templeton. We are here to talk about how banks, asset managers, and other financial institutions of every stripe can strategically implement digital assets and blockchain technology, and what this year ahead holds for us. Sandy, do you want to introduce yourself? And then Sergey.
00:00:43.222 - 00:01:22.310, Speaker B: Nice to be here with Sergey. Nice to have everyone in the audience joining. My name is Sandy Call. I am the head of industry advisory services at Franklin Templeton. We look at thought leadership on how the investment and wealth management industries are evolving and changing. And I also am fortunate enough to be the head of strategy for our digital asset unit inside Franklin Templeton, which is one of the market leading offerers of digital services right now in the ecosystem. So happy to talk about our journey, what we are doing, where we see the world heading, and very excited to be here with Sergey.
00:01:22.310 - 00:01:32.234, Speaker B: I pointed out to Sergey just before we began that I have been invested in and following Chainlink since it emerged and think it is extraordinary. So I'll turn it over to him.
00:01:32.352 - 00:02:11.800, Speaker C: Great. Thank you very much, Sandy. So I'm Sergey. I'm a co founder of Chainlink. I've been in the smart contract industry for over well over ten years, building the kind of, I think, newest things that come out from an application point of view initially and then switching to infrastructure, and very excited to see experienced, thoughtful people like Sandy doing so many great things for our industry. So, Sandy, thank you so much for joining us here in this talk and all the things you're doing to move the entire blockchain industry forward. Frankly, very excited to hear and discuss your views here with everyone.
00:02:13.770 - 00:02:30.880, Speaker A: Let's get started with the blockchain and digital asset opportunity. Sandy, you've been at the forefront of the digital asset revolution, both at Franklin Templeton and before. How and why is Franklin Templeton adopting blockchain tech?
00:02:31.810 - 00:03:19.974, Speaker B: Yeah, so we really started in the blockchain space back in 2017 at Franklin Templeton. And we started from a very simple premise. Right. Our CEO, Jenny Johnson, had had many functions in the firm before moving into the CEO's position, and one of her main responsibilities and previous roles had been to run tech and ops for Franklin Templeton. We were our own transfer agent. We were literally doing the books and records and doing the transfer agency work on thousands of funds, which meant thousands and thousands of ledgers. And she heard about this new blockchain ledger technology and wanted the team to experiment and see could we save money moving some of these operations onto the blockchain.
00:03:19.974 - 00:04:02.054, Speaker B: It started off as just a very simple tech project. What the team found out, though, especially beginning back in 2017, is that the deeper we went into the space, the more the opportunity of how this could transform. Not only the way we do operations, but the entire industry became clearer and clearer. So we started, and at that point, there was no wallet system that existed where we could do Kyc AML. So we built a wallet system. We built our own blockchain based transfer agency system. We realized in doing this that to record transactions on a blockchain, we needed to have tokens of that blockchain to pay for our transactions.
00:04:02.054 - 00:05:06.942, Speaker B: So we started needing to manage these tokens in our treasury, which in turn meant that we needed to understand the tokenomics of the supply and the demand on the tokens, because we wanted to be able to manage those supplies in our treasury. And then we started really understanding what the protocols were doing in the transaction space, particularly as we expanded across different chains, because we realized that to be a participant in the space, you need to do your node verification. So we started verifying trades in the networks where we operated. And all of this gave us insights into how powerful the innovation coming out of the ecosystem has been. And we had launched initially a government, US government money market fund as our test case, because it had actions that were administered each day, right? Each day you pay a yield on the money market fund. So we thought this was a great test case. We were also a little lucky because interest rates were at zero when we first decided to tokenize our money market fund.
00:05:06.942 - 00:05:51.014, Speaker B: And so having that tokenized money market fund in this latest period when interest rates went up, was very fortuitous for us. But it was that experience in launching that chain that really made us huge believers in the opportunity in the space. And so we built out our own investment research team who are doing coin level research at this point. We have eleven different model portfolios that we're trading with live track records that have between 18 and 30 coins in each portfolio. We have a blockchain based venture capital fund that we're trading. We're doing our own staking on networks that require staking. And we have recently launched our bitcoin ETF and filed for an ether ETF.
00:05:51.014 - 00:06:01.440, Speaker B: So we're very active in the space. We see lots of opportunity forthcoming in both traditional assets and new crypto assets, and we couldn't be more excited about the future.
00:06:03.330 - 00:06:15.780, Speaker A: Sergey, you've been doing this about as long as financial institutions have been involved in blockchain. How have you seen the financial institutions you work with evolve their digital asset strategy over the past few years?
00:06:17.750 - 00:07:04.100, Speaker C: Yeah. Thank you. I've seen a lot of evolution. I mean, just very quickly, one of the things I'd like to say is I feel that both Sandy's understanding and Franklin Templeton's progress in the capital markets and the asset management industry is actually very far ahead of what I see in terms of a lot of the other people in that industry. They are, I would say, at the very, very top and the cutting edge of everything she described. And I think it's great to see someone of their size and reputation and stature and kind of brand recognition doing that to that degree of technical involvement in our industry. So I just want to kind of clarify that, unfortunately, Sandy and Frankl Templeton are a bit of a unique case right now.
00:07:04.100 - 00:07:57.800, Speaker C: Not everyone is as involved or informed or integrated into blockchain technology as they are, which is still great to see that that's where they are. What I've seen is that people are a few years away from, maybe, depending on the folks, a year or more away from where Sandy and Franklin Templeton are in the vast majority of cases. And to get there, they'd have to make a very significant investment. The thing that I've seen evolve over the years is, at first the story was that cryptocurrencies would become regulated out of existence. That was the first story. Then once you crossed, I think, 200 billion in market cap, I think people became kind of cognizant that something can't continue to exist for this long and be at 200 billion if it doesn't make sense. So I think there was a kind of tipping point when the value in the industry went to a certain level.
00:07:57.800 - 00:08:22.090, Speaker C: Then everyone began engaging in custody. Right. So a number of custody solutions appeared. Bitgo is a good example. Others are good examples where custody solutions appeared, started offering software to various capital markets participants. Some of the capital markets participants built their own custody solutions and became good at that. But that was the next step, is custodying other people's tokens.
00:08:22.090 - 00:09:15.466, Speaker C: And that is kind of the stage that I would say we're in the middle of. We're not in the early days of custody. We're in the middle of custody. The late stages of custody are when, I think the more advanced custody institutions begin to provide their own custody services for blockchain so everyone that does traditional custody will eventually provide crypto custody, whether they reskin a custody software provider, whether they build their own or whatever. So I would say we're in the middle to maybe middle, late stages of the custody side of how the chain ecosystem is being interacted with, with the capital markets. And we're in the very early stages, the very, very beginning stages of what is now being referred to as tokenization or real world assets. Those are the two most common terms I hear now, the evolution there is that, okay, we've done custody of other people's assets.
00:09:15.466 - 00:10:28.454, Speaker C: How do we get involved in composing or even creating new on chain assets? Right? So where everything is now is that the promise of blockchain technology is starting to become delivered in the capital markets, because you're generating assets and you're packaging those assets into more and more advanced financial products. And those assets might not be cryptocurrencies. So now these assets might be asset manager generated or bank generated, but they're natively capital market generated. And then the capital markets will flow them into various places where consumers can interact with them. The issuance or the creation of the asset process, I think, is now in the process of flipping from the majority of assets being made on public chains by startup teams to a lot of the assets being made by capital markets participants, asset managers, banks, and so on. Because fundamentally, that's what they do, right? They take assets and they wrap them in various legal and technical frameworks to allow the global financial markets to interact with them. This is what the global financial industry does.
00:10:28.454 - 00:10:37.240, Speaker C: So I think we're at the very early stages of that, and people like Sandy are really kind of trailblazing where that's going.
00:10:37.850 - 00:10:45.260, Speaker A: Let's move on to the state of adoption. Sandy, what industry trends excite you the most for 2024?
00:10:46.190 - 00:11:41.210, Speaker B: So I think Sergey hit on the biggest, which is this idea that for the first time, it is really dawning on the majority of the traditional investment management and traditional banking systems that these rails create all new opportunities for us. Right. And that people are now beginning to make those plans and embrace the technology. And this was something that we should have seen coming. We kind of see this trend happen over and over with very new technologies taking a little bit of time for their potential to be understood by the financial industry. We saw the same thing with cloud technologies. I remember having many, many conversations, some of them even with you, Doug, with firms, about why it was going to be beneficial for financial services to take advantage of cloud based, service based offerings.
00:11:41.210 - 00:12:25.594, Speaker B: That is so commonplace. Now, it's hard to remember that those conversations even took place, but they did. And we're at that point in the cycle again now where I think Sergey completely identified the tipping point, which is we issue assets, right? We issue assets. We trade assets. We put assets into portfolios. We wrap portfolios in different wrappers to make them accessible to investors. And when you think about the way in which we do that, the market infrastructure on which we have been doing that is 50 years old, right? We came out with all of the processes that kind of define today's financial market infrastructure back in the early 1970s.
00:12:25.594 - 00:13:29.354, Speaker B: And though we've added better computing power and more service based ways of accessing those services, it is still the same set of services that we've been performing for 50 years. And what we are starting to see with the blockchain technologies is there are ways to improve that tremendously. Right? There are ways to cut the processing times to get more real time information. There are ways to enable 24 x seven x 365 trading. Because we live in a global world, our businesses operate in global worlds, and we should be able to trade portfolios in global worlds around the clock. We are looking at new ways of kind of now exchanging assets in a manner that brings together cash and securities that has never really existed in the same formulation of being able to really think of these as completely transferable securities in the moment. And we are starting to put assets into common holding structures called wallets.
00:13:29.354 - 00:14:21.322, Speaker B: And if you think about the complexity of account structures today, that's a huge improvement just in and of itself. So I think that the biggest trend for 2024 is just as Franklin Templeton did on our journey. I think a lot of firms, as they start to partake in these explorations, which start off with perhaps a very modest goal. Right? We started off with a very modest goal. But what happens is I think the more you engage in this space, the greater the opportunity set becomes, because your better, your understanding becomes. And that's where I think you're going to see a lot of progress made in 2024. I've seen, even in just the last six months, the level of understanding and excitement and expansive thinking from my peers that I speak with has moved tremendously.
00:14:21.322 - 00:14:28.900, Speaker B: So I think we're going to see a lot of excitement, a lot of building, and a lot of new opportunities emerge in the coming year.
00:14:29.990 - 00:14:47.510, Speaker A: There's one thing I know about you, Sandy, is you always see the curve and you're out in front of it. So excited to hear that from you. Sergey, how is Chainlink helping institutions navigate the fragmentation within the expanding multi chain landscape.
00:14:48.910 - 00:15:21.026, Speaker C: Sure. So there's three fundamental problems that firms will face as they reach Sandy's level. And everyone together with Sandy goes even beyond that level, is basically three fundamental problems. The first technical problem will be around data, will be how to convey data into all of these tokenized assets. That'll be the first fundamental problem, because the tokenized asset needs the data to function, just like Defi needs the data to function. It's basically the same technical situation. Exactly.
00:15:21.026 - 00:16:27.650, Speaker C: Without certain pieces of data, you won't actually be able to make the asset function correctly. And I personally think that in the capital markets, you need much more data because there's more requirements like identity requirements and others. So the flow of data to assets needs to actually increase for the capital markets to properly tokenize things, the quality of data, the security of the data, and so on. So that's the first problem. The second problem is the cross chain connectivity problem. Basically, how do you connect all of the assets, all of the liquidity, on all of the different chains, across various chain technologies, into a single asset that wants people to purchase it? Right? So if your asset is on a public chain and there's a bunch of liquidity on other public chains, how does all that liquidity access your asset once you've properly made it, using the right code and the right data? So now you've made the asset, you've connected it to the other assets on other public and private and various chains. Now you're kind of in a situation where the asset can be purchased and moved.
00:16:27.650 - 00:17:49.406, Speaker C: It can be moved to the counterparty's chain, it can be moved to a custody chain, it can be moved to another public chain, it can be moved to any number of places. And this is where you reach the third problem of keeping all the information updated. So this third problem is a problem people other than Sandy and a few select others in the blockchain industry that aren't as advanced, are not very familiar with yet. But the reality is that if you're in a fragmented, multi blockchain world, whether that's a public blockchain world, a private chain world, probably a mixed world, you end up with a data problem, then you end up with a cross chain problem, then you end up with a cross chain data problem, basically. And what chainlink is doing, has been doing now for years, is providing all of the data that powers the vast majority of on chain applications. Now, with CCIP and the cross chain capabilities of both a data and value messaging movement mechanism, you can now, solve not only the data problem, not only the crosschain problem, but also the cross chain data problem. And you actually have to solve all three of these problems, because if you tokenize something and then you connect it to somewhere else, and then you move it somewhere else, if that thing doesn't continue to remain updated, then it loses its ability to function correctly.
00:17:49.406 - 00:18:38.610, Speaker C: And also, when you move it to other places, you want to do it in the least friction, least costly way possible from an integrations point of view. And that actually increases the amount of counterparties that you can have for it, which is the way that we're fundamentally trying to accelerate the adoption of blockchain technology in the capital markets is by solving those three problems. And because Chainlink is the only system that actually does cross chain and data at the level of security and speed and connectivity that it does, I think that at the moment, at least, Chainlink is the only system that solves the third cross chain data problem, which is a critical requirement for assets that work across chains. It's not just moving a data enriched asset, it's moving it and allowing it to continue functioning as a data enriched asset.
00:18:38.950 - 00:19:11.690, Speaker A: Sandy, the spot bitcoin ETF is taking all the oxygen out of the room these days, or it has for a while, and you've been at the forefront of that with Franklin's offering. How does that expand the marketplace, this US spot bitcoin ETF for investment? And related to that, how does adding bitcoin to a portfolio change things? Does that have impacts on our traditional allocation models?
00:19:12.530 - 00:20:00.638, Speaker B: Yeah. So it's been a very exciting time these last few weeks. I don't think we've ever seen anything like the launch of the spot bitcoin ETF, where you had ten different firms literally launching a brand new product that had never really existed before, simultaneously with a whole SEC countdown and hacking. It was very exciting. They'll probably make movies about it. But what I think has gotten sometimes missed in the excitement over the actual launch has been why? Why is this such an important product for the marketplace? And I think it's important on two fronts. Number one, it's important because bitcoin has been the best performing asset class in eight of the last ten years.
00:20:00.638 - 00:21:23.394, Speaker B: Right. It's important because bitcoin was the originator of blockchain and the originator of some of the new practices that have become commonplace in the crypto domain. And it was hard to invest in that innovation because of the way that you needed to invest in bitcoin through either a centralized or a decentralized exchange and you needed to hold the asset in a wallet, right? So it was an unusual way of accessing a new technology. Compare that to when chat GPT came out last year, the money that flowed into these AI stocks, because people understood that those companies that originated these early LMM models and these early AI offerings were of huge potential value because of their innovative importance, right? Bitcoin never got the benefit of seeing that innovative importance because it was very hard to trade. Now it is becoming much easier to trade. And the reason that's important is because bitcoin really is going to be seen as history, as introducing the pivot point from today's platform economy, which I think everyone on this call is very familiar with. And many of the firms on this call have made a lot of money by participating in the platform economy.
00:21:23.394 - 00:22:32.602, Speaker B: But the launch of bitcoin really marked the pivot to what we are calling the protocol economy. And this protocol economy offers a very different value proposition, right? In the traditional platform economy, you invested into the company that built the platform, that attracted the users and that created network effects, right? So you were buying the company based on the value proposition of it, could create network effects and benefit from that. But now with the protocol economy, of which bitcoin was the originator, you are buying the network. You are buying the network effects, you are buying the network. And I think that is such an advancement in the investment hypothesis. But so many people have lost that because they got very caught up in the mechanics of the early bitcoin trading, the difficulty of accessing it. So as a product, the bitcoin ETF is going to now have a place in portfolios because of its spectacular performance and its speculative performance in the past.
00:22:32.602 - 00:23:33.354, Speaker B: But in doing so, it's going to open up the real story of innovation, of why is bitcoin having that type of performance and what is it enabling? And I think people will really start to internalize we as investment managers particularly, who are always looking for that next growth opportunity for our clients. It will start to recognize that this is the pivot that we've been waiting for to the next economy, which is going to be the protocol economy. So that's why it's going to be in history, so important in present. It's also so important because we have heard over and over about the need for diversification into alternatives in individual and wealth portfolios. Alternatives have been difficult to access because of the liquidity structure. Even some of the newer retail focused offerings have liquidity issues associated with them for smaller accounts, whereas crypto and bitcoin. And the bitcoin ETF is something very liquid that can now play the role of that alternative exposure in many accounts.
00:23:33.354 - 00:23:54.120, Speaker B: So that's the short term case. But the longer term case of why this is such an important moment is going to be that it is really going to now open up the story of innovation that blockchain kicked off and the story of this pivot to the protocol economy in a way that I think investors will really be able to internalize and understand.
00:23:56.650 - 00:24:07.850, Speaker A: Let's move on to some financial services adoption use cases. Sandy, what does blockchain technology make possible for the asset management industry?
00:24:08.830 - 00:25:20.670, Speaker B: So first off, it makes possible a whole new type of interoperability between assets, right? Today, when I think about using one of my assets and using it as either collateral or using it to create leverage, or using it to borrow or to lend or using it to engage with another counterparty, there's a lot of frictions that go along with that process, right. And there's a lot of timing delays. The contracts that I agree to sit separately from the assets and the systems that are moving the assets, there's a lot of difficulty. We make it work, but we make it work a little bit with chewing gum and with sticks. Right? What this enables is this to really operate as an effective, smooth system. Right? Smart contracts that Sergey had mentioned earlier are so critical. Right? I mean, my aha moment about this whole space came when I realized that I could now embed the contract that governs the asset's activities into the asset itself, and that the contract would move with the asset.
00:25:20.670 - 00:26:48.750, Speaker B: Right? Just think about that and all the problems that that solves in today's financial ecosystem. That is what we are starting to enable, and that is what Sergey's team is starting to enable. And that's going to allow for things like Intraday repo, intraday short flash type lending ability to actually now start to use assets interoperably between each other in different ways in the wallet to optimize your asset holdings. Just like we today sweep certain unused cash from an account, a fund account, into a money market fund, and then back the next day, we're going to have many more types of these types of processes that are going to enable intraday efficiencies and 24 7365 efficiencies that will allow us to operate over weekends and overnight in off geographies. These are going to all be enabled because these new technologies can operate in a way that is semi automated, where once the contract is properly set up, it's going to be able to be executing even when there is not someone deliberately overseeing it. And I think that opens up huge potential for the industry. So I think you're going to see it primarily in financing, in the near term, financing and inefficiencies around settlements, and inefficiencies around capital utilization, and inefficiencies about collateral optimization.
00:26:52.500 - 00:26:55.670, Speaker A: Suge, did you want to jump in on this question as.
00:26:56.200 - 00:28:15.020, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, sure. Thank you. Just to really echo what Sandy was saying, I think the composability is quite a huge advancement in how people can package together various different assets. And I think there eventually will be this wave of mass personalization where people can select multiple different assets from multiple different chains, multiple different places, and compose them into a kind of personalized fund. And I think the mass personalization dynamic is an important consumer dynamic in the asset management world that blockchains are going to make possible on the back end. So as a back end technology, instead of having to take three months to organize a fund to verify the assets, to get them together, to get it through compliance, to get it through legal, to get it to whatever other process that needed to happen, now you just have all these pre verified, pre approved assets with all their information, and all you really need to do is make a contract that composes them into a tokenized fund that is still years away, because the assets need to get on chain and the connectivity between the chains needs to mature, and all of this stuff all needs to happen. But I think the composability is indeed an often underappreciated aspect.
00:28:15.020 - 00:29:03.790, Speaker C: And then there's also the efficiency aspect, which, when you look at the numbers in the capital markets, I don't think people fully understand how much interest you get if you are able to take custody of cash a day sooner when the amount of cash is $10 billion. Right. It might not matter if it's $10 and that doesn't matter, but if it's $10 billion, then it matters quite a bit, because even that one day difference of how you manage that collateral and the interest you get on it is a large financial line item that only a few people understand in terms of the people who actually do these things. And as I work with them more and learn more about that, the incentives become very clear to me.
00:29:06.800 - 00:29:21.010, Speaker A: For both of you, let's drill down a bit more on interoperability. How does interoperability play a key role in enabling the asset management industry to use blockchains successfully? Sergey, you want to start?
00:29:21.860 - 00:30:16.144, Speaker C: Sure. Thanks. So I think interoperability comes down to a question of liquidity, and there's a debate about where the liquidity will be. Will the liquidity be in public chains or private chains, or what chains will it be in? Basically, from my point of view, there will be liquidity in both places. Initially, there will be liquidity in public chains, and there will be liquidity in private chains. And the real goal of interoperability is to generate maximum access to liquidity across all of these places, because the goal of all the tokenized assets is simply to participate in the market, to participate in the largest market that they can participate in in a compliant, efficient way. So the key role that interoperability plays for me is this ability to generate counterparty connections that essentially results in buying or selling of the asset.
00:30:16.144 - 00:31:40.540, Speaker C: Eventually, I think, very robust interoperability creates cross chain secondary markets, and the cross chain secondary markets drive the incentives to create even more assets and put even more assets into those places. And that's something that's also now very early. And then there's always the ever prevalent data problem of how all the data moves along with all the assets as they're changing hands, whether it's through a direct transaction or a secondary market exchange or whatever the method is. The second problem is actually a problem of synchronization, and the synchronization problem actually is bi directional. So it's both keeping the assets updated on as they go to the various chains, but also keeping the systems in the banks and the asset management companies in the central securities depository systems, in the regulator systems, and everyone's systems updated about the status of the assets as they move across all these different chain environments so that they can manage them properly. So I think interoperability is definitely a necessary condition for the real growth of both the web, three use cases, and the capital markets use cases. And eventually, I just see it all becoming one big Internet of contracts.
00:31:41.280 - 00:31:43.664, Speaker A: Sandy, anything you would add to that?
00:31:43.862 - 00:32:53.904, Speaker B: Yeah, so first off, I 100% agree with Segue. I think that the liquidity and the synchronization is super critical. The one thing I would add to it from having had the experience with Franklin of having really built now within multiple ecosystems and multiple blockchains, is that there's also, I think, a foundational misunderstanding about how security changes when you move into these blockchain based ecosystems. Right. We as an industry have built technology from the point of view of we need to control the data, we need to control the permissioning of accounts and who gets to see data. And this has been in part because the systems we have built, have been built in a way to be the aggregator and the holder of those data records. There is no single record of every transaction, because even when you go to the depositories, they're only doing the book entry form, and then the individual accounts are held within the different participants.
00:32:53.904 - 00:34:29.172, Speaker B: So there is no global view of our books and records in this industry. And so I think that when people think about the future, they think, well, I need to build this capability, and I need to do it as part of either a private chain or a permission to chain, so that I can control the data and I can control the ability to access and participate in the system. And let's be real, to also hold some of our edge, because we don't want to be disintermediated. But I think what the missing understanding is that you are building a system that is going to be highly vulnerable if you go into these permissioned pools or into these private blockchains. Because the number of developers that you have working on your security model, the number of nodes that you have actually doing verification is going to be far fewer than any public blockchain, even new and beginning public blockchains. And those public blockchains are going to have higher levels of security than any private offering being built by anyone in the industry, simply because there's thousands upon thousands of developers that are constantly testing the security of these protocols, right? So I think that there's a fundamental misunderstanding that private somehow equals safer. And I think that we will see that understanding begin to change as more people build in the space.
00:34:29.172 - 00:35:27.476, Speaker B: And I think what will also happen, as Sergey said, is that all these private chains are eventually going to have to connect into the public records, because there will be one major set of records for everything in the industry. What Sergei said is exactly right. We are going to have a master golden copy of contracts that will pull together all these sources of liquidity. And competing in a private chain is going to result. As I think Sergey pointed out, the liquidity of private chains is going to shrink and shrink and shrink as people begin to understand that these public chains offer better optionalities and better security, and they actually reward you for participating in their ecosystem. So simply building the network and trying to control it, that was almost an interim phase. We're moving into a phase where those networks are going to be publicly shared and hold the records for everyone.
00:35:27.476 - 00:35:52.380, Speaker B: It may take us a few years to get there. There may be a transition path where we start with a lot of private chains, and we start with public permissioned side chains. But where we feel it's going to move over time is going to be, everything's going to be on public chains, it's going to be very affordable to do the operational piece of your business, and that's going to be a benefit to all of us. So that's kind of where we see the world headed.
00:35:53.300 - 00:36:12.710, Speaker A: You've both talked about the importance of tokenization as a theme for this year and the future. Let's drill down on that a bit more. What do you think is next for tokenization in capital markets and asset management specifically? Sergey, let's start with you.
00:36:13.320 - 00:37:13.156, Speaker C: Sure. Thank you. One thing I'd like to just quickly say is I really applaud, Sandy, your understanding and focus on security. And I think it's a real outgrowth of your dealing with the realities of how to secure value and how to deal with the value of users. And I think that's absolutely the right point of view and the same point of view that everyone's going to arrive at, that the security of the systems controlling and moving and providing data and providing connectivity and providing the record itself is a critical aspect of how technologies will be evaluated. I really applaud you for thinking about the security considerations of how value is secured. My experience is that that is where people that really do secure value and deal with actual production systems ends up, because it has to end up there because they're responsible for that value, and they have to understand the security dynamics of these systems.
00:37:13.156 - 00:38:04.500, Speaker C: So I think that that's a very thoughtful view. It's the view I see people in Web three, and anyone who have ever secured value arrives at this view because they kind of have to have an informed view on security. So I think that's definitely the right foundational kind of principle around which to make decisions on how these golden records and the contracts work. So very much in agreement with that. In terms of tokenization, what I see next, I think there's really two categories, and it partly depends on the firm's appetite for doing new things versus existing categories of assets that they are very well known and entrenched in. Sometimes firms even do both. The new things are new categories of assets which have not already been packaged and wrapped within the current asset management landscape.
00:38:04.500 - 00:39:02.780, Speaker C: So these are things like carbon credits, which as an asset class recently emerged. Real estate is a good example where there's still a lot of packaging that can happen. Tokenizing private equity is a good example. That's not a commonly tradable transferable product. These are kind of examples at the edges of the asset management industry. That could be big, booming markets if only they became more transferable, portable, easier to access, more fractionally ownable, all these types of properties. And then you have the core asset management business, which is the treasuries, the bonds, the portfolios of certain blue chip stocks and other things, and packaging those into a tokenized form, basically to create a superior collateral, a more efficient form of collateral, a more easily transferable form of collateral, a more reusable for various purposes form of collateral.
00:39:02.780 - 00:39:21.600, Speaker C: Those are the two groups. I think both of those groups will emerge, but I actually do not know right now. It's very hard for me to tell which of those two groups will be the booming initial market for capital markets and asset management tokenization.
00:39:23.620 - 00:39:24.560, Speaker A: Sandy?
00:39:25.300 - 00:40:07.520, Speaker B: Yeah, I think so. You brings up some great examples. I think I'd add a few more as well for folks to think about. I think one of the things that you're likely to see more of is direct bond issuance, right. I think that there's a huge opportunity through tokenization for smaller companies to be issuing bonds for more issuance of green bonds in smaller denominations. These are often issuances that it is not as economically advantageous for the traditional issuers to engage in, but there is growing demand for these types of issues. There's some super interesting examples out there.
00:40:07.520 - 00:40:59.232, Speaker B: There's even an example of a japanese department store that issued a green bond to its credit card holders, right. To the people who held credit cards in the department store, and they were able to pay out the yield on those green bonds, 70% in loyalty points on the credit card and 30% in cash. So very creative new ways that we can use this to open up the issuance opportunity to a broader set. I think of providers that in some ways have difficulty accessing the capital markets in today's formulation. I also think that there are this category of assets that have been for many years investable, but they're very hard to trade. Right. And when you think about that, I think about things like royalty rights to songs, right.
00:40:59.232 - 00:41:57.940, Speaker B: It's very hard to imagine being able to administer the royalty rights to a song across millions of investment holders. Right. Simply the operational complexity of that task would have taken hundreds and hundreds of people, and by the time the process got done, you were up to the next distribution of royalties and you would always be falling a little bit behind the curve. But with new smart contracts and the ability to programmatically put in the execution of the distributions, we can see that starting to happen. So assets like this, assets that have been investable, but very hard to trade because they have not been able to easily be incorporated into portfolios. From a participation perspective or an operational perspective, I think you're going to see more of those new types of assets begin to be launched and offered to clients because they work so well in the new environment.
00:42:00.910 - 00:42:19.850, Speaker A: Let's move on and talk a bit about some key considerations for unlocking opportunities. Sergey, how does Chainlink enable a golden record for institutions transacting with digital assets across different systems?
00:42:19.930 - 00:42:51.690, Speaker C: Sure. Absolutely. I think this is a very important and not fully understood part of what's going on here. On an efficiency level. I'm also really interested to hear Sandy's views on this as the value of this from the point of view of an asset manager. But my view is that a lot of the systemic financial risk, a lot of the individual financial risk of any asset is because there's a lot of information that's siloed away from holders of the asset. They basically cannot stay and necessarily up to date with everything going on with the asset.
00:42:51.690 - 00:44:08.690, Speaker C: And this unified golden record concept, for me, really delivers on the ability to do better risk management. So if there's anything that changes about an asset, well, initially, building the unified golden record is about designing something that if somebody held that container, that kind of smart contract, as a container of information, they could know everything they need to know about that asset without having to contact anyone, so they would be able to manage their risk. One of the examples that always comes to mind for me is the 2008 financial crisis where there were all these individual mortgage holders, and then if each of those individual mortgage holders had their own smart contract that was then rolled up into a basket, then anybody could due diligence on every individual mortgage holder and understand basic things like, well, how many houses does this person have? How many mortgages do they have? How much ballpark do they earn? You don't even need to know their name. You just need to know these properties about what's making up the asset. So what the unified golden record does is it creates this on chain asset, this on chain piece of this data container. It injects it with various critical information. Like, if you have a real estate token, you would want to know if there's any liens on the property.
00:44:08.690 - 00:45:12.902, Speaker C: You would want to know if the property owes any debts and someone could repossess the property. And if that changes, right? So if all of a sudden there's a lien put on the property that's tokenized, you want to know those things because it's a significant change in the risk profile of that asset, and that should be reflected in the on chain record. And so the real challenge here is how do you make these unified golden records that answer everyone's risk questions? And then how do you keep that unified golden record in sync and unified across chains, and keep it all updated? But I think the unified golden record, even beyond the ability to float the capital better, or to manage the collateral better, or to use it as a source of payment for the DVP or whatever, I think you actually get this very big risk management benefit where you can proactively detect what's going on with assets in ways that eliminate this kind of siloing and opaqueness of information that causes these big systemic issues and also individual financial risk issues.
00:45:13.036 - 00:46:26.042, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you're exactly correct. The analogy I like to use here is think about for those old enough to actually even remember it, think about pre Internet, how hard was it to book a vacation to a foreign country, right? You had to call up multiple travel agents. You didn't know what the restaurants were in the country you were going to, you had no access to how to make reservations other than calling every individual restaurant and asking them their schedules, right? And then think about today, how easy it is to plan a trip using online tools, through the Internet and through the platforms that are being provided. And now think about what the next step in that evolution is going to be. If you say, I want to plan a vacation to X, you will be able, through these types of golden contracts. This is really the analogy I'm trying to draw here. All that information will be at your fingertips, right? All the travel schedules, all of the restaurants, all of the tour agencies, all of the local customs and protocols, all of the hotel recommendations and reviews, everything will be available for you to look at just upon one request.
00:46:26.042 - 00:47:17.034, Speaker B: That is what this unified golden record is going to look like. And along with it is going to be something along the lines of a token that verifies my identity, that I can exchange at the time of a transaction. For someone to have complete faith in the KYC AML and my ability to do that transaction. All of the information is in the contract that moves with the asset as part of the transaction. And therefore, all of that information and all of the ability to utilize that information to make smarter decisions is going to be at our fingertips. And that is the power of this protocol economy, because it's all callable and it's all programmable, and it can all be loaded into a contract that can be exchanged between counterparties. That's all you're going to need to exchange is the contract.
00:47:17.034 - 00:47:24.770, Speaker B: It's going to have everything you need in it to actually then operationalize the acceptance and the implementation of that contract.
00:47:26.710 - 00:48:03.760, Speaker A: You've both talked a little bit about the role of public versus private blockchains and some of the benefits therein of making a decision one way or the other. But for firms that are thinking about blockchain technology, what would you advise them to do, and how would you suggest those roles are going to evolve in the next year, two years, five years, whatever time frame you're comfortable with. Sandy, I know you've got some great opinions. Maybe we could start with you.
00:48:04.130 - 00:48:49.082, Speaker B: Well, I would say start, right? Just start. Start by experimenting in the space. Start with something small, figure out a test trade that you would like to do, and then try that test trade with a private network. There's several private networks that are easy to join now that are looking for participants to try and try that same trade with a public network. Right. All of these big public blockchains have development teams that will work with you, that will help you try and implement a test trade, just like the offers of private blockchains have teams that can stand by to help you and then determine how it worked for you. What worked? Well, what was an advantage relative to what you're doing today? Right.
00:48:49.082 - 00:49:27.210, Speaker B: That's how we started. We really started with a very simple premise of will it cost us less to keep our books and records on a public blockchain? And the answer we came to from that initial question was very much so and very much less. Right. But that started our journey. And the way to really get comfortable in this space is to start your journey and start with something small. Try it in a couple of different venues, because there's many venues looking to compete for liquidity now. So you can try it in a different type of venue, and you can get a sense for what feels like it's going to work best for your organization.
00:49:27.210 - 00:50:12.360, Speaker B: Regulators, too, are doing a lot of experimentation now. Many, I think, participants in the ecosystem that have private chains now will transition those chains to public chains when the regulations enable it, because they've had these experiences and they've built in the space, but they're still private today. So they're still a safe venue to try things. So I think that the most important first step is to get in there and start to engage in the ecosystem. That is how you really start to internalize all of these exciting benefits that Sergey and I have been talking. Really, I think intellectually it's hard to grasp them, but when you actually start to operate in the environment, it really becomes clear so quickly why it is superior to what we're able to do today.
00:50:14.490 - 00:50:15.510, Speaker A: Sergey.
00:50:16.330 - 00:51:10.806, Speaker C: Yeah. So completely agree with that approach that I think is the right, thoughtful approach to just kind of try out both paths and understand how they relate to your use case and your counterparties. I think what I find people doing correctly when they do this well, is to find a use case that they're interested in. So, Sandy, your use case that you just described know, can we deal with books and records a certain way? Is a very specific initial and very good question. Right. And I think that finding a counterparty or a transaction type or an asset type or basically a transaction that you want to do of some kind or some kind of specific problem to solve is usually a good path. Sometimes the market pulls that out of firms because their counterparties come to them and say, hey, I'd like you to do a transaction with me.
00:51:10.806 - 00:52:23.306, Speaker C: This is what I think happened with custody, where a bunch of people's clients showed up and said, I'd like you to custody things for me. But then there are other cases where now there are digital asset teams within these firms, and their job, in my opinion, is to find those transactions that they can execute with a counterparty, whether that's as an asset manager transaction or a bank related transaction or whatever. The transaction could be the issuance of something so that other people could come and get access to it. I think each of those private and public chains both have their own benefits and their own costs, and the dynamics there will definitely become more efficient. So I think the ability to use both of them will become more efficient, and then eventually, I think we'll end up at a kind of Internet of contracts, just like we have the Internet. Right? So the Internet is a bunch of different database technologies, all kinds of technologies that people essentially connect through a set of protocols to form the Internet. And those technologies that they're connecting become more and more efficient, and then they also use some of those technologies to collaborate within those places.
00:52:23.306 - 00:53:15.700, Speaker C: So I think there will definitely be a lot of public chain collaboration, and then there will probably still be some categories of transactions that people want to do on private chains because they need the privacy or they need some property. But eventually, the efficiency of public chains and the ability to transact will all go towards the same Internet of contracts. I think it'll actually probably vary by transaction type, is where I think it might end up, and also where the secondary markets form for a lot of these assets. So if those secondary markets form in one place, I think there'll be a lot of transactional throughput to that place and then back out to the places where people want to store the assets or custody the assets, whatever those incentives might end up being from public chains. So I think we're pretty much on the same page.
00:53:16.710 - 00:53:34.230, Speaker A: Let's get in one last fun question from the audience. Sandy Franklin Templeton's ex account was taken over by something. Tell us what happened and what was the reasoning?
00:53:35.050 - 00:54:55.582, Speaker B: Well, so I think what hopefully has come through in the conversation today is that our firm really does operate like a digital native within the digital ecosystem. We work with firms like Sergey's firm. We work with digital native firms all the time to deliver what we're delivering. And this was a big moment for that digital ecosystem to really have that recognition. And so we were very excited about our role in being part of seeing this happen on both sides, our traditional asset side and our digital asset side. And we thought it would be fun to let our digital asset team have a couple of hours to really run the corporate account and really be able to share with the very active ecosystem of the Twitterverse, the crypto Twitterverse, the excitement about a traditional asset manager who has part of the ecosystem, part of their partnerships, being able to celebrate that, not just within the digital channels, but really letting that cross over into the broader channel. Just like the bitcoin ETF is allowing the ecosystem to cross over into the traditional financial portfolio.
00:54:55.582 - 00:55:26.278, Speaker B: So to us, it was part of our bitcoin launch that really wanted to recognize and show that these worlds are coming together. And we saw so much success from it. And we're going to continue to do things like this and let other groups also take over our corporate Twitter account to really enjoy celebrating their successes in their products. So to us, this was a real recognition of the worlds coming together and our ability to show that we operate on both sides of that, both sides.
00:55:26.294 - 00:55:46.530, Speaker A: Of the ecosystem we are at time. I think this has been a very interesting dialogue. Hopefully all the attendees got a good exposure to what's happening next. Any closing thoughts either of you want to share before we wrap up? Sergey? Sandy.
00:55:48.390 - 00:56:12.954, Speaker C: I think this has been great. It's always a pleasure to chat with Sandy. She has very thoughtful, very experienced views. As I said, I think that the intersection of her experience and the path that she's been on with digital assets at Franklin Templeton is kind of unique. But I think there will be people that will see like Sandy getting to that level where Sandy will be. I don't know. By then, I think I'll be asking Sandy what's next.
00:56:12.954 - 00:56:26.366, Speaker C: But I think it's a great chat, and I really appreciate all the thoughtful, clear, candid discussion and also want to thank you, Doug, for helping us put this together and making everything work. And I think it's been a great discussion. So I'm thrilled about this.
00:56:26.548 - 00:56:33.780, Speaker A: I will tell you, for 20 years, I've gone to Sandy to ask what's next. So I think you're right, Sergey. She will be telling us.
00:56:34.310 - 00:57:12.110, Speaker B: Well, I think what's next, and what we did here today is a perfect example of that, because the innovation and the real willingness to rethink the model that Chainlink represents and the ability to bring that in a controlled and regulated way into the broader financial system and work with firms like ours, Doug, and like yours, is going to be the future for all of us. So it's exciting to really now start to see these connections and see these shared pieces of expertise being brought together. So thank you so much for the conversation today. I enjoyed it tremendously.
00:57:13.970 - 00:57:14.798, Speaker A: Thank you both.
00:57:14.884 - 00:57:17.178, Speaker C: Thank you very much. Have a good one. Bye bye.
00:57:17.354 - 00:57:18.890, Speaker B: Thank you. Bye.
