00:00:00.320 - 00:00:34.160, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Guy refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 15 December 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So last, I guess, kind of like warning here, there's just two days left to get your Gitcoin donations in, Gitcoin grants donations in as part of this matching round. As you can see here, there's already been 300,000 plus contributions and $5 million worth of funds distributed to open source and to builders. And once again, thank you to everyone who has donated to the deadly Gwei and Ethub, of course. And, you know, thanks to everyone who donated to all the other teams as well.
00:00:34.160 - 00:01:17.400, Speaker A: I mean, Ethereum is nothing, but, is nothing without its public goods, and we need to fund those public goods. I spoke yesterday about how there's a lot of stuff happening on the client front with the client incentive program. Well, Getcoin grants has been doing stuff like that for ages, and not just for ethereum core clients, but everything that we consider to be essentially public goods. So yeah, I'm sure a lot of you have already donated, but in case you haven't, you've got a couple of days left, probably less than that by the time you watch this. So definitely go get your donation in before the match is before the matching round ends. If you do miss it, for whatever reason, maybe you're traveling, can't access your funds, there isn't going to be another one in three months, right? They happen every quarter, so it's not the end of the world, but still good to always get your donations in. I did mine yesterday.
00:01:17.400 - 00:01:44.994, Speaker A: I put it off as well. So don't think that I'm, you know, I'm bugging you guys. I kind of like put it off a little bit too, but I got around to doing it and the checkout experience was so smooth using Zksync. Honestly, like, I, I had to deposit funds into kind of like Zksync to do it, but I quickly did that very easily. It got confirmed. And then I just really quickly did the, you know, the donations to the grants in my cart, in my collection, I should say, which are in my cart, of course. So, yeah, just a final reminder there for you guys.
00:01:44.994 - 00:02:14.208, Speaker A: So an interesting tweet from DC investor today who said, we are 100% in the AOL era of public blockchains. Using them is slow and can be expensive. Exponential improvements are coming. Corporate participants want to fake open and permissionless, but have not truly internalized the web. Three, user ownership value proposition. There's a couple of other tweets that blow this, but I do want to focus on kind of, I guess, providing some context around this. So I'm too young to, like, I was too young when the Internet was kind of like, really taking off in the nineties.
00:02:14.208 - 00:02:36.904, Speaker A: I was born in 1992. So all through the nineties, I didn't kind of, like, follow the Internet. I didn't, you know, play around with it. I'm pretty sure I only got dial up Internet in, like, the early two thousands. So I definitely wasn't able to follow it along. I was just too young at the time. But from listening to people who were around back then who understand kind of what happened back then, it's, it's really cool to kind of, like, look at history and compare it and contrast it to what's happening with blockchains today.
00:02:36.904 - 00:03:14.312, Speaker A: So for those of you who don't know, AOL, CompuServe, I didn't think Yahoo, maybe some others out there, they had their own corporate, kind of like, Internet, corporate versions of the Internet that some of them let you access TCP IP, which was the open Internet. But I don't think AOL did. It kind of like, wanted to lock you into its walled garden and wanted to serve you whatever kind of like, things that they created for you, and they didn't want you going outside of that. Now, that still exists in tech today. A lot of it still exists, actually. You can point it to Apple as one of these kind of like, walled garden, closed ecosystems, whereas Android is more of an open one. Not, this isn't to say that walled gardens and closed ecosystems are necessarily bad.
00:03:14.312 - 00:03:33.766, Speaker A: They have their pros and cons. But I think for kind of like, things like open protocols, like the Internet, these things were never going to win. So AOL, the compuserve, all those things, they lost to the open Internet for a variety of reasons. And. But I think that the main reasons were that obviously the open Internet was, was open, right? Anyone could build on it. Anyone could use it. It was credibly neutral.
00:03:33.766 - 00:03:54.302, Speaker A: It was permissionless. It was kind of like the shared infrastructure. There was no need to get permission from anyone. There was no need to kind of, like, buy into any kind of one corporate kind of, like, system. You could essentially build whatever you wanted on it as part. And then, you know, obviously the web came a little bit later, and then web one, web two, and now web3, you know, the rest is history. So I think when we kind of like, draw parallels to crypto today.
00:03:54.302 - 00:04:25.466, Speaker A: You obviously have ethereum, which is like the Internet, right? Right. It's open, public, permissionless, incredibly neutral, but it's slow and expensive today. Right. There's like, the early Internet was slow and expensive. I mean, even before dial up, like 56k modems and then dial up, and finally, broadband. But even broadband was slow for a long time because it just piggybacked off of the phone line and it still used copper. When we finally got to kind of like fiber connections and more powerful wireless connections, at least in parts of the first world, I know there's still very uneven kind of distribution there with the Internet, we got to, you know, a place where it was.
00:04:25.466 - 00:04:59.572, Speaker A: It was, you know, really quick and kind of like not, not, you know, not expensive or, you know, very cheap, depending on where you are. Like, some places are still slow and expensive. Obviously, it varies a lot from, from place to place, but most of, like, mostly in the first world countries that, you know, they're pretty, pretty decent. Right. It's not like you have to spend, like, what you do on ethereum today to use it, right? Where it's. It's you basically, you know, if you, if you think of buying Ethereum, block space is kind of like buying bandwidth. I mean, it's not the best analogy, but if you think of it like that, well, to get a, you know, to do one transaction on Ethereum, like a swap, it's like $50, right? Imagine having to pay $50 every time you wanted to sign up to a website.
00:04:59.572 - 00:05:23.468, Speaker A: You know, it's kind of like, not a perfect analogy, but you get my point. So, but then we can kind of, like, look at what DC investor says next, where he says exponential improvements are coming, and they are, I mean, L2s are here and coming. They're exponential improvements. They are ten to 100 to 1000 x improvements. On layer one Ethereum, we have sharding, which is just going to, you know, it's going to come later, but it's going to be even better. It's going to be that. Another exponential improvement.
00:05:23.468 - 00:06:01.428, Speaker A: We have statelessness, which I think a lot of people still undersell. How much improvement we can get out of that, if done correctly, where we can jack the gas limit up of the blocks, and we can basically have a system where we have, like, big blocks, but also we have a sharded system, and also we have kind of like the roll up centric roadmap. So we get to that point where we're having, like, millions and millions of transactions per second, without sacrificing that decentralization and security of layer one, you obviously push this all to kind of like L2. So that's, that's the DC second point here. And then the third point is kind of like these corporate participants, they want to fake, you know, open and permissionlessness, but have not internalized the web. Three, user ownership value proposition. This doesn't apply to everything.
00:06:01.428 - 00:06:33.092, Speaker A: There are some l ones that I think this really does apply to where they fake open and permissionlessness, but really they're not right. They're not really decentralized. Like if there was a test against them from, you know, whatever party it was against the decentralization, they would fail it. I think a lot of them would fail it. You know, they've given, given that up obviously for scale. A lot of them kind of like have on chain governance systems as well, where there can be winners and losers in terms of like applications on there picked by the native token holders. They can actually censor and kick kind of like users off.
00:06:33.092 - 00:07:07.304, Speaker A: Then you have a bunch of other issues where sometimes some of these more scalable networks, they'll slow to a crawl and things like that. Right? There's kind of like all these kind of like issues with that sort of stuff. And there used to actually be like a big push, not so much these days, but a big push around private blockchains as well, where people are like, you know, these blockchain concepts, cool, but it's not going to succeed if it's open and permissionless. It needs to be private, needs to be regulated, blah, blah. There's still going to be those things, but they're going to still plug in and use the credibly neutral infrastructure that is ethereum. They're not going to exist in a vacuum on their own. We're still going to have ethereum and other like, kind of like blockchains.
00:07:07.304 - 00:08:00.494, Speaker A: You guys know that I don't believe most of these l ones are actually going to survive long term. There may be a couple of others that kind of survive and thrive for a little bit, but you guys know my stance on that, right? Like, I believe that l two ecosystem is going to do a much better job there, but still, like a lot of these other l ones do feel very corporate, do feel very kind of like forced. And it doesn't lend themselves to attracting the right kind of community members and lend themselves to kind of like getting the, the right kind of builders as well, which is, I mean, at the end of the day, without builders, your chain is going nowhere because the users aren't going to come if there's nothing on your chain. And that's why becoming an EVM side chain is very popular, because you can very easily give the option to builders to just redeploy their contracts on your new chain. And then the users follow that. But yeah, I mean, and then, and then DC investor goes on to say, you know, as I said, AOL was mostly a walled garden. It was like a BBS plus experience.
00:08:00.494 - 00:08:35.626, Speaker A: It took time for people to become comfortable with the permissionless web, but first via spry mosaic on top of AOL TCP IP connection, and then Netscape took it mainstream. So I would encourage you to actually read about the history of the Internet, like the early history, and see how it all unfolded, because there is a lot of similarities to crypto and it's actually quite amazing how many similarities there are. I'm not sure if there's any good tv shows around this. I haven't watched any around this. I think there's one that was recommended to me called halt and catch fire. But I don't know if that was about the early Internet as much as it was about early computers because obviously you had computers that came first and then the Internet came later to connect them. The Internet is just really just networking.
00:08:35.626 - 00:09:06.039, Speaker A: I mean, the computers could talk to each other locally and things like that, but the Internet is what really kind of made it go mainstream. And I think when you kind of like compare that to crypto, you basically have like ethereum is this network that people can use. Obviously super expensive right now. It's kind of like slow, right? It's not, not very, not very quick. You still have to wait for a block to be mined and you may miss a block because your fees too low, all that sort of stuff. Whereas the l two s just take it to a whole nother level where your transactions are instantly confirmed with obviously delayed finality. But for most users, they're not going to even know about that.
00:09:06.039 - 00:09:41.176, Speaker A: They're just going to see that their transaction was confirmed instantly. It's gonna be really cheap and then get value out of that. So yeah, just an interesting tweet from, from DC here today that I wanted to cover on the refuel. Definitely. If you come across any kind of like documentaries or tv shows around the early Internet, let me know. Even books like, you know, I'm happy to read books as well, but I think I love the dramatization of tv shows and, and sometimes documentaries as well, where they kind of like just make it more interesting than what it was like, it's interesting, but there are a lot of boring parts to it. It as well, where for a long time nothing happened, and then there was kind of a lot of corporate b's that went on.
00:09:41.176 - 00:09:53.344, Speaker A: We obviously have the.com bubble, which is kind of interesting to look at. A lot of people compare crypto markets to the.com bubble and say, okay, well, you know, maybe 2017 wasn't the.com bubble. Maybe we're in it right now. I mean, history rhymes, but it doesn't repeat.
00:09:53.344 - 00:10:30.044, Speaker A: I don't know if we're going to repeat what happened in the.com era in terms of like, the prices of things. But I do know that we're basically on track to repeat how the Internet came to be in terms of things being slow and expensive to begin with. These kind of like, corporate, you know, fake kind of chain spinning themselves up to just kind of like, with the main goal of just making lots and lots of money and then them going by the wayside as everyone kind of got comfortable with the fact that, okay, ethereum is kind of like. I mean, Ethereum and other public commissionless blockchains are the thing that we want to use, and we can use them for cheap with L2s. So. So, yeah, anyway, moving on from that one.
00:10:30.044 - 00:11:07.634, Speaker A: So Brantley from the ENS team put out a great little tweet today where he said Ensdao had no special early discounts for VC's. All initial token distribution went to users, contributors, and the DAo itself. And you can see here there's a kind of, I guess, like, graphic here from this website that he's linked to where it's got a bunch of VC's and funds, and it's got projects that they've invested in. And you can see Ens, the, you know, the project is on its own, on its lonesome here. He had zero VC's, which is very, very rare these days. Guys like, you know, much as I do, it's very rare for a project not to get VC backing and fund backing. And I think for ens, I mean, it made sense because they don't need it.
00:11:07.634 - 00:11:32.314, Speaker A: Like the amount of money that's in the treasury, or I should say ENS tokens that are in the treasury. And the amount of EnS tokens that relocated to the team, they don't need funding. They have enough, right? And I think a lot of them are early kind of like og ETH people as well. So I'm sure they've been able to kind of like, sustain themselves. That way. And the treasury also gets fee revenue from people registering ens names and re registering and stuff like that. And that can be used to pay contributors as well.
00:11:32.314 - 00:12:02.944, Speaker A: So they really didn't need VC funding or anything like that, which I think is, you know, I'd love to see more teams do this, but I understand why a lot of them don't. I mean, if you think about it, uniswap, for example, like, I'm just picking out Uniswap because I can see it here. They raised in the first, raised in early 2019 where they raised a million dollars from paradigm. Then they raised again before they did their token. But in 2019, it was like a different era. Like if they had done a token back then, it wouldn't have been, you know, I mean, its market cap would have been tiny, it wouldn't have been enough. Right.
00:12:02.944 - 00:12:36.370, Speaker A: But, you know, I think they need a token at the right time. But they also needed funding. But not only was the funding kind of good for them, but getting paradigm on board was very good for them because Paradigm has helped Uniswap with a lot of, a lot of the designs. Like Paradigm is a research firm as much as it is a VC firm, and they've helped kind of like influence a lot of Uniswap's designs, especially around v three. So when you look at it from that perspective as well, it's not like these things are evil to have. It's just that Ens didn't need it from a monetary perspective, from a kind of like technology perspective. I mean, they built everything already and they keep improving it on their own.
00:12:36.370 - 00:13:04.014, Speaker A: They don't need these other kind of like VC's and stuff to help them. And any of them, if any of them want to help, they can. They can kind of like apply to the DAO and get paid that way within EnS tokens if they want to. So I think I would love to see more teams do this. I don't expect most teams to do it, but I would love to see more of them do it, especially the core Ethereum public goods. I think, you know, Gitcoin did it too, to an extent. They did have VC's on board, which is totally fine, understandable, but they did do it where they gave a lot away to the community.
00:13:04.014 - 00:13:33.942, Speaker A: And they're obviously very community oriented. They get, they, I mean, they were building for a long time being funded by consensus and they wanted to spin out of consensus. So that's why they went the kind of like funding route, because they have a rather kind of like, large team, they had no idea what the token was going to be worth. Like, no one knew. Like, depending on where you launch a token and, you know, how you launch it dictates the whole thing. You can't rely on tokens in a treasury to kind of, I guess, fund you perpetually long term, you know, without some kind of like backup cash there. So.
00:13:33.942 - 00:14:13.980, Speaker A: So, yeah, but still cool to see ens there on its lonesome. It just speaks to how, I guess, community oriented it is and how much they just cared about giving ownership over to the community, which is what we all want to see in web3, of course. So another tweet here from DC invest, and this time he said, l two to l two bridges and their degree of decentralization, trust minimization, and minimal friction, user experience will become the most important component of ethereum infrastructure. Only a few people realize this so far. I would say that refuel, you know, regular refuel listeners and watchers would understand this at this point, because I've talked about this a lot. Bridges are going to be the most important infrastructure for Ethereum. I believe this, and I've been saying it for months now.
00:14:13.980 - 00:14:41.076, Speaker A: I think more and more and more people are waking up to this, and it's a simple fact that not everything is going to live on the same l two. Not everything is going to live on the same side chain. Not everything's going to live on the same chain. And you need a way to bridge in and out of them. Not just your assets, but also arbitrary messages like relaying across, doing things like what aztec connect is doing with privacy at L2. Tapping into layer one because layer one has over $100 billion locked in it. Still, there's so much liquidity on layer one because it's just whales.
00:14:41.076 - 00:15:24.382, Speaker A: I don't care about paying the high fees, but let's not lock out the people on l two from that. Let's see how we can tap into that, which is happening with aztec connect and a bunch of other things like Starkware Damm and Rari Capital's nova. And there's some other initiatives out there as well, I'm sure that I'm not mentioning right now. So from that perspective, just any kind of bridge or cross chain swap or cross chain exchange is going to be the most critical infrastructure for Ethereum. In addition to the l two s. I kind of think about l two s and bridges has kind of like it connected because without the l two s, the bridges have nowhere to bridge in and out of, and they're kind of like, useless. So they kind of, like, live in a symbiotic relationship where the more l two s there are, the more bridges there are, the kind of, like, more stuff the bridges have to do.
00:15:24.382 - 00:15:54.484, Speaker A: But, you know, on the flip side, the more kind of like bridges there are, the more kind of, I guess, like l two s people can kind of use, and the l two s get a benefit out of that. And, you know, obviously the reverse, you can, you can, you can reverse that. But essentially, it's not a parasitic relationship. It is symbiotic, which I think is really cool. Now, of course, you know, a lot of these l two s are going to have some of the same apps deployed to them, like Arbitrum and optimism are going to have very similar apps that deploy to them being EVM compatible and equivalent. And they already do. I mean, Uniswap is both on arbitrum and optimism.
00:15:54.484 - 00:16:08.030, Speaker A: So I think there's going to be kind of like table stakes. So when you go to a new l two, you're just going to expect this core infrastructure to be there. You're going to expect uniswap to be there. You're going to expect some kind of money market to be there. You're going to expect something like curve to be there. Right. And then you're going to have unique apps to that.
00:16:08.030 - 00:16:41.314, Speaker A: Those ecosystems where that'll dictate what chain or what l two you spend most of your time on, like, for example, optimism. If you're into options, optimism has liar protocol. Arbitrum has premier. So, you know, depending on which one you want to use, you, you kind of, like, choose an l two from there. But again, you're not locked in. You can bridge, right? You can either bridge through l one, which is expensive, or you can use one of these l two to l two bridges, which are getting cheaper over time to bridge between them and to use whatever you want. And also, as I said, with these arbitrary message relayers, you can actually tap into these other ecosystems without leaving your home, so to speak.
00:16:41.314 - 00:17:10.838, Speaker A: So you could, once this stuff is rolled out, you could basically do a swap using liquidity on arbitrum, but doing the swap from optimism. So essentially, you're executing the kind of like trade and optimism. You're sending the message to arbitram to tap into that liquidity, and then it sends that kind of message back, and the trade is all executed on optimism, and you're all well and good. Then you don't have to leave. That's going to be kind of like the future. I think, and all of this is going to be totally abstracted away. There's going to be interfaces that sit on top, that do this all for the user.
00:17:10.838 - 00:17:46.298, Speaker A: And it might even get to a point where these interfaces are running their own sequences or doing their own kind of like meV. So instead of charging end users directly gas fees, they're essentially going to be covering the fees for the end users, but making it up somewhere else. This is kind of like probably five to ten years out in terms of getting to that point. Maybe it happens sooner. I mean, I hope it does, because we're basically in the exponential age where things happen really quickly. If you're paying attention day to day, it may seem slow, but if you zoom out, like, you know, like look at the last year, how much has happened within, within crypto. If you zoom out in just a year, so much has happened.
00:17:46.298 - 00:18:25.350, Speaker A: And I think that five to ten years, we're pretty much going to be, you know, pretty much mainstream. I would. I would say that crypto has become pretty ubiquitous in ten years time, where it's basically integrated into every kind of like, facet of the financial system. Maybe web3 takes a bit longer to take off in terms of like, decentralized social media and things like that, but I think it's all coming and, you know, these bridges are going to work to connect all of it, and there's always going to be demand for them. And that's why, you know, I'm placing bets on bridges. You guys know, I'm an investor in inconext, definitely farming airdrops on some of them, like hot protocol, for example, in case they do a token in the future. I don't know if they will, but, you know, a good astute deli Gwei listener knows that every project is going to have a token, except.
00:18:25.350 - 00:19:03.964, Speaker A: Except the daily way. So you may as well farm for an airdrop, you know, using whatever heuristic you want to. So, yeah, anyway, going to wrap that up there because there's a bunch of updates to get through. So hash Flow announced today, Hash flow Network announced today that they're launching hash flow public pools. So the, you get the same great set and forget it experience being an LP in an amm, but with better capital efficiency and return on investment. So hash four public pools enables LP's to contribute tokens, single sided LP, by the way, to professional market makers and earn yields leveraging off chain pricing strategies. Put another way, LP's can ape in eyes closed and let professional market makers do the work for them.
00:19:03.964 - 00:19:42.694, Speaker A: So essentially, let me give you a bit of an example here of how this differs from something like uniswap. When you liquidity provide on uniswap, the protocol does all the work for you, right? It is an AMM and automated market maker. It is two sided, it's not single sided. So if you were to do ETH USDC, you'd have to supply 50% ETH, 50% USDC. Or I guess you can change the weights depending on what amm you go into. Of course, something like balancer, but it's actively mat, it's passively managed because it's all just done by the contract. Whereas with something like hash flow, you contribute, you know, you LP single sided to these professional market makers who will then pay, you know, pay a yield to basically take your capital and market make with it.
00:19:42.694 - 00:20:12.944, Speaker A: Now, this is incredibly powerful because it basically gives professional market makers a flush, you know, kind of like inflow, huge inflow of capital that allows them to do more than what they were able to do before in a kind of like, you know, in a kind of like decentralized and permissionless way as well. So really, really cool to see this is public. I know it's been private for quite a while, and I've done a lot of volume through this. It's kind of like similar to what Xerox does. Zero X has a. Has a network of market makers that execute trades. I'm not sure if it's public yet where people can provide liquidity, whereas hash flow is.
00:20:12.944 - 00:20:39.062, Speaker A: So I think that's just a really cool kind of like release here today from them. But anyway, I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check it out for more details. So easy. Gn Zlz, their COO at Pope put together this great thread today about how pope is an ecosystem for the preservation of memories. So essentially, I mean, there's a. It's a 15 tweet thread, so definitely go give it a read. It was really great.
00:20:39.062 - 00:21:24.068, Speaker A: But essentially, I mean, you guys know what Pope is, or pop what, however you say it, it basically allows you to get these kind of like nfts that prove that you attended something, right? Whether that's an event or you were kind of like a genesis validator for the beacon chain, or you kind of like did whatever. I mean, there's a. There's um, a pope for bit for watching the first hundred episodes of the daily way refuel. You can basically have popes for anything. But the reason why, I guess, like, um, she's calling it a preservation of memories is because you basically not only have the proof that you were there or that, you know, you. You attended something or whatever, um, but you also have like, a memory of it because seeing that pope and pop in your wallet, seeing that NFT gives you kind of like, you know, flashback to where it was and it allows you to share these memories with other people. So it's kind of like a scrapbook for your on chain identity, I guess you could say.
00:21:24.068 - 00:21:53.946, Speaker A: Right? Which I think is really cool. I mean, I've been a huge fan of pop since day one. Basically, I haven't collected as much as I should have. I don't have that many, but any time that I kind of, like, can get one, I try to get one. I love getting the ones from real life events because when you go to a real life event and you get a polo, I mean, that's a. That's a harder to obtain one, right? Like online ones are pretty, pretty easy to obtain, but like, the real life ones are much harder because you actually have to go physically to the location unless you do a dodgy and someone kind of like, send you a code. But they're pretty strict about that at the events.
00:21:53.946 - 00:22:18.134, Speaker A: I've noticed that they don't just give out kind of like pop QR codes to anyone. You have to kind of like be there and, you know, you have to buy a ticket or whatever event it was. But yeah, I really liked how it was framed here by the COO here. So definitely go give this thread a read. I'll link it in the description. So Makerdao's growth team put out a great tweet thread today about L2. So obviously we're all talking about L2s these days.
00:22:18.134 - 00:22:47.432, Speaker A: I talk about it on pretty much every refuel, but in this thread they break it down. Like, what is a L2 and what does it mean for Ethereum? Now, probably most of you at this stage, if not all of you, should understand what a L2 is. If not, I haven't done my job, but I'm fairly confident, you know, all of you will understand what it is at this point. But if you want, I mean, this is an 18 tweet thread, so there's a lot of juicy info in here. If you want, just like a breakdown of it with visual explanations of how it all works, you might learn something new as well. Maybe I've glanced over something. Definitely go give this thread a rate.
00:22:47.432 - 00:23:42.490, Speaker A: I'll of course link it in the YouTube description, but I think there's like a bunch of different ways you can learn about what l two s are. There's the very technical way in this kind of like learning by analogy where people like to use public transportation as an analogy, and I've used it before, where basically I say that, you know, driving a car is like l one, right? Because you drive your own car, it's expensive, you have to pay for the gas, no pun intended. You have to kind of like pay for servicing and maintenance and on road costs and all that sort of stuff, right? Like registration. Whereas when you catch a bus, you're kind of like pooling it to get, you know, together where basically all the people catching the bus, you know, split the, split the payment for being on the road essentially, and it can carry more people and it's much more efficient. That's pretty much what a L2 is like, right? Where we all go to L2, it basically splits the cost across users, it rolls up the transactions and then posts the kind of like proof to, to layer one approach the call data to layer one. So it's a lot cheaper for, for the end user. So I really like those analogies.
00:23:42.490 - 00:24:00.354, Speaker A: I like learning by analogy. I think it's one of the best ways to learn. So yeah, it's definitely worth giving this thread a read. Even if you think you understand L2s. I mean we can always learn more. Right? So I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check it out. So a fresh update from Spruce ID, who is building, who are building sign in with Ethereum.
00:24:00.354 - 00:24:50.464, Speaker A: So they've got their updates here with roadmap updates. So the TLDR is that they're going to be adding Ruby support, which is a programming language, rust support and Python support, which again more programming languages and a discourse plugin. So you can read this for the full kind of, I guess like details on the updates here. And they're also adding a bunch of other languages as well like Java, C sharp and Elixir, which obviously for developers is really important. And a discourse plugin, I mean discourse is used quite heavily within the crypto community for different governance forums. So it makes sense for them to have a sign in with Ethereum button here or allowing discourse admins to add sign in with Ethereum because that is just kind of like more and more embodying web3. Right? Because if we're using these kind of platforms to essentially interact with I guess web3 governance, then shouldn't we be using web3 logins? Yes, and there just wasn't a way to do that very easily until now.
00:24:50.464 - 00:25:24.764, Speaker A: So really cool updates out of here from Spruce ID definitely give this blog post a read for more details. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. All right, so finally I wanted to talk more broadly about Argent and their integration with Zksync because I actually got access today to this on my argent mobile wallet app. It's so smooth. It worked so well. I just had to kind of like create my zksync wallet through, through Argent and then I could deposit from my argent l one wallet to my argent l two wallet on zksync. And then I was able to just like a few clicks, get started staking my ethnic through Lido.
00:25:24.764 - 00:25:48.692, Speaker A: I only had a little bit of ETH on there. As I've said to you guys before, I don't really use mobile wallets very heavily cause I'm on my computer all the time. But you know, I tested it all out and it was so smooth and the fees were so cheap. It was like a dollar to stake. And by staking, I mean like I in the background, what it does is it basically trades your ETH for Steve, which is Lido staked ETH. And then, you know, I'm earning a yield on my ETH. There was also an option to do it through yearn as well, which is cool to see too.
00:25:48.692 - 00:26:25.962, Speaker A: And there's a couple of other things you can do on there right now as well, like earn yield on your dollars and things like that. Um, but yeah, I mean, algens, quote, tweeted and said, you know, this is really the, the future of France. They're ux partnered with, or kind of like coupled with the cheap fees of L2. And as I mentioned before, they're not only going to be supporting ZkSync, they're also going to be supporting Starknet, arbitrary and optimism and I'm sure Polygon and things like that as well. They're going to be supporting all that sort of stuff. But I think, as I think I've mentioned this plenty of times, it doesn't matter how good the underlying tech is, if the UX to access it is trash, then most people will get scared off. And I love metamask.
00:26:25.962 - 00:26:45.370, Speaker A: Right. I think it's one of the most battle hardened wallets we have. It's secure, it works really well if you know what you're doing with it. But it is shockingly bad from a UX perspective for everyday users. I'm talking about the users who spend no time in crypto. They don't care about crypto. All they care about is maybe getting a yield on their dollars for them.
00:26:45.370 - 00:27:20.986, Speaker A: Using metamask is like the most alien thing in the world. What's a gas fee? Right? Even just that sort of stuff. Like, okay, what's a priority fee? How do I edit this? Like, okay, well, what's this kind of like, pending transaction, when it's going to be confirmed, then it links you to Etherscan with all this kind of like, stuff in the transaction details. I mean, news is just going to not understand that at all and they shouldn't have to. So from that perspective, Arjun's taken the approach of, you know, they don't even give you a seed phrase, argent, right? They're basically like, let's make this so simple to use. Let's make Ethereum so simple to use. And the reason why they haven't really taken off yet was because of the gas fee issue where they had the really awesome interface.
00:27:20.986 - 00:27:49.918, Speaker A: But the fact that it still cost a lot in Ethereum gas fees in order to kind of use anything scared off a lot of people, which is fair enough. But now with the L two integrations, I think they're going to have some really nice growth going into next year and they're going to be able to onboard a lot of new people that, you know, will never use metamask. Like as a. There's. The reality is that most people will kind of like never use metamask and not use metamask and probably not even use like a native ethereum. Wallets interact with these things. They're going to use whatever's easiest.
00:27:49.918 - 00:28:22.150, Speaker A: Now, I would prefer them to use something like argent rather than a centralized exchange. But centralized exchanges have such a massive user base already, so they can leverage that in order to get their users to kind of like use them for things like defi. But our journey is taking the other approach where they're like, you know, we believe in self custody, we believe in users doing it themselves, but let's make it super easy for them to do that. Let's not just like complicate things for them. Let's not force them to use metamask or anything like that. Let's not even force them to use a hardware wallet because Arjun's wallet is, you know, it's on your phone, it's very secure. It stores the, the kind of like private key in the Apple secure chip.
00:28:22.150 - 00:28:38.310, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure it also has like this Guardian feature where you can have like multi Sig built in. It's a smart contract wallet so you can have like whitelisting of addresses. They're doing everything right. And their security is much higher than, than a bank. Right. Because they give you all those extra options. So really cool to see that and just, yeah.
00:28:38.310 - 00:28:51.944, Speaker A: Just wanted to talk a little bit about that. But I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
