00:00:03.680 - 00:00:43.410, Speaker A: All right, everyone, my name is Rex from Magic Eden. Everyone enjoyed last night's yard party. So today we're going to talk a very serious topic, open source. We are here because of open source. Raise your hand if you have ever interact with any open protocols on Solana. A really simple hint, if you ever interact with any DeFi or NFT tradings, you're probably one of them. I see a lot of hands going up.
00:00:43.410 - 00:01:47.314, Speaker A: So I am really a big fan of open source. Two years ago I was struggling. I was struggling really hard because I knew nothing about Solana programming and it's like a dark forest. I stood there eager yet unsure what to do because I really, really want to build an NFT marketplace that brings the joy of NFT trading. And there's just a lot of concept to digest. Token token accounts, process instructions, and during merger, beacon of light, a torch barrier. His name is Paul Po is has this super power of explaining the really complicated concept into digestible, relatable nuggets of information.
00:01:47.314 - 00:02:32.504, Speaker A: I'm really happy that he wrote a blog. He open sourced the very first implementation of a really basic ASco program. As you can see from basic, this chart here, it's just so complicated. Even transferring from your NFT from token account a, token account b. It actually is quite a journey for create instructions to do that. So I actually read this blog many times. I went through post GitHub repo and actually it was kind of privileged to see all the source code implementation.
00:02:32.504 - 00:03:42.130, Speaker A: Then that became the foundation of the very first smart contract for Magic Eden's NFT marketplace. So thanks for post contribution. And then I was wondering, hey, this is token, the token under the hood for the implementation of the ASco program. So what exactly is a token? And then I realized, hey, there's a really, really nice library called Solana Program Library, and then it's also open source of course. And if I need to understand what is a token, I can go to this SPL library to check it out. If I need to look at the early days of Solana domains, how do you implement the domain names? I can also go to SPL to check out the domain registry implementation. And also if I need to understand, I don't know how a freeze authority can actually interact with the transfer functionalities of a token.
00:03:42.130 - 00:05:23.732, Speaker A: I can also go to SPL to check it out. I think the uniqueness of Solana program library is that it actually, you can think of it really similar to what STd the standard library to c. It's like a, it's a really unique thing that you cannot find in many other chains like EVM. You have to rely on third party libraries like Openzeppelin versus on Solana, there's open source libraries that you can just trust, you can build on top of without any doubt. So another example of open source kind of implementation I really want to highlight is metaplex open source programmable PNFt. And I think it's a miracle that the ecosystem like just join forces and quickly extend adoption of this new royalty enforcement so quickly that the, you can see a lot of marketplaces, a lot of like trading protocols, long lending protocols aligned super quickly within a few days of the initial launch because we get to access the implementation, the code before PnFT is public. In fact, Magic Eden is one of the really early days, kind of like adopters.
00:05:23.732 - 00:06:46.284, Speaker A: We get to access the feature branch of Meta Plus PnfT and we file so many kind of like security issues, so we work them together and then contributing to this great effort. And I think it's incredible because that's actually the web3 ethos, like you opening up your source code so that everyone can contribute and everyone can come together and form a really strong force for the adoption of web3 technologies. I also want to highlight, another example is anchor. I really want to thank Armani for creating this amazing libraries and framework, whatever you call it. I don't think it's just code, it's more like a mentor, like a guide towards the greater good of the whole Solana ecosystem. I would really want to compare it with maybe it's like a solidity of Solana that you can actually write your Solana program in a really easy to digest, easy, understandable way. And it's also, of course it's open source.
00:06:46.284 - 00:08:39.734, Speaker A: And then you get to learn all the details of how you can construct the constraints, and then you titles constraints with all the security concerns, and then you form this opinion that's super convenient for programs to tie those constraints together so that it's kind of security by default. But of course you need to learn the gotchops. But I think anchor did a great job elevating the security practice of many, many programs that's written in a security way. However, I think many of you probably also know that even though there are many, many open source projects, open source repos and open source protocols out there, but still there are programs that are not open sourced, even though they're open sourced, they're not verified. And then also some of the open source protocols, they are not known to be open sourced and I think the community have pretty loud about it, has spoken, basically echoed the chamber about hey. Tolly said hey, be an open source maxi if you need to be one. I really like that Jordan wrote a super long kind of tweet about hey, let's make no mistake, Solana has a real problem because many, many programs on chain programs are not open sourced and nor said hey, it's kind of like stand really firm against closed source defi protocols.
00:08:39.734 - 00:09:31.542, Speaker A: I think that's a really good argument. I think we must listen. There's a huge demand for open source programs and let's see if we can come up with some solutions. So this is a comparison I wanted to compare with the sort of like the popular open source, like chains like ethereum or evms. I did a quick GitHub search, so I found out that EVM has 4.3 millions of code occurrences for the search string. I call it pragma solidity because that's a signal that the code actually has open source on GitHub that contains a smart contract.
00:09:31.542 - 00:10:03.474, Speaker A: On EVM versus on Solana we only have 6.4 thousand open source programs. I basically use the declare id macro with to signal that. I know there's just so. I mean, this number might be really rough because there are so many duplicates that I didn't rule them out. However, I think that speaks on the scale of openness. There's absolute scale openness.
00:10:03.474 - 00:10:48.404, Speaker A: We are kind of behind of Evm. Same for same kind of stats coming out from the developer report. There are 38,000 Ethereum repos amassing like 31 millions of commits compared to Solana. 21,000 of repos and 8 million commits. This is not to be disheartened about the stats about the open sourceness of Solana. I think there are consensus. There's a huge demand that we're not lacking of effort, we're not lacking of talents.
00:10:48.404 - 00:11:18.556, Speaker A: We are. I think what's probably lacking is a cultural movement that we should be more open. And maybe the first step to the culture movement is actually tooling. We see that on e Cert scan. I'm not a big fan of the UI. You can see a lot of buttons, a lot of information that condense together. But I really want one tab.
00:11:18.556 - 00:12:10.204, Speaker A: It's called contract. You can see the code of that smart contract. You can, I think none of the, none of the sorry for the audiences, none of the Solana explorers actually renders the source code of the programs. I think that's a big gap and I wish us to close that. So imagine that a lot of explorers can do more things like hey, verifiable executable data counts because the data accounts actually means the actual bytes of the programs that's execute on. There are some tools to do that, for example anchor verify or recently Jerry Shao built Solana verify build. These two tools are really, really awesome.
00:12:10.204 - 00:13:31.224, Speaker A: I wish more people are using it and then I really wish the Explorer can surface more information about security TXT and security audit reports right inside the Explorer so that more and more developers of smart contracts will go to the direction of serving some more information. And last but not the least, actually this most important one is hey, can we actually move the source code, make it rendering that, make sure line by line into the slot on any kind of explorer and then make it available to everyone. So that's basically my personal wish. I wish this open source norm to be transparent, trust, collaboration, innovation. I know it sounds like really fancy, but I also want to call out that we need to step side the entitlement of demanding open source. I know there's in my sounds like demanding, but really we are here to be supportive. We encourage developers to open source their protocols.
00:13:31.224 - 00:14:16.348, Speaker A: We're building a supportive platform and we want their programs to be released in open source license instead of just like source available license. But I think we need to avoid entitlement like we are here to be supportive, encouraged, not demanding as a requirement for protocols. So here's what we did as Magic Eden. We actually starting to verify our marketplace contract in this case. You can see that we use Solano verify to verify our MMM tools called mmm. I can explain later. So this tool is actually really useful.
00:14:16.348 - 00:15:10.374, Speaker A: I used Solana verifier build to build verifiable open source code for magic edits marketplace. But you can see there are a lot of challenges. Actually I asked chat JPT about this. It's because the building wyman, it's so volatile that you have to contain and isolated the built environments into a Docker environment. And this is additional steps that other change doesn't need to. And I think this additional friction probably contributed towards why verifiable build is so hard in Solana, because you need to handle all kinds of dependencies and doing kind of like the Docker way instead of the native Solana way. Cool.
00:15:10.374 - 00:16:14.884, Speaker A: So this is where I want to highlight the magic Eden way to open source. Personally I'm not a stranger to open source projects. I personally am a creator of an open source project or creators Flagger and I'm also a maintainer of Facebook AI's pytorch. In the past, it's kind of flagship of AI libraries that you can use to build neural nets. But I really want open source on Solana is not only valued but also celebrated. So we actually celebrated with our own way of doing open source. So imagine we created two years ago, and at the first anniversary we actually created a GitHub organization called Magic OSS, or Magic open source.
00:16:14.884 - 00:17:02.638, Speaker A: So we started this culture of collaborative innovation that's fundamental to advance what we believe is the open source future of our protocols. In fact, since then, since the inception of Magic OSs, we open sourced 14 projects, including the marketplace contract M two, and then the MMM protocol called MMM. And of course, we are a multi chain company. We also open source our EVM contracts and as well as the bitcoin ordinals like trading libraries called Msigner. So a little bit about that. M two. M two is our marketplace contract.
00:17:02.638 - 00:17:42.876, Speaker A: It was open source. It was open source. And anyone can kind of interact with the m two smart contract, getting the IDL so they can parse the transactions. And also MMN is the open source MM protocols on Solana. And I think it's just like so many features that you can actually take a look at it and understand exactly what you are signing for. And I think that's the ultimate trust we want to bring to our customers. And I think it's a, it's a great opportunity to also highlight some of the why it's popular.
00:17:42.876 - 00:18:44.284, Speaker A: If you are becoming an open protocol, it's because like m two alone, it generates monthly transactions of 87 million of successful transactions. It's actually 20 x more than all our competitors and the total transactions amassing like 92 million monthly transactions. If you calculating those transactions into TPS, Magic Eden's m two alone is also just part of Magic Eden. It's like 35 TPS. So if you don't know the scale of 35 tps, it's actually greater than the number of all the transactions of top four EVM combined. Which means ethereum is only like a third of Magic Eden's m two tpS. So I think that's a pretty good achievement as an open protocol.
00:18:44.284 - 00:19:37.672, Speaker A: Last but not least, I want to thank that the OSS wave is here. I really want to encourage people to try and open source their protocols and join this effort. And yesterday I was chatting with Jerry and I also sent an open kind of invitation on Twitter. Says, hey, we wanted to build something like a GitHub action to surface the information even more for the verify build for open source protocols. And there's a simple yet powerful belief that I have is like interact of giving we receive. So let's ride a wave together. Yeah.
00:19:37.672 - 00:19:38.504, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you everyone.
