00:00:02.250 - 00:00:49.766, Speaker A: What is up, you beautiful people? Welcome back to the built on Bitcoin podcast, where we cover all the innovation happening across the bitcoin ecosystem. So you'll typically find me either giving updates on the latest happenings or more importantly, talking directly to the builders who are in the trenches building stuff across all the different pieces. That is the bitcoin ecosystem. And so today I have a fantastic conversation with John Light. So, John, he describes himself as a professional bitcoiner. He's been in bitcoin for over a decade. Currently he contributes to the sovereign protocol, but recently he put out what is probably the most in depth research into roll ups, specifically on bitcoin.
00:00:49.766 - 00:01:21.074, Speaker A: So this is a big topic. You may have heard these as zero knowledge roll ups on something like ETH, and there is a component of that. There's the zero knowledge component of a roll up. But in this you'll hear it described as a validity roll up more commonly. And that's what we talk about. It's typically touted as one of the best and most likely scaling solutions for bitcoin that crosses so many of the boxes people want. So we get into the weeds somewhat.
00:01:21.074 - 00:02:03.650, Speaker A: About that, I kept it more overview because there's a fantastic interview he did with Kevin Rook, who's a fellow podcaster on the same topic, and they go much deeper, and I really like that interview. So if you want to go in the weeds after this one, highly recommend. Check out that episode with Kevin Rook and John Light. But that's what we have today. So talking to John Light, this one's fantastic. If you're curious about where bitcoin is going in the future and how it can scale to much more people while still maintaining its key properties, things like privacy, this one you're going to love. So without further ado, but first, a quick word from our sponsor.
00:02:04.630 - 00:02:47.486, Speaker B: We all know bitcoin is for the innovators, the revolutionaries, and the builders looking to build a better world for themselves and for the next generation, we also know the saying, the best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago. The next best time is right now. The same thing applies to building on bitcoin. If you want to come build with the most active developer community, building new use cases for bitcoin, then it's time you make the leap to learning clarity. Clarity is the stack's smart contract programming layer, which enables us to work on defi smart contracts and so much more, all built with the safety and security that comes with bitcoin. Start today by going to start stacks.org start stacks.org
00:02:47.486 - 00:03:08.700, Speaker B: has a five step journey that will take you from complete stacks novice to teaching you clarity all the way to finding a job with a web3 stack startup. Don't wait another month, year or decade waiting to get involved in the bitcoin ecosystem. Start building on bitcoin today. Go to start stacks.org to start learning and building today.
00:03:09.790 - 00:03:18.700, Speaker A: Thank you to my sponsor, as always. So without further ado, let's jump into this conversation with professional bitcoiner John Light.
00:03:24.450 - 00:03:27.150, Speaker C: Welcome to built on bitcoin.
00:03:33.410 - 00:03:35.700, Speaker A: John. How you doing there, my man?
00:03:36.550 - 00:03:39.118, Speaker C: Doing great. Thanks for having me on, Jake.
00:03:39.294 - 00:03:57.160, Speaker A: I'm excited to talk and you know, from what I know, like, I'm newer to the bitcoin space. I've been here for about a year, year and a half, but you start to see names. Thank you, sir. I guess that'd be your first question to ask real quick. It's like, how's the bear market been for you? How many cycles have you been through? How are you feeling right now?
00:03:57.870 - 00:04:35.986, Speaker C: I've been through more than a few cycles by now. So you could say I'm a grizzly old bitcoin veteran. One of those just zenned out like bitcoin. It's doing way better now than I could have anticipated. It was this length of time from when I first got interested in it. So I'm very happy with where bitcoin is and where it's been going. And yeah, there's a lot to be excited about.
00:04:35.986 - 00:04:36.658, Speaker C: Yes.
00:04:36.744 - 00:04:52.060, Speaker A: Okay. Very cool. Yeah, this is my first cycle and it's like, the fact it's quieter feels kind of weird, especially as like a content creator, but ultimately no loss of conviction. I just love everyone's heads down building. The fundamentals are still there. It doesn't matter at all.
00:04:53.390 - 00:05:34.280, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, if anything, that quiet time gives that additional breathing room for having deeper conversations, going further into the weeds on different topics, and not kind of getting distracted by the hype and the noise and all the tourists that come through. So that's not to say the bull season doesn't have its benefits and its fun moments. But yeah, I like this time for building and getting to build a stronger, more cohesive community.
00:05:35.290 - 00:05:55.902, Speaker A: Couldn't agree more. It's very well said. Well, I love to jump into this. We got a lot to talk about. I think the big topic of the day is this research paper you put out on the feasibility of roll ups on bitcoin and kind of some of the nuances of that. But before we get into that, I'd love to bitcoin. It touches people in so many different ways.
00:05:55.902 - 00:06:17.030, Speaker A: You can be coming in from the technical side, from the economic side, from the sovereign, individual side. It's just crazy to me that you can ask a simple question like, what fascinates you about bitcoin? And get so many different answers. And so that is my question to you to start with, is, like, what do you find so fascinating and interesting about bitcoin?
00:06:18.170 - 00:07:54.798, Speaker C: The answer has probably changed over the years, but I think the core of what excites me and inspires me about bitcoin hasn't changed much, which is to have stateless, decentralized, electronic form of money is very exciting to me. That idea first attracted me because I saw what was happening with the 2008 financial crisis and was very disappointed in how the government was, like, handling that situation, bailing out the banks, banksters, getting huge bonuses and golden parachutes and things like that, while my friend's parents were getting foreclosed on and losing their jobs and stuff. And the whole way that all went down didn't feel right. And I thought to myself, I was just coming of age as an adult at the time, finding myself thinking about my future and all of that. And I was thinking to myself, if I have an option, I would like to remove myself from that system as much as possible. I might not be able to single handedly make that kind of system go away or stop that kind of stuff from happening, but I can at least remove myself from participating in it. And so I started looking for alternative financial systems, alternative monetary systems, that kind of thing.
00:07:54.798 - 00:09:03.162, Speaker C: And over time, eventually found bitcoin. And I found that bitcoin solved a lot of the problems of other alternative monetary systems that people were using or experimenting with at the time. And it struck me as something that had the potential to be the future of money. Like, I had this feeling that fiat currencies all have a shelf life. There's probably no fiat currency that's going to exist forever. Whereas because bitcoin is not tied to any single country, any single political entity or regime or company, I thought that it had the potential to potentially be, like, the next evolution of money that could serve humanity forever, or as long as humanity and this kind of modern technology that we have exists. And that was extremely exciting to me.
00:09:03.162 - 00:09:37.560, Speaker C: And once I realized that, I decided, like, this is what I want to do with my life. I want to try to make bitcoin fulfill its full potential and get it into the hands of as many people as possible and tell as many people as possible. About its benefits. So I started doing bitcoin education. I started working on bitcoin startups and have been doing this kind of bitcoin evangelism, bitcoin technology research ever since.
00:09:38.410 - 00:09:58.970, Speaker A: That's great. Yeah, it's so interesting. We all had the same response to the eight crisis. It was just such bs on so many levels. But through all of that, none of my thinking was the dollar was the problem. It just seemed so ingrained. Why would I ever question that? I'm curious.
00:09:58.970 - 00:10:34.600, Speaker A: You start to find out about bitcoin and there's a jump from, you understand technology to I'm going to spend my life on this, I'm going to make this my career. I've been in crypto now working here for a little less than a year. And it was a big jump going from working at a grocery store or any kind of other cycles I had to being in bitcoin or crypto. So what was that transition like where you found out about bitcoin? You believe in the thesis of it to really starting to get involved at a tangible level of putting that time and build stuff?
00:10:37.630 - 00:11:32.650, Speaker C: Well, it was a period of education and getting myself to a point where I feel like I had solid footing to be able to even talk intelligently about it and to feel like I had something to say and to feel like I had the knowledge where I could actually help other people get into bitcoin. And so I was working at a media startup at the time and going to school. I eventually dropped out of school to do the startup full time. And then at some point the bitcoin bug just bit me so hard. I felt like, okay, I really understand this. I really understand the potential here. Now I want to dedicate my life to helping bitcoin fulfill its full potential.
00:11:32.650 - 00:12:33.760, Speaker C: And so I moved to San Francisco, which at the time was the closest thing that you could call to like a bitcoin startup. Hub companies like Trade Hill and Coinbase were just getting started and based there in San Francisco. At the first bitcoin meetup I went to there, I met Brian Armstrong from Coinbase and Jared Kenna from Tradehill and just started networking with people in the bitcoin community out there and met some people I started working with. We started working on projects, people started raising money from investors and just through the sheer force of will, carved out a place in the industry for myself and have been working on bitcoin projects full time ever since.
00:12:34.610 - 00:13:01.270, Speaker A: Love it. We're thankful that happened. Well, yeah, I'd love to start to go down the rabbit hole of this research paper and roll ups and bitcoin scaling. And for people that listen to this, there's a podcast you recently did because is it safe to say that this is the most in depth paper on roll ups on bitcoin to date? Is the piece you just released?
00:13:02.250 - 00:13:04.120, Speaker C: Yeah, I would say.
00:13:04.570 - 00:13:12.220, Speaker A: Okay, so if you haven't seen or read the paper and you want to nerd out, it's right.
00:13:12.750 - 00:13:14.102, Speaker C: Yep. Yep.
00:13:14.166 - 00:13:47.602, Speaker A: So that's a good place to go if you want to get in the weeds and hear it directly from John. Also, though, there's a fantastic podcast with John and Kevin Brooke, who runs a podcast focused mostly on lightning, but this was too important not to have John on. And they basically cover the podcast I was going to do. I had an outline and I started watching this for context, and he just hit all the questions I had basically in the order I had. So it didn't make sense. I'm not going to double dip and do the same podcast over and over. So for most people, go check out Kevin's podcast with John.
00:13:47.602 - 00:14:15.680, Speaker A: It's fantastic. I think the way I want to attack this is more of a, this is like a teaser, an overview for the person who, they just want to get the bite size of what this means in a half hour condensed fashion. And so I think it's good to probably start with what is the current state of bitcoin scaling, and kind of all of its solutions, like roll ups are one option, but what is out there currently that's being considered by the community or technically feasible that you're aware of?
00:14:18.130 - 00:14:30.562, Speaker C: Are you referring to protocols or different features that aren't yet implemented? Or are you including even things that people could do with bitcoin today?
00:14:30.696 - 00:14:52.060, Speaker A: I would say both. Like if I'm looking at tech that might be in the works ten years from now, but we even are vaguely aware of now, and if something happens culturally or something, it could be possible. Roll ups are one. I don't know if drive change or whatever is a thing to help serve that. What's the current landscape of that look like?
00:14:52.750 - 00:16:27.630, Speaker C: Yeah, good question. So in terms of what people can do with bitcoin today, there are a few different techniques, and scaling is an important topic to cover on multiple layers of the bitcoin stack. So there are efforts at how to improve scalability at the networking layer, such as compact blocks is a technique that's currently in use, which is just a way to send less data between full nodes and miners so that they can get their blocks relayed across the network faster. There are on chain techniques, so there's ways that you can make more efficient use of your block space, such as transaction batching, which a lot of exchanges are using nowadays. So the old way of making withdrawals from exchanges is that an exchange user would submit their withdrawal address, and then the exchange would construct a transaction and send bitcoin to the withdrawal address. And if you do that many, many times, you have to have many, many transactions, which takes up a lot of block space. And so what exchanges have switched to doing is batching withdrawals.
00:16:27.630 - 00:17:42.014, Speaker C: So rather than having one transaction per withdrawal, they'll have many withdrawals in a single transaction. And you save a lot of block space. The exact amount of block space depends on a number of different factors, like how many inputs you need for your transaction and how many outputs there are and things like that. But you can save a lot of block space compared to the old way of doing things. And then there are some protocols that are like off chain protocols, which actually move transactions off chain. And so lightning is a popular example of this, where users will do one transaction on chain to open a channel to some counterparty that already is in the lightning network. And then once they have that channel open, they can send payments to that counterparty or other people that their counterparty is connected to, and people that their counterparty is connected to who those people are connected to.
00:17:42.014 - 00:18:36.930, Speaker C: So it creates this big kind of spider web network of liquidity that people can send payments to off chain, so those transactions don't have to ever touch the blockchain. And that saves a ton of space. Basically, every lightning transaction that's ever happened never touches the blockchain. And people only have to go back on chain when they want to close their channel, or they need to rebalance their liquidity in a way that can't be done through lightning directly or something like that. I've had one of my oldest channels, I think, has been open since 2018. So all of the payments that I've done through that channel, those transactions haven't touched the chain in four years. So you can imagine how much block space that has saved.
00:18:36.930 - 00:19:14.746, Speaker C: And then you multiply that by everyone that uses lightning, and you can think of there's a huge amount of savings there. So there's a lot of stuff that's already being done to scale bitcoin. And then there are some more futuristic techniques, things that you can't do with bitcoin today. But people are proposing as could be possible if we made some changes to bitcoin, usually with a soft fork. So you mentioned drive chains. Drive chains is one way that we could get more transactions. They won't have the exact same security model as bitcoin.
00:19:14.746 - 00:20:09.520, Speaker C: Using bitcoin on chain today, but lightning doesn't have the exact same security model as bitcoin either. And so some people find that security trade off acceptable. But drive chains are basically new blockchains that you can move your bitcoin over to in a kind of trust minimized way, and then do a bunch of transactions on this other blockchain that bitcoin main chain. Full nodes don't have to validate. They don't have to validate, they don't have to replay these transactions. They don't even need to know these transactions are happening. So it's similar to lightning in that way where you're moving the transactions off chain somewhere else, where layer one, full nodes don't have to know about or store these transactions, verify these transactions, or anything like that.
00:20:09.520 - 00:22:23.610, Speaker C: Drive chains is a very interesting protocol. There are a few different dips that would enable drive chains. There are techniques like OPT CTV or BIP 119, which Jeremy Rubin tried to activate earlier this year, which has some scaling benefits. It could enable new, more efficient uses of block space, particularly for exchanges or opening lightning transactions in bulk in ways that are aware of or sensitive to block space congestion during periods of high load on the blockchain, rather than having to put all of these transactions on chain and take up all this block space at the same time. Instead, you can just put a hash on chain and then once the bitcoins are basically owned by the recipients at that point in time, but then the recipients can claim the bitcoins. So basically unroll the hash into a tree of transactions to actually claim the bitcoins at a later date once the block space congestion has cooled down and transaction fees are lower. So this is a way that exchanges and other large lightning service providers can make more efficient use of block space even during periods of high congestion, so that they're not slowing down withdrawals or lightning channel recipients from onboarding, they're just delaying when those transactions actually can be claimed by the recipients.
00:22:23.610 - 00:23:35.938, Speaker C: So OPCTV is interesting. There's also a technique called signature aggregation that some people are working on, where you can take the signatures on transactions in a block and then smoosh them together. So instead of requiring say, 10,000 or 20,000 bytes or even more for a bunch of signatures in a block, you can compress that down to essentially like the size of a single signature, which would just be maybe a few hundred bytes. And so that would significantly free up space in blocks for more transactions. There's really quite a large landscape of protocols, honestly. So I'll stop there. But if anybody's interested in going further down the rabbit hole of bitcoin scaling solutions, feel free to send me a tweet or something like that and I can send some links to more resources to check out.
00:23:36.104 - 00:24:36.390, Speaker A: Okay, now that's a perfect overview. And yeah, if you want to find him on Twitter, it's at litecoin. Yeah, this is where I feel like I try and read the bitcoin Optech newsletter, and typically I'll just skim for the biggest things that I can 10% understand. But this is the stuff in bitcoin where it's in the weeds. It's super technical, and it's crazy because the limitations of bitcoin, like the block size and et cetera, it force you to do things like this so you can't build a different crazy kind of l one that just at the base level doesn't do the right things for decentralization or whatever. And so when I hear about these things, it just kind of makes me pause. And it's amazing to see so much innovation happening inside this bounded space and just trying to do so much at the fringes, whether it's 5th 19 or roll ups or drivetrains, it's fascinating.
00:24:36.970 - 00:26:35.834, Speaker C: Yeah, it's not sexy, it's not flashy, but to me it's art. I mean, it's really amazing what the engineers in the bitcoin developer community are able to do within the constraints that they've been given by Satoshi and the rest of the bitcoin community and to the broader bitcoin community. I think it's really admirable that people have been so committed to, let's say, keeping blocks small or ultimately for the purpose of decentralization, whereas so many other chains are willing to push further and further in the direction of centralization. And I think that that experimentation is legitimate. They're not trying to be bitcoin, they're something else. And they're testing the boundaries of how far can we push this before it becomes dangerously centralized. I'm happy that those experiments are happening, but I'm also happening that we have a community like bitcoin, and that it is bitcoin in particular that is so strongly committed to decentralization because it gives us, I think, very sane constraints to fit our engineering into and forces us to think about just how we can use the limited resources that we have as bitcoin full nodes and the network as a whole as efficiently as possible, and trying to squeeze the maximum amount of value into the smallest number of bytes, I think that's just a really cool constraint to work within.
00:26:35.834 - 00:26:41.162, Speaker C: And I think validity roll ups are consistent with that. Perfect.
00:26:41.296 - 00:27:19.562, Speaker A: Yeah, I couldn't agree more. I think the things that make us so inspired and in awe is when something like you have physics, which has its own limitations, and then someone kind of pushes against physics, whether it's like the human body or the human mind or the code base that has these constraints, and you say, okay, cool, I'm going to build it to the edge of that as far as I can inside the box. It's very cool. So jumping into roll ups then, and we're breezing through, we're going to approach an hour real quick. No problem. But I try and keep this a half hour, but there's just too much to cover. So let's jump in then.
00:27:19.562 - 00:27:36.030, Speaker A: You gave like seven or so interesting things currently in development, people are working on and exploring, but the one you didn't touch on is roll ups. So, yeah, give us kind of the overview of what a roll up is in the context of bitcoin.
00:27:36.690 - 00:28:49.830, Speaker C: Sure. So a roll up is a blockchain that you can trustlessly transfer your bitcoins to and then back to the main bitcoin blockchain. And the way that, I should say, there's not really any other protocol that gives you that benefit with the same, say, flexibility as validity roll up. So this is a unique protocol in that regard. And the way that roll ups enable you to do that is using two tricks. One is that they store a compressed version of their transaction data. So basically, all of the transactions that are happening on the roll up blockchain get compressed and then put into a layer one bitcoin block so that the data remains available as long as that block is seeded by the bitcoin network.
00:28:49.830 - 00:30:25.330, Speaker C: And that's important because of the second kind of trick that the roll up uses to enable you to trustlessly get your bitcoins in and out, which is a validity proof. Validity proof is a cryptographic proof that, as the name implies, proves the validity of the transactions that are happening in the roll up block. So basically you can move your bitcoin into this other blockchain, do some transactions. The roll up block producer is going to bundle those transactions into a block and then put the transaction data and then a validity proof that proves that all of those transactions are actually valid. They put that validity proof and the roll up transaction data onto the layer one bitcoin blockchain and then layer one full nodes. They don't have to execute all of those transactions that happened on the roll up, they just verify the validity proof. And if the validity proof comes back with a check mark and says yes, all of these transactions are valid, then that roll up block transaction is itself considered valid and the roll up block is confirmed both on the roll up and on the layer one bitcoin blockchain.
00:30:25.330 - 00:32:13.526, Speaker C: And what this enables is that when you deposit your bitcoin into a roll up, the roll up full nodes are going to be looking at the deposit contract on bitcoin layer one and they're going to see, okay, some bitcoins just came into the deposit contract. We're going to now issue an equivalent number of bitcoin to that bitcoin address on the roll up. So you send some bitcoin to the deposit contract and then those bitcoins appear in your address on the roll up and you can send those bitcoins around on the roll up just the same as you would send bitcoins around on bitcoin layer one. And then once you want to get your bitcoins back out onto the layer one blockchain, you submit a withdrawal transaction and then the withdrawal transaction is going to come out of the roll up contract on bitcoin layer one. Now the challenge becomes how does bitcoin layer one know that the withdrawal transaction that's coming out of the roll up contract on layer one is actually valid? How do they know it's not just somebody else saying, yeah, I own these bitcoins over here, give them back to me? Well, they use that validity proof because the validity proof is going to prove that the withdrawal transaction is valid. And if the validity proof itself isn't valid, then the withdrawal transaction is going to get rejected and it's not going to happen. So nobody can fraudulently take coins out of the roll up.
00:32:13.526 - 00:34:12.080, Speaker C: They can only take coins out of the roll up if they actually own those coins. And this is in comparison to existing side chain protocols that we have, such as root stock or liquid, where this movement of bitcoins to and from the side chain is managed by a trusted federation, like the same problem exists. It's just that today, bitcoin layer one has no way of verifying whether or not the withdrawal transactions coming out of the side chain address are actually valid or not. And so validity roll ups using this on chain data availability in combination with the validity proof provides that security and that trustlessness to ensure that the only people who can withdraw coins from the roll up are actually the current owners of those coins, according to the roll up. And another benefit that you get from this protocol is that it fully inherits the double spend security of the layer one blockchain. So the exact same amount of double spend security that you get from sending bitcoin from one layer one address to another layer one address, you also get when you send bitcoin from a layer two roll up address to another layer two roll up address. You're getting that full double spend security from 100% of the hashing power on bitcoin layer one, which, again, the side chain protocols of today don't have.
00:34:12.080 - 00:35:29.800, Speaker C: Liquid uses a federation for consensus. Root stock uses merged mining. And even if they had 100% of bitcoin miners mining their side chain, it's actually still not 100% of the security of bitcoin, because the side chain can be reorged independently of bitcoin layer one. Whereas with roll ups, if you want to reorg a transaction on a validity roll up, you also have to reorg the layer one block that that transaction was confirmed in. So, to summarize, with a validity roll up, you have this separate blockchain that inherits the full double spend security of your layer one blockchain, bitcoin. And it has a secure bridge that you can use to transfer your bitcoin into this other blockchain. Do some transactions, and then have a strong guarantee, just as strong as your ownership guarantees on layer one, that you and only you can withdraw your bitcoins and get them back on a layer one bitcoin address.
00:35:31.770 - 00:36:32.662, Speaker A: Okay, I want to take a step back to the beginning a little bit and make sure I understand, kind of like, thematically, how this works. So you say it's a trustless exchange to and from bitcoin, and people can kind of feel kind of what that looks like, whether it's lightning, which uses just cryptography to do back and forth, or like you mentioned, with liquid or rsk, there's some kind of other model involved. And then you mentioned it stores compressed version of data on the l one. And this is something I've been trying to wrap my head around, because most of my user base or my audience is more familiar with stacks and pox. And the way I've been trying to describe to newbies how that works is like, I'm thinking about, like, the Dewey decimal system at libraries where you have this index card system, and it can tell you where a book is. So that's like the block on the stack side. But bitcoin doesn't know what's in any of those books.
00:36:32.662 - 00:36:44.800, Speaker A: It just knows where to point to at that level of the roll up. Does that analogy hold any water? Does that make any sense as far as how the bitcoin layer is compressing the data?
00:36:45.170 - 00:38:30.400, Speaker C: Not exactly. So the full state, or at least the state diff that is. This may be getting a little bit too technical, but let's just say enough data to be able to reconstruct the current state of the roll up from Genesis is stored in layer one bitcoin blocks. So you're storing quite a lot more data than you would with the stacks consensus system. And the reason why roll ups require so much data to be stored on layer one is so that the users always have enough of the data about the current validity roll up state to be able to produce their own validity proof and get their coins out of the validity roll up. If for some reason the validity roll up block producers are trying to censor them or have completely gone offline, are completely uncooperative, whatever, like if the roll up is completely failing them, they're not able to get a withdrawal transaction confirmed on the roll up, then what they can actually do is they can go directly to the layer one roll up contract and use the data that has been put in the layer one blocks about the state of the roll up to produce a validity proof that basically says, I own this much bitcoin in the current state of the roll up. I would like to withdraw that bitcoin to this bitcoin address.
00:38:30.400 - 00:39:31.860, Speaker C: And then they get that withdrawal transaction with the validity proof confirmed on the layer one blockchain. And the layer one full nodes are able to verify that validity proof and process the withdrawal transaction. So without that data, they wouldn't be able to produce that validity proof because they just don't have enough information to be able to cryptographically make that statement. Like, this is how much bitcoin I own, and I'm going to mathematically show you why that is true. It's just a mathematical reality of how these cryptographic proofs work. Got it? But that's how you're able to get that secure bitcoin bridge where you can move bitcoin into the roll up and then have that very strong guarantee that you can always get your bitcoin back out onto the layer one bitcoin blockchain. There's no other protocol that can do that.
00:39:32.310 - 00:40:13.074, Speaker A: Okay, that's super helpful and fascinating. This is where I got to pause myself because I want to nerd out about what you just said for like 20 more minutes, but I'm going to pause and keep it more of an overview. Maybe this is a good time for people to go jump into Kevin's podcast to do a deeper dive. A few more questions. We'll kind of dance around here at this point is everyone's heard about ZK rollups up to this point. It kind of has like name brand recognition almost, and you call it Vlidsi rollups, which I'm sure you're choosing your words very wisely. So what's the difference between those two things?
00:40:13.112 - 00:41:05.678, Speaker C: Or is there any in practice, there isn't. A lot of people use the term ZK roll up to refer to validity roll ups, and I don't know how this got started. I think people originally kind of conflated validity proofs with ZK proofs or zero knowledge proofs. And so when it came time to use these types of proofs in a roll up context, they just said, oh, we're using zero knowledge proofs in a roll up. This is a ZK roll up. It's a zero knowledge roll up. But technically speaking, a lot of the proofs that are actually being used in ZK roll up protocols are actually validity proofs.
00:41:05.678 - 00:42:06.610, Speaker C: They're not zero knowledge proofs. You can use zero knowledge proofs to create a validity proof, but not all validity proofs are zero knowledge proofs. And so if we want to be technically accurate when we're talking about specifically the proofs that are proving validity of these roll up state transitions, we would call those validity proofs. Some of them might be zero knowledge proofs, and it might be technically accurate to call them zero knowledge proofs. But just so that we can speak generally about this without getting into the implementation details, I decided to use validity proofs because it refers to the broadest possible number of different implementation options. And this is also the term that starquare prefers to use, and it's a term that is gaining favor, generally speaking, in the research community, I would say, because of this technical distinction.
00:42:07.190 - 00:42:31.834, Speaker A: Okay, that's super helpful. Okay, we're going to jump ahead. There's a natural question here to ask about validity proofs and how they get proved. I'm going to skip that. I'm going to point people to Kevin Rooks podcast. You give a fantastic example of where's Waldo puzzle and how this can kind of work in that example, which was super enlightening. I'm leaving that as a cliffhanger for people.
00:42:31.834 - 00:43:06.680, Speaker A: So go check out that podcast. But I want to jump ahead, start to close this out slowly. And I think one of the things that naturally comes up is bitcoin is so resistant to change. You see Bip 119, which kind of like came, and I don't know where it is now. BiP 300 has been on the sidelines forever, and there's this kind of obvious culture that bitcoin is hard to change almost to the point where it's like it feels impossible sometimes. And so I think the natural question is, like, this sounds super interesting. The benefits seem clear.
00:43:06.680 - 00:43:22.560, Speaker A: How feasible do you think this actually is to implement? Actually, first question before we get there, real briefly, how technically fleshed out is this tech currently? Like, if people want to vote today and pass it on, is it ready?
00:43:25.730 - 00:45:05.946, Speaker C: No, I think that we probably have a few years of r and D ahead of us to figure out what is the best way to actually implement this on bitcoin, to do due diligence on the existing validity proof systems that are out there and find out if any of them are really ready for bitcoin, so to say, the level of security and maturity and efficiency that maybe bitcoin developers would be looking for. So there are validity roll up systems that are in production, but these systems are on the bleeding edge, and a lot of them have, frankly, kind of cut corners on their way to getting to production. And so none of them are really at the level where they're basically doing the full roll up security model. And that's because they're kind of hedging their bets a little bit. They're saying, like, yes, we're building towards a validity roll up, but the tech isn't quite ready. We're going to put some guardrails in place so that if anything goes wrong, humans can intervene and maybe try to mitigate the potential damage. Whereas I think anything that goes onto bitcoin, it doesn't really have that luxury.
00:45:05.946 - 00:46:08.290, Speaker C: It has to be ready for main net. It has to be ready to be used in a trustless way and a kind of immutable way once it gets deployed. And so I think just due to the way that bitcoin engineering, culture and standards work is that it's just going to take a lot longer to get a protocol actually ready for Mainnet. So one of the questions I think Kevin asked me this, it might have been on a different show that I did recently, but I was recently asked, how long do you think it'll be before this gets onto bitcoin. And I said, optimistically, maybe within five years, but I could see it taking longer if it happened faster. I think it's maybe possible, but that would be very optimistic, I would say. But, yeah, I think five years or maybe a little bit longer is maybe more realistic to getting something like this onto bitcoin.
00:46:09.030 - 00:46:23.800, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. You answered both my questions in one full swoop. So great job, John. Let me think now. I had a question. It disappeared. So I guess we'll jump into my last one, which is not really.
00:46:23.800 - 00:46:47.310, Speaker A: It's bitcoin related, but it's more of a personal question because I like to ask. I found in myself it's actually hard to dream big. That's kind of my thesis. It's hard to expand your worldview and actually think big. And so I have to put people in a situation like five years from now. Imagine everything's going swimmingly, like roll ups around bitcoin. Bitcoin is the top dog.
00:46:47.310 - 00:47:00.370, Speaker A: It's $2 million a coin. I don't even know what would be a feasible crazy number in five years from now. What is John doing in that perfect future? What are you building, working on five years from now that you'd be overjoyed.
00:47:02.310 - 00:47:48.500, Speaker C: Oh, that's really hard to say. Just because of how quickly things change in bitcoin. I tend to take things one day at a time here. But based on the outcome of the research that I've been doing, I am pretty excited about validity roll ups. So I hope that I'm doing something at the time to help validity roll ups get on bitcoin if they aren't already on bitcoin at this time. If they are on bitcoin, then I'm out there teaching people about the validity roll ups that people have built. Maybe I'm working with a team to get adoption for their roll ups or something like that.
00:47:48.500 - 00:48:22.442, Speaker C: The roll up use case is so flexible because really, a validity roll up, it's a protocol for moving bitcoin to other blockchains. It doesn't necessarily define what those blockchains can do. So the blockchain design space is very broad. Like, people have designed all different kinds of blockchains, doing all different kinds of things. Like you've got stacks with their clarity language. You've got ethereum with the EVM. You've got zcash with the zero cash protocol.
00:48:22.442 - 00:49:20.830, Speaker C: You've got grin with mimblewimble. There are all of these different experiments going on with different blockchain designs, and all of those could be validity roll ups. And so I'm most excited about improving privacy on bitcoin because it's just a problem that has plagued bitcoiners for so long. And so five years from now, I think it would be really cool to be working on a privacy focused validity roll up that's bringing the zero cash protocol or maybe even something more private if something else has been invented by then to bitcoin so that bitcoin users can get trustless end to end encryption for their bitcoins and we can have a true peer to peer electronic cash system built with bitcoin.
00:49:21.650 - 00:50:12.270, Speaker A: Perfect. Yeah, that is fantastic. It makes me think too about there is a lag between when the tech is fleshed out and maybe put on bitcoin and then implementations come out above that and bring it fully to life. And I think you've seen this with like, it seems like I've heard this with Taproot where it's like what Taproot can technically do versus what's currently out there, there's a huge gap and you need devs, you need people putting in mental cycles, trying out things, more infrastructure built out. So it sounds like what you're saying is it's kind of like that where Taprid is right now, roll ups will probably be too, where even though it gets maybe pushed into bitcoin core, there's going to be that time of education, tooling around for developers and that kind of thing to actually bring it to the masses.
00:50:13.670 - 00:51:25.254, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that'll definitely be the case, but yeah, at the same time, there are a lot of teams that have experience with blockchain, like building blockchains already and even building roll ups. So maybe adoption of validity roll ups will happen a little bit faster just because people, as we're working on getting validity roll up protocols onto testnet and things like that, maybe people will just be excited enough to start building stuff in parallel. And once it goes on to mainnet, you'll have people launching stuff on main net like shortly after that. But it could go a number of different ways. So we'll just have to see how much traction this idea gets, how many people get excited about it, how quickly the developer ecosystem develops around it, if such an ecosystem develops at all, that kind of thing. So yeah, personally, like I said, I'm really excited about this idea. I think it can bring a lot of value to bitcoin and the best I can do is shows like this and try to convince other people the same and build a community around this.
00:51:25.254 - 00:51:33.900, Speaker C: And yeah, let's make it happen and invent the most optimistic future that you could imagine in five years from now, ten years from now.
00:51:34.750 - 00:51:50.400, Speaker A: Let's make it happen. I couldn't agree more. John, thank you. Thank you so much for taking the time. Thank you for being a bitcoin educator and researcher and builder. Any closing thoughts that you want to close on or I didn't touch on before we bring this to a close?
00:51:52.770 - 00:52:29.370, Speaker C: Not really. I think we covered a lot of good ground. Like you mentioned, I'm on Twitter if anybody wants to follow me at litecoin Lightcoin, my website domain is very similar. L-I-G-H-T-C-O in. If you want to check out my blog and the things I've been writing about bitcoin for the past few years and yeah, let's keep the conversation going. Anybody who's interested in valley roll ups or any of the topics I write about, I'm always happy to have a conversation, give feedback, even if you disagree. I want to hear why you disagree.
00:52:29.370 - 00:52:36.300, Speaker C: I'm all about the conversation, bitcoin community, so let's keep you going.
00:52:37.010 - 00:53:01.906, Speaker A: I love it. Yeah. Especially because I'm bitcoin focused now. But I came from stacks and you've always been one of those guys that's like down to engage good faith debater. So appreciate you and all the knowledge you've dropped on Twitter and sparse pieces as I've seen you. But also this conversation. And yeah, if people are curious about the research paper or roll ups, bitcoinrollups.org
00:53:01.906 - 00:53:09.480, Speaker A: highly recommend you check it. I think. I think that's it. This has been fantastic. John, thank you so much, my man.
00:53:10.090 - 00:53:34.300, Speaker C: Yeah, thank you, Jake. Welcome to built on bitcoin. I'm know that things don't always go your way, but I'll be right here waiting, waiting out but trying to figure out a way to make it out. Make it out because I don't think about everything going wrong. Close.
