00:00:01.690 - 00:01:25.190, Speaker A: Before I explain why we couldn't use existing rate model that are used in over collateralized lending, I will just do a super quick recap on how the rates are set in over collateralized lending. So if you consider ave, for instance, the borrowing rates are set algorithmically based on demand and supply in the pool, the algorithm are calibrated in order to manage liquidity risk and optimized utilization. So the borrowing rate is not representative of the financial health of the borrower, but rather representative of liquidity risk and market risk, which is fine for overcollaterized lending. I guess you know where I'm going. But when you consider over collateralized lending, the extent to which they enable true borrowing where an agent gets into a position of net debt is limited and it creates a gap with TradFi offering, we wanted to address that gap, but in order to bridge that gap, we had to reduce the collateral constraint. The thing is that when you remove the collateral constraint, you introduce a default risk and then a challenge arise in determining how to set a borrowing rate that is representative of default risk without relying on a third party or without adding an arbitrary risk premium to existing rate model. We have set up our own methodology for that that I'm very happy to share with you today.
00:01:25.190 - 00:02:15.328, Speaker A: So let's dive in and have a look at Atlantis lending pools. In order to enable rate discovery on Atlantis, we have set up what we call an interest rate order book by the creation of ticks. A tick is just a subset of the funds within the borrowers pool that corresponds to a specific lending rate. So when an LP come into Atlantis, they choose the borrowing entity that they want to lend to and they also choose their lending rate. And then their lending pools are composed of multiple ticks. The choice of their lending rate is based on their own creditor's assessment and on their own evaluation of the borrower's default probability. They can update their rate as long as they want and as long as their position is not borrowed.
00:02:15.328 - 00:03:08.800, Speaker A: And then the borrowing rate is simply the lowest volume weighted average rate that corresponds to the amount borrowed. So when a borrower happens on at Lendis, the smart contract will just iterate over the different ticks until the target borrowed amount is reached. So all this sounds like interesting in theory, but we wanted to evaluate our rate discovery process and we wanted to modelize our rate discovery before being able to evaluate, we had to define our objectives. So when you consider auction process, usually something that is commonly used in order to evaluate auction is to look at the revenue of the auction years. So for us it would be the borrowing entity. We decided to fix different a bit different objectives and we decided to fix two objectives. The first one was convergence.
00:03:08.800 - 00:04:03.252, Speaker A: Is at lender's borrowing rate a fair representation of the borrower's default probability that is assessed by the market. And second, we wanted to evaluate the speed of convergence. Does a model incentivize transparency? In other words, does the speed of convergence improve when the borrowers provides more information about their financial health? So let's move to the fun part, which is the modeling and evaluation part. In order to represent how borrow takes place on Atlantis as bids are open because they happen on chain, we came out with the conclusion that the most appropriate tool was to use game theory. Our game is simply composed of two types of players. Obviously they are the lenders then can perform three actions they can deposit, not deposit and update their rates on their existing position. And another player is obviously the borrower.
00:04:03.252 - 00:04:51.350, Speaker A: The borrower can either borrow or not borrow. The games start at the opening of the pool and the start of what we call the book building phase. Depending on our product, that period is limited in time and during that period lenders can freely deposit it, update their rate or withdraw their position if they like. At the end of that period, the borrower makes the decision to either borrow or not borrow. When deciding which action to perform in the game, the players want to maximize their utility function, so it's just simply their payoff. So let's say that a company is looking to borrow a certain amount K and they expect to make a certain revenue on their borrowance funds. You can call it the ROI.
00:04:51.350 - 00:05:38.038, Speaker A: So if RB is the borrowing rate, then the borrowers payoff is quite simple. It's simply K times Droi minus the cost of borrowing. And if they decide not to borrow, their payoff is simply zero. In practice we introduce a penalty fee and there's a cost of loss opportunity in case they not borrow. But for simplicity, I will just say it's zero. From the utility function, it's quite easy to see that there's a borrowing rate above which the borrower will likely not borrow because it's when the utility comes negative and then he's just better off not borrowing from the pool. We can call that rate the reserve rate and it's the highest rate above which they will not borrow.
00:05:38.038 - 00:06:16.840, Speaker A: And that's something that we ask our players, our borrowers to publicly declare to all participants. So that in order to ease the rate discovery process, for simplicity we can say it's equals to the ROI. When you go to the lending side, it's a bit different. So each lender has his own evaluation of the borrower's default probability. We call it P. It's based on their own evaluation, their own risk aversion, et cetera. And when deciding whether to deposit into the pool and the choice of lending rate, they must also have a look at their utility function.
00:06:16.840 - 00:07:21.854, Speaker A: Let's say that a lender wants to deposit D at a tick R in case the position gets borrowed. Then he will receive D times R with a probability of one minus P, it just corresponds to the interest that remain on the position and he expects to receive actually to lose his deposit with a probability of P in case of default. So the utility function when the position is borrowed is simply the weighted sum of those two. So that's what you can see. Like, I was expecting this to be lower because I can't show anything. But yeah, it's what you can see near the equal sign, so it's just the sum of those two. Similarly to the boring side, we can see that there's a rate below which the lender will not be willing to lend because this utility function on the rise becomes negative and he's just better off.
00:07:21.854 - 00:08:21.594, Speaker A: He would just be better off not depositing into the pool because his payoff would simply be zero. We call that rate the lowest rate at which they're willing to lend. We call it R star and we can say that it corresponds to the lender's true valuation on the true valuation of the borrowing rate. When deciding which action to perform in the game, the lender must also consider their ability for their position to get borrowed because as you can see from there, they will only get the utility on the right if their position is borrowed. If it's not borrowed, they will just have a payoff of zero. In order for their position to be borrowed, two conditions must be met. First, the borrowing rate must be lower than the ROI because otherwise, as from what we saw from the last slide, the borrower will not borrow.
00:08:21.594 - 00:09:11.022, Speaker A: And second, the cumulative volume at tick R must be lower than K because otherwise position that were placed at lower lending rates will get borrowed instead. Now that we have set up all the rules of our game, we are ready to modalize our game. That's the setup that we use. We decided to consider two borrowers with the exact same intrinsic default probability. So they have the same default risk, but they differ in the amount of information that they are willing to provide to the participant. There's borrower A that provides an extensive amount of information, and there's borrower B that provides limited amount of information regarding the lenders. They deposit any amount, one after the other, and they can freely update their rates and then the choice of lending rates are made.
00:09:11.022 - 00:10:21.542, Speaker A: In order to optimize to maximize the utility function that we saw, we use the same distribution of P and R star among lenders for both borrowers because both borrowers have the same default risk. But we modelized different bidding behaviors to account for increased reservation for borrower B and lower uncertainty for borrower A. By running the simulation, we observed the following. So in that case, the borrower were looking to borrow one hundred K and they declared a reserve rate of 15% and the average error star among lenders was 9.5. We can see that at the beginning when the TDL in the pool is lower than the target borrowed amount. Obviously the borrowing rate corresponds to the reserve rate because there's no incentive for loyal lenders to lower their rate because they know for sure their position is going to get borrowed. At 15%, when there's more TDL in the pool, we observe that the borrowing rate sharply declines until it reach the average R star.
00:10:21.542 - 00:11:12.006, Speaker A: Among lenders, that corresponds to the Earth star. So we observe convergence of the borrowing rate to a rate that is representative of the market assessment of the default probability. We also can see that the borrower a is able to achieve their two borrowing rates at a faster pace and thus is able to borrow at a cheaper rate. So by providing more information about their financial health, they're able to achieve a cheaper rate even if they both converge to the same rate in the end. But as a drawback, we see that the required TVL amount compared to the target loan amount must be very high to a low convergence. So that's an issue. In order to tackle the TVL amount issue, we decided to reproduce our previous mesmerization and introduce uncertainty in the amount to be borrowed using a Bayesian model.
00:11:12.006 - 00:12:00.322, Speaker A: So lenders associate a probability of occurrence to several possible borrowed amount, and the exact amount to be borrowed is not fixed for sure. By running the exact simulation, the exact same simulation, we observe an improved capital efficiency compared with previous model. So in blue that's the previous model, and in orange it's the Beijing model. And we see that by adding uncertainty and the amount borrowed, we are able to reach the true borrowing rate at a faster pace. That's what we do on Atlantis. Amounts to be borrowed are capped, but they're not fixed. So we are providing revolving credit lines with a certain credit limit, but lenders are unaware of how much exactly the borrower will borrow.
00:12:00.322 - 00:12:48.560, Speaker A: In the end, disincentivize lenders to reveal their true valuation to guarantee matching. So we've explored at lending solution to avoid centralized rate setting or arbitrary risk premium and allow an onchain rate discovery. We see that our decentralized rate discovery model enable convergence of a borrowing rate that is representative of the market assessment of the default probability. And we see that we observe an improved speed of convergence and there's cheaper cost of capital for borrowers that are willing to provide high amounts of information regarding their financial health. This is something that would not be easily achievable in Tratvi, where you're dealing with few banking actors. So DeFi rules. Thank you.
