00:00:00.410 - 00:00:42.430, Speaker A: Hello, my name is Lazaro. I'm tech lead at Nethermind, currently leading smart contract developers in our DeFi research and Development group. We are a group of blockchain and financial professionals that specializes in DeFi research and development for institutional clients. We deliver a wide range of services that help our clients tap into the power of blockchain technology and decentralized finance. If you join our team, you will get to explore a variety of services and products that we work on as part of our technical due diligence service. You will be involved in researching the latest happenings in the blockchain space. This means reviewing, for example, emerging stable coins, staking products, bridges, oracles and layer twos.
00:00:42.430 - 00:01:52.480, Speaker A: So you will develop technical knowledge about differing aspects of the industry and underlying technology and you will be involved in creating reports, summaries and comparisons to dig even deeper into these developments. Interns also have the opportunity to gain handsome experience in the citing world of Defi and explore topics like tokenization and derivatives which are key aspects of our recent projects. You will work closely with our smart contract developers and contribute in every aspect of our projects. We also have some great opportunity for you to develop your engineering skills. You will gain experience by using onchain data analytic tools to assist our clients and learn all about extracting, processing and organizing data from the blockchain. Classifying transaction traces and extracting MEV data are among the tasks that you will face in the process of mastering the ins and outs of working with blockchain data. Another cool thing is that our engineers call the full escope of development as they handle all the web two related work our clients need, along with integrating all the web three components into the systems we build.
00:01:52.480 - 00:02:22.980, Speaker A: So if you are looking to become a full stack developer, our team will help you with that goal so you will get the right guidance to participate both front end and back end development plus dive into wallet infrastructure and monitoring related work, as well as all other offchain interaction with the blockchain that our projects involve. Just like you, we are still in the early stages of the blockchain ecosystem, so we'd love to welcome you to our program and grow together. Thank you. Thank.
