00:00:03.160 - 00:00:48.046, Speaker A: My name is Greg Osory. I am the CEO of Akash Network and I am an applied economist, computer scientist and a visual storyteller. Akash Network is a peer to peer marketplace for cloud computing resources. What I'm excited about, Solana, is the consensus mechanism, the proof of history, which improves the trustability of the time source where the record is generated, thereby reducing the amount of messages that are required for finality. And in doing so, it effectively scale a lot better than other solutions which are primarily in sharding. The challenge with time is it's not very easy to test for the accuracy of the time because it relies on an underlying source which is not usually trustworthy. So depending on time, to do any type of verification is hard.
00:00:48.046 - 00:02:04.084, Speaker A: By solving for time, you can reduce the amount of verifications required, thereby increasing the throughput of a distributed system. I met anatoly in late 2017 and I was extremely impressed by the team's background building operating system level code at Qualcomm and considering the founders all worked together for a long time, and considering they are responsible for writing operating system brew, which was used by probably 50% of the mobile phones before the iPhones and Androids were around, Anatolia really understands the implications of working in a multi core processors, where you really have to deal with deal with challenges of latency between the memory and the processors, and the team has written code that is, you know, most, most of us don't touch it at the assembly level. So it's an extremely technical team that I could trust in to solve the time problem in a decentralized manner. The thing that excites me most about Solana is the throughput that allows developers to build applications that feel like a centralized application, but actually it's decentralized on the core and it's a very attractive property that allows real distributed systems engineers to actually consider building on a blockchain.
