00:00:00.200 - 00:00:43.237, Speaker A: The US Government is planning to convert all C code to Rust. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, better known as darpa, just launched a new project called Traktor, which stands for Translating All C to Rust. I know if there's one thing the government does right 100% of the time, it's coming up with these catchy acronyms, the statement on their website says. After more than two decades of grappling with memory safety issues in C and C, the software engineering community has reached a consensus. It's not enough to rely on bug finding tools. The preferred approach is to use safe programming languages that can reject unsafe programs at compile time, thereby preventing the emergence of memory safety issues. The Traktor program aims to automate the translation of legacy C code to Rust.
00:00:43.237 - 00:01:35.785, Speaker A: The goal is to achieve the same quality and style that a skilled Rust developer would produce, thereby eliminating an entire class of memory safety security vulnerabilities present in C programs. They also mentioned that the program can involve software analysis and machine learning techniques like large language models. On August 26, DARPA will host a hybrid event where they plan to explain the technical challenges and goals of Traktor, and they'll also meet with contractors who are interested in taking on the project. Attendees will have the opportunity to give lightning talks and network with others. Through this event, DARPA aims to inform contractors about the project and encourage collaboration on this significant software security initiative. Now, I was pretty shocked when I first heard about this bold plan. I mean, the US Government has advocated for memory safe languages in the past and even mentioned Rust as a memory safe alternative to other low level languages like C and C.
00:01:35.785 - 00:02:21.317, Speaker A: But this is definitely a much more drastic step. Of course the project is still in the very early stages of development and we will have to wait and see how it plays out. But the fact that DARPA is even pursuing such a big project of converting all C code to Rust is a huge endorsement to the language and validates that memory safety issues are a major pain point that needs to be solved. Personally, I'm very excited about the project and I hope it opens the door for more government agencies and companies in the private sector to consider using Rust. But I want to hear what you guys think about this initiative. Is it the beginning of the end for C or is this just an experiment that has yet to provide any concrete value? Let me know in the comments section below. And if you want to become a Rust developer, make sure to get your free 4 day training@letsgetrusty.com
00:02:21.317 - 00:02:25.105, Speaker A: Bootcamp. Hope you've enjoyed the video. And remember to stay rusty.
