00:00:07.210 - 00:01:06.108, Speaker A: We've been working for at least nine months on relay and block building operation until we suspended that, and now we're really focused on eliminating a bit more what's happening on the amid supply chain. So I'm going to dive into that in this talk. We'll be switching off cam, and I'll see you after. Cool. So I was actually thinking of skipping a bit the first slides, because I think Tony did a great job at covering the OFAC angle. Basically, my point here is when we talk about censorship, we often focus on OFAC compliancy, and for good reason. This was a big issue last year, especially since we had some centralization going on at the relay layer, with one relay flashboards being the dominant one, and also at that point OFAC compliant, which meant that basically it was enforcing the compliance at the whole Ethereum network level.
00:01:06.108 - 00:02:09.940, Speaker A: I actually wrote an article about this a year ago and I was able to dig up some numbers. At that time, around 80% of the Ethereum network was served by Mapboost and 80% of all map boost blocks came from flashpod. Today the situation is much better, much improved, as we can see on this chart. But also something that is interesting is that because we're able to identify this issue, monitor it, the commentee is able to take action, and we've seen the emergence of new relays. Non censoring relays such as Filtrasamp is a great example of that, helping mitigate this censorship threat. We've also seen research happening in the space thanks to the data that was available, and actually seeing that the impact on the inclusion rate and delay of censor transaction was actually not as bad as we anticipated. So it added a bit more nuance on our understanding on what censorship actually meant regarding OFAC for transaction inclusion.
00:02:09.940 - 00:03:01.876, Speaker A: So skipping a bit on that part and going forward to the block building landscape. I actually took this meme from Tony. He didn't use it in his premise presentation because this is a great way to illustrate the problem that we have now. The power has shifted from validator to builder. We often discuss about how much of a problem it could be that validator can enforce their preference over block content. But today in this PBS world that we have, it's really the builder who has all the power and is able to decide what is going to go on, shade or not. So not only that, but successful builders are now mostly empirically integrated, aka searcher builders, high frequency traders, if you will.
00:03:01.876 - 00:03:57.844, Speaker A: So this position is going to allow them to profit from MEV at the transaction level, but also at the full block level, by leveraging any MeV left behind at the end of the block. In fact, we could even argue that MEV, which consists of manipulating transaction ordering, is a form of censorshipping itself. And so those integrated builders, they're very profitable, and because of that, they're more likely to keep dominating the market compared to neutral builders. So here we can see that about 82% of all Ethereum blocks are being built by these three builders. And I think that speaks also to some of the question I heard at the end of Tony's talk, two of which are at least vertically integrated searcher builders. Two of them are of a compliant. So the point of this is to show that when you have this level of centralization, censorship pressure can definitely come from within, and we should watch for it.
00:03:57.844 - 00:04:56.248, Speaker A: It's not always about the regulatory environment, and this is where the prechain layer plays an important role, as it helps us reveal what actors are doing. And if there is any kind of manipulation going on, it may be that actors of the supply chain have some incentive to ignore a transaction or delay it to get a better outcome for themselves. It's actually hard to say. Currently there is no way to enforce good behavior, and the social recourse is limited by the lack of observability and the complexity of the strategies that are being implemented. Basically, if someone is censoring, either intentionally or accidentally, what can you do about it? Especially if you're not even aware of it. So this brings me to the point of the need of observability on Ethereum. And just one thing worth noting, when I say any supply chain, it's almost equivalent, at least in my mind, to saying Ethereum at this point, because around 93% of all blocks are met this block at that point.
00:04:56.248 - 00:06:38.360, Speaker A: So looking at very interesting phenomenon, the rise of private transaction on Ethereum, it's also interesting to see that private transaction have been more and more popular. But ofps are also healing in popularity thanks to interesting capabilities such as refunds, which redistribute part of the value to the transaction originator, but also thanks to the privacy properties they can offer via the introduction of hint aka programmability private order flow, which was introduced by Mapshare. But some of the OFA or private RPCN points users are not getting the financial value they should receive. For example, when they use the refund parameters, they're not seeing their intent being respected. For example, when I transact, I expect my transaction to be settled as fast as possible, or I can also expect that I'll get the best outcome I can possibly get. Some guarantees that are stating in writings are not always respected, and sometimes important information can be left out from public documentation. And so the question is, who is watching out for these things? And if no one should we accept the status quo? So looking at the OFS supply chain, which is a variation of the traditional med supply chain, the difference we can see here is that the transaction gets to the OFA nodes to be auctioned off to searchers instead of lending directly in the block builder product mempool and in pink here you can see the actors that you have to trust today and where we should get much more observability on, especially the OFA block builder interaction, which are probably the ones where we know and are able to observe the mist.
00:06:38.360 - 00:08:10.090, Speaker A: If you don't have observability, then you need trust, and that's something we should not accept from a system design perspective. To give a practical example of why this matters, I'm going to give you an overview of a case study that my colleague Blair Marshall worked on this week was actually able to present some results at this event during Devconnect. So just to give you a bit of context on how we came about this, we have transaction boost, an aggregator that is helping users to send their transaction privately to several RPC endpoints by only having to configure one. The goal originally was to provide an increased customization, but also observability through a status API. So I've added the screenshot here to show you exactly what the transaction originator is able to see when they use this service. So a user reached out to us. Turns out they were sending over 5000 plus transaction via transaction boost only configured Napshare as a recipient endpoint, but his transaction were lending in the block of the top five builders, and he received refunds around 60, only across four out of the five builders, which seemed pretty od, especially since the fifth builder wasn't producing any reward, but still was winning 20% of its blocks with the user's transactions in it.
00:08:10.090 - 00:09:39.766, Speaker A: So at that point, Blair decided to use the Hinsite library provided to the community by flashboard, and he was able to identify 19 transactions that could have received a refund, but did not. Instead, the block builder's background boat claimed the opportunity. So the user could have received potentially two e to refunds. But he never actually knew about this until this analysis was done, and he never would have. So this reads the question, is there an information advantage here? If you're a vertically integrated searcher aka a builder searcher on Webshare compared to just a searcher since the builder get the full transaction at the same time that searchers participating in the Oapay get the transaction, that is lacking some information for privacy sake. So how much is the block background in both of that builder taking advantage of its position as an integrated builder? That was one question and at that point in the conversation I was kind of looking at everything like this, but then the plot tickets. Our immediate next thought was is this censorship, whether accidental or intentional, on the builder side? Well, we can't answer this.
00:09:39.766 - 00:10:35.846, Speaker A: We nor our users have a way of knowing if the builder actually received the bundles from Mapshare. Was Mapshare able to generate those refund bundles? And if yes, why did the builder not receive them? And if he did, did he decide to ignore them? So the short answer is we don't know why because we don't have the equivalent of a relayed data API for ofn builders. We have no idea who received what and when. At least we are able here to provide some clarity to the user and discuss it to all parties involved, which hopefully is the first step in the right direction. If you want to read more about this case study and the methodology behind it, you can check the thread from Blair and we're going to post a blog post shortly with more details in it. Actually, it's also going to contain some other findings that we're able to uncover this week with other types of interesting behavior. But this just goes to show how much there is to observe, to observe, to analyze, and to seek about in order to improve the ecosystem.
00:10:35.846 - 00:11:18.680, Speaker A: We really need more people to look into this. So I think by that point we all agree that we need more observability on the NAD supply chain for Pal. If you care about privacy and maintaining the trust of your users who sent you their transaction or their bundles, you quickly see that it's not a straightforward problem to solve. On the other hand, allowing users to get wrecked for their own protection doesn't make much sense either. So another factor here is the complexity. Observing mempool is hard because they're fragmented, locally distributed and constantly changing. So compiling accurate and complete data and making sense of what sophisticated actors are doing is really hard.
00:11:18.680 - 00:12:11.650, Speaker A: We know that on chain and prechain data allows us to track vertical integration spot interesting behavior. It's not just about what happened on the blockchain, it's also why. And the less observability we have, the more we rely on trust and struggle to identify suspicious behavior going on, whether accidental or intentional. If we don't fix the observability issue, we are less likely to build a market that people will want to transact in, which is a net loss for the coral community. It is also important that while we are building these gigs, we do not lose track of the original mission, which is to create something better, more transparent and more inclusive than tradfi. The reality is that today some people are able to leverage programmatically information they receive to extract value before others even have the chance to look at it. If ever we can't rely on trust, we need safeguards and monitoring.
00:12:11.650 - 00:13:03.496, Speaker A: The need for more observability couldn't be more clear. So at block native we decided to take a holistic approach to try and solve this issue and then build an observability platform that we for now, call the transaction Explorer. Gives you the power to visualize the mempool in real time and is going to be fully open source and open to contribution from the community very soon. We believe it will give the ecosystem a new understanding and appreciation for the prechain layer and the infinite possibilities within it, such as studying mev flow, censorship, private Memp pools, interaction between all of these actors from the supply chain, and much more. The early feedback we've received so far has been encouraging. We're currently proving the platform with a small board of users who are doing research and analysis on exactly the topics that we've been discussing today. If you're interested, you can dm me.
00:13:03.496 - 00:13:29.920, Speaker A: This was made possible by a grant from the Ethereum foundation, and the platform will be publicly released and open source in the upcoming weeks, so stay tuned. On that note, thank you all for your attention and see you on Telegram if you want to continue this conversation. Thank you, bye. Is Sajida still on or she's already harmed.
