00:00:00.360 - 00:01:05.140, Speaker A: Hello, my name's Travis and I am thrilled to welcome you to the Microsoft Excel boot camp. I have over twelve years of experience using Microsoft Excel to crunch numbers for Fortune 500 companies and training others to do the same. And I want to help you become an Excel power user too. So what is Microsoft Excel and why should you learn it? Well, the easier question might be, at least when it comes to dealing with data, which since you're here, I'll assume that you do what isn't Microsoft Excel? Data driven applications can tend to be quite specialized. You might use one application to store data, another to analyze and perform calculations on that data, and still another to present your analysis in a visually appealing way. But Excel, on the other hand, is a true one stop shop, the data world's ultimate generalist. With Excel, you can store data, analyze it, and then craft visualizations to present it all in the same file.
00:01:05.140 - 00:01:46.480, Speaker A: And it's not just that Excel can do these things, in fact, it does them all extremely well. No wonder Excel is considered by many to be one of the most powerful applications ever built. Excel can clearly do a lot. So what are we going to cover in this course? Not everything. Excel isn't just a big application, it's absolutely massive. If I tried to explain every single Excel feature in this course, we'd both be here a lot longer than we want to. That's why I made this course about zooming in on the 5% of Excel features you'll end up using 95% or more of the time.
00:01:46.480 - 00:03:05.470, Speaker A: And dont worry, thats still a lot of material, but Im laser focused on the things that will make anyone working in a modern business environment, whether as an analyst or otherwise, more efficient and effective at working with data. The course begins with the basics, Excel 101, if you will. If you already have some familiarity with Excel, you can safely skip ahead to the later sections. Well then dive straight into Excel's massive toolbox for manipulating data. We'll start by learning how to filter and sort datasets, and quickly move on to an area where Excel really formulas and functions Excel gives programmers and non programmers alike the ability to apply powerful data transformation and analysis techniques. With these functions, we'll cover the most useful ones for calculations and summary statistics, working with date and time data, manipulating text data like people's names, for example, and other essentials for anyone who works with data like the if function and the legendary vlookup. Next you'll learn how to build useful models in Excel, which let you rapidly cycle through various inputs to a calculation to see how the output varies.
00:03:05.470 - 00:04:15.500, Speaker A: For our example, we'll walk through building a mortgage payment calculator. Accurate data and calculations aren't always enough. Often we need to present that data in a summarized and visually appealing way that non technical people can grasp quickly. Fortunately, data visualization is yet another thing that Excel, well, excels at, with the ability to apply nifty visualizations directly to our data values with conditional formatting, as well as a powerful charting engine which lets us paint pictures from our data with a few mouse clicks, this course will teach you everything you need to turn that boring black and white table of numbers into a visual narrative that can be used to actually make decisions. Now, sometimes we need to work with large amounts of data, thousands or maybe hundreds of thousands of rows of it, often extracted from a database. But you guessed it, Excel also has tools for managing this kind of data, but more importantly, summarizing and analyzing it quickly. We'll learn to do this with what is perhaps Excel's single most powerful pivot tables.
00:04:15.500 - 00:05:07.920, Speaker A: If you've never used them before, I think you'll be amazed at how quickly they can help you gain insights into your data. You have to see it to believe it. Finally, you'll learn how to automate all the other stuff we've learned with Excel already with macros. If you've ever found yourself repeating the same series of redundant steps in an Excel file every day, macros are your ticket out of the data doldrums. And we'll even take a little peek at VBA, Excel's built in programming language to gain more fine tuned control over our macros. The bottom line is whether you're a data analyst or data scientist who works with data for a living, or a business person who just needs to get a couple precious hours of your day back. By reducing the time you spend on redundant data processes, this course will get you to your goal efficiently and effectively.
00:05:07.920 - 00:05:09.140, Speaker A: I'll see you in the course.
