00:00:00.360 - 00:00:35.861, Speaker A: Before we get started, we'd like to thank our sponsors for making this event possible. Special thanks to our platinum sponsor, olas. OLAS enables everyone to own a share of AI, specifically autonomous agent economies. We're also excited to highlight our silver sponsors near empowering decentralized applications and blockchain ecosystems. Venice AI, a private and uncensored alternative to popular AI apps. Mira unified AI infrastructure secured by crypto and the first on chain multi agent system. To learn more about all of our sponsors, check the description below and dive in.
00:00:35.861 - 00:00:37.105, Speaker A: Enjoy the show.
00:00:51.925 - 00:01:31.367, Speaker B: I want to thanks for joining today. You know we're here to chat crypto AI. It's a fairly broad topic and so today I think it's best if we chat through kind of what the stack looks like and then dive into where tokens play a role and kind of what the current environment looks like and what people are excited about in the coming months. With a lot of interesting investments that I think we've all made going live and thinking through, you know, particularly the role of the token in their specific ecosystems and how they can be valuable. I think we'll start with just going around the horn and getting intros from everyone.
00:01:31.511 - 00:01:56.991, Speaker C: Awesome. Yeah, thanks for having us, Jan. I'm a partner on the investment team at Multicoin Capital. Spend a ton of time working on things that are directly covering or adjacent to AI, both on the really early stage side and on the liquid side. Sort of big believer in the power of crypto capital markets and how they can be helpful in capital formation and coordination for AI resources. And excited to jump into all that stuff today.
00:01:57.103 - 00:02:27.069, Speaker D: Hey, Mark Weinstein, general partner at Mechanism Capital. We made our first Web3AI investment I think in the summer of 2023. So have been doing my best to keep up with this extremely fast paced industry, which is as fast if not faster than crypto. And the convergence of the two is a massive mental undertaking. And I'm excited to learn more from the other esteemed panelists here today.
00:02:27.197 - 00:03:04.333, Speaker A: Shall I go? All right, well, yeah, thanks for having me, Jan. And team. I'm an investor as well and yeah, like Mark said, I'm excited to learn from all of you. I feel like I stay on my toes and I lean in when I feel like I can learn new things. And there's so much uncertainty that comes with AI and I feel like it's been influencing every industry and every facet of my life and I feel like this is invariably the future that we'll all have to live in and embrace. And so I come at it from a point of view of just learning and trying to figure out how we can create a future that we all are sort of proud of living in. So those are.
00:03:04.333 - 00:03:17.557, Speaker A: Yeah, my focus is, or it's not really focus, but I think a lot about like the post AGI world and the kind of companies that we'll be all sort of operating or working for in the not so distant future.
00:03:17.661 - 00:03:34.055, Speaker E: Hey everyone, My name's Ed Roman. I'm the co founder and managing partner at HackVC. We're a registered investment advisor. So we have to say this like, silly disclaimer which is that this is not investment advice, blah, blah, blah. Right. So you guys get that? I love crypto AI. I actually come from an AI background.
00:03:34.055 - 00:04:15.361, Speaker E: I create a video game studio where I was the lead developer and we used AI to figure out the Nintendo Wii motion controller and studied AI in college at Cornell many years ago. So it's been kind of part of my life this whole time. I made a bunch of Web2AI investments like weights and biases, which is a unicorn now, observed AI, another unicorn. So the transition for me into Web3 was very natural. In Web3, HackVCs led rounds into grass, which is like a Web3 data collection protocol, IO.net, along with Cheyenne at Multicoin. We're both very proud of that one, which is a GPU dpin, and then several others including like Theoric, which is an AI agent framework.
00:04:15.361 - 00:04:22.451, Speaker E: So we're pretty bullish on crypto AI and we're excited to chat about it today. So good to know. Good to looking forward to this conversation.
00:04:22.553 - 00:04:46.315, Speaker B: Appreciate the intros. So, yeah, to begin with, I think it'd be best to kind of describe how you each view the crypto AI stack. I know there's kind of. It's a lot of moving pieces here and chances are it'll be viewed differently in a couple of months just based on kind of the development and the overlap that happened. So starting with you, Ed. Yeah, love to kind of understand how you're thinking about it.
00:04:46.815 - 00:05:27.063, Speaker E: Sure, happy to. So the first thing I'll say is that this stack is like very fluid and it's moving and it's impossible to completely delineate the stack right now because there's going to be bleeding from one layer into another layer over time. But there is something solidifying right now that I can speak to. So at the bottom layer of the stack, this is the very lowest layer, you have the GPU DPINs. These are decentralized networks of GPUs that are providing lower cost AI inference because they're tapping into underutilized compute cycles. An example this would be like Exhibits or Akash for example. Then a layer above that is that's the startup that Shayan and I invested in.
00:05:27.063 - 00:06:01.423, Speaker E: IO.net is they can almost aggregate those underlying GPU deep end layers as well as potentially providing some of their own compute as well. And that's a higher level construct than the underlying GPU depends. Then on top of that you've got these like model serving frameworks as well as data availability layers for AI. So zero G AI is an example of that. It's a startup that will basically kind of, kind of host your model and provide data availability for it, model serving for it. And on top of that you got the actual open source models which could, which could also be proprietary models too.
00:06:01.423 - 00:06:41.851, Speaker E: It could be a mix of open source and proprietary models and those models are informed by startups like Grass who provides data to those models. Then on top of that layer you've got these AI inference layers. This would be like ritual AI for example, is an example of this. But there's also a whole breed of new startups that are providing intelligent routing across different open source models and dynamic routing as well as sharding of models across GPUs. So that's a new layer that's being defined right now. And then on top of that you've got the AI agent layer, which is like an SDK for building agents. And you got individual agents that sit on top of that and on top of that are higher level agents that aggregate those smaller agents.
00:06:41.851 - 00:07:05.571, Speaker E: And then finally the very top level is either a web3 dapp or a web2 application that might need to use those agents. So the cool thing is that this entire stack benefits from the underlying DPINs. So if the DPINs are saving on costs, then every layer of that stack is inheriting those economic benefits. So that's, that's kind of like one coarse way to look at the stack, at least as I see it. And I'll let the rest of the panel chime in if they have other views on this.
00:07:05.683 - 00:08:21.067, Speaker D: Yeah, I think that really well articulated and apologies for any background noise. I think one additional framing it's not really to stack, but kind of how we're viewing the convergence of Web3 and AI mechanism is protocols and companies that are bringing AI to existing crypto use cases. So you can think about applications that are running certain models to optimize defi yield, for example. That would be one use case where we're seeing a lot of this kind of like on chain agent conversation around Goetzeus Maximus and an agent in the crypto world actually accumulating capital on chain and launching Meme Coin. And then the other is kind of bringing crypto economics to the world of AI. And I think those D pins that Ed mentioned are a great example where they can be used by any application developer, whether they're a crypto native application or not, so long as they're providing for a reduced cost and comparable performance as other computer providers.
00:08:21.131 - 00:09:22.755, Speaker C: Yeah, I think those are super articulate framings. I'd say one other lens that I like to look at it as. I generally think AI and crypto are fundamentally opposite technologies. Ideologically, I think AI is about abundance and this idea of massive generative new forms of media or resources. And crypto is fundamentally about scarcity and money. But I tend to think that the most immediate address, and there's different approaches where you can look at things like trustlessness and verification as strong inputs into these systems, but I think the most immediate addressable opportunities, and specifically the ones that involve tokens, are the ones that are essentially around the inputs into AI. So I broadly think the inputs are things like compute data, sort of models, energy.
00:09:22.755 - 00:10:52.829, Speaker C: There's a bunch of these sort of quote unquote scarce resources that go into building out AI systems. And I think what we've learned from the history of capital formation and mechanism design in crypto is that crypto is very good at coordinating discrete resources, whether those resources are compute resources or models of different performance or energy assets at the edge. And so I think the things that we've seen be most compelling and the ones that sort of need tokens a priori are the ones that use crypto capital markets to kind of build out these supply side resources and then thoughtfully orchestrate them in order to kind of serve customers. And so, as Ed was saying, teams like IO, Render, Cusco, these are all folks who are tackling different slices of heterogeneous compute resources and then packaging them up and selling them to customers that may want them for different use cases. And the core arbitrage that is on cost and performance. There's teams like hivemapper and crunchtow that are really focused focusing on specific niches in data, which is again another scarce resource, as you think about it, in terms of building these systems. We invested in a company recently called Project Zero that's essentially trying to accelerate the build out of renewable resources.
00:10:52.829 - 00:11:10.041, Speaker C: Now, obviously these aren't plugging into data centers immediately, but when you think about the next set of bottlenecks in the supply chain. I think energy is very clearly up there in the stack and eventually it ends up coordinating those assets as well. So we generally kind of like to look at things from that lens.
00:11:10.153 - 00:11:10.377, Speaker E: Yeah.
00:11:10.401 - 00:11:40.901, Speaker A: The only thing I think Cheyenne touched on compute and maybe data. I think that's the like the simple stack. I think we, at least for me I did precondition to think about everything from the earliest days of like the OSI stack, you know, the seven layers. But I think simplicity is like compute, data, algorithms. That's kind of like how you distill it down and then you apply sort of like where crypto can really play a part. To Shayan's point, capital markets really helping facilitate bootstrap the supply side on the algorithm piece. This is really fascinating as well.
00:11:40.933 - 00:11:41.101, Speaker E: Right.
00:11:41.133 - 00:11:53.365, Speaker A: Like, I mean we've got frameworks of TensorFlow, PyTorch and many others, but I think we're also constraining ourselves to think about this in the current or like maybe sort of like trailing framework of like LLMs and how they operate today.
00:11:53.405 - 00:11:53.605, Speaker D: Right.
00:11:53.645 - 00:12:10.121, Speaker A: The kind of like neural networks that we expect maybe we'll turn the corner in the next year is like really fascinating to think about as well. But I think to me, I just dug that stack and kind of operate from that vantage point. Of course everything about this, you know, application layer sits on top, agents sit on top. But yeah, that's kind of think about.
00:12:10.153 - 00:13:03.047, Speaker B: The stock and in terms of the build out, you know, we, I think we're on the same page in terms of the innovation that crypto can offer on the build out of the supply side, how effective the token can be as a coordination tool to fund a lot of this build out. And then you kind of have the classic crypto problem sometimes of, you know, if you build it, will they come? And so we've seen, you know, kind of attempts at building protocols out but you know, there wasn't really any kind of offsetting demand that came in to address, you know, the supply side issues. So curious, in terms of, you know, thinking through that stack, do you anticipate the demand side being pretty much uniform across all parts as the functionality and capacity is built out? Or do you see certain parts of the stack kind of getting the immediate elements of demand and then the others coming in a bit later on? And feel free to.
00:13:03.071 - 00:14:01.333, Speaker C: Yeah, whoever's wants to go, I can do a first stab at it. Yeah, I think it's a really important and timely question. I think what we've seen in the last few years is tokens be very successful at aggregating supply side resources. And then sort of the open question of what are these being used for. And I think one general frame that we sort of use internally is tokens are a superpower, but they're also a massive liability. And depending on how you design where your tokens go or how to allocate resources across the network, you can have outcomes of varying degrees of success. I think what we've seen in the last 12 months is more experimentation on the demand side, specifically using the token in order to sort of drive third party either development or real conversion outcomes.
00:14:01.333 - 00:15:09.469, Speaker C: I think teams like Render and Bittensor have very sophisticated subdao structures or sub network structures where the core function is to route resources towards things are generative for the overall network. You know, on, on one, on one level that's explicitly in the form of driving, you know, a new set of customers and on the other it's building, you know, actively incentivizing third party developers to come in, use the resources that exist on platform and then you know, essentially outsource the demand generation to those third parties because it, you know, creates the flywheel for potentially receiving more resources. And so I think this, this fixed lens of like tokens are only useful for bootstrapping the supply side. That's like, that's step one. Right. And I think eventually tokens have to be designed in a way that they are serving the network at the stage in which it's at. So for instance, you know, hivemapper has mapped and these are rough numbers but I think it's on the order of 20% of the world's roads with a single digit percentage of the token supply.
00:15:09.469 - 00:15:32.341, Speaker C: Like that's an example of thoughtful supply side allocation which leaves ton of room for demand generation and kind of bespoke activities, bespoke bounties, you know, to bring on new customers to the platform and so you can reroute resources on either side. And I think it's just a question of thoughtful token design and we're seeing sort of early, early stages that playing out.
00:15:32.453 - 00:16:55.781, Speaker D: Yeah. So I think what Shyam was saying makes perfect sense. You know, one framing that we look at with when we look at networks in crypto is like you can pay anyone and usually especially because this is a global industry, there will be individuals that will provide whatever it is that you're willing to pay them for, whether there's actual demand for that service or not. So what we feel is like most depin networks have Proven that if you pay people, they'll provide some kind of service for that. And we're really looking at like where is demand going to be generated? So Ed mentioned earlier, a company called Grass or a protocol called Grass were effectively like a decentralized answer to bright and really like an unstoppable protocol for scraping broader Internet data, which is valuable for model developers. And we know that there's buyers in that area because people are paying, people are paying bright for those services. Other kind of data provision networks that we think are going to already have demand are kind of comparable to scale, right? With human reinforcement learning and creating broad networks of individuals that can contribute to multimodal data sets.
00:16:55.781 - 00:17:37.837, Speaker D: And really like the early vision of crypto being kind of the value capture and value creation at the end nodes. I think if we think about building like an artificial super intelligence or even an artificial general intelligence, what value we can provide as individuals is kind of our experiential data. And I think that certain networks in crypto are going to be using that information and there's going to be demand for that, whether it be hive mapper or kind of like geolocation data or just like individual kind of video clips that are being taken. So, and apologies again for the background noise, but I'll go back on beat.
00:17:37.901 - 00:18:28.775, Speaker E: Yeah, so those are great points, Mark, and I agree with you. The way I look at the world is like there's two different kind of AI opportunities within crypto. One is like there's this decentralized AI inference stack which is what we talked about earlier, that starts at the GPU deep in level and it goes all the way up to the agent level. And then there's also like the data cleaning, data normalization, data gathering piece, which is more at development time versus runtime at inference. Right. So within the inference stack, we think that each of those layers should inherit the economic value proposition of the underlying GPU DPINs. So the demand comes, we think in the long run from Web2 customers primarily versus Web3 customers because they're kind of suffering from H1 hundreds being expensive and scarce right now and being able to benefit from underutilized compute cycles.
00:18:28.775 - 00:18:58.875, Speaker E: And we just think that's the massive market like McKinsey Projects. That market's going to be in the 18 to 27 trillion dollars over the next decade or so. And that's multiple times the GDP of the entire United Kingdom them. So that's clearly like the big market. Now the Web3 market as a customer of AI is an emerging market. And we think Demand can come from there too, but that's much more of an evolving opportunity and is not quite big today. We hope it'll get big as crypto gets bigger.
00:18:58.875 - 00:20:00.155, Speaker E: And then if you look at kind of like the other parallel stack of data cleaning, data gathering, data normalization that's happening at model creation and function fine tuning time rather than at AI inference time. So that layer has players like Sapien and Grass. Sapien does data cleaning and data normalization. And there's theories that that could also be an interesting economic opportunity versus the web. Two alternatives, because hypothetically you could have some of the data cleaners could actually stake tokens and risk their own tokens to assure the quality of their work is high. And if you're doing that, if you're, if you're risking tokens, assuring the data quality is high, hypothetically you should have a better product at the, at the end of the cleaning process and the labeling process, which means that, you know, the data is more reliable, it's higher quality, customers might pay more for it. You can also maybe get data at lower costs because you don't have to repeat the labeling process more than one.
00:20:00.155 - 00:20:24.759, Speaker E: So there's a bunch of startups trying to do this right now. Sapien's just one example of them. So there could be economics that come from that stack too. So we kind of think that the exciting thing here, the summary is that if you can bring new economics to Web2 customers using a Web3 stack, that's pretty interesting. Like that's something that in my experience in the sales cycle, customers say yes to very quickly if you can deliver a similar quality product at a lower price.
00:20:24.887 - 00:21:04.947, Speaker A: Well, I have to be the guy who, who brings up the joke about LLM tokens versus crypto tokens. So we'll start with that and then I'll own. No more dad jokes from my side. But the one thing that's been sort of, as you guys were talking that was occurring to me was that I feel like we might be using. Cheyenne brought this up, right? Like just I think bootstrapping the supply side with token incentives, will it sort of table stakes or will only get you so far. And I have been thinking less about sort of where the token plays a part, but more about where crypto primitives can be applied. And I feel like the token incentives then kind of fall into place.
00:21:04.947 - 00:21:36.957, Speaker A: And of course this varies based on where in the stack you're playing. Is it compute, is data, is it algorithms, is it, you know, and any one of those you can kind of like fast forward and think about more opportunities that come up. So specifically when it comes to data, I think the data labeling space is baked. Right. I feel like there's not much more to squeeze out of this and mostly because we have a. We have a lot of public freely available resources like Common Crawl, of course Grass or others who are also collecting data. But I feel like we're sort of asymptoting in terms of what we can collect from the public Internet.
00:21:36.957 - 00:22:43.269, Speaker A: So then you start to think about synthetic data, you start to think about private data and how you can really incentivize those sort of corpuses of data to really come into the fray, which hasn't really happened yet. And what does the token incentive really mean in those structures? Because we might be solving problems that we might have solved in a non crypto sense, non web3world like 6 months ago, maybe the beginning of this year. So these are sort of what frontier models are now looking for. The starved for those kinds of resources to really sort of turn the corner. And if you want to build true open source open weights models using crypto primitives, then what is going to be the real advantage, right? Like is it cost, is it efficiency, is it performance, is it hyper customized? More models that are not sort of this one size fits all God models. So anyhow, I guess loose answer to your question is that a. Let's try to use crypto primitives for what they're really good for, right? Permissionlessness, decentralization, immutability, smart contracts, resiliency and maybe privacy and try to use those to our advantage to solve problems that haven't been solved yet.
00:22:43.269 - 00:23:11.141, Speaker A: And then I feel like we'll come up with innovative ways where the tokens actually make sense. And I'll just maybe I'll use a couple examples. Right? Bittensor was brought up, I think it's really interesting but this was something that happened a couple years ago where it's a pure incentive network to incentivize R and D. Right? That's kind of what we're seeing happen on these subnets. I feel like Vana is a very clever which is a sort of a. They have these data daos as you folks might know. I think it's a very clever use of tokens as well.
00:23:11.141 - 00:23:17.453, Speaker A: And yeah, if I just use those as a couple examples I'd love to see more of that getting employed as.
00:23:17.469 - 00:24:05.675, Speaker B: We look forward on a few of these examples were kind of brought up originally already thinking on the demand side of the token and what really will drive value to these platforms, it's probably a modular buildup to the valuation. So assuming that likely outcome now is that we'll have a, a friendlier regulatory environment. So we can assume that some form of tangible equity like value accrual can be possible for these assets. And then thinking about what adds value on top of that, whether it's a premium for the ability to decentralize the protocol or for reputational elements or various facets. Curious how you guys are thinking about the buildup of the value of these underlying assets that we're all investing in.
00:24:06.615 - 00:25:03.465, Speaker D: 1. One area that I think we haven't mentioned that is kind of, at least in crypto terms, is the most valuable kind of sub industry or sub section of tokens is money. Right. And I think that there are currently interesting experiments happening at the convergence of AI and, and money. So what I actually think is going to be the most valuable asset in crypto and AI will be the asset that has the kind of most moneyness. And I know that's something that Shayaman and the multicoint team have written about in the past in terms of like, why Solana over Ethereum, for example. And I think there's, there's kind of like a shelling point too that networks reach in, in today's age with attention and moneyness.
00:25:03.465 - 00:25:52.551, Speaker D: And like, that's why, I mean, you know, again, not to bring. It's kind of like on my mind today because, because it's been really the only thing that crypto Twitter is talking about. But, but this goat, you know, an AI agent launching their own meme coin. And whether or not that has any value beyond just the attention that it's generated and the desire for people to hold it as a part of a community is still an open question. But the belief that it has value is kind of driving the bootstrapping of the economics around it. So I think bittensor, to a certain extent, like a lot of the speculative value of bitten. A lot of the value of Bittensor is speculative in that it's like the bitcoin of AI or has been positioned as such.
00:25:52.551 - 00:26:20.515, Speaker D: And I think that like on a panel speaking about tokens, we can't really ignore the speculative premium that's, that's applied to a money asset in crypto. And I think that that category is still, still open here. One other. Sorry, I just, I'm rambling, but one other thing I'll say is like a category we haven't spoken about that was really the hot topic of Web3AI when this first started. Like, there Wasn't a category called Web3AI, it was called Z KML. Right. And it was, it was verifiable inference.
00:26:20.515 - 00:27:13.855, Speaker D: And I think a lot of people have moved away from talking about it because it's, it's an ideological kind of construct similar to some early crypto networks. More so than like a practical one necessarily. Many of, many of us I think have come come to believe, right, like people, when people query a model, they care that it's correct, that it's cheap, that it's fast. I think for some high cost use cases they might want verifiability, but for 99% of the use cases out there, I don't think they do. But then you have new use cases coming out like people want to know if Truth Terminal is actually a machine or a person. And now we have this emergent use case for verifiable inference because you can prove that that model is running. Right.
00:27:13.855 - 00:27:45.697, Speaker D: And I think the reason I brought up verifiable inference, and this will be the last thing I say, is because that is actually a world where I can see a use case for a token beyond just bootstrapping the supply of a network or compensating demand slashing for not providing the appropriate model input or running the model that you say you're running. I think is, is one clear use case for verifiable inference. So to the extent that we can find demand for that specific part of the stack, I think that there's a clear need for a token there.
00:27:45.761 - 00:28:37.851, Speaker E: I largely agree with what Mark is saying. And you know, I'm also kind of, I've been pessimistic on kind of redoing AI inference multiple times for verification purposes because it undercuts the whole cost value proposition of the crypto AI stack. If you're going to crypto for cheaper inference because of DPINs and you have to repeat your inference lots of times to make sure it was done correctly, that undercuts that whole value proposition. So the optimistic approach of saying we're going to require that you stake tokens as a validator and you have to stake a lot of tokens, not just a few tokens, and you can lose it all if you don't perform your job properly. We think that's really interesting because then you're adding maybe 1% overhead to the system, maybe be one out of every 100 times, you're duplicating the inference. But the slashing condition, the amount you're losing is more than 100x. Right? So I think the real culprit in this, in this situation.
00:28:37.851 - 00:29:16.985, Speaker E: The real motivation for this is that hypothetically validators could cheat and just not actually do their jobs because they just want to make money. So you can think of like airdrop farmers almost right, running these validator nodes. So we don't really think that there's as much of a security issue around, you know, providing false AI inference. Like we don't think there's, that, that's maybe a hypothetical problem that doesn't really exist today. But we think that the problem of cheating and not doing your AI inference just to make money, that is a real problem that we've seen. You know, whenever we have a new crypto project, there's always some percentage of abuse that happens during the airdrop farming phase. And we think that'll happen with AI too.
00:29:16.985 - 00:29:22.677, Speaker E: So I agree with you Mark, that that is, you know, this is, this is an improvement over traditional zkm.
00:29:22.861 - 00:30:58.625, Speaker C: Yeah, I think Mark's original point about attention as the input into price is super salient. It's always funny when I have, you know, friends who trade equities, look at crypto assets and wonder why there is a range of assets trading from 5x earnings to 50,000x earnings. And it's, it's always fun to have that conversation about how, you know, these are sort of different lands. We're not, we're not going to need those statements here. But I do think that as crypto as an asset class matures and you have more sophisticated pools of capital entering, you can't get around the fact that these things need to produce sort of real revenues, show real demand. And I think what we've seen over the last few years is a convergence around either work tokens or burn and mint equilibrium tokens or some variant of those types of things where the core asset that's being represented is either the reputation or the trust guarantees of the marketplace, sort of codified by SLAs or however it's accomplished, or just straight up the net dollar denominated value that the network is providing to some customer in the form of a buyback. And I think we're at an interesting stage right now where you know, a handful of the networks in the space are doing on the order of seven or eight figures in terms of like network GMV across compute across data.
00:30:58.625 - 00:31:45.615, Speaker C: I think you'll, you'll, you'll find that it's, it's early days because it's state, you know, even, even things take time, even accounting for things taking time. And so it's Been sort of this supply side buildup so far and now there's a real engagement towards that. I think the market will eventually converge on. As the total set of dollars in crypto increases, the weight is likely going to start shifting away from purely attention to something around revenues. I think right now things, things scale, things are a little bit further in the attention camp and they're most likely going to be like that. Which again, to Mark's point, owning attention is a very important part of building these networks. And just thinking about value accrual.
00:31:46.155 - 00:32:17.315, Speaker A: Yeah, I don't have much to add. I think as well said, it's either speculation is one multiple or utility is the other multiple. And I think so far it's been largely driven by speculation. When it comes to utility, we have to have more sophisticated mechanisms in place to ensure that we can actually corroborate the value of this utility. And there's why the price is what it is. And so whereas certain tokens just don't need to subscribe to that which follow the speculation category. And yeah, I agree, I really hope we move towards utility.
00:32:17.315 - 00:32:31.599, Speaker A: I'm in it for the tech and I hope we can prove that there's actual value behind some of the things that are getting built and there will be demand that substantiates the need for these things to exist on sort of permissionless distributed ledgers.
00:32:31.647 - 00:32:31.951, Speaker D: Right.
00:32:32.023 - 00:33:06.925, Speaker E: So yeah, you know what's funny too is that this is not a problem that's unique to crypto either. You look at Web2AI, right? OpenAI was worth a billion dollars before the launch of ChatGPT when they really didn't have much revenue at all. And you've got large language models raising at half a billion billion dollar valuations without revenue in Web2 as well. So I think that just in general, when there's an exciting new asset class, investors will speculate and it's up to the startups to live into that future valuation through actual revenue. But the crypto industry should not be as critical about themselves sometimes because this happens in other asset classes too, is my point.
00:33:07.505 - 00:33:46.183, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I couldn't agree more. And generally the way it ends up working is when the fundamentals are still so far away. You anchor too tam, right? And TAM for AI is kind of global labor supply. And you know, there's kind of a few ways to slice it, but once you think about it through that lens, the valuations become pretty reasonable because it's something you can eventually grow into and you have outsized return potential. And so just thinking about the current landscape, right. You have a range of assets. The more recent side you have, you know, goats and just kind of the idea of agentic kind of protocols controlling their own.
00:33:46.183 - 00:34:41.736, Speaker B: At least right now it doesn't. But I think you're starting to see a lot of that kind of ideation happen on Twitter about what would it look like if one of these actually had control of its own wallet and able to execute actions on chain. And so you have the idea of kind of AI kols, human kol. What is that really? It's someone who made a handful of good calls and then now they're getting allocations to things and to some extent it becomes self reinforcing. Right. So it's, you don't necessarily have to continue to outperform because if you're doing it on smaller kind of market caps, you end up moving the market. So it's I think a much more tolerated idea to have an AI kol because it's not this kind of PVP nefarious type of dynamic, but rather something that's so fresh and unique and so thinking about like what the token can do there right now it's really purely memetic.
00:34:41.736 - 00:35:27.963, Speaker B: But is there a world where, you know, you can hold a certain amount to have access to discussions with it or to get feedback or like a claim to some of the underlying assets? And so you have that on one side and on the other side you kind of have things like Tao. Right. And so it's the idea is you have a two sided marketplace where on one side you have people allocating resources and the token kind of allows people to decide where that gets allocated and on the other it's, you know, you're trying to build a full stack kind of AI network. And so with that in mind, yeah, like how are you guys thinking about what the current liquid market looks like? Are there areas that excite you or is it. Or are you kind of still in a wait and see mode?
00:35:28.099 - 00:36:17.109, Speaker D: I mean, I think it's really early to say so we cross over liquid and venture. And I think one thing that's interesting is my interpretation of what's happening in the venture market is it's frothy and it's as frothy as Ed mentioned with kind of AI as a broader category. I think there is an interesting post recently by Sequoia kind of mentioning that they believe that it's going to be the application layer that captures the most value. And now we're in this kind of like reasoning phase of AI and applications. Would be where value capture is going to be. And yet we don't really have beyond kind of like the chat interface, many, you know, leading applications of AI without like not speaking about Web3. Right.
00:36:17.109 - 00:36:50.987, Speaker D: And I think Web3 has historically rewarded kind of like the lowest level of infrastructure in a network. You know, maybe it was just a self fulfilling prophecy. It was the FA, the fat protocol thesis. I think it was written in 2016. I don't remember the exact year it became a self fulfilling prophecy. We have all these L1s that are valued deca billion dollars. And so I think we've seen that repeat in the private markets where we've seen a lot of networks funded to extraordinarily high valuations relative to fundamental value.
00:36:50.987 - 00:37:42.471, Speaker D: And the liquid markets have shifted away from demand for the hated VC coins, let's call them. I think the launch of Eigenlayer is a prime example of that. I don't know what's going to happen in the near term or the midterm to that asset, but I think that it launched well under investor expectations in terms of valuation and it's still trading at $6 billion. But I think we've still yet to see some of these 500 million to billion dollar private rounds launch their tokens. I think many are hesitant to do so because it's unclear if the market demand is there. And so it's a little bit of a tale of two cities as to where we're going and I think we'll find out soon. And now there's a huge crowd coming behind me, so just going to go on mute again.
00:37:42.471 - 00:37:43.835, Speaker D: Let the others chat.
00:37:44.415 - 00:38:54.845, Speaker E: Yeah, Mark, I agree with you and I think that if you kind of look at the last year or so, like we took some data from Asari and we kind of massaged it and crunched it a little bit and removed some outliers and normalized it. And what we found was that over the last year from like April 2023 till about March of 2024, AI category of public tokens, on average a token appreciated by about 324% which is higher than any other category, higher than TFI, higher than infrastructure. So the category has done well like on public markets in general. And going forward, what could do well going forward? Well, we kind of think each of those layers we talked about is interesting in the crypto AI stack. And I agree with you Mark, that the Sequoia thesis here about the application layer is actually pretty interesting because in my experience if you have the relationship with the customer, if the customer is facing you, then you have a lot of power. So whoever's customer facing can dictate the entire stack below that layer. So this is why we think the AI agent layer is kind of interesting in the crypto AI stack, because whoever is building that AI agent layer is customer facing the customer.
00:38:54.845 - 00:39:26.457, Speaker E: The web 2 dapps, the web 3 dapps are tapping into those AI agents and then those AI agents are then calling down the stack below them to the open source models, to the DPINs, the DPIN aggregators, to the model serving frameworks, to the AI inference layers. Right. And so, you know, they have a lot of power. They can kind of dictate who goes below them. So having customer account control is like a really interesting way to think about this. So that's, that's one reason why we made our investment in theoric back in the day. And so we think that that's a category where they're really aren't a lot of public tokens right now.
00:39:26.457 - 00:39:32.805, Speaker E: It's still an emerging category and we'll see over the next probably 6 to 12 months those tokens start to have their TGES.
00:39:33.105 - 00:40:48.005, Speaker C: Yeah, I think more broadly, just on a sector basis potentially to some of the data that Ed was looking at. I feel pretty strongly that if you generally believe in the attention theory of price within crypto right now, and if you assume that paradigm exists for call it another 12 to 18 months, there's no world in which the broader set of AI coins does not perform well. It feels, just feels hard to imagine given the fact that every major tech company in the world is playing like the largest hand of poker and trying to build God. I just think that the headlines and the amount of attention that's going to be around this space and the fact that there are credible crypto native teams trying to go after and sort of augment those similar problems in ways that are novel and distributed and sort of counter to some of those incumbents. I'm generally extremely optimistic on what that does for capital formation, how that resources the teams behind them and you know, in terms of like what that enables on both supply and demand sides of all of these networks.
00:40:48.305 - 00:40:49.645, Speaker A: I'm not going to add.
00:40:50.505 - 00:41:58.047, Speaker D: Can I ask a question? No, no worries of the group. I just have one question because I've looked at a lot of, let's call it like AI agents agentic protocols in the private markets and I think that the, the word agent is like broadly and overly used. And I, I still would say I don't exactly, I couldn't exactly articulate what, you know, an agent is when it comes to like crypto and AI overlap, is it, is it the user interface? Is it a model that's running off chain? Is it a model that's running on chain, like that's taking its own actions? Like, you know, I've, I've seen so many different flavors of this and I think sometimes you can speak to a team that says, oh, we have hundred, a hundred, we have 150 agents that are currently running on chain and it's basically like a one click to swap something. And that doesn't really feel like an agent is how I imagine it. So curious for the rest of your take on what is an agent, in.
00:41:58.111 - 00:42:46.067, Speaker A: Your opinion, I completely empathize with. I mean, honestly I don't have a clear answer because I feel like this is something that I haven't been able to achieve consensus on either. I think the definition of agents, the definition of AGI, ASI tends to be conflated quite heavily. I think the simple sort of like attributes for me when it comes to agents and maybe less answering your question about how this manifests itself on chain has been, you know, systems or programs maybe that are stitched together, that are autonomous, they're trying to achieve some end goal, some state that's been provided by maybe another system or a human. They're able to be reactive to environments. So it's not just following a very prescriptive path, but can kind of go beyond the realm of where it's operating. And yeah, that adaptability is another feature that I attribute to agents.
00:42:46.067 - 00:43:40.389, Speaker A: So I kind of use that as a simple rubric. And then how that manifests itself on chain has been challenging. And again, maybe some areas where I feel like there's some primitives that can be helpful for agents to really sort of thrive on chain when it comes to transparency or auditability, security, how these sort of transact and being able to codify some of those on chain seem to make a lot of sense because left to their own devices, in so many words, there's sort of like non deterministic behavior. Right. So that's sort of where I think they at least like some primitives that can support agentic behavior. But yes, to your point, there's also some takes on can we make things easier? Can we apply the notion of agents with intents and provide something to make it easy for you to, you know, to operate on a decks, for example, things that nature. Some examples of implementations that I've seen.
00:43:40.477 - 00:44:50.915, Speaker C: Yeah, the frame, the frame that I. The frame That I use is if you look at chatbots as like read, write, like theoretically agents are read, write, act, but that's like really hard. In non deterministic systems, if you've given something, you know, access to critical things like your calendar or your bank account, you want to have like a very, you need a serious number of nines of reliability to know that the system is not going to do something that you don't want it to do. I think the fact that we haven't seen some of the more low stakes agent systems really come into production yet, things like customer support or you know, scheduling, we don't have like broad based usage for these types of things yet. And so just a future in which these types of systems are handling either huge sums of capital or you know, making mission critical decisions. It feels a little bit off to me right now, I think. You know, that said like the rate of compounding this industry is so significant that like we could very well be in a, in a different place in six months.
00:44:50.915 - 00:45:20.555, Speaker C: But I generally just think of it as like you give the system access to certain aspects of your life and allow it to take actions on behalf of you and then that's, that's, that's in the context of like human interactions and then theoretically you can get even more gigabrain and these things will have their own forms of agency. I'm pretty sure the truth terminal thing is like not, not an agent, but maybe we can talk about that offline.
00:45:22.775 - 00:45:25.555, Speaker E: You think it's human being masquerading as AI?
00:45:26.935 - 00:45:32.515, Speaker C: That typo. That typo. That typo really got me. I don't know what to say.
00:45:33.615 - 00:46:04.119, Speaker E: Yeah, I agree with you Shayan. And I think if you kind of look at AI like what is an AI agent? And the simplest way to think about it is it's something that autonomously accomplishes a unit of work. And I think that these things will be composable like Lego blocks. So there's going to be fine grained agents and there's going to be coarse grained agents. The fine grained agents will do little tasks and you can daisy chain them together to do a larger task. So a Web2 example of this would be you want to book a trip, you've got to book your hotel room, you got to book your flight. Each of those can be separate agents.
00:46:04.119 - 00:46:42.193, Speaker E: Combine them together and you can book your whole trip. And your rental car will be a separate agent too, maybe. So there's web3 analogies to these. And I agree with Shayan that not all tasks should be done automatically by an agent. Depends on the consequences of hallucination. So if there's a big hallucination, what's the damage? Right? Is it a financial transaction? That could be a lot of damage, right? Is it a doctor prescribing medications? That could be a lot of damage, right? Is it a self driving car that gets into an accident? That could cause a lot of damage, right? Generating sales leads, no big deal. You generate a bad sales lead, who cares? You throw it out, you go to the next sales lead, right? You give someone bad customer support, no big deal.
00:46:42.193 - 00:47:36.373, Speaker E: You know, you just, you escalate to the manager and the manager gives them human support, right? So there are certain use cases of AI that are more appropriate for automatic agentic behavior than others. And the way we think about is that you can use AI in all these use cases if it's human assisted AI. So think about the doctor prescribing the medications or diagnosing a disease. It's kind of scary to trust an AI to diagnose your disease without a doctor giving the thumbs up. But if the doctor gives the thumbs up and reviews it, then it's saving everyone time and it's increasing the accuracy because it's a combination of human and autonomous. So, you know, these, these Web3AI agents can solve Web2 problems like we talked about earlier, because it's inheriting the economics of the GPU deep ins. So any use case you can think of of AI across web two and Web three is an interesting use case for web3 AI, we think.
00:47:36.509 - 00:48:11.549, Speaker B: Yeah. On that topic, you know, like goats in particular. So I own some, but I agree there are some, you know, gaps in the lore and it's, I think the price is just a function of excitement around the space where previously the main asset that everyone expressed bullishness in crypto AI has been kind of tau. And so here you have basically a new iteration on meme coins. Right. One with a kind of a dynamic story rather than a static one with kind of some of the existing ones. And that's exciting, particularly because you don't really know where it's going to go.
00:48:11.549 - 00:48:46.955, Speaker B: But along that front, I think part of what gets people excited is what can be. And I don't necessarily think that goats is what is like, you know, necessarily the future of kind of agents controlling capital. So curious. Yeah. Do you guys have thoughts on kind of timelines to when something like what people hope goats can be, which is, you know, an agent controlling capital and then deciding what to potentially do with it? And then, you know, one step further being what they actually could end up doing with it or. Yeah. Thoughts around how that plays out.
00:48:47.855 - 00:49:46.235, Speaker C: For what it's worth, Jan, I wasn't trying to fud Goat. Okay. I wasn't, that's not, that wasn't the plan here. I was just talking about a specific, you know, nuance and I think it just, it points to how hard, how early we are in this like broader set of things around giving agents capital or giving this non human entity or some set of non human entities access to massive resources. I generally think that there's going to be a ton of technical risk, but I think GOAT is the most interesting thing that's happened at the intersection of crypto AI in the last few months. Right. And I want to see more experimentation along those lines and I think the fact that it leans so heavily into the, into the mimetic attention driven value driver type, you know, dynamics you see in crypto capital markets today is interesting.
00:49:46.235 - 00:51:01.011, Speaker C: You know, my longer term view is that experiments like that are important and they kind of show you what's possible in the set of, you know, outcomes when, when you have these sort of like self governed systems or autonomous systems. But I'm, I'm, I'm ultimately more optimistic on maybe the class of things that I was describing previously. Whether or not, you know, we as an institutional capital allocator have funded them, I generally believe that the ability to draw resources in a distributed fashion, organize them and then deliver cost to performance parity products to end customers. I believe there are large compounding businesses to be built there and I think if you look on the barbell of a TAO or a Render and IO and Goat on the other end, there will be experimentation on both sides of these things. I'd say I'm more interested in the long term on the former, but excited about the generative aspects of the latter.
00:51:01.163 - 00:51:50.137, Speaker E: We kind of think that for AI to be trusted by traders to do financial transactions on chain, it's a big ask. Our trading team would probably be pretty uncomfortable with just doing an intent based AI transaction today, especially if there's a lot of money at risk. However, there's some innovations happening that we think might establish more comfort. One innovation that's happening is there are teams that are building very specific large language models for this use case. So this is like an area where I think there's an opportunity for fine grained, vertical specific models that are not general purpose models. The whole idea behind these is that the accuracy rate of those models is much higher. For things like intent based defi transactions because it's trained on that corpus of knowledge and refined for that reason.
00:51:50.137 - 00:51:58.649, Speaker E: So I think as those start to prove out their accuracy rate, the traders might get more comfortable with that. So there is hope on the horizon for that.
00:51:58.777 - 00:52:01.485, Speaker A: Sorry, what was the question? Sorry, I lost track.
00:52:02.505 - 00:52:39.205, Speaker B: No, no worries. So just thinking about goats in particular, right. What it currently isn't really what people are excited about or in the long run. And so it's these agentic protocols that are able to actually control a pretty material amount of money enough to kind of do a whole variety of things with. Curious when we get to that point, is it weeks, months, years where something like what people hope goats actually is what's taking place and kind of what that looks like?
00:52:40.545 - 00:53:27.987, Speaker A: Well, maybe just sort of bottoms up. The sort of learning for me this year has been the cost for building anything has come down dramatically. If it's purely software based, the time and effort which equates to cost is going to come down pretty drastically this year. So I wouldn't be surprised if, I mean just simple capabilities have gotten opened up. Agents being able to do things on their own or being able to build software. I mean, for example, I really don't write my own software anymore. It's largely cursor, copilot driven and so I guess maybe a non answer to your question because I don't think I could put a finite timeline on it because I'm not really sure what we'll try to accomplish with this thing or what it tries to accomplish on its own.
00:53:27.987 - 00:53:45.753, Speaker A: What all I can say is that I think it'll be whatever timeline you think it is. I think it's going to be a lot shorter than that because things can just move really rapidly because the guardrails that we think have existed just keep shifting and I think we just need to. We have to operate with an open mind.
00:53:45.889 - 00:54:10.843, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I definitely agree with that sentiment, particularly with crypto just being one of the big benefits of it is it's a really fantastic capital raising tool and there's no shortage of that in the space, particularly on the speculative side. So it's only a matter of time. But I know we have to wrap up as schedules are conflicting, but really appreciate all the time here and this is a lot of fun. Thank you for the insights.
00:54:11.019 - 00:54:11.907, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:54:12.091 - 00:54:12.715, Speaker C: Thanks very much.
