00:00:00.200 - 00:00:07.638, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Paraswap, the leading aggregator to find best prices across various Dexs. You'll hear more about them later in the show.
00:00:07.726 - 00:00:31.994, Speaker B: That experience, the insight came to me that in many of these circumstances, we have tremendous hope that a treatment would come up, but unfortunately lack the capital to be able to actually advance that treatment into patients. And so the insight was that the problem, especially in diseases like rare diseases and other overlooked diseases, the problem is not finding a potential cure, it's funding it.
00:00:35.614 - 00:01:29.944, Speaker C: Welcome back, everyone. We have a very special guest today, Alok Tayyi. He is the co founder of Vibebio, which I have the pleasure of being an investor in. So there will be some bias, but I want to make this episode also dig deep into what we call applying a lot of the incentives in crypto that we've seen historically, bitcoin and ethereum, and applying those to healthcare. And one of the areas that I feel really passionately about, which is, and as a side, I love crypto, but I also love healthcare and biotech, and there's a lot of problems there that I think can be addressed with better incentive models and mechanisms that we've explored in crypto. So this would be a fascinating, I think, a fascinating deep dive. I hope that Alok not only will give you an overview of what they're doing in vibio, which combines a lot of really interesting features of web3 and crypto, but also just really dig deep into what are the problems in research and development, drug development and discovery.
00:01:29.944 - 00:02:04.800, Speaker C: And hopefully, I think we will get a better understanding of what the potential really is to fix healthcare. And I think it's one of the more promising areas. And if this truly works, I mean, I think there's a lot of criticisms out there in the space. A lot of this is just ponzonomics and yield farming and where we're really going and if bitcoin's really gonna work. But I think this is one of the areas where if it works, then it could really transform healthcare. Feels real to a lot of us. We all have family members or know of people that have unfortunately struggled from rare diseases, which is one of the topics we're going to talk about here.
00:02:04.800 - 00:02:15.720, Speaker C: And you're going to learn why that area in particular has been largely neglected by big pharma. And so without further ado, alok, welcome to the pod. We're thrilled to have you. Welcome.
00:02:15.872 - 00:02:26.704, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much, really pleasure to be here, and I'm grateful for your time and the opportunity to be able to share a little bit about vibe, as well as what we're doing doing at the intersection of crypto and the biotech industry.
00:02:26.824 - 00:02:42.136, Speaker C: Awesome. Congrats on officially launching Vibio was round yesterday. It was a $20 million round with some really good investors. First off, maybe tell us a little bit about that and then the idea behind starting this, perhaps layering in your background into that.
00:02:42.320 - 00:03:49.722, Speaker B: Yeah, 100%. Appreciate the kind words. And so we were really excited. Vibe announced its first round of financing earlier this week, thrilled to be able to raise $12 million led by initialized capital, have a whole host of amazing investors, including yourself, Naval Abalaji, Diego Rey, Lero Hippo, amongst a suite of other great investors. And the big part about that announcement was, in addition to being able to raise that capital, we also announced two partnerships, one with a patient advocacy group called Chelsea's Hope, the other called NF, two biosolutions to launch our first two drug programs in diseases, specifically Lephora disease and NF two. We're really excited to be able to come out of the gate and tell our story and also share some of the great work we're doing with real folks to help bring crypto into the biotech industry. Happy to give you a little bit of insight into my background and what the genesis of vibe was, if that helps.
00:03:49.828 - 00:03:58.582, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. Let's lay the kind of context for folks. What is your background and then what exactly is bi bio for sure?
00:03:58.758 - 00:04:42.834, Speaker B: So I'm actually a scientist by trade and training. I spent about 15 years at the bench doing research and then caught the software bug and started a couple of software companies focused on the life sciences industry. And then mid last year, my wife and I were fortunate enough to have our first kid, though the pregnancy went okay. Unfortunately, our daughter was born very sick and spent a long time in the hospital suffering. One of the hardest parts about that experience was the fact that though the diseases that she had were somewhat common and the biology were well understood, there were actually no dedicated therapeutic options available to her. And as a consequence, she spent a long time in the hospital. As a family, we felt extremely frustrated, abandoned and alone during that period.
00:04:42.834 - 00:05:41.232, Speaker B: But inevitably, when you spend time in the NICU, you actually start meeting a lot of other families who also have sick loved ones along your bedside. And we started to realize more and more that a lot of the common challenges and struggles we had around having a child who had an illness that we understood. But I know therapeutic options actually ended up becoming a common thread that tied us all together as a group. And so it was from that experience. The insight came to me that in many of these circumstances, we have tremendous hope that a treatment would come up, but unfortunately lack the capital to be able to actually advance that treatment into patients. And so the insight was that the problem, especially in diseases like rare diseases and other overlooked diseases, the problem is not finding a potential cure, it's funding it. And so it was that kernel that led me to start Vivebio last year with my co founder, the inimitable Josh Foreman.
00:05:41.232 - 00:06:31.718, Speaker B: So Josh and I started Vivebio to be able to help bring a new approach to developing treatments initially focused on rare diseases. And Vibebio is a community of patients, scientists and partners that help identify and vet potential treatments initially on rare diseases, and then fund them using cryptocurrency token sales. And so when you juxtapose how families today try and tackle this problem, the president and founder of NFT Biosolutions, for instance, had to run multiple five ks just to be able to raise enough money to advance treatments for that neuro oncology indication. And so today, for the one in ten Americans who suffer from a rare disease, we hope to be able to develop a new approach by which we can actually put the patient in the driver's seat, not profit or politics when it comes to drug development.
00:06:31.886 - 00:06:45.594, Speaker C: That's fascinating. And so maybe for a skeptic out there that might say, wait a minute, well, there's a lot of VC's out there that are investing in biotech, and what is their role? And why have they not jumped into the opportunity that you're seeing here?
00:06:45.734 - 00:07:38.424, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think it's really important to keep in mind here that there's no explicit sort of villain or anyone with ill intent. Usually. I think those are sort of rooted out pretty quickly in the biotech industry. I think in the context of how biotech companies operate, especially when you're VC backed. First off, over the past 20 to 30 years, a lot of the exciting innovation in the life sciences industry has shifted from bigger pharma companies to a decentralized network of emerging biotech companies. Now, when you're an emerging biotech company, however, even if you're VC backed, you'll always have capacity and resource constraints when it comes to developing your technology into a working medicine. So what ends up happening is that any rational leader or manager will have to start to prioritize where they allocate their limited capacity and their novel technology.
00:07:38.424 - 00:08:49.592, Speaker B: And so naturally, what ends up happening is they prioritize the largest disease areas, which also represent the largest economic opportunities and therefore increase the overall npv of their organization that focus on just one to two disease areas requires them then to deprioritize the next dozen. And that decision, when integrated across the few thousand biotechs that are out there, lead to, unfortunately herd mentality. So you have the entire industry focusing on a modest to small subset of diseases. While the balance, like rare diseases and other overlooked domains, though they have good economic opportunities and have tractable science, unfortunately don't get as much love. And so I think this is a facet of how the life sciences industry operates that just unfortunately leads to a measurement of diseases being overlooked. Now, if it was any other industry, we'd be okay with that, because it just means that if I'm building Salesforce and Salesforce can't be applied to the construction industry, then the construction industry would just be a little bit less efficient per se. But in this segment and domain, it reflects in the fact that unfortunately, people suffer and in many cases die as well.
00:08:49.592 - 00:09:06.554, Speaker B: And so it was from that certain context where there's 40, $50 billion a year invested in biotech venture in a given year, very small portion of it sort of early stage innovation in venture, that motivates us to think about creating a new approach when it comes to the biotech side of the equation.
00:09:06.704 - 00:09:56.370, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. So you mentioned that one in ten actually has a rare disease in America at least. Of course, this is scattered across a number of rare diseases, and it's not, which I think is part of the problem here, which is it takes what, up to north of a billion, up to 2 billion to develop a drug. And the probability of developing a drug is, if you apply this decision tree model, is quite low. So in that context, maybe elaborate more on how vibe bio, in what particular area are you most focused on and how do you kind of, I mean, you've raised 12 million, that's not a billion. And so how maybe explain to listeners how this will actually work? What are the areas that you're mostly focused on in the drug development kind of R and D phase, for sure.
00:09:56.482 - 00:10:59.774, Speaker B: You know, if it's all right, I'd love to just take maybe one quick step back and put you in the shoes of a family who's just been told their child's been diagnosed with a rare disease and sort of give you a sense of how they approach it today and then sort of how bibio dovetails. So if you're a family member of a patient who's just diagnosed by rare disease, the doctor informs you that though we understand the disease, that there are no treatments. I'm sure you can appreciate it. It's a very emotional and difficult time. Obviously, the first instinct is to go and try and beg biotech and pharma companies to work on your disease area. But as we discussed, that often doesn't lead to much. And so the result for many of these families is basically, on one hand, billionaires and their generosity or bake sales and the volume, on the other hand, and so many of these groups for which there's now, according to a recent report from Rarex, over 10,000 different rare diseases, a clear challenge where, unfortunately, we believe there needs to be a better option that's different than billionaires in bake sales.
00:10:59.774 - 00:12:27.744, Speaker B: And so that's the context within which we're trying to come into the fold. So in terms of the approach, one of the few things I'd like to highlight here around rare diseases specifically is the fact that though the patient population is somewhat smaller, you'll also see a substantially lower cost to actually be able to develop and advance the therapy in this space. So first, when it comes to these smaller, to modern sized disease areas, in terms of patient population, you end up actually needing maybe only a few million dollars or maybe ten or $15 million to actually get a medicine through some of the more difficult stages of drug development, as opposed to the hundreds of millions of dollars required in some larger disease areas, like, say, cardiovascular disease or cancer. I think that's one really critical takeaway here, is that even though the patient population is smaller, the costs to actually develop a medicine are lower. Further, when you actually look at the costs on the health system, there's a tremendous amount applied because of these rare diseases, because they also have no existing treatment today. So there's, I think, a unique opportunity for us to be able to bring these medicines to market quickly in comparison to the current system. So, you know, in terms of vibe bio, the approach that we take is we think that every patient that has a life altering disease, no matter how rare, deserves to be part of a community and have the power to pursue a cure.
00:12:27.744 - 00:14:04.414, Speaker B: So what we do is we're building this community of patients, scientists and partners that help identify, vet, and then fund these different drug development programs in innovative ways. So, as I mentioned earlier, we're going on actively partnering with patient advocacy groups that currently are focused on a given disease area using their know how and their insight into the disease, the science, the scientific leaders, the medical kols, et cetera. Many of these groups are now putting forth proposals to the dow that structure the study of a specific potential medicine for their disease. And so the goal here is to empower these patient communities, those who truly understand the disease and have the most incentive to see it solved, put forth a proposal around running a clinical trial, doing preclinical testing, manufacturing, et cetera, to help advance and develop that medicine. Once that proposal comes to the Dow, the Dow has a community of scientific experts and drug development veterans who help evaluate and stack rank those proposals based on scientific merit, clinical facets, safety, regulatory, etcetera. And then we subsequently empower the community, then approve funding for those ranked proposals. So we leverage the token, the vibe token, which is our governance token, to be able to raise some capital through external investors, as we just alluded to, but also grant those tokens to those community members, such that the patients can truly be in the driver's seat of setting priorities and allocating that capital.
00:14:04.414 - 00:14:46.954, Speaker B: So that's sort of the overall mechanics of kind of how vibe works today. And to answer your other question, in terms of drug development longer term, I think very much so. There's a lot of capital that's required to develop a suite of diseases, to develop a suite of medicines. But I think even again, just a few million dollars to be able to advance a medicine to show that it works in a human, for instance, allows us to make tremendous progress and then potentially partner that medicine with an existing institution or raise more follow on capital from traditional sources as well. And so that's, I think, a big part of our model, which is to say we want to plug in neatly into the existing regulatory and drug development infrastructure, but ensure that actually the patient is at the center as opposed to profit or politics?
00:14:47.894 - 00:15:18.330, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And so just, I guess, historically, for my curiosity and just the listeners, how much of the existing treatments for rare diseases, neglected diseases, has happened in this manner, meaning advocacy groups of people that are affected by it actually put forth some modalities or some interesting research, and then that gets picked up by Big pharma. Is that the norm, or is this kind of a pioneering model that you're developing?
00:15:18.522 - 00:16:36.924, Speaker B: It's an awesome question, and to be candid, we're drawing a lot of inspiration from how other communities have actually started to develop medicines for the diseases they've cared about over the past half century. For example, the vaccine for polio, the treatments for cystic fibrosis, forms of hypertension, pompeiis, et cetera, were actually therapeutics that were pioneered by communities that came together when existing centralized institutions were focused elsewhere. They formed a charity, a community, and then raised capital at least philanthropically, to be able to invest in these drug development programs. So I think the most canonical example is the work that the cystic Fibrosis foundation has done over the past 30 or 40 years to develop treatments for CF. The interesting thing about this is also, I think, highlighting the unique insight that communities and patients themselves have. When CF sort of first became a really well known disease, despite its size, there were only 20 or 30,000 patients known in the United States and globally. But as the sensitive fibrosis foundation started to assemble their community, identify potential patients, and raise hundreds of millions of dollars to invest in drug development, they were actually now finding that there's actually more than a quarter million patients that suffer from cystic fibrosis.
00:16:36.924 - 00:17:48.114, Speaker B: There's this natural growth that ends up happening once there is awareness and also once there's a therapeutic. So, in the case of CF, the Cystic Fibrosis foundation invested in a company called Aurora Biosciences, which was then acquired, and today is actually vertex Pharmaceuticals, which is a $60 billion plus market cap company that does about $4 billion in top line, all from the cystic fibrosis medicines that they've developed, so many of which were actually invested and developed and funded by the Cystic Fibrosis foundation. When you look at the work that they've done, the march of Dimes, in terms of developing the vaccine for polio, Martine Rothblatt, who was actually the founder of SiriusXM, who then started United Therapeutics, John Crowley, who started Novozyme, as well as now amicus therapeutics to treat his children with pompeys. You see this common trend where, again, when communities come together and patients have a high end medical need, legacy institutions are focused elsewhere. These communities become powerful sources of identifying the science and the capital to be able to push them forward. We just hope to be able to learn from that success and put that model on steroids.
00:17:48.234 - 00:18:06.494, Speaker C: Yeah. So just again, this is not a criticism, but when you say most big pharma is kind of focused on developing another treatment for erectile dysfunction or whatever, which is a problem, but on the grand scheme of things, we don't need another viagra in the market. We need more dollars to go fund rare diseases. I mean, is that like a fair statement?
00:18:07.954 - 00:18:51.314, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I'll be maybe a little bit. I'll massage the statement a little bit, if it's okay with you. What I'd say is that if you put yourself in the shoes of a pharmaceutical company that has an obligation to shareholders in terms of returning, delivering a return on investment. They have to make very calculated decisions that focus them on specific disease areas which will have a high economic return, but also have lower risk in terms of their development. And so that's one of the other challenges in this space. It's like a bit of a catch 22, which is for existing disease areas that we know about that have large market opportunities and a well established clinical and regulatory pathway. It makes a lot of sense for new technologies to be applied there in pharma to focus.
00:18:51.314 - 00:19:42.566, Speaker B: But the challenge with rare disease, as we just discussed, is that there are no existing treatments today. And as a consequence, when there's no existing treatment, it's also unclear what the bar is that you need to cross in terms of getting a medicine potentially approved and accepted by the community. So there's also this component of risk that also, I think, gets factored into the prioritization for many of these institutions. And I think it's safe to say that the current drug development infrastructure just wasn't built to focus on rare diseases specifically. So our hope at Vibebio is to build a community of patients, scientists and partners to help identify and vet potential treatments for rare diseases and fund them in innovative ways such that we can scalably and sustainably pursue treatments for rare diseases using the Dow model. At its core, what has been the.
00:19:42.590 - 00:19:53.838, Speaker C: Reception of the scientific community, the scientists maybe comment on who's actually involved, who's doing the vetting, and what's been the reception of a lot of these researchers and scientists to your model?
00:19:53.886 - 00:20:43.986, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So what I will say is that this has been one of the most, the easiest projects I've ever had to work on and build, because such a large portion of the industry, despite what's talked about in the press, I think truly cares about the patient and also wanting to work on programs and projects that will have a shot on goal. And I think in many cases, even in an innovative biotech, it takes many years and tens to hundreds of millions of dollars to even get to the point where you're starting a clinical trial. In our case, we can actually move at a much faster pace because we're partnering with patients directly and are able to also bring in existing intellectual property and medicines that are closer to that point. The reception has been extraordinarily wonderful. Can't mention any names at the moment. We'll be doing some additional discussion on that soon.
00:20:43.986 - 00:22:24.504, Speaker B: But we've got folks who have brought multiple drugs to market, including drugs like Spinraza, have participated in bringing Brinura to market as well. These are hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars of medicines that have been developed by these individuals bring coming to the forefront. We're also actively building a scientific advisory board that has some of the most leading experts in neurology and our Nobel laureates, et cetera, the table. And I think what motivates every single one of these individuals, again, is the opportunity to be proximal to the patient, the opportunity to now bring their know how and expertise to the table, to be able to advance a candidate medicine that truly can not only get into the clinic, but then has a clear line of sight to approval and at the end of the day have an impact. I think the other piece of this is there's also a lot of intrigue and curiosity around how this broader business model and this domain of web3 and community ownership could disrupt and transform. We've got some really innovative and wonderful individuals who have been part of some of the most canonical biotechs here in Boston, for instance, Millennium Pharma, Infinity Decibel, thrive, earlier detection, etcetera, that are actually also part of some very prominent biotech VC firms who are participating in this process because they see an opportunity by which this broad swath of disease we can actually potentially pursue. So I think the uptake has been great, the participation has been huge, and I think it's only going to get amplified from here, especially as we announce some of our subsequent partnerships with pharma and academia in the coming months.
00:22:25.244 - 00:22:42.828, Speaker C: I'm trying to understand why historically no one is kind of like, thought about this or done it in the way that you're doing it. Is it just something inherently unique about the DAO model, the coordination that crypto allows in a very scalable, Internet native way, perhaps? Let's dig deep into that.
00:22:42.956 - 00:23:14.396, Speaker B: Yeah. So let me give you maybe just a couple of quick thoughts. Love to hear if that resonates with you. I think the first part about it is that biotech companies and VC firms often have what they call patient advocacy groups, which are sort of the liaisons between the organization, the biotech and a patient advocacy group. However, I think the key gap ends up being is that the patient advocacy groups and the patients themselves don't necessarily have economics or governance. Right. In terms of deciding priorities.
00:23:14.396 - 00:24:43.344, Speaker B: That's usually done by the biotechs and the management team. So it ends up becoming a circumstance where they, you know, when tough decisions have to be made, programs are then cut and drug programs are put on the shelf, which unfortunately is to the negative implications for the patients. And I think a part of it also is giving up economics, then decreases the economics for other folks at the table, especially those who are taking the financial risk. So I think there's some aspect there around the capital, the financial incentives, as well as how decisions are made that I think make our model and approach different, but also difficult for existing institutions to sort of adopt. So the approach that we've been taking has been to bring the community together in a DAO, as you alluded, leverage the token as a way to incent and provide governance and assay and agency for these patients. But then once a drug program is actually approved, the actual funds from the Dow then actually go into a dedicated C Corp biotech that has economic ownership from the Dow, as well as these patient advocacy groups. And we believe that to be really critical, because when you also give them skin in the game and ensure that they can see part of the upside in that drug program, it then ensures that they're committed with you, whether it's finding the scientists, working with regulatory authorities, which is super important, as well as even finding patients to enroll in a trial.
00:24:43.344 - 00:24:56.284, Speaker B: So I think our innovation, both in terms of how we make decisions, but also the economic structure, I think are facets that are highly differentiated and just sort of go against the grain in terms of the current incentive structure in the industry.
00:24:56.404 - 00:25:10.660, Speaker C: Yeah. How do you, so you've raised this capital. You have maybe ten different hundreds of or thousands of rare diseases. How do you prioritize this for sure?
00:25:10.732 - 00:26:10.866, Speaker B: Well, I think the key part of web3 is to ensure that it's done in a decentralized, community driven way. So when I say we or I, I really mean the DAo as a whole, as opposed to myself. And I think the approach that we take here is that I think there's this healthy tension that we have to keep. I think anyone out there who's going to be part of the vibe bio community is going to want to see everybody drug have a shot on goal and every disease have potential to be treated. But at the end of the day, we need to be ensuring that the capital we're allocating is going towards programs that have the highest potential and the highest patient impact also, such that if it's successful, we can return capital back to continue reinvesting into new programs. And so that tension is between the humanity and the altruism that the bio community has, but also ensuring that we're meeting certain scientific, regulatory and safety expectations. So the approach that we take is to empower communities with tokens.
00:26:10.866 - 00:27:55.316, Speaker B: Patient communities specifically enable any token holder to put forth a proposal around advancing candidate medicine into a clinical trial, whether it be, say, the manufacturing aspect or the clinical trial itself for preclinical testing, but then ensure that after those proposals are provided to the DAO, that we have a team of experts who are sort of reviewing them and ranking them. So what we do is we evaluate things like the regulatory pathway, the clinical development plan, the manufacturability, even the financial plan related to the capital that's being requested. If they're asking for ten grand to do a 10,000 person clinical trial, there's probably a mismatch there. We have deep domain experts whose responsibility isn't necessarily to say yes or no, but instead to render their expertise just they would, in any other drug development circumstance, to ensure that proposal is properly structured and also vetted for being the best possible chance for a medicine to get to market patients. So we think that diligence step is really critical. And then once that diligence step is complete, they'll have ranked and create a stack, essentially, of those final proposals with the highest potential, highest impact programs at the top, and then cascading from there, such that whatever funds are approved or available can then be allocated sort of top down as a consequence. So it becomes a community driven approach that allows experts to help weigh in to ensure we're making good decisions, but then empowers then experts on the back end once the community approves, to be able to do the drug development work on a day to day basis.
00:27:55.500 - 00:28:25.884, Speaker C: So I'm an investor, I get tokens, but I have no domain expertise. As much as I love this, I'm not the most competent person to vote on the merits of these proposals. How do you plan on creating a sufficiently decentralized community? Whereby do I delegate my vote to a particular expert in neurology or some other field? And what's the incentive for these scientists and researchers to participate? Are you granting them tokens? Are they investors? Are they buying these tokens?
00:28:25.924 - 00:28:26.220, Speaker B: Or.
00:28:26.292 - 00:28:48.404, Speaker C: I'm just kind of curious how you. Because a lot of what we've seen in these daos is a high degree of concentration, and oftentimes a lot of these people are voting with their feet, if they are even showing up. And so participation is pretty low in this case. There's a lot of motivated people, but may not have the expertise or qualifications to vote on the merits of these proposals.
00:28:49.344 - 00:29:59.494, Speaker B: I think you hit a really important point there, and I'd say when it comes to how we try to engage with a broader pool of participants, delegation, I think is a really critical facet of that in terms of just patient advocacy groups alone in the United States, there's tens of thousands of them globally. It's many multiples of that. And so it empowers. And in life science industry across the globe, there's something like 13 million people who participate in the life sciences industry today. So as we try and build the largest collective of patients, scientists and partners, I think there's an opportunity for folks like yourselves and other token holders to be able to delegate their vote to those tens of thousands of patient communities, millions of sort of scientists as well in the ecosystem, to help ensure that they're bringing their insights to the table as well. But regardless, even from a delegation perspective, because we've structured it such that token holders can propose, but we have experts vet, we're still fairly confident that we'll be hopefully making good decisions on the back end. But I think it's safe to say that Dao retention and engagement is still an open question in the industry.
00:29:59.494 - 00:30:41.686, Speaker B: But I hope, as you mentioned, that the commitment and the conviction and the fact that this topic hits close to home to so many keeps people engaged on an ongoing basis. The other thing I'll just quickly add is that when Josh and I think through the mechanics and the governance scheme here, I think also ensuring that we're focusing people's time and focus on specific time points when these proposals are supposed to be submitted, reviewed, and then approved, I think also helps focus people, as opposed to having this continuous stream of decision making. And so the scientists that we work with are paid through tokens such that they're also incented for the long term and can carry some of the upside that comes with the community being successful as well.
00:30:41.790 - 00:30:42.834, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely.
00:30:44.054 - 00:31:11.346, Speaker A: All right, everyone, really excited to share a special update from our friends at Paraswap. Paraswap has been pushing the boundaries of what is possible with Defi for years, and they just did it again. They just rolled out the first ever nFT peer to peer mobile trading app on iOS. That's right. They launched an iOS app for peer to peer NFT trading. You can buy and sell nFts with any token. They have a secure, non custodial wallet.
00:31:11.346 - 00:31:20.324, Speaker A: You've got a fiat on ramp with zero fees at all. That's all at Paraswap. IO forward slash beta. Paraswap IO beta.
00:31:20.354 - 00:31:20.736, Speaker B: Beta.
00:31:20.800 - 00:31:41.616, Speaker A: It's a peer to peer NFT trading app on Apple. Pretty crazy thing in the iOS ecosystem. Imagine not using a platform that could literally save you thousands on gas. That's Paraswap go check out the app. Go check out the native wallet to store all of your crypto assets in one place. Go get your gas refunded. Go check them out.
00:31:41.616 - 00:31:51.138, Speaker A: Go download the new Paraswap NFT trading app. Paraswap IO forward slash beta Paraswap. Now let's get back to the show.
00:31:51.266 - 00:32:53.954, Speaker C: It sounds like it's an easy sell to these communities, some of which are just being neglected or reliant on very generous individuals that can work at times, but it's not very sustainable model. I want to ask you, is this an adverse selection problem? Meaning the potential, like the more promising treatments or, you know, that are showing traction or diseases that are farther along and have more line of sight and being approved are probably getting picked up by very reputable VC's and or pharma companies, biotech companies, and then you're kind of left with this important but tail end of kind of more neglected, less clear disease is very important, don't get me wrong. But still the probabilities of that are much lower. I'm curious if you believe that to be true of this adverse selection problem that you're going to be facing.
00:32:54.734 - 00:33:27.316, Speaker B: Yeah, you know, it's a really important question. I think was one of the common ones we faced when it came to our fundraise. And actually, I'd love to dispel that notion sort of fairly sweet swiftly, because first, the rare disease space actually has a higher rate of approval than larger indication areas. And so I think it's something like almost like twice as many that sort of enter the clinic, actually end up getting approved in comparison to other domains. So that's like one important facet. Second, I'd also, I guess on that.
00:33:27.340 - 00:33:41.214, Speaker C: Point, before we go any further, is this because the FDA has sort of these emergency status kind of incentives to kind of approve these, or has more leniency towards approving more of these exploratory treatments?
00:33:42.274 - 00:34:04.894, Speaker B: It's a really good question. I would actually argue it's that right now, there is no treatment available today. And so your bar is different. Your bar is, unfortunately, people dying or having real serious symptoms and poor quality of life. So I think when it's so egregious in terms of the current outcome with rare diseases, but any medicine that's able to incrementally improve quality of lifespan.
00:34:05.054 - 00:34:15.782, Speaker C: Yeah, like ALS treatment. The ALS treatment out there by this japanese pharma, like, it's not like doing much other than prolonging life by like two or three months because the lungs is what fails first.
00:34:15.838 - 00:34:16.006, Speaker B: Right.
00:34:16.030 - 00:34:29.383, Speaker C: And so I remember looking at this stuff, and it's like, it's not that it's curing the disease, it's just that it's marginally improving the condition of a patient. And so it gets approved much faster, perhaps, than a cardiovascular kind of more treatment or cancer treatment.
00:34:29.423 - 00:34:29.719, Speaker B: Right.
00:34:29.791 - 00:34:30.935, Speaker C: Is that accurate?
00:34:31.039 - 00:35:24.740, Speaker B: I think that's one good. One way to think about it, which is, yeah. Again, anything we can do to improve the quality of life as well as the lifespan of folks with rare diseases tends to get a good look, I think, from the FDA, because there are also no treatments today. And as a consequence, I think the patient communities are very vocal and engaged with the regulatory authorities to ensure that they're giving a fair shake right to those sort of candidate medicines. So that's one thing to think about. So the other piece that I'd also highlight here in tandem is that when it comes to the current drug development process, you actually alluded to at the beginning of the discussion, which is it takes a billion or $2 billion to actually bring a given medicine to market in the aggregate. So I'd actually push back on the concept of adverse selection and that I think our current infrastructure spends a fair amount of capital today for a lot of medicines that unfortunately don't pass muster.
00:35:24.740 - 00:36:37.810, Speaker B: And so I think our approach of being very, very focused on a specific set of indications in a specific space, where first we can start to develop intuition and instinct across the DAO to evaluate and bet these programs. That's where we're bringing experts who've worked on drugs like Spinraza and burneura to the table. But then second, over time, you can envision that the DAO can start to build up a shared service model that actually starts to decrease the costs and improve insights across the multiple programs that we step up, you know, best practice on. Which vendor should we be working with? What's the right way to manage all the data coming from a clinical trial? How do we think about patient recruitment? How do we think about staffing, even right, and motivating these teams? I think there's another piece of this which daos are also uniquely positioned to do, which is to bring best practices, bring the right talent to the table, help them coordinate, give them a little bit of capital, and then see what they can do. So I can appreciate what the broader industry thinks about this space, but I just push back on that sort of assumption because I think the current process is definitely inefficient. Everyone knows it's got to improve. I think the rare disease space actually has shown statistically has higher likelihood of approval compared to other disease areas.
00:36:37.810 - 00:36:49.476, Speaker B: And then also we have an opportunity to learn collectively and grow and decrease the costs over time, improve the conversion over time as the DAO starts to build up a collective knowledge base.
00:36:49.620 - 00:37:34.262, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, it certainly rings true, like open sourcing a lot of this stuff. There might be a lot of clinical trial data that has been shelved and is not available. So over time, over the next 510 years, you would envision that you're collecting a lot of this and open sourcing it to advance science as opposed to the, you know, which is not at odds with making a financial return. I mean, at some point, I think you've very clear here which is there is a profit motive here, but everyone kind of wins more equitably. The patients, the Dow investors, maybe service providers that are being paid in tokens, not necessarily in cash or what have you. So that certainly rings true. I guess I want to shift a little bit of my attention into what is the grand vision here.
00:37:34.262 - 00:38:06.246, Speaker C: Where do you see vio in the next 510 years? Do you think that you will get biotech investors, VC's, pharma into the fold, research institutions? A lot of this, my understanding, happens initially in universities. And so what are your plans on building this community? Because right now it seems like there's a few experts, it's us investors, but also patients and patient populations. But I'm curious, like what are your plans over the next 1224 months? And where do you see Kennebaibio evolving?
00:38:06.430 - 00:39:21.274, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I think our goal in the near term is to get, is to open up our community and welcome as many patients, scientists and partners to the table. I think our goal also during that period of time is also to launch our token such that we can have on chain governance and participation from a broader group of people. But I think in terms of building up the community, we'd love to work with every patient advocacy group and every biotech company out there that has a disease area that they're passionate about, a high potential drug program that sort of has tremendous promise, but just lacks the capital and the capacity to be able to advance into these later stages of development to give patients hope and show the promise. I think that's really the core of where we're focused. And I think you're going to see over the next couple months some of the traction we're getting with pharma companies, academic institutions to help take that technology, which would have unfortunately sat on a shelf somewhere now actually give it a shot on goal and get it into people. So I think that's going to be the two key milestones for us. But then longer term, I really hope over the next, let's call it 2510 years, to be able to then start to think about a broader vision for how vibe evolves.
00:39:21.274 - 00:40:45.194, Speaker B: I'll give you one web3 vector, and then one biotech vector, which is, in the case of web3, one of the amazing things and powerful facets of daos and crypto is that everything we do, from a governance perspective or from a token standpoint, is all instantiated in code. Even though we're focused on rare diseases today for a variety of reasons, both my personal experience and exposure, but then also in terms of the capital required to move the needle, you can envision taking that same governance structure approach and model, and then replicating it for other high priority disease areas that are overlooked. You mentioned ALS, infectious disease, mental health, addiction, women's health, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. It becomes a unique opportunity by which we can now start to replicate this broader model, bring the right partners and patients to the table, and advance and scale out the pursuit of drug development, especially in this critical phase, when we're going from in vitro proof of concept to human proof of concept. So that's one vector. The other vector, I'd also say, is that if we're actually able to build a large collection of patients, scientists and partners, and again leveraging web3, it can be a global entity that can scale effectively infinitely in terms of participation. There's a world where we could become the largest biopharma organization with a very large quantity of resources available to us.
00:40:45.194 - 00:42:16.890, Speaker B: So imagine not only building out hundreds of drug programs, but even some of the core infrastructure that you alluded to earlier. Our own analytics and insights from clinical data and preclinical datasets, the ability to actually even build out our own manufacturing facilities or regulatory writing infrastructure, et cetera, I think there becomes a really unique opportunity whereby this broader community can now start to allocate capital to alleviate some of the bottlenecks that exist in drug development today. Running preclinical testing, doing manufacturing, supply chain, reshoring that, decentralizing it, however you want to think about it, there's, I think, a really unique opportunity by which the supply chain can be modernized and community owned, but then also a lot of the business processes, like paying out royalties or having an NDA, can potentially be instantiated into smart contracts. So I know I've thrown a lot of sort of pieces out there but I think it really comes at first looking at from the velvet perspective, how we leverage this common code base to then replicate it for sort of new disease areas and take advantage of hopefully the good governance that we've put in place here at vibe. But then second, also start to think about this broader concept of community ownership, not just around the intellectual property, but also around the supply chain and infrastructure, but then also even business process, and think about how the technology and communities can have a positive impact there as well. So that's kind of the next five, six years of hopefully what you and everyone else on the cap table has signed up for. But, yeah, hopefully that answers your question, no?
00:42:16.922 - 00:42:38.354, Speaker C: Absolutely. And I guess the answers to that question is, in what version of this world doesn't work? What are the things that you see as the biggest risks? You've raised a small amount, all things considered, when it comes to biotech, I mean, it's a drop in the bucket, initial capital to prove out, as you say, proof of concept here. But what are the biggest risks that you worry about here?
00:42:38.474 - 00:42:50.982, Speaker B: Yeah, well, I think the one thing I'd highlight here is that if you look at, say, the XBI, which is an ETF that represents a collection of biotech names from its peak in 2021 to its trough in 2022, has been down 60%. Right.
00:42:51.158 - 00:42:53.914, Speaker C: That broad starts to look like crypto volatility.
00:42:55.094 - 00:44:16.284, Speaker B: It's so funny, right? Like, you know, as we have some of these interviews with the press, you know, they often, you know, sort of highlight, hey, you know, crypto, there's some interesting things going on, and I, and I simply revert them back to actually, I think it's a broader macro challenge where you see high potential industries, even like biotech, which has tremendous traditional capital invested in it, also going through its own issues. And so I think I bring this example up in part because unfortunately, disease doesn't care about interest rates first off. But then second, that challenge of raising traditional public market equity by public market equities translates into private market constraints in terms of capital. So we're seeing a lot of excitement around our model, in part because we can bring a new source of capital, which is 10, 20, 30 times larger than what's out there right now in biotech, to the fold. So that's first. But second, I think, to answer your question around what are the challenges we're going to be facing potentially? I think one part of it is to our early discussion, ensuring that we're going after the right disease areas and the right candidate medicines that either get approved or get picked up by existing institutions to take the last mile to pick up the baton. Many of the successful biotech companies that are out there actually did not develop their lead medicine or their most successful medicine themselves.
00:44:16.284 - 00:45:15.294, Speaker B: Millennium is a great example, which was a ten plus billion dollar outcome to Takeda a decade plus ago. In their case, they actually bought a company which had developed a drug called Velcade, which ended up becoming the high potential program that Takeda purchased Millennium for. So I think in our case, can we actually develop medicines and make good decisions around which disease areas and which medicines we developed? Can we pass on the baton, whether it be from a commercial standpoint or from a partnership standpoint, on those candidate medicines? And then most importantly, can we also build a vibrant and engaged community with the right types of stakeholders? I think it's safe to say there's a lot of different incentives that exist in the crypto industry amongst web3 investors. And I think we want to make sure that we bring the right types of people to the table to make sure we make those good decisions for the long haul as well. So hopefully that gives you a little bit of a sense of some of the areas that we're looking to shore up and what we want to be able to de risk right in the coming twelve to 24 months.
00:45:15.954 - 00:45:41.944, Speaker C: Say that I have a family member, which I do. My middle sister has a rare disease. So say that there's a proposal that is set forth. I get really excited. I go out and acquire this token or ask for delegations. I want to influence research. Like, how does that, how does that work? How do you think about, you're ascribing a value to a token and I just want to go out there, buy this token to get a proposal passed.
00:45:41.944 - 00:45:53.040, Speaker C: Why not just skip all of that and somehow invest in, and donate these proceeds or invest in a venture fund? Like thinking more on the perspective of the user.
00:45:53.232 - 00:46:14.654, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. Well, you know, I think, let's take that last comment real quick. Invest in a venture fund. There's only about a dozen or so venture funds that are dedicated to biotech that are out there. And I think if you are someone who's passionate about a given disease area, one, having access to that sort of fund asset class, I think is very difficult, but then second, also meaningless.
00:46:14.694 - 00:46:19.474, Speaker C: You typically have to be qualified and you need to invest at least a million dollars or whatever.
00:46:21.254 - 00:47:30.204, Speaker B: And many more. I think the challenge with a centralized set of, of investors is that their focus and what they sort of see as in vogue, right. Is very different than perhaps what you do as a patient with a family member who's ill. So I think in our case, one, it provides a lot more scalability of access and participation and say, and I think those communities can certainly participate from a patient perspective. That's what we grant tokens for free to these patient advocacy groups. But what I'd hope is that over time, as these medicines are successful, as capital starts to come back to the Dow, and as we start to build a relationship of doing what we say we're going to do, that there will be greater demand for the participation in this overall community, whether it be from investors, from partners, from charities, et cetera, which will continue to boost and increase the value of the token. The second I'd also highlight is that I think there's a unique opportunity whereby we could potentially leverage this technology to empower patients to not only have control and have unprecedented ownership over the drug development process, but also unprecedented ownership of their data.
00:47:30.204 - 00:48:17.082, Speaker B: I think one of the unique opportunities that crypto provides is the opportunity to be able to put your data on chain, make it accessible and monetizable in variety of ways, which I think currently is done by a small subset of companies, but instead could actually be put back in the hands of patients, by which they could too earn economics leveraging the sort of tokenized type structure. So I think there's a lot of ways in which, if we can build a community, ensure that this community of patients, scientists and partners are making good decisions, and able to invest in indirect development programs that are successful, there's going to be a suite of other sort of capabilities and uses for that token that'll emerge that extend into data science financing, as well as replicating this model over time to other domains as well.
00:48:17.218 - 00:48:54.674, Speaker C: Yeah, last thing I want to talk about is IP that has been historically an area that has been challenging for healthcare. A lot of it. Big pharma might do a lot of these chemical trials. They don't share that data. They shelf the program. And a lot of the acquisitions in the space historically have been like, hey, like Royvind, for instance, is go out there and says, oh, actually I think that I want to revisit this particular clinical trial that acquires that IP and then turns out that there's a lot of promise there and at least a drug development, which is, you know, a pretty interesting success story. I am curious how you think about IP in this context, where there's a big community element, but also you need to be sensitive.
00:48:54.674 - 00:49:07.608, Speaker C: I guess maybe the broader question is, does ip matter? And if so, how do you navigate? And, like, kind of. Yeah, how do you handle that?
00:49:07.736 - 00:50:09.382, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. So let me give you two different facets of kind of this equation. I think the first is that though the specific data might be held close to the vest by a given pharma company, chemical structure, aspects of clinical trial outcomes, et cetera, are actually sort of publicly discussed. And I think when you bring together a community that has a common mission, as my bio, is, to finding every cure for every community, we hope we can bring more dedicated eyeballs with the right expertise to the table on this initial intellectual property in the first place. You alluded to it earlier, which is academic institutions, for instance, are part of the mix. But the expertise that academia has tends to be, in the early stage, science. If we can actually build a pool of not only scientists, but also drug development experts and patients, think about the serendipity and the opportunity to glean those new insights that can emerge as people start to collaborate and coordinate within a DAO type structure.
00:50:09.382 - 00:51:21.110, Speaker B: That's the first facet I want to highlight. But in the second facet, as we talked about our model, once a given set of proposals are approved, the capital associated with those programs approved by the community then goes into funding those drug development programs which are housed within a given C Corp. That C Corp is what houses the actual intellectual property, does the drug development work, et cetera. And the interesting thing about it is that when you also have economics from that C Corp, also held by the patient community, you have a new set of stakeholders now who have a say in what happens with that intellectual property, that data, over time, they become way more aggressive about saying, if this medicine works, let's go find other disease areas that we can potentially impact positively, even if the economics aren't great, because as a community, we believe that we want to allocate our funds and work to helping others. That's one. The other is, in the event that the drug might not work, unfortunately, there's an opportunity to start, as you mentioned, open sourcing that data and sharing those learnings. Because, again, the broader incentive here is to be able to bring as many medicines to market as safely and as quickly as possible, as opposed to keeping things close to that best in this circumstance.
00:51:21.110 - 00:51:45.830, Speaker B: So I'll just sort of leave you with those sort of two facets of how IP could potentially play in this circumstance. And I think in terms of the constraints, a little bit less around the contracting and the technology, and more about the incentives and the expectations of the individuals at the table. And the capital that's being put to work here, which I believe to be fundamentally different than sort of more traditional sources that are out there in biotech.
00:51:45.942 - 00:52:14.636, Speaker C: Yeah. How many folks are on the team now full time as kind of contributors? And for anyone listening out there, I think we all know one or two degrees. Unfortunately, this is a topic that hits home to most people and probably want to get involved. But what are the best ways? Where can people find out more about what you're doing? What are the major roles that you want to fill that you haven't filled yet? So maybe we can just go from there.
00:52:14.700 - 00:52:55.718, Speaker B: Yeah. So we'd love to hear from the broader community, whether it be from web3, from biotech, from patient communities at vibe. And so you can go to vibebio.com, that's vibebio.com, or find us on Twitter ibe bio. And I think in terms of the team today, we're really fortunate to have about a team, let's call it around ten or so folks across both our technology and therapeutics functions. We've got a broader community now of probably a few dozen individuals across patient advocacy groups, scientific teams, drug development teams, as well as services partners.
00:52:55.718 - 00:53:53.828, Speaker B: And so we're now working to open up that community. So anyone who's excited about what we're trying to do in this intersection of biotech, healthcare and web3, would love for you to come and join the community and share a little bit about yourself with us. And in terms of full time opportunities, we're rapidly hiring. Obviously, I want to be able to put this capital to good work in order to help as many patients as possible and show what biotech and web3 can do together. So whether you're a front end engineer or a backend, web3 engineer, whether you're a designer, community manager, social media marketer, we're looking for a broad swath of roles, especially from a web3 and technology perspective, because that's our core ethos and philosophy. But also, we will be growing on the scientific side as well. Folks who have actually been program leads for various medicines will be hiring for CSO's and chief medical officers and heads of regulatory and things.
00:53:53.828 - 00:54:02.184, Speaker B: We're fortunate to have a few great folks in our sphere already in that space. But I really think this is a unique opportunity by which, whether you're.
00:54:04.604 - 00:54:04.892, Speaker C: A.
00:54:04.908 - 00:54:31.608, Speaker B: Rust developer or experience in solidity versus someone who's worked on antisense oligonucleotides, an opportunity for folks of all stripes to be able to come to the table and be able to see how this novel technology in crypto and blockchain can be applied to this really important, societally beneficial domain of biotech and healthcare.
00:54:31.776 - 00:55:28.104, Speaker C: Yeah, that's incredible. I've been public about this, but this is one of the areas that I, I feel like if it works, it's highly asymmetric and it can have such a profound impact, positive impact. And I think in many ways you're left wondering. Over the last twelve years we've designed very interesting incentives to build monetary systems and non sovereign stores of value, that is bitcoin, to settle value in transactions and trustless systems, which is pretty remarkable. And a lot of the experimentation, my backgrounds in game theory is it's a very adversarial system. And so you have to think about incentives and all the stakeholders. And look, I mean, we haven't nailed it in many ways, but there's a lot of experimentation going on around types of voting, like quadratic voting, and types of funding models that are more sustainable, and types of coordination mechanisms, both capital and information.
00:55:28.104 - 00:56:31.966, Speaker C: And I think in many ways it's like, well, why healthcare struggles from a lot of incentive problems. It's not just on the R and D side, it's really the healthcare system as a whole is pretty broken, at least in the US. And so the idea that the US is one of the richest, not the richest country in the world per capita, and has the best institutions, the best research, but somehow life expectancy is going down and so the costs are pretty high and people don't have access to cheap healthcare. And so it's kind of perplexing to me. That's an area that is going to, we have the. I think if this works, it probably set a path forward to exploring other areas in the healthcare system, not just R and D, to apply these incentives and kind of fix the system in many ways. I don't know if you would agree with that, but I think that the vision where the opportunity to apply a lot of these crypto modalities, incentives and mechanisms is there to kind of the potential there.
00:56:31.966 - 00:56:35.194, Speaker C: It's going to be long term and highly ambitious, but I think it's possible.
00:56:35.574 - 00:57:39.704, Speaker B: I think you're 100% right. Crypto, I think, has opened up two interesting areas of innovation. One is obviously on the technology side, but I think the other that might be less discussed. But you alluded to is the opportunity to re engineer not just software and databases and whatnot, but also incentives. And I think when you think about that fundamental aspect of reengineering incentives, it opens up. I think a lot of opportunities to start taking this technology and philosophy and mindset into legacy institutions that aren't necessarily serving a large portion of their intended market. And so I think in the context of biotech, our hope here is to be able to show what this technology and set of incentives can be done specifically within our domain, but then hopefully inspire other industry focused daos, what we call industry daos, to emerge that can start to think about their own incentive structure, their own ecosystem of partners, their own types of capital and uses of them to start solving other broader problems.
00:57:39.704 - 00:58:07.838, Speaker B: And I think that's going to be a really impactful outcome, hopefully of the next one to two years, which is those individuals who start to get fed up with their existing service providers or legacy institutions can now start to take advantage of these open, permissionless tools to go start something themselves. We hope just to be able to be an inspiration for that broadly, but also hopefully do some good in the rare disease and biotech world.
00:58:08.006 - 00:58:26.310, Speaker C: That's amazing. I'm super happy that we got a chance to chat. I don't know if there's anything else as we come to an end here that you want to impress upon our listeners. Any parting thoughts? But otherwise, I mean, I really kind of enjoyed this discussion. You know how I feel about what you're doing. I think, you know, it's. It's one of the projects that I'm most passionate about for obvious reasons.
00:58:26.310 - 00:58:31.274, Speaker C: But I'm curious, anything else you want to cover while we have you here?
00:58:31.614 - 00:59:07.728, Speaker B: No, just a note of thanks to you for both being a great vocal advocate for us as well as the broader community. For the time here today, I think I'll just leave you with the thought that I think for the first time, Vibebio is creating a community of patients, scientists and partners to help identify and vet potential medicines in the rare disease space and fund them using cryptocurrency token sales. We're really excited now to be able to put patients in the driver's seat of drug development, not profits in politics, such that any patient with a life altering disease can have a community as well as the power to pursue a cure.
00:59:07.816 - 00:59:28.616, Speaker C: Incredible. Well, look, thank you so much for your time. You're incredibly busy, especially now that you're public and I can't imagine the imbalance that you're getting. But listeners, you know, if this hits close to home, you know where to find a loke definitely reach out. There's a lot of opportunity there and, or to us. And we can direct you in the right, in the right way, but otherwise thanks everyone for listening. Loke, thank you so much for your time.
00:59:28.616 - 00:59:29.752, Speaker C: Really appreciate it.
00:59:29.848 - 00:59:30.704, Speaker B: Thank you. Talk soon.
