00:00:00.280 - 00:00:40.030, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Le Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news near the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 7 December 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into the news, just wanted to say a quick thanks to everyone who wished me well on the 700th episode from yesterday. It was interesting to see all the replies of when you guys started listening. A couple of people said they had listened since day one and even the ETH hub days or the into the ether days when I used to do that with Eric Connor. So yeah, thank you to everyone for being long term supporters of the show there. Hope you've learned a lot from me over the years, and they're going to continue to learn a lot from me over the years to come, because as I mentioned yesterday, I have no plans on stopping the refuel.
00:00:40.030 - 00:01:07.494, Speaker A: You know, I sometimes get pretty frustrated with the crypto ecosystem, especially going on crypto Twitter and seeing all the bad narratives being spread, which I'm actually going to talk about more at the end of this episode today. But what keeps me going, really, and what I don't want to stop doing is the refuel. I enjoy it way too much, I enjoy educating people way too much, and I just enjoy keeping up with the ethereum ecosystem. So yeah, I mean, you guys are stuck with me for years to come. Maybe not. Maybe stuck with me is the wrong term to use there. Maybe you enjoy being stuck with me, I'm sure you do.
00:01:07.494 - 00:01:41.310, Speaker A: But anyway, I'm going to move into the news now. Enough about that. So first up here we have an update from the Ethereum foundation ecosystem support program. So they posted earlier this year, the ESP hosted the runner nodes grants round to encourage the exploration of diverse ideas for operating nodes beyond running a validator. And then you can click into this blog post and see which projects were actually supported here. There were a total of 243 applicants. Out of all the applications that they evaluated, they selected 30 recipients from 23 different countries to receive support to run nodes.
00:01:41.310 - 00:02:14.140, Speaker A: And you can actually see the geographic distribution of the nodes here. Sadly, it doesn't look like anywhere were selected for Australia or even our friends in New Zealand here. But there was representation across Asia, North America, Europe, South America and Africa. So I think pretty much like everywhere except, like every continent except Australia here. But I mean, they can't cover everything, especially when there's only 35 recipients here for them to cover. But essentially the hardware choice was a either a custom build or DAP node. DAP node accounted for 83%, custom build about 16%.
00:02:14.140 - 00:03:02.404, Speaker A: And then you can scroll down, you can actually see each of the 35 recipients here listed and basically a little description about them. So if you're interested in learning about about that, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But generally, you know, I'm obviously in favor of any efforts to get more people to run ethereum full nodes and to run validators. I know that running a validator is obviously a taller ask as a solo validator, because you either have to have 32 ETH or you have to have eight ETH and some rpl if you want to rock one of Rockapool minipool, or you can do things like dVT now with, with oval, uh, they currently allow for ten people to squad stake, so you can just bring 3.2 ETH each. But really, when you think about kind of the global, I guess, population and how much money they would have access to, to be able to spin up a validator, like even 3.2 ETH is a huge ask, guys.
00:03:02.404 - 00:03:37.436, Speaker A: Like, that's over ten. No, I'm thinking in australian dollars right now. I should say it in us dollars, that's like over six grand, right? I mean almost, almost seven grand or something like that. Usually definitely over 10,000 australian. Most people do not have that in their bank account, let alone to spare. So when we think about allowing people to stake or run a validator within Ethereum, we do have to collapse that down even further than that. But then there's also the hardware cost too, which isn't obviously expensive, but still, it's a cost that they have to endure, as well as having an active Internet connection and active electricity.
00:03:37.436 - 00:04:39.478, Speaker A: So there's a lot more that goes into it when we're talking about the global community, because you can talk about first world countries and first world places like obviously the US and Europe and things like that. And you know, I mean, there's a lot of places like that, but then there are a lot of places that aren't anything like that, right? A lot of places that don't have necessarily super reliable Internet and power. But even on top of that, even if they do, the, as I said, the people don't have the money in order to be able to afford the hardware, let alone the capital cost to run a validator there. And at the same time as well, there's also a limit here because you can drop the validator cost down to like, let's just say 0.18 and at current prices that's 200. What $20 or something like that, right? So let's say it's $220 that you have to put up in order to run a validator because you're using some DVT technology and then you're squad staking with other people and you're able to run a validator. Okay, now how much money are you making on that? Well, you're not making very much because even if you're making like 4% on $220, that's, that's basically nothing.
00:04:39.478 - 00:05:48.592, Speaker A: Okay, so why does that matter? Like, okay, it's obviously not nothing and maybe it means something to people, but why does that matter? Well, it matters because it more than certainly is costing you way more than the rewards that you're getting in order to run that validator using the hardware and also paying for Internet and paying for electricity. So really there is a point where you reach an equilibrium of being a profitable validator. And that point is way above 0.1 ETH or even, even one ETH, depending on hardware, electricity and Internet costs, of course, and also just time costs too. So, and this isn't unique to ethereum, this is unique to basically everything, right? Like, and, and this is the thing, like if you are going to stake with that small amount and you want to be able to make a return and not have the cost associated with it, then of course you're not going to be running your own validator, right? You're not going to be running your own full node. What you're going to be doing is staking with another provider such as Lido or by, you know, buying ST buying are buying CB ETH or staking with Coinbase or binance. Because obviously if you've only got, like even, I mean, if you've only got even one ETH at current prices, it may not be worth it to you because the rewards that you're getting from that do not make up for, for your running costs.
00:05:48.592 - 00:06:37.280, Speaker A: Even though the running costs are very low compared to proof of work and you know, or just generally on a theory on, it's still something that I think that you have to have a certain amount of capital to justify the cost. Now, of course, you can run a full node, and just running a full node without a validator attached is always running it at a loss, pretty much, unless you're running some sort of business offer that you have paying customers for. But generally, you know, you're running it at a loss because you're not getting a reward for that. And the thing is, is that that's why people run a full node and run validators attached to it to make it worth their while. But also running a full node is, is definitely something that you, you want, you want to do just to be self sovereign and you want people to, you want, you want people to have the ability to do as well in order to verify the chain. I mean, there's so many obviously, things that go into it, not just the profitability aspect. But I think that's what a lot of people miss about lowering the barrier to entry.
00:06:37.280 - 00:07:09.950, Speaker A: To run an Ethereum validator is that I'd love to lower it as much as possible, but at a certain point, it just does not make economic sense to do so, and it becomes a losing thing for people. And people can obviously cover the costs in different ways, and maybe they're happy to do that. But if we're talking about targeting the people that don't have much money to begin with, then they're definitely better off staking with a provider. And you know what? We have more of these providers coming online all the time. Not just the bigger ones, but also a lot of the smaller ones. Now, you know, stakewise, v three went live recently. There's swell a bunch of others.
00:07:09.950 - 00:08:12.444, Speaker A: I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna, obviously, Diva. But you know, all these things that are coming online or have come online that you can stake with, that's obviously better to go with them than the bigger players because you support the network, you support decentralization. But really, we can't expect people at a certain point to run a validator or run a full note because it's just not economically sound for them to do that. Especially, you know, if, let's just say even one ETH is way above their monthly salary or something like that, which is true for a lot of places around the world, even in first world countries. Guys like, I think in crypto we may be, I don't know if we're blind to it, but we kind of don't think about it too much because in crypto, like the money becomes this, this kind of thing that's, that's imaginary. I don't know if you guys feel this way, but like in crypto, because money is such like a, an ingrained thing in it and it's so abstract and we see these numbers all the time, they kind of lose meaning for us, right? Like, you know, you look at, um, at Coingecko and you see a coin going up and the coin is worth like, you know, a billion dollars or something like that, and you're like, oh yeah, okay, it's worth a billion dollars, whatever. But I mean, this is what I mean, like that, that's a, that's a billion dollar market cap.
00:08:12.444 - 00:08:50.492, Speaker A: Yes, obviously, like if everyone wanted to sell, it wouldn't be worth a billion dollars. But I think that as an ecosystem, as a space, we lose sight of just how much money is thrown around in crypto and we could become desensitized to it. And that makes us lose sight of how, you know, how little money a lot of people have around the world, especially to do things like crypto. Not wet, not, you know, not just crypto investing, but getting involved with on chain stuff, which of course comes back to obviously all the scaling stuff as well. Right. I know I'm going on a little bit of a tangent here, but I think this is important to talk about and I'll finish it up with the scaling stuff. But the scaling stuff as well, right? With like obviously Ethereum layer one is super expensive and most of the world is never going to be able to afford the gas fees on that.
00:08:50.492 - 00:09:20.328, Speaker A: And that's, that's the way it is. That's the way Ethereum has chosen to scale. We've kept layer one relatively limited and then we're going to scale via L2s and bring those costs down. And I think that that is a lot of, something that a lot of people miss within crypto is that like Ethereum could be as scalable and performant at layer one as some of these other chains. But it has chosen not to do that, right? It has chosen to go down a different path for scaling. And obviously in the end game we want fees to basically be non existent. As I've said before, fees will be abstracted away.
00:09:20.328 - 00:09:57.934, Speaker A: Even if the fees are like really, really small, they'll be abstract, the rail baked into the user actions, things like that. Right. You know, people may even sell kind of like bundles of services to people through a centralized intermediary. It's going to take all these different shapes and forms. But really when you're trying to target the entire planet, you want to bring costs down as much as possible, of course, but at the same time you have to realize that there are different kind of things that different participants can do based on the economics of the entire system, based on what actually makes economical sense. Because you can try and ignore the economics of the system, you can try and ignore, ignore economic reality, but that's not how the world works. The world works based on economics and economic reality.
00:09:57.934 - 00:10:33.464, Speaker A: And it's not just from a money perspective. It's not just from like, getting paid or, you know, tangible money, like fiat or cryptocurrencies. I'm talking about the very definition of value, right? Because time has value. Your, your possessions have value, right? Uh, your opportunity, you know, you have opportunity cost, all these sorts of things that are maybe intangible value, but that's valuable nonetheless. So when we're talking in that broader aspect of things, there's a lot more things to consider than just making something as cheap as possible to run, right? Because then, as I said, there's economical kind of properties to that, and the world runs. That's how the world works. That's how humans work.
00:10:33.464 - 00:11:14.404, Speaker A: That's how we've worked since the dawn of time. I mean, we went from valuing, valuing, who's got the biggest literal stick to defend their cave from other tribes, right? To now being basically, hey, who's got the most amount of money to be able to afford to affect government policy, for example, right, with lobbying and stuff like that. So there's a whole kind of spectrum here, and it's evolved over time, of course. But at the end of the day, the reality is that the world runs on what's valuable and what's not, and different people have different values and so on and so forth. And I'm going to end it here because I could talk about this for a long time. This is one of the most fascinating subjects to me. But I'm going to digress on that point and move on to the next bit of news from today.
00:11:14.404 - 00:11:53.746, Speaker A: So this isn't actually news as much as it is just a shout out here. So Tim Bico did an entire kind of slideshow here, and there's a video. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is all about Ethereum governance and how Ethereum governance actually works. So if you've ever been curious about Ethereum governance and how it works and how decisions get made in Ethereum and how, you know, everything works within Ethereum, this is coming from basically the source. Essentially, Tim Bicar is, you know, very, very involved within the Ethereum core development process, has been for a very long time now, and there's probably no one better to discuss Ethereum governance than him. So this is a real treat to get this.
00:11:53.746 - 00:12:05.732, Speaker A: So I highly suggest going and checking this out. Maybe after the refuel, maybe you can pause the refuel, go watch this. But I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do. So. As I said, there are slides attached to it as well. So you definitely want to be watching it. But it was a great watch.
00:12:05.732 - 00:12:34.408, Speaker A: I really enjoyed it. Obviously I'm already mostly aware of how Ethereum governance works, but just watching it and hearing it from Tim and hearing his views on things was incredibly insightful. So definitely go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so the rocket pool or rocket rescue node is now available for solo stakers. So solo stakers can now use this service as a fallback beacon node for maintenance and emergencies. Access is granted for ten days at a time, twice per year.
00:12:34.408 - 00:13:16.990, Speaker A: So for those of you who don't know what this is, it's basically, as it says, a backup node for you to connect to in case your your one falls over. Now this has been available in the rocker pool system for quite a while now, but now it's available for solo node operators. So you can go check this out. I'll link in the YouTube description below if this applies to you, but I mean, this definitely is not the only way to have a backup for your node. Obviously you can have another pc running in your house as a backup, but the whole point of the rocket pool rescue node is that basically if something goes wrong with your setup, you can use this as a community run, trust minimized thing in order to essentially have a backup for your solo node or for your rocker pool node. So yeah, just wanted to give a shout out to these guys. You can go check them out.
00:13:16.990 - 00:13:40.694, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Eigen Lair is expanding. I mentioned the other week that Eigen layer had whitelisted or had chosen six new lsts to add to their platform and obviously raising the restaking caps. Now, this is going to be happening on. I believe I read the date just before. I've lost the date here. I think it's happening soon.
00:13:40.694 - 00:14:13.962, Speaker A: I think that because this blog post is where they actually announced the date of where these ls teas will be going live. And the six ls teas, by the way, are os ETH, which is stakewise, is ETH swell ethan o ETH, which is origin protocol f ETH x which is stata wbeth which is binance and anchor ETH, which is which is anchor here. So these will be going live. Here's the date on December 18 at 10:00 a.m. Pacific time. So the lcs will be integrated following a ten day waiting period from the queued, unpaused multi sea governance transaction triggered today. Oh, I didn't even know that.
00:14:13.962 - 00:14:42.314, Speaker A: They have a. A pause on their governance transactions of ten days. So even though they triggered it today, it will take ten days for it to actually be activated. Which means that, yeah, as I said, December restaking caps will be lifted and these six new lsts will be added. So if you're interested in getting, getting kind of involved with this, then you can go mark this on your calendars. But you can also check out this Eigen layer thread. It's got a bunch more information about the caps and stuff like that.
00:14:42.314 - 00:16:10.278, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so just an update here from the Coinbase effort to do their Coinbase verifications program, which is basically the program of Coinbase users being able to do an on chain attestation using the Ethereum Attestation service of their Ethereum address to their Coinbase account in order to take advantage of perks on the base network. Now, there's been over 50,000 attestations with a verified account and country 33 plus thousand unique users and 30% of all Ethereum attestation services attestations have been from this Coinbase verification thing. Now this is really cool because the fact that there's already been 33,000 unique users in, what is it, like five or six weeks since they, since they made this go live? You can actually see this in the chart here. It gives us a pretty good, I guess, like pretty good idea of how many really plugged in on chain users there are right now. Because there hasn't really been a great way to be able to have any certainty over how many on chain ethereum users there actually are, whether it's on ethereum l one or l two s. We can't tie addresses to individual people, but we can, like in the vanilla state, but we can tie addresses to individual people if those people choose to attest to their address using their Coinbase account, which is obviously KyC verified so that we know that they're a unique human, or at least we have relative certainty.
00:16:10.278 - 00:16:36.854, Speaker A: Obviously KyC can be bought and slumped. Some slip through the cracks of Coinbase's verification system, but generally this is going to be a really good gauge for how many active users or how many actual on chain users there actually are on these platforms. So just really great to see. There's been a massive uptick here, as you can see, and I'm looking forward to seeing this grow more. But you can go check out the Doonatalix dashboard that tracks all of this for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right.
00:16:36.854 - 00:17:31.580, Speaker A: Tyco has introduced something today called the based contestable roll up or BCR, which is a configurable multi proof roll up design. So the TLDR, from my reading of what this is, that they're basically mixing together validity proofs and a kind of, I guess, pseudo fraud proof system, or I mean, not, I wouldn't say pseudo fraud proof system, but basically a fraud proof system. So that from my understanding, as I said, like I am not completely up to speed on this yet, but from my understanding, what this would do is that you could have multiple people submitting a validity proof and then people have a time to challenge those validity proofs with a fraud proof. So they play the challenge game there. And this can lead to a, you know, a bit a better, more secure roll up and can actually lessen the risks of there being a critical bug within the ZK system itself. Which is one of the things that I think a lot of the ZK teams are worried about is critical bugs. And that's why they have multi sigs, right.
00:17:31.580 - 00:18:02.724, Speaker A: And that's why they, they try their best to mitigate these things. But this is a really interesting kind of design from, from what taiko is doing here. Now, I might be wrong on, on the actual kind of like on the actual design aspects here in terms of like the details, but you can go check out this thread in the blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I think I'm right because like you can see here what they're doing. It's not, it's not just an optimistic or fraud proof as well. They're using other ways like SGX, which is Intel SGX as well, coupled with bonds.
00:18:02.724 - 00:18:38.006, Speaker A: So you know, you put up a bond of 1000 taiko tokens in order to be part of the system, which is the normal way the optimistic fraud proofs work in the first place or fraud proofs work in the first place. And then it basically has like these different tiers that come right up to, to the Guardian tier here, which is, which is not contestable. So you can contest that at any, any stage here and with economic security backing it and then eventually it becomes non contestable because it becomes part of the, the chain. But anyway, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Immutable has been on a tear lately.
00:18:38.006 - 00:19:10.738, Speaker A: I haven't talked about them in a few weeks here. But they have been landing partnership after partnership after partnership. I mean, it's been crazy. And as you guys know, immutable is all about the gaming ecosystem within Ethereum. They're building a L2 powered by polygons technology as a KVM, powered by polygons technology here. But today they announced that they have partnered up with Merit Circle, which is a project that I believe started on avalanche. So I think that a merit circle is either migrating or expanding their beam ecosystem over to the immutable ecosystem here, which is.
00:19:10.738 - 00:19:54.730, Speaker A: Which is great to see. Obviously, with this kind of gaming stuff that's going on now, we want them to be as interoperable as possible, and bringing them into the polygon ZK family and the immutable family, obviously, is. Is a match made in heaven, I think, because. Because when it comes to what polygon is doing with their ZK tech, they're also building a super chain, like what optimism is doing, where essentially all of these different chains can instantly communicate with each other and there's no fragmentation of. Of kind of user base of liquidity and all that sorts of stuff there. And it makes it much easier for anyone building interfaces on top to also interact with these things and abstract them away for their end users here. So, yeah, just great to see this partnership between immutable and merit circle and I guess, like, with.
00:19:54.730 - 00:20:31.200, Speaker A: With their beam platform here. But also on the Polygon note, there was an interesting tweet from Sandeep today that I thought was really great, where he said, contrary to the current rhetoric by investors of monolithic l one s, once ZK proofs solve cross chain composability, every DAP DeFi protocol or any other kind of trustless app will have its own chain. And then he continues on and basically talks about all the different, all the different kind of use cases that will have their own chain. So it's all about cross chain composability. Now, most other parts are largely, largely solved with ZKL two s. We are solving for cross chain composability with polygon two point zero's aggregate aggregation layer. Together with Polygon's chain development kit.
00:20:31.200 - 00:20:46.964, Speaker A: This would become the Internet 3.0, the trustless Internet. And then sudo Theos from Scroll replied, and don't. He said, don't. Most chains won't bother with their own infrastructure. And then Sandeep said, yes, but I didn't say they'll run their own chain. They will simply use some roll up as a service provider.
00:20:46.964 - 00:21:41.430, Speaker A: And that's always been my thesis as well, is where that we've basically collapsed the costs of both monetary costs and also, um, the, the cost of the effort and research costs and all that. We've collapsed those costs down to essentially zero. To run your own, uh, roll up and to run your own kind of chain, because of these chain development kits, like Polygon, CDK, like the op stack, like ZK Stack from Zksync and a bunch of others out there, right? We basically collapse those costs down. We're essentially making your own roll up. I mean, not, not, maybe not now, but in the near future will be as easy as deploying your app to, to the Ethereum main net, right? And then you get that instant kind of composability with the, within that same ecosystem, and then eventually the composability between different ecosystems as well, using all the fancy technology that's coming out of the ZK space here. So, yeah, exciting times, guys. I mean, I didn't expect us to see as much progress as we have this soon, to be honest.
00:21:41.430 - 00:22:12.758, Speaker A: I mean, it's still 2023. Obviously, we've got less than a month left of 2023. But I remember even a couple of years ago, people were saying, oh, ZK roll ups are five years out, and we've had ZK rollups live all year. And they're not just live, you know, they're thriving. They have users, they have activity. There's so much going on, even in the optimistic roll up space still, even though people said they were gonna die, it's just kind of funny because I remember even, I think two years ago, is it two years ago now? When, when arbitrum and optimism were going live, everyone was like, oh, we have ZK stuff coming soon. Arbitrary and optimism are going to be obsolete.
00:22:12.758 - 00:23:01.164, Speaker A: And then I remember saying on the refuel, you know, people that watched back then know what I'm talking about here. But I remember saying that they're not going to be obsoleted, that it's about so much more than the underlying technology. It really is about the integrations with the ecosystem, the marketing, the business development partnerships, the user experience generally, all that sorts of stuff. And because optimistic roll ups kind of came first and built up that ecosystem, and also because they're not as bad as people say they are, the seven day withdrawal period thing was completely solved by bridges, right? That they're going to be very sticky. And if we go to l two beat, I mean, I'll bring it up on my other screen here and just bring it over for you guys. If we go to l two beat, I mean, the top two l two s out there by TVL, I guess, obviously, TvL is an imperfect measure, but still are arbitram one and op mainnet. And guess what's third? It's base.
00:23:01.164 - 00:23:28.794, Speaker A: Right? Another optimistic roll up. The ZK roll ups start coming in at fourth and fifth place of Zksync and DydX. And then you have, like, the hybrids, like the optimums and the validiums and then ZK roll ups. But really, I think there's only going to be, in terms of, like, the actual stacks, arbitrum stack and op stack are going to be the only optimistic roll ups that. Really pure optimistic roll ups that really take off. But then there are hybrid optimistic ZK roll ups. Then there are obviously the optiminiums.
00:23:28.794 - 00:23:48.970, Speaker A: And there's just so much like a world here of different things that can be built. And really, they will be built, and we will see which ones people want to use. We'll see which ones are long lasting. It's going to be an exciting time, guys. Like, I'm amped for it. But anyway, enough of me being amped about things. One last thing here about l two s, I guess, and fragmentation, and I guess, like abstraction here.
00:23:48.970 - 00:24:10.906, Speaker A: Parsec released their Parsec explorer today. Now, this is a. An explorer that shows you a bunch of stuff going on when you plug in an address into it. You can go to Parsec fi to check this out. But what's really cool about this is that it doesn't just check one chain, it checks all of the supported chains here. So if I put in my sassle dot ETH address. So I'll just copy it across here.
00:24:10.906 - 00:24:57.200, Speaker A: So this is Cecil dot ETH here. Comes up instantly, and I search for it, right? I can see everything going on on my address. Like, not only does it give me a much better, like, view of my address than something like Etherscan will, and I guess, like a much more detailed view of what's going on and also kind of funding history and trade flows and all that good stuff there, it's also got the different chains that you can select here. So you can select, you know, if I select arbitrary one, it'll show me what I've got on arbitram one, select base, it'll show me what I've got on base op mainnet, right? And then I don't have on Tesla ETH. At least I don't have any other chains that I've interacted with. But this is, again, another layer of abstraction. Uh, not obviously on the, on the, on chain side of things, but on the off chain side of things and the infrastructure side where we're basically like, well, here you go, here's your entire address across all these different chains in one interface.
00:24:57.200 - 00:25:42.414, Speaker A: Like, I don't know how many times I have to say it at this point, guys, but we are abstracting away everything and there will not be a world where users have to worry about all the different layers underneath. That's not what's going to happen. I sound like a broken record at this point, but every day now we're getting a new tool that just abstracts things away or bring, or, you know, or brings them all together and gets rid of any of the fragmentation. And it's not just unique to Ethereum and l two s, it's just across the entire ecosystem, right? If any of the other kind of like ecosystems need to be consolidated and brought into like a single dashboard or something like that, they will be for sure. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself and plug in your own address. I'll leave a link to it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. Alright, last up here, we have an update to the rainbow wallet.
00:25:42.414 - 00:26:51.716, Speaker A: So they've added transaction, transaction safety features in rainbow now. So for those of you who use the rabi wallet and other similar wallets here, you'll and fire, which is an extension obviously, as well, you'll notice some of the, I guess, prompts here, basically telling you exactly what the transaction is doing and warning you of any scams and giving you just more information to go off, which is really great to see because I think that any wallet that doesn't have this information in it is not going to succeed long term. It needs to be able to show this information to the user to make the user feel safe, because safety should be, and security should be the absolute number one priority for any team building in crypto, but especially wallet teams, because wallets are the interface into the on chain ecosystem. And if you're still using, like I stupidly was when I lost my op tokens to a fish, just vanilla metamask without any of the snaps included in metamask, then you really have very limited visibility on what's going on and what you're actually approving, what transactions you're actually doing. So if you do use rainbow on desktop here on the extension, you can go check out this feature, of course. But as I said, like there are other wallets that have these features as well, like Rabi Metamask has the different snaps. You can connect to it as well.
00:26:51.716 - 00:27:21.942, Speaker A: Tahoe. There's a few others out there, but this is the future of wallets, guys. There's not going to be a future of mass adoption when we basically throw up these random kind of mumbo jumbo to people and say, you know, here's what's happening, and people read it. I'm like, I don't even know what's happening right now. Like, am I sending all my money to some nigerian prince or something? Right? To some scammer, who knows? But yeah. Anyway, just go check this out on Rainbow's desktop extension if you haven't yet, and I'll link this video in the YouTube description below so you can check it out for yourself. All right.
00:27:21.942 - 00:27:46.140, Speaker A: I did say I wanted to talk a bit about crypto Twitter just to end out today's episode. I'll try not to get too ranty with this. You guys know my general view on crypto Twitter. It is, it's not great. But I put out a tweet today where I said the main problem with crypto Twitter is that you have people playing crypto on vastly different timeframes. Someone playing crypto for a few months because the market is bullish is not going to be on the same page as someone playing the decades long game. So play your own game.
00:27:46.140 - 00:28:29.322, Speaker A: I think this is true not just for crypto Twitter, but just anything got to do with crypto. Like, if you have people coming in and they're literally only here because they want to make money and, you know they're going to disappear in a bear market, so they're only here for the bull market. But then you're in crypto because you care about the technology, you want to help the ecosystem thrive. You want to see it thrive over many years, if not decades to come, you are playing a completely different game to that other person. You're basically playing chess while they're playing a quick round of, I don't know, counter strike online or something like that, where they get, you know, get in and out sort of thing, whereas you're playing a strategic game a lot, potentially longer term game. You know, I don't know, chess games don't can go quickly as well. But I'm talking about, like, a longer term game here.
00:28:29.322 - 00:28:48.090, Speaker A: And of course, as usual, these are my loose analogies on the fly here. But. But the point is, is that there's no point even conversing with these people because you aren't on the same page. They don't want to learn about the tech. All they want to know is how to make the most money. And you may not necessarily care about how to make the most money or just degenerating into shit coins. So.
00:28:48.090 - 00:29:36.670, Speaker A: And you'd rather talk about the tech. So you're basically out of sync, you're not on the same wavelength, and there's no point, uh, conversing. Maybe some of these people convert and later on down the line, and they become in it for the tech, because, as I've said plenty of times before, there's nothing wrong with wanting to make money. And I think every first cycler starts out, you know, almost every first cyclist starts out the same way, where they're less interested in the tech and way more interested in making money, but at some point, right, like, it becomes a thing of, okay, well, I've made some money here, or maybe I'm bored of losing money because I've been too much of a degen. I'm actually going to study the tech, form some longer term investment thesis and get involved with the community rather than just being a random reply guy who says to all the people that are buying ETH that they're coping because, you know, ETH hasn't moved as much as some random shitcoin or something like that. Like, again, like, crypto Twitter, as I said, is not a great place. I don't.
00:29:36.670 - 00:29:59.820, Speaker A: I don't even know why I'm still on there, to be honest. I feel like I'm just addicted at this point, and it's just like a really bad drug for me, honestly. Also, because of the refuel, I reckon it'd be much easier for me to quit crypto Twitter if I wasn't doing the refuel because I have to keep up to date with things so I can do the refuel and that's fine. But I feel like if I wasn't for the refuel, I would actually probably quit Twitter altogether. Right? Because it just doesn't bring me as much joy as it once did. And just. It just.
00:29:59.820 - 00:30:14.212, Speaker A: There's a lot of crap on there. But anyway, enough ranting about that. As I said, I didn't want to rant too long about that, but, yeah, I figured that was worth mentioning on today's episode. But I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:30:14.212 - 00:30:18.244, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
