00:00:03.240 - 00:00:35.976, Speaker A: All right, good afternoon, everyone. I'm super excited to host this panel, which is a topic which is near and dear to my heart, which is the future of finance on blockchain. I am Shiraz Sher. I lead the payments ecosystem growth team at the Solana foundation. And with me I have Katherine Gu, who is the head of protocol research and CBDCs at Visa, and Nabil Manji, who is the head of web3 at Worldpay. So let's just dive right in. I would love for each of you to give a brief introduction of you and your role and a little bit about your organization.
00:00:35.976 - 00:00:49.164, Speaker A: I know everyone believes they know what Visa does, but there's a lot of misconceptions. And also, Worldpay is a major financial services player. So I'd love for you guys just to talk a little bit about the orgs that you work in and your roles.
00:00:50.024 - 00:01:10.174, Speaker B: Sounds good. Happy to start. Well, great to be here, everyone. As Shiraz said, I'm within the Visa crypto team, so I think everyone knows what Visa does. Today, we're a card payment network. Visa Crypto was founded back around 2018. We very much focus on the future of money and money movement in general.
00:01:10.174 - 00:01:32.638, Speaker B: So our team is split between products, solutions, and architects and trying to really come up with innovative solutions that could really work closely with our partners together to really drive that next wave of payments. And of course, when it comes to blockchain adoption, there's a lot of interesting things that we're trying to experiment and do research. So great.
00:01:32.806 - 00:02:13.722, Speaker C: First of all, really excited to be here. Thank you so much for having me. Unlike visa, not everybody knows who worldpay is. In fact, most people probably don't, even though I can guarantee that almost everybody in the audience uses us every single day. So worldpay, as the name might suggest, is a company that helps merchants, large and small, across verticals and across geographies, accept consumer payments. So for those of you that aren't familiar with the payment space, if you were to go start a business today, you know, a bakery or an airline or an online store or whatever, and you want to accept card payments or Apple Pay or Google Pay or whatever, you don't go knocking on Visa's door and say, hey, Visa, I want to accept Visa's cards. You come to a payment processor like Worldpay.
00:02:13.722 - 00:02:38.094, Speaker C: And so the technical term for this in the industry is called a merchant acquire, but we'll just call it a payment processor. And so Worldpay is the largest payment processor in the world. This year, we'll process about $2.6 trillion across debit cards, credit cards, e wallets, account to account payments, QR code based payments. And again, our clients are merchants, large and small across verticals, and in about 55 countries, give or take.
00:02:38.554 - 00:03:12.564, Speaker A: Cool. So if we go back about a year ago, crypto was probably the most toxic thing that a large regulated enterprise could be thinking about right now. Fast forward a year, what is the sentiment amongst large? Well, one of the reasons I'm excited that you're both here is that we're seeing big, large regulated financial institutions. But where would you say you are on the spectrum of them seeing it as like, hey, this is a little experiment and we'll have a few people on it versus the enterprises seeing this as the potential future?
00:03:13.104 - 00:04:05.742, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I do think the last twelve months have been pretty exciting. And definitely looking at this institutional landscape, we're seeing a lot of activities, and to me, what's specially good about it is we're still very much in a crypto winter. But to think that institutions like Blackrock, like JP Morgan, like Visa and Mastercard were all collectively still in this space without anything else, that's important. But if I'm looking at from the payments and the money movement perspective, there's been a ton of experimentation pilots taking place. From all the conversation we've been having with banks, these investment and these activities have started probably about five, six years back, and they continue to do things. One is testing for viability of the technology, but as more people are getting deeper into different use cases, which we can go into more about, they're really looking for that next phase.
00:04:05.742 - 00:04:44.614, Speaker B: What does it take from just purely in an experimentation bed all the way to a real production grade kind of product that they can launch, whether it's to the business side of the clients or to retail. So I think lots of things is happening. To take examples. You know, Project Guardian, that happened about twelve months ago, that was a project done by JP Morgan, together with Monetary Authority of Singapore and others are looking at tokenization of bank deposits. That's really like a turning point for us to think about what is this future space could mean? And then you've seen latest news coming from many institutions, talk about the tokenization of things in general, and I think this space is going to continue to grow.
00:04:45.394 - 00:05:25.244, Speaker C: Yeah, I'll echo everything Catherine said and then just add, there's kind of blessings and curses to being parts of a large organization and one that's highly regulated. I think when we make bets on a space, we're looking at things long term. And so I think our view on crypto has always been long term. We've actually been in the space since 2015, so through quite a few of these bull and bear cycles, and I think there's definitely been challenges over the past year, year and a half. I'm sure there's some people in our legal and compliance department that wish I didn't have a job at the company, but that's okay. But I think, like, again, it's a long term investment, a long term bet, and, you know, given the current environment, I would say we're being extra cautious and extra particular about what we're doing versus not doing.
00:05:25.364 - 00:05:56.610, Speaker A: So you've got probably pushback from, like, lawyers, but then there's the business side. Right? So how do the organizations look at the potential threat to your core businesses? So I don't know how many people have gotten the wristband, but this is a very cool implementation. I have USDC loaded in this. I tap on the vending machine. It's not touching card rails. It's actually an on chain transaction. So you could view that from a visa and world pay perspective as very disruptive, because that's where a lot of the fees come.
00:05:56.610 - 00:06:05.024, Speaker A: So how do you sell that in internally to be like, we're going to experiment in these businesses that could cannibalize massive fee revenue for us?
00:06:05.964 - 00:07:02.970, Speaker B: I think it's a tough question. It's an interesting one, because bottom line is we do need to hopefully stay ahead of the curve, so then, you know, we can hopefully innovate ourselves. You know, like, we started looking to blockchain from very early on, precisely because we're looking at blockchain from this sort of payment processing capability, treating it as sort of a backend technology upgrade, that, what are the potential use cases it can really evolve into? I think fundamentally, if there's a bunch of pain points in the world, they don't change whether it's blockchain or not, there's always going to be pain points. That is, opportunities for us to tackle. So then the question for us is what kind of technology is best suited for these kind of future use cases and how we can use it. So from our standpoint, we'd rather want to innovate together with the space in general and trying to really go deep, starting from the users and the Personas and to really think through from that angle.
00:07:03.162 - 00:07:13.714, Speaker C: Yeah, I'd say a couple of things. So for those that are using the wristbands loaded with USDC, how did everybody get USDC? You may have used a card to buy the USDC, right?
00:07:13.754 - 00:07:14.114, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:07:14.194 - 00:08:08.240, Speaker C: So I think depending on how things are structured, there's still very much a role for Worldpay and visa and companies like us in the ecosystem. And I think if I take a step back, speaking for Worldpay in particular, we want to be kind of payment method agnostic. So we don't just do cards, we do e wallets, account to account payments, QR code based payments, lots of different local payment methods, mobile money as an example. So I think for us, we're always keeping a pulse on what are the different technologies and payment methods that are up and coming or could be disruptive in the markets that we operate in. We can basically do two things. One is we can ignore it and pray it doesn't happen, or we can explore it, invest in it, familiarize ourselves with the technology and the capabilities such that if and when it does become a big payment method or a big, you know, play a role in the financial services ecosystem where we operate, then we're ready to adopt it and roll it out for our clients.
00:08:08.392 - 00:08:42.982, Speaker A: Well, you guys have put your money where your mouth is. It's no coincidence that we have you both here because both of you were involved in the announcement of this expansion of USDC settlement on Solana, Worldpay being one of the key banks. So you're certainly demonstrating that you're willing to innovate in this space. I think a lot of people were super excited about hearing about this pilot. I think there's a lot of basics that people don't understand. So when we say USDC settlement, do you want to talk a little bit about the flows? And, Nabil, maybe you want to take that? Sure. The four party model.
00:08:42.982 - 00:08:46.558, Speaker A: Just so people understand, when we say USDC settlement, what are we talking about?
00:08:46.646 - 00:09:25.786, Speaker C: Yeah, so I took an Uber here this morning. Is there anybody in the audience? Maybe? Raise your hand if you could tell me exactly how the money is going to get from my debit or credit card to the Uber driver. Nobody really knows. Right? It's like this big magic black box of magic just happens. So I'll explain it simplistically as I can. So for the past 50 years or so, ever since, cards in particular have become kind of the prevalent source of payments, at least in the western world, there's been this model called the four party model for payments. And the four party, or the four corner model basically involves, as the name would suggest, four parties.
00:09:25.786 - 00:09:43.354, Speaker C: So the first party is the bank that gave me my card. So this morning, I think I paid with my British Airways, American Express. So American Express is the bank. In this. This case, they gave me my card. The second party is the network that operates that card. In American Express's case, they happen to be also the network.
00:09:43.354 - 00:10:33.008, Speaker C: The third party is the payment processor, so in this case, Worldpay, and then the fourth would be what we would call the merchant, so in this case, Uber. And so the way money actually moves today in the card ecosystem is your bank. Whoever issued you your card will usually, the day after you made the purchase, send the funds to Visa or Mastercard or American Express or whoever the network is, then that network will send those funds to the payment processor, in this case, worldpay. And then Worldpay will settle it to Uber, and then as an extension to that, in this crater or gig economy, Uber will pay their driver at some point. So this is kind of the way that money has moved in the card and consumer payment ecosystem for, again, about 50 years. And you might be saying, wow, it moves so much. And it does, but there's a reason for that.
00:10:33.008 - 00:11:00.012, Speaker C: And the reality is that that system, for all the gripes that people may have in terms of cost and speed and efficiency and all that, it moves $25 to $30 trillion a year without too much hassle. The last time the visa network actually had a settlement failure, I think, was in 2017. So we're coming on six years without a single day of money movement failure in over 100 countries, in over 100 currencies. At the scale of $30 trillion, that's pretty impressive, right?
00:11:00.108 - 00:11:01.504, Speaker A: Almost as good as Solana.
00:11:03.574 - 00:12:03.514, Speaker C: So it's good. It's a good system. But does that mean it's perfect and doesn't have room for improvement? The answer is no. And so what we looked at is, as worldpay as one party in that four corner payment model, where could we influence how quickly money moves or how efficiently money moves? And so what we did in partnership with Visa and with Circle, is, and think about the flow from the card network to the processor. So, from party two to party three, and then from ourselves to our client, the merchant, party three to party four, could stablecoins play a role in speeding up that money movement, reducing the cost of that money movement, and making that money movement available for a broader set of days or hours than what traditional bank rails will let you do? So that's what led to the stablecoin settlement pilot that we announced with Visa and Solana about a month and a half ago. And it's really thinking about from party two to party three and party three to party four. How can stable coins provide some efficiency versus the traditional fiat rails?
00:12:03.814 - 00:12:25.158, Speaker A: So, Catherine, question for you. So you are part of a research team. You spend a lot of time doing deep technical analysis. Can you talk a little bit about like the process and how you were determining where to expand the settlement pilot? And, you know, what were the, what were the things that you discovered about Solana that made you decide to opt into Solana to really scale this pilot?
00:12:25.286 - 00:13:02.762, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. And just to provide a little bit more background, we started testing with the USDC settlement back in 2021. So the very first pilot we've done was back in the days with crypto.com comma on ethereum testnet and just trying to test for the flow of funds from a very kind of fundamental level. From the visa perspective, we're going to be chain agnostic and we believe in a multi chain world. I think that makes a lot of sense for most people here today. But as we're trying to onboard more chains, obviously this is where a lot of thoughtful research and thinking goes behind and for everyone's benefit.
00:13:02.762 - 00:13:38.778, Speaker B: On the visa.com crypto page, we actually have a full thought leadership blog post around Solana and why we partner with Solana. I think a lot of things to consider. For example, what's the must haves as you're looking at payment use cases, the chain that we work with doesn't satisfy. So examples are like performance. And I think earlier talks about performance definitely demonstrate that there's things like security and there's also things just more like less, like less tangible, but things like, do you have a strong developer ecosystem? That matters quite a lot to us. And the reason why we think about it is payments is kind of that use case.
00:13:38.778 - 00:14:15.222, Speaker B: But think about payments as the platform, on top of which you can then start building applications. Having a very vibrant developer ecosystem is going to be very healthy and helpful, especially during market volatilities and stuff like that. This is what we're counting on. So these are all the different requirements as we're thinking through. But bottom line, we believe in a world in the future that's multi chain. And I think there's going to be a lot of work that goes into, say, interoperability and standardization. When it comes to payments, payments is always about standards, but when it comes to specifically blockchain related, I think we're also going to need a lot of work on that.
00:14:15.358 - 00:14:31.638, Speaker A: Got it. Nabil, in terms of one more question on the settlement, where do you see demand? Like merchants that want to, for example, settle in stable coins. Are these crypto native companies? Can you talk a little bit about where people are raising their hands saying, I want my settlement to be done and stable? Yeah.
00:14:31.726 - 00:15:10.276, Speaker C: Right now it's been predominantly crypto and web, three clients of ours. But that's because that's where we've kind of focused the marketing and, and the messaging. And of course, they're familiar with stablecoins. So, for example, a lot of our clients are crypto exchanges, and if we settled them in USDC, that's helpful to them because they need to pay their liquidity providers or market makers in USDC anyways. So if we had settled them in fiat, they would have just ended up converting it into stablecoin. So we got a lot of demand there. I think the other two areas where people are quite interested in the concept, particularly if we can get it to a place where it's available seven days a week instead of five days a week, like traditional fiat rails are any company where there's a high kind of turnover of working capital.
00:15:10.276 - 00:15:30.584, Speaker C: So think about some company that has to front inventory or front a balance that then has to wait until Monday or Tuesday the next week to get paid for that. Especially in the current rate environment, people want their money quicker, and so anything that can help them do that is of interest. And then the second group is companies that do a lot of cross border payments and FX. So think of like an airline, for example.
00:15:31.434 - 00:15:56.854, Speaker A: Yeah, so that's kind of a good question, kind of segueing. So settlement is a great start. What are the other use cases? Sort of, you know, the topic is the future of finance. What are you bullish on? Or where would you like to see more innovation on? Is it asset tokenization? Is it b, two b payments, remittances? Like, what are the use cases that you think are ripe for innovation and disruption from crypto and blockchains? You want to go first?
00:15:56.894 - 00:16:34.666, Speaker B: Sure. I'm happy to start. And I should have mentioned in my intro, the things that we're looking at is, as I said, it's to do with money movements. So what does that mean exactly when it comes to digital currency? So I started this whole rollout visa in CBDC, but CBDC really represents a portion of this entire evolution that's happening right now in around fiat money and bring it on chain. All about blockchain tokenization on fiat money. CBDC represents the tokenization of central bank money on chain. But if you look at stable coins, that's just USD dollars that you have in a bank and put it on chain.
00:16:34.666 - 00:17:32.599, Speaker B: Now the most exciting thing that we have been sort of observing, as I said, over the past twelve months is looking at the commercial banks and the financial institutions and the activities that they're taking place. So a huge amount of money today that we use our commercial bank liabilities. Now the question is what have they been doing to date? Not a lot, because we've seen people like circle doing things, people like the central banks actively experimenting. But if you look at this whole big group of banks, I think now they're starting to take it more seriously and to start exploring use cases of tokenization of bank deposits. So that's focused on the cash and liquidity side. But we're also seeing people like Blackrock, Franklin, Templeton, which is tokenizing financial assets and all the way to tokenization of real world assets. Now why is that interesting? Because I think this is where we really need to question what are existing pain points we're trying to solve and what are our potential use cases.
00:17:32.599 - 00:18:30.686, Speaker B: I would put it in two main buckets. Everything we're trying to do in the world today is probably starting with more efficiency, cost savings and hence faster settlement, cheaper always on infrastructure, that's going to be important. And I think blockchain can potentially serve for that purpose. And hence we have a lot of use cases when it comes to say cross border payments, whether coming from a B two B size or coming from remittance and payouts and stuff like that. But if you're looking at what are new flows and potential opportunities that could represent out there, I would probably look at things to do with true programmability and what it can enable in the future. That's going to be net new for the industry as a whole. And that's, I think what's getting institutions excited about, which I think is going to be quite interesting for all of us trying to think about can you create new capital market, new liquidity, new fund flows in these sort of protocols or platforms that's built on top of blockchain and to us, that's very, very exciting.
00:18:30.790 - 00:18:32.834, Speaker A: Got it. Nabil, anything?
00:18:33.334 - 00:19:10.844, Speaker C: You covered it all. I'll echo the real world asset tokenization, particularly financial assets. So worldpay is part of a broader financial technology company called FIS. And another division of our company is focused on capital markets and asset managers. A lot of discussion, a lot of interest, a lot of innovation going on in that space. And I think that's an area, particularly over the last twelve or 18 months of turbulence that's really picked up pace rather than slowed down. Second is I think CBDCs, especially as a payments company, you know, something, gets declared legal tender in some markets, we may be obligated to facilitate that as a method of payment for our clients.
00:19:10.844 - 00:19:29.196, Speaker C: And so we're paying a lot of attention to what's going on in the CBDC space. And I think what's really interesting, you know, setting aside some of the big and valid concerns around things like privacy and stuff like that, is the programmability of money and what that could do for governments with the CBDCs. So an area we're paying a lot of attention to.
00:19:29.220 - 00:20:00.874, Speaker A: Got it. So visa Worldpay, you have a lot of resources, you're going to build a lot of big and scalable things. There's a ton of developers out here and startups. And so if I'm a developer and I want to build the future of the next wave of fintech on Web three, what are things that you would like to see developers and startups build that are things that probably you won't build because maybe they're too niche or whatever. You know, any recommendation or advice you would give to people that want to build startups in this space.
00:20:02.934 - 00:20:55.200, Speaker C: That'S a good question. I would say, you know, the ability to gain efficiency, reduce cost, increase speed, that's all great and we're all driving towards the same thing. But for large companies like us, especially, that are, you know, highly regulated, we oftentimes will put things like security, scalability, resilience, et cetera first. And so I would say as you're designing things, if you're going to go after enterprise and you're going to go after highly regulated enterprise, you need to kind of start with those as first principles and then build on, okay, within the confines of the parameters that these organizations or these regulators have, what can I improve or what can I disrupt? I think if you start with the reverse and then try to plug that into enterprise, you'll get a lot of pushback.
00:20:55.312 - 00:20:55.964, Speaker A: Right?
00:20:56.544 - 00:21:39.482, Speaker B: I fully echo what you just said, Nabil. I think probably the best advice I would say is think about incremental changes. Again, if you're trying to serve for the enterprise, the institutions, if we're the clients, then the key question for us is what kind of components, we can just take it in from you today and just embed it into our existing infrastructure and so systems. So if you're looking for a whole new moonshot sort of project and trying to revamp the entire industry, that's probably very hard to think. What is the starting point. And I do think in the end, whatever we do here today is trying to make that payment experience as seamless, as easy as possible. So we're not trying to make a point about whether blockchain will not.
00:21:39.482 - 00:22:02.536, Speaker B: Because in fact, if in the future everyone is adopting blockchain, we'd rather people, the users don't even know notice the differences. It should be abstracted away from the backend. That's the sort of ultimate, sort of holy grail that we're trying to hit. And hence, what are the incremental changes that could improve that system and address still existing pain points? I think that would be a good starting point.
00:22:02.720 - 00:22:42.654, Speaker A: Maybe this is a question and partial request, but it also seems like there's a role, particularly for visa, but maybe also worldpay, but thinking about standards. So visa's whole business was kind of built on. You have all these disparate banks. You need a common messaging spec and the set of standards so they can all communicate. How do you see the role of a visa, for example, or worldpay in defining a set of standards? Like even today, it just feels like everyone's got a Kyc standard and decentralized identity. There's 50 standards. So do you see there some coalescing around something? Is there an opportunity for the big payment networks or payment processors to define standards in this space?
00:22:42.964 - 00:23:34.754, Speaker B: It's a great question. The answer is definitely, we will try our best. And to work with all the developers and industry leaders in this space, I don't think you're ever going to get one single standard that defines everything, because I think in practice that's just not possible. But I do think given our 60 years of history, you look at EMV code, that's kind of an industry standard that we work with Mastercard, with banks collectively to come up with. I do believe as you're looking at blockchains, there's that space. But bear in mind also that the open source like community, the developers have already been creating things like different ERC 20 and stuff like that on Solana as well. So the point is trying to think about how we can work with some of these emerging standards and to embed it again, if we're working with regulated entities, how can we improve on that and to make it compliant and stuff like that?
00:23:35.434 - 00:23:36.138, Speaker A: I fully agree.
00:23:36.186 - 00:24:25.822, Speaker C: I think standards make it a lot easier for large companies like ours to adopt things. We are not as nimble and agile as some of the earlier stage companies. So for us to replicate and duplicate a lot of different things to meet a lot of different endpoints is challenging. And so I think standardization is always hard, but I think at the enterprise grade it definitely adds a lot of value. And I think Visa, Mastercard, other card networks, some of the larger banks in particular, have done a really nice job over the past few decades doing that in payments. Whether it's certain file formats for wire transfers like reconciliation files from banks, those are pretty much standardized worldwide, which has caused a lot of efficiency for multinational financial services companies. So I think as folks are building in the crypto and blockchain ecosystem, I would encourage thinking about that and contributing to that where you can.
00:24:25.958 - 00:25:27.544, Speaker A: Got it. We have a couple minutes. I wanted to quickly, I don't know if you heard the Token 22 pitch, not pitch, but a presentation, but I was curious to get your take on the role that kind of the, I like to call it stablecoins V two, where stablecoins today are kind of basic functionality, but a lot of the programmability is not in there. And I think the promise of a program like Token 22 is someone can issue a stablecoin that has a lot of these features natively built in, like confidentiality, but with auditability by the issuer or things like transfer hooks, so you can control which wallets it goes to. Do you think that programmability embedded in stablecoins will help drive comfort with regulators, comfort with executives, and drive more growth of stablecoin usage? Is that holding us back right now? Is this a design space that can open up things?
00:25:28.004 - 00:26:34.536, Speaker B: So certainly I'm very excited to see, I'm curious to see how the different institution clients are going to be experimenting with the token 22. I think yes, it's a good direction to be thinking about that. And certainly you mentioned about the privacy, the auditability. These are core requirements we have to satisfy when it comes to regulated entities. I think thinking about the programmability aspect, I would more put it as a thought for everyone rather than my viewpoint, because I think there's different levels of programmability you can embed, and again, as a developer, as a builder, you can think about again use cases and how you want to approach it. So we can look at things like do you want to embed the programmability right inside the token? Contra, as you said, that you can enable a bunch of things, but you can also free, you can dictate how the money can be spent. You can also embed that programmability in the payments leg in terms of I want to wrap that token, but create something new and then the third level will maybe similar is about say, programmability on the wallets, on the more user interface.
00:26:34.536 - 00:27:01.972, Speaker B: I think we're seeing these developments and pilots at all these different levels. It's a matter of, I think, people's choice in the future of which one they would prefer. Because maybe personally I would like to program myself how I can do my standing order in the future, but I can just use a simple, say, sort of like USDC as it is today, but wrap around the program material around it. So I think it's still early stage, but certainly worth experimenting.
00:27:02.148 - 00:27:03.064, Speaker A: Got it?
00:27:03.444 - 00:27:45.084, Speaker C: Yeah. So I haven't read the paper, but I will just comment on the whole programmability of money concept. To me this is like one of, if not the most exciting things that DLT is going to enable for financial services. Couple examples. So I think everybody knows in the US and other parts of the world during COVID there was a lot of stimulus that was given out by the governments either to small businesses or to individuals to maintain the economic momentum while everyone was stuck at home. With the benefit of hindsight, now, it's turned out that there's been a lot of misuse of those funds. I'm going to get the number slightly wrong, but I think the US disbursed something like eight or $900 billion of stimulus during COVID and the estimate is about 65 billion of that was misused.
00:27:45.084 - 00:28:29.266, Speaker C: That's a lot of money. But imagine now if you're a government and you could disperse programmable cbdcs or stablecoins to a single use case created wallet, and that wallet and the money in it could only be used on certain categories of goods. And going back to standards, that's actually quite easy because in the payment space there's a unified standard called merchant category code, where every time you use your card or Apple Pay or whatever, we know what you're spending your money on. And so if the government could disperse stimulus and say, hey, this stimulus can only be used at these 30 types of retailers or on these 30 types of transactions, you can cut down a lot on that sort of fraud. I'll give like almost like selfish examples. I'm flying out tomorrow. I got an email from the airline saying, hey, our lounge at Amsterdam is closed.
00:28:29.266 - 00:28:53.938, Speaker C: If you want, you can come to our desk 90 minutes for your flight and get a little paper voucher you can use at a restaurant. I'm like, just send me a little money in your app and I can just go spend it. I don't need to like walk to the gate, get this piece of paper and then wander around and see where I can use it. So I think programmability of money has just got so many use cases that are so valuable. And you think about the scale of some of those use cases. I think there's going to be a lot of interesting opportunity.
00:28:54.066 - 00:29:16.030, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, I think we're out of time, but I wanted to thank you not just for being here, but honestly for being pioneers in this space. It is very inspiring to everyone in web3 to see the large institutions see the potential for this and not just talk about it, but actually innovate. And we're super excited that you're starting millions of dollars on Solana and hopefully billions and trillions soon. Thank you.
00:29:16.102 - 00:29:16.414, Speaker B: Thank you.
