00:00:03.040 - 00:00:03.360, Speaker A: Awesome.
00:00:03.374 - 00:00:34.152, Speaker B: We are live. Hey, everyone, I'm Jen and welcome to Blockchain Banter. Thank you so much for joining me. We've got a special back to back today. I am here with Angela, founder of Token Engineering Academy, and doctor Mark Richardson of Bancor and Carbon Defi. Last, we kind of went into a DeFi education series and Angela introduced token engineering Academy, what their study season is. We've got some live track info from Mark, something that he's going to be leading.
00:00:34.152 - 00:00:56.834, Speaker B: But before we jump into that, Angela, for anybody who might have missed our previous call or be unfamiliar with token engineering Academy and the study season that you guys are kicking off, maybe you can just give us a little bit of background similar to kind of what we did last time. Anything that you want anybody to know about token engineering Academy and about the study site, the study season.
00:00:57.614 - 00:01:20.486, Speaker A: Cool. First of all, thanks for having us again, Jen and Mark. It's a pleasure to be here. And yeah, let me tell you a little bit about token engineering academy. We are running the study season. This is a cohort based program with students of token engineering from April. So we are starting just in a couple of days until July 2024.
00:01:20.486 - 00:02:15.154, Speaker A: We have an amazing program, a combination of online courses and live tracks and yeah, first of all, maybe some words about what token engineering is. This is a combination of disciplines that we are establishing as a new engineering discipline in its own right. We all know that we can create tokens with a couple of lines of code, but when it comes to the mechanism design, and when it comes to optimizing verification of the mechanisms we design, then we have to do more. And we can draw actually from a range of existing disciplines such as computer science, cryptography. I guess we get to that in this conversation today. Economics and game theory. We can draw from systems engineering because with token systems, we are actually designing systems, dynamical systems, complex systems.
00:02:15.154 - 00:03:10.112, Speaker A: In fact, we can draw from operations research and management science. We can apply AI control theory, data science to monitor these systems, also to make them autonomous to some degree, balancing interactions, for example. And we are talking about socio technical systems. We have humans in the loop. And that's why we need psychology, decision science, behavioral economics, political science, and governance when it comes to token based governance in daos and philosophy, law and ethics. And this is in fact a combination of disciplines that you can't study at no university today. And te academy was started in 2020 because of this need, because we don't have anything similar on any traditional university.
00:03:10.112 - 00:04:01.352, Speaker A: And in fact, it is a crypto native new discipline. So we started token engineering academy and since then more than 4000 students are enrolled in our programs. We have a good mix of people with economics, computer science, engineering, data science, math background and more than 1000 exams were already passed. We've launched a bachelor level course in token engineering covering the full token engineering design process, from the requirements engineering to mechanism design to the verification of this design using modeling and simulations to token based governance for token engineers. Five modules this is an online course. It's available@tokenengineering.net dot.
00:04:01.352 - 00:04:48.868, Speaker A: You can enroll anytime. Study at your own pace and again, more than 1000 exams have been passed already by 4000 students. That's pretty amazing. Now our next step is the study season. Again, this is a cohort based program so we'll meet over around twelve weeks with students. You can also register@tokenengineering.net and meet other students, meet really great live track speakers, come to EFCC and make connections and learn how to token engineering works from the fundamentals to firsthand experience from founders, from crypto economic researchers and practitioners in the field.
00:04:48.868 - 00:05:26.090, Speaker A: And I think this is an awesome opportunity for anyone who is interested in this field, in this growing field in fact. And yeah, the motto is share, learn, grow. Key dates we'll kick it off this week. You can register still. We'll then have weekly study sessions. Expect three to seven study sessions per week in different tracks so any student can find most interesting and combine the live tracks as it fits best to personal learning goals. And in parallel you can study if you haven't te fundamentals.
00:05:26.090 - 00:06:14.984, Speaker A: The bachelor level program and we offer proof of knowledge at the the end of the study season for the students who passed a certain knowledge criteria then yeah, June 10 is start of the exams week and July 9 and 10th will be at FCC in Brussels. We'll have the winners of the first fellowship program. I'll get to this in a moment. We'll have a dedicated token engineering track at EFCC with token engineering talks. Really an amazing agenda of the day so it'll be super exciting for anyone interested in this field. And also a big community meeting. And July 25 we are concluding the program.
00:06:14.984 - 00:06:56.174, Speaker A: Yeah, I talked about learning for a bit. Let's get to the live tracks. We'll have four different learning sessions or combinations of learning sessions. Number one is Sherman Foschengier. She'll give four live sessions about token design thinking. So she'll introduce her framework and goes over, or will go over a case study with the students to better understand the initial design of a token network. And this is super relevant and a great onboarding course for any crypto founder.
00:06:56.174 - 00:08:21.696, Speaker A: Protocol designers, token engineers Trent McConagie from Ocean Protocol will join us talking about their big token merge. You might have heard it, the AI alliance. This is just a big step for ocean protocol and I think it's super exciting to hear more from a founder how to manage such a token merge. Then the third track that we'll discuss in a moment will be actually mark. So we'll collaborate here. We are super happy to have this track algorithm design, Defi concentrated liquidity from scratch, and track four will be the a to z case study reputation based weighted voting, where we'll start with requirements for a new token mechanism and then go all the way down to shaping the voting design, verifying the voting design, running simulations, understanding weaknesses, optimize the parameter setting, go to implementation and see the results. Because based on this voting mechanism will distribute the first or vote on the first token engineering Academy fellowship grant with ten k for four candidates that we'll announce this week.
00:08:21.696 - 00:09:27.714, Speaker A: So every community member is invited to vote based on this voting mechanism that we'll design together in the study season. So a super exciting program, and yeah, you can all join and register still@tokenengineering.net. Dot and now I'd love to take a look at Mark's program, Defi's concentrated liquidity from scratch. Mark, when you came up with this idea to run this course, I was immediately excited about it because I think it's one of the rare chances to explore a certain primitive in detail and gain a proper understanding for it, no matter if your token designer want to implement concentrated liquidity, or even as an investor. And I think we are still lacking this knowledge. And yeah, this I guess was also part of your motivation to create this course.
00:09:31.014 - 00:10:38.914, Speaker C: Yes, absolutely. So I think it's been a long time coming. I've done versions of this slightly more focused, or let's say less general, with things like the bonding curve research group, for example, where we kind of address the mathematical motivations behind certain descriptions of bonding curves and what do they mean and that sort of thing. But I think that there's a lot of confusion that's resulted from what I call the conflation of marketing and research efforts in the DeFi space. And what it's resulted in is, I think what Angela will know to be a dangerous half truth, I think, is the german idiom that I've always had a deep appreciation for. But yeah, essentially that, or dangerous half knowledge I think is the more accurate one. But yeah, I was looking around.
00:10:38.914 - 00:12:27.138, Speaker C: Yeah, exactly. I was looking around at the sort of collection of white papers, and some of them you can't even find anymore, which is very upsetting because there were some really terrific white papers out there, like the original dodo white paper, which is one of the few unique bonding curve implementations. And while the description in the white paper was maybe a little brief, it still was quite dense with new and interesting ideas. And it's a shame now that people that are showing up to the space for the first time are kind of now deprived of being exposed to it. And I also think that the time that you're exposed to it and the, you know, the current status of the industry when these white papers are released, the context there is also important, because there's a natural flow from one idea into the next. And if you're arriving in cryptocurrency and in DeFi and in token engineering for the first time in 2024, I feel bad for you that you haven't had that opportunity to see these things evolve from first principles. And I want to do something about it, and I want to do something about it in a way that's, like, rigorous, you know, in a way that's not hand wavy, where we don't do the marketing thing by making things simple or easy, but in a way, letting things be hard and, you know, having a respect for the what would be token engineering scholars and giving them, you know, an accurate feeling for, you know, for what it means to be, you know, an active participant in this discipline.
00:12:27.138 - 00:13:13.154, Speaker C: And so the course is, you know, I think for some people, it will feel like, okay, like we're really doing this, you know, like, this isn't, you know, we're not going to deal just with, you know, heuristics. We're not going to have, you know, we're not going to make things simple or easy. It's going to be an as is course. And this means that, you know, there will be concepts in, you know, in calculus, in differential geometry, in linear algebra, and so on. And you shouldn't be terrified of any of these things because they're all learnable. And it's important to realize that, you know, when I came into the space, you know, I hadn't had, you know, a formal education in mathematics. I did exclusively organic chemistry.
00:13:13.154 - 00:14:07.054, Speaker C: And so while I was exposed to a little bit of these kinds of things, I certainly wasn't at the level of erudition that I have today. And it was because of, I think, my participation in the very first token engineering sessions back in 2020, which was at the time, I think, the balance of simulations supported workshops that I really started to get my sea legs under me. And I want to, I'm very proud to now sort of be, be closing the loop and now coming back and offering that to the new cohort, and I hope to be doing it again into the future. And, yeah, the course is structured to be, you know, that kind of, that kind of level of introduction in terms of assumed knowledge, but also, you know, not, you know, taking the training wheels off at the same time and letting it be exactly what it is without having to pull the punches, so to speak.
00:14:08.174 - 00:15:08.448, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think this is super relevant. We saw this in many of our training courses to, on one hand, I mean, our goal is always to make things accessible. And I think as token engineers, we have to be able to really read, understand, dig through these formulas, and there's no way to get around it, so no way, as a token engineer, to avoid going deep into the math of an algorithm design. But there's no reason to be afraid of it. Right. And it'll be fun and it'll be teamwork, and we'll have people from many different backgrounds, and that's why I'm very much looking forward to it. And ultimately, I think it's also a great chance to verify and question what's available out there, since you said it's sometimes a mix of marketing and documentation.
00:15:08.448 - 00:15:23.004, Speaker A: And I think anyone who's working on a protocol should be able to question and feel comfortable with formulating an algorithm and also verifying other white papers.
00:15:25.544 - 00:16:56.516, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think that this is something that I want to touch on in some level of detail because there's, you know, we'll be looking at three specific, like, actually used parameterizations of concentrated liquidity, and we'll also be looking at three what I call natural parameterizations, which aren't actually used. And even though those, you know, these natural, these natural versions, they look so elegant and, you know, computationally, they're actually very lightweight. And so it kind of begs the question, like, why isn't anyone using them? And that's an interesting question because in some aspect, like, you know, in some regard, like when you're, when you're thinking about developing a protocol and actually implementing it, there is a correct parameterization for your system. And there is kind of a, I say miss, I want to say a misconception generally with sort of green developers that when they're implementing concentrated liquidity that there is like one way to do it. And when they're trying to make their system behave a certain way, that they have to add all of these kind of peripheral functions on top of, you know, whatever the industry standard is. And you know, that's a mistake. And that'll be one of the things that we're talking about is that there's a reason why, you know, that it's such a valuable skill to learn to describe the same mathematical object in many different ways.
00:16:56.516 - 00:17:50.080, Speaker C: And usually one of those ways is the one that you should be using. And even if it's the one that no one's used before, doesn't matter because your protocol might have a very specific use case or a very specific action or something, you know, something that it does that isn't done by other protocols. And if that describes the system that you're creating, then you should become, I think, immediately suspicious or at least, you know, you're. Your curiosity should be roused that maybe if you're borrowing from somebody else's research, that you might be misappropriating a function that was built for an entirely different use case. And actually there's a more elegant, more appropriate, more secure way to do exactly the same thing. And this is one of the core learnings of the series that I'll be doing.
00:17:50.242 - 00:19:08.374, Speaker A: Yeah. And here's one more super relevant aspect that we have highlighted in last week's token engineering reads. This is our bi weekly newsletter of Te Academy, and this was your article, theory versus reality, where you shared the design and implementation journey of carbon defi. And I must say, this is a rare piece, first of all, because there's not much to read and publicly available insights on how a design process really looks like if you are not only doing research, but rather you are in charge to implement and roll out a protocol. And at some point you have to be able to rate the implementation and take test various approaches for implementation to manage and tackle the limitations blockchain system definitely has. And maybe you can share some examples where you as a protocol designer were in charge to guide also the developers for the implementation.
00:19:10.874 - 00:20:34.374, Speaker C: Yeah, and this is. Yeah, this is a really important point because in a way, when I came into protocol design, I was very much the sort of pen and paper theorist where you assume that because you can describe something in pure algebraic abstraction, that someone is going to be able to figure out how to make that work on a blockchain. And while that might be true, the details of how it actually gets into the blockchain and how the blockchain uses that information is something that I think is as you say is very rarely spoken about, or the design principles of getting an embedded system to behave well is something that you just don't find a lot of literature on. And so I was very happy to write that article, but, yeah, so let's go into a little bit of sort of the specifics there. And this is actually one of the. I just gave my presentation at ETH Dubai on specifically this topic. And during that presentation, one of the analogies that I drew was that if you stack carbon atoms on top of each other, one after the other, and let that tower get so high that it's as tall as the Burj khalifa, which is appropriate because we're in Dubai.
00:20:34.374 - 00:20:54.628, Speaker C: That's a certain number. So there'll be a number of carbon atoms that that will be equal to the height of the Burj khalifa, and it's an enormous, unfathomable number. And what's interesting is that the number of Shiba Inu way that's equal to one bitcoin way is about 40 million times bigger than that number.
00:20:54.796 - 00:20:55.268, Speaker A: Right.
00:20:55.356 - 00:21:33.024, Speaker C: And that it. So we're dealing with. And that's important because, you know, that's an exchange rate. You know, you need to be able to calculate very accurately what the, you know, what the rate is supposed to be. If someone's. If someone's quoting a price and you need to record that on the blockchain and then have someone execute against that price, that can be very challenging, because you're either measuring something very small with something very large, or trying to measure something very large or something very small. And this really does push the bounds of computation precision, especially because ethereum doesn't know what a number less than one is.
00:21:33.024 - 00:22:49.672, Speaker C: In a fixed point infrastructure, any number less than one rounds to zero, and that's going to be approximately half of all of the exchange rates that you're supporting. So it's like, oh, how do you deal with that? And how do you actually make sure that you're supporting a wide enough price range that your protocol is actually useful and not just appropriate for a very select number of use cases? And that's really what that article is about. It's about saying that, ok, eventually you're going to have to draw a line in the sand and say, what are the extremes? Can we find examples in the industry of tokens that are very, very difficult to deal with and say, okay, let's assume that everyone wants to use these tokens. Is it possible to make the system behave well under those circumstances? And I think that this is where the. This is where science kind of bleeds over into engineering, because, you know, where science is about how you're going to do something or why you're doing something. The engineering is always about, okay, how do I achieve it? How is this thing actually going to become reality? And that's the thing that I had to learn. This is the thing that I've been slowly developing my skills in over the last few years.
00:22:49.672 - 00:23:56.238, Speaker C: I'm very grateful to be working with such phenomenal software. Engineers at Bancor have been able to explain these things to me. But there's a back and forth, you know, because it's. It's my job, essentially, to maintain the big picture and make sure that the. The actual underlying theory is being closely adhered to. And then it's the engineer's job to tell me what's, you know, what's possible and what's impossible, and then to come to some sort of a agreement between us about where the, you know, the borders of precision really are. And so, yeah, examples are things like, if someone was to trade one way of Shiba Inu versus one way of some other token, what are the rounding errors, and are you going to get exploited? And if we're doing functional composition, how do we make sure that at each step of the process that we're not overflowing the 256 bit mandate of the Ethereum EVM? Or do we need to do a large number implementation which allows you to.
00:23:56.238 - 00:24:33.684, Speaker C: To do, like, 512 and things like that? But then, you know, all those things have. Have gas costs. It's a really interesting problem because it kind of. Even though computer systems are sort of abstract, it really does feel like actual engineering. Like, I now understand why software engineers call themselves software engineers, because it's resource management like anything else. Like, you can, of course, build an elevator to the moon, but, you know, it will cost, you know, hundreds of trillions of dollars or something. Or you can build an aircraft that flies at Mac ten, but it might kill the pilot and that kind of thing.
00:24:33.684 - 00:25:16.064, Speaker C: Building smart contracts is exactly the same thing. It's like, yeah, sure, you can create a smart contract that handles arbitrary precision up to a trillion decimal places, but it will exhaust the block limit every time, and people will be paying hundreds of thousands of dollars every time they try to trade. So you have to kind of work within the constraints of what the system can actually realistically support and then find very creative ways to try and make all of these restrictions amount to more than the sum of their parts. And, yeah, without going into the numeric the actual numeracy of what's described in that article, I think that that does a good job of capturing the overall tone of it.
00:25:16.194 - 00:26:38.434, Speaker A: Yeah, and I must say again, this is, you mentioned the term engineering, and that's why we also use this term engineering, because token engineering is not only about the economics of it, it's not only about the algorithm design in an abstract, theoretical way. You have to find ways how to implement this, and this can be actually a tough nut to crack. And you have to also, in the tradition of other engineering disciplines, since you're building public infrastructure, you want to understand where the system might break you. For a mention, the rounding, it's so simple, but it's a tough not to crack. How to then come up with a system that maintains precision in all potential exchange combinations, token combinations. And that's a pretty exciting challenge. It's a hard challenge, and it's something that I think needs way more education, needs way more people working on it, sharing this knowledge and gaining experience, because this is actually a very young discipline and we are just in the early days of it handling billions of dollars in our systems.
00:26:38.434 - 00:28:55.770, Speaker A: Okay. And I mean, what I also like very much for the concentrated liquidity from scratch lifetrak at the study season is that we are collectively working on foundational knowledge on concentrated liquidity, and also, yeah, contribute to the shared body of knowledge about this particular crypto economic primitive. And I think there's, it's another great example and it has the potential to also be like a template to many other crypto economic building blocks, where today we have implementations here and there, we are using the same word, like invariants, bonding curves, amms pointing to totally different things, we see different implementations, we see a different formulation, and we'd like to bring more clarity and contribute to good resources. But there's even more. Not only when it comes to white papers or the actual mathematical formulation of it, it's generally think of other crypto economic primitives. This can be staking in all its variants, it can be voting mechanisms in all its variants. And if we imagine this body of crypto economic primitives in token land in cryptoland, we envision a library, even of the primitives itself, their descriptions, their mathematical formulation, how the implementation and implementation adaptation solutions, also understanding the potential attack vectors and how to tackle them, including tools like you built a tool for your own team to model, building a model for your system, running simulations, maybe even dashboards for optimizing the parameters and developing metrics to measure the success.
00:28:55.770 - 00:29:48.142, Speaker A: So these are elements that we call the crypto economic primitive suites for open source crypto economic building blocks with a shared knowledge, not only in form of a white paper, but in form of tools, mathematical specification, implementation details, maybe even smart contract versions. And this is, I think, something that the space really needs to further develop and something that this as a perfect example of the public goods we need in the space, similar like open source software, open source crypto economic primitives. And that's why I'm so glad you.
00:29:48.278 - 00:30:29.604, Speaker C: Sorry. There's good go. So we have a bit of a delay. Yeah, yeah. I think one of the things that you touched on there was about, you know, like creating like a body of knowledge. And the approach that I've taken to this program is to not just prepare, you know, because I knew that I wanted to prepare, for example, like, you know, syllabus style material, like proper, proper reading material, as if the course had its own textbook, like, I'm writing the textbook for this course. And that's an important point.
00:30:29.604 - 00:31:46.460, Speaker C: Like, this isn't meant to be single use. While it has been prepared with the specific motivation for the token engineering academy course course that I'll be teaching, the idea is that after that, it has a lot of reusability. Like this is meant to be a source of future reference material that people can use when they are trying to, for example, prove one of their own parameterizations, or if they're maybe someone's going to be working on a standard at some point that we can use to categorize different types of concentrated liquidity expressions, this kind of thing. And so the idea is to be thorough enough that everything that someone might need to refer to is included. And this serves two purposes. One is that if you are trying to, and this is why it's called from scratch. If you have the mathematical tools already and you're new to defi, you can read through this list, and it will take you step by step through everything to be able to get you up to that level of expertise very quickly.
00:31:46.460 - 00:33:20.712, Speaker C: But also that if you are, if you already have that level of expertise and you are writing a white paper or something for your protocol, you can actually save maybe a lot of expository overhead by being able to refer to something that has already gone to the effort of proving certain identities or the relationships between certain variables and these kinds of things. So yeah, it was designed to be a public good, not just because it's for the lecture material and for the students at Token engineering academy, but also for future developers and things to be able to refer back to so that everyone is at least referring to the same thing rather than, you know, this kind of, you know, notation creep where everyone starts to use different symbols and, you know, and different things. So, yeah, I'm hoping that it will be adopted as like something of a standard way to communicate these concepts. And, you know, maybe that's a bit self aggrandizing, and I don't mean it to be. I'm just, you know, I'm trying to express that the motivation here is to actually organize the industry a little bit and to gather people around one way of. Of communicating effectively and, and, you know, obviously it's fine if you choose to use your own notation and that sort of thing, but at least you can still point back to something if you need sort of a rosetta stone to translate between different concepts very quickly. That's what this, you know, this paper is designed to do.
00:33:20.712 - 00:33:28.864, Speaker C: And it will be on archive. So the. The lecture notes will be downloadable via archive prior to the course and it will live there forever.
00:33:29.284 - 00:34:19.254, Speaker A: Yeah, that's the idea. Also for the study season. I mean, it's super important, I think, to meet, to have the opportunity to meet and collaborate in tracks like this, to go over certain principles and concepts together, to. To break it down, to understand it, to really gain a good understanding, and then at the same time create this shared body of knowledge via resources we make available together, not only for the study season itself, they will be available after the study season as public goods, and we hope to make it useful for so many others who are working on similar concepts.
00:34:23.804 - 00:34:29.092, Speaker C: Yeah, and I'm really looking forward to putting together the exam material for the.
00:34:29.108 - 00:35:08.524, Speaker A: Proof of knowledge at the end. Oh, yeah. Let me say some words about the topic of exams and nfts. So, yeah, you'll have the chance. If you take part in Marx sessions and go through the four sessions in the total program, you'll have the chance to take an exam, pass an exam, and then also proof your knowledge with an NFT that we mint for the students who pass this course. And these NFTs will be part of the token engineering token system. NFT system to prove knowledge and achievements and contributions to the field of token engineering.
00:35:08.524 - 00:36:44.284, Speaker A: We are doing this since 2022, since we've launched the T fundamentals course for passing the modules. Also, speakers in more of the 100 events we have run so far have received NFTs attendees in our live events such as EFCC, and of course, speakers and authors of the learning materials at the study season and at other learning opportunities. In this way, we were able to create a system of NFTs to represent our own discipline. So it's a way for individual token engineers to prove their knowledge, and it's a way for us to monitor the evolution of our system and build new mechanisms on top, such as the reputation based weighted voting mechanism where we integrate a signal of expertise, in our case in token engineering, to the voting weight. So the more experience somebody can prove in the field of token engineering, the more weight they have in the decision of who should receive the fellowship prize. And this is again a new primitive when it comes to voting that can complement one token. One vote, where the number of tokens held in a wallet defines the voting weight, that can complement delegation, where it's a matter of trust to delegate tokens to a decision makers.
00:36:44.284 - 00:37:26.934, Speaker A: And reputation weighted voting is another one where decision makers accumulate token weight via their achievements, via their track record, via their contribution to successful and impactful good decisions in the past. And I think this is a very exciting new component that can also help us to fix some of the problems in decision making that we currently have. Again, one token, one vote. Also collusion when it comes to delegation, and it's definitely an exciting new mechanism. Yeah, and I hope.
00:37:31.574 - 00:37:36.278, Speaker C: Sorry, do mean to interrupt you, we have a lag and so please, I.
00:37:36.286 - 00:38:03.844, Speaker A: Just wanted to close. The goal of these learning sessions is of course, to offer this in live sessions because we'd like to enable and facilitate the conversation in our community. Plus, on top of it, publish the materials created during the study season for anybody else to learn from it in the future and to benefit from the resources created.
00:38:07.344 - 00:39:45.896, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that you touched on a concept there that I think is super important and is actually very meaningful, even unique to token engineering academy, which is kind of this idea of credentials, meaning that these, these proof of these proof of knowledge nfts, they're not handed out as, like, you know, as participation awards. You know, this is, you know, it's meant to be a, you know, something that is symbolic of, you know, an active engagement in and the garnering of skills that one didn't have before and that are appropriate or meet some minimum standard as, you know, as the instructor, you know, you know, as the instructor intended. And unfortunately, you know, this is, you know, in the world of, you know, cryptocurrency, we often talk about things like the financial world letting everyone down, but also the university system is letting everyone down. And there is a very much a drift towards, you know, if people can afford it, you can basically buy any degree that you want, even from top tier universities. And there's been a lot of, you know, leaks and, you know, exposes and things over the years, but it doesn't seem to have done anything to slow it down. And I do really appreciate that the Te academy system does have this, you know, exam component and that it takes it seriously, that it's not a, you know, a feel good sort of, you know. Yeah.
00:39:45.896 - 00:40:17.570, Speaker C: It's not about. It's not about entitlement. It's about proving your mettle if you've actually met the criteria of the course. And unfortunately, this is becoming a rare attribute. But I hold the Te academy proof of knowledge receipts in very high esteem and I want to make sure that I honor that, you know, that philosophy when I come to creating my proof of knowledge exams.
00:40:17.722 - 00:41:18.486, Speaker A: Yeah. And I must say, of course, for us it's also an endeavor to make these certificates hard to game, also find new ways. I mean, we haven't tried other on chain forms of attestations, mutual attestations. There are so many exciting forms. But what has already paid off is that we build a very robust system where it takes a while and it's challenging to acquire these nfts, but then once you have it, we can really build robust systems on top where we can maintain this trust in the system. And I think we'll prove it again with the fellowship position where we basically, we had this weekend, selected the can candidates from all the applications. But ultimately the community will vote on who should get the fellowship grant.
00:41:18.486 - 00:41:49.494, Speaker A: And I'm pretty excited for this voting because it will be both. It will be a vote for an individual sharing his, her, their knowledge, and it will be a vote for what is most relevant and well received in the community as important learning material as an important aspect of token engineering. And that's why, yeah, for us, it's very good, logical and healthy. Next step to further develop our NFT system.
00:41:51.714 - 00:42:50.032, Speaker C: Yeah. And I think I speak for Angela and I both when I say that I'm completely blown away by, like, the candidates that were selected are of an extremely high caliber and the things that they are proposing to teach are in some cases completely bleeding edge. And they have such a demonstrated command over their respective disciplines. And these are things that they've been able to substantiate with either a very consistent sort of publication record, even if it's just on medium or something like that. But the candidates are all phenomenally good, and I'm really looking forward to seeing what the, you know, which one of these courses the community thinks was delivered the best and is the most relevant to, to token engineering. I think it's going to be a tough decision, but I'm, and that's kind.
00:42:50.048 - 00:42:51.576, Speaker A: Of why I'm so curious to see.
00:42:51.680 - 00:42:52.760, Speaker C: What the outcome is.
00:42:52.912 - 00:43:31.494, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. And you see me smile because we didn't even announce the fellowship candidates. If you are watching as an applicant, you'll receive the information today, we promise. And stay tuned and follow our Twitter talk engineering to find out what the fellowship candidates are and what they offer as learning sessions. And as you mentioned, it's the first round, it's our first experiment in the fellowship. And I think we can definitely say this is content you find nowhere else and it's something unique. And don't miss the chance to follow the live tracks at the study season.
00:43:31.494 - 00:43:41.354, Speaker A: Register today tokenengineering.net dot okay. Yeah, Mark really enjoyed it.
00:43:41.394 - 00:44:09.964, Speaker C: Thanks so much. Yeah, my pleasure. I'm going to apologize on Jen's behalf. She's plugged into the hotel intranet and so it booted her off the network, I think, for data consumption. But she's been beside me the whole time and she's been listening to everything that we're saying. So she's up to date, but yeah. Deepest apologies that she had to drop from the stream.
00:44:09.964 - 00:44:12.612, Speaker C: And thank you so much for doing the call with us.
00:44:12.748 - 00:44:26.094, Speaker A: Yeah. And we'll meet next week. Looking forward to the study sessions. Concentrated liquidity from scratch with Mark Richardson. Thank you. See you next week, everyone.
00:44:26.594 - 00:44:30.354, Speaker C: Thank you. Ciao. Ciao.
