00:00:00.240 - 00:00:20.614, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gay refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is Sino, and today's the 14 November 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. And we have a lot to get through today. This is probably going to be another extra long episode I missed Friday, so I'll be making up for that. And the weekend. And what a weekend it was.
00:00:20.614 - 00:01:16.584, Speaker A: So I guess starting at the top here, you can see that FTX officially declared bankruptcy, chapter eleven bankruptcy in the US. This includes FTX us, and I think like over 100 other subsidiaries of FTX or other kind of entities that were included as part of the bankruptcy filing here. And this shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone, obviously, but I do think that the speed at which everyone thought that FTX was completely solvent on top of the world, you know, couldn't do any wrong and was completely safe to what we are seeing today or what we saw over the weekend, uh, is quite something to behold. I thought the terror crash was fast. Well, this happened in less than three days, I think in terms of kind of when we start, when we found out about what was going on and when they declared bankruptcy, which was just, you know, utter insanity. Right. So this is really sad, uh, because of a lot of other things I'm going to get through, um, shortly.
00:01:16.584 - 00:01:52.732, Speaker A: But this is very sad because as I mentioned last week, bankruptcy proceedings are not quick. They take many, many, many years. And I don't even know if people are going to get back anything from this, considering the massive hole that exists in the balance sheet, which the estimates put it from ten to $50 billion. And a lot of that, or pretty much all of that is customer deposits and a bunch of other kind of liabilities there as well. And I, yeah. Even though there are these bankruptcy proceedings beginning, I don't think it's going to be, it's. Sorry, I think it's going to be a while before people see their money back from FTX.
00:01:52.732 - 00:02:37.086, Speaker A: And this hit a lot of people. Right. This wasn't like uh, uh, terror, this wasn't like um, uh, the three Ac fallout and things like that in the general kind of, I guess, crypto bear market that obviously hit everyone. Um, this hit a lot of, in an indirectly way, directly and indirectly, whereas FTX going under hit a lot of people directly because they lost all of their funds that were on there and there were a lot of people who kept substantial amounts of money on the, the FTX exchange a lot of, uh, crypto, Twitter personalities, a lot of trade active traders and things like that, that just kept a substantial amount of money on there. Now, I really hope that they're all doing okay. Obviously, it, you know, reminds us all of the importance of not your keys, not your coins. But I think a lot of the people that would have lost money were definitely active traders.
00:02:37.086 - 00:03:18.446, Speaker A: Now, you could do active trading on Defi, but depending on the size that you're playing with, it can be quite difficult. And also, if you're trying to actively trade on a club, which is stands for central limit order book, which is basically what exchanges run, you haven't got that many options within Defi, and definitely not that many options that are as liquid as exchanges. So I totally understand the reasoning for people, especially active traders, to keep their funds on these exchanges. And I, and I think that I also totally understand people's shock with FTX going under, because, I mean, we've all seen it over the weekend. I don't think I have to break it all down. And I guess we all saw it over the years, depending on how long you've been around. If you've been around for the last two to three years, you saw how legitimate FTX looked.
00:03:18.446 - 00:03:57.650, Speaker A: It looked just as legitimate as binance and coinbase and Kraken and all the other exchanges out there, even though Sam SPF was at the head of it. Definitely a cowboy, you know, an ego maniac. It people kind of regarded FTX as a safe exchange, and obviously that all came crashing down over, it's only been, I think, like a week at this point, which is just absolutely insane. Right. But, yeah, so moving on from that, as I said, Alameda, which is so, okay, I keep mentioning FTX, but Alameda was the other company that was involved in this. As I mentioned last week, FTX and Alameda were legally separate. But practically, they were the same thing.
00:03:57.650 - 00:04:54.012, Speaker A: They were working together. They were under the same umbrella. It was SPF and his cronies operating both of these things. So the Alameda owes FTX about $10 billion, and FTX lent billions of dollars worth of customer assets to fund risky bets by Alameda Research. So essentially, this is where the whole kind of seems to be, seems to be sourced from. Is FTX lending billions of dollars worth of customer assets to Alameda research? Go do all that cowboy stuff with whether that be farming defi protocols kind of, I mean, getting involved in early stage seed rounds, doing leverage related things, like all that sorts of stuff they were doing. They were using customer deposits for that, which is the biggest part of the story, right? The fact that they weren't just using their own money, they were using customer deposits, or they weren't just using other institutional capital, like something like 3 hours capital, where they were actually using straight, everyday customer deposits, which is, which is insane.
00:04:54.012 - 00:05:34.566, Speaker A: So that this tweet three continues by saying, you know, all in all, FTX had $16 billion in customer deposits, according to the person. So FTX lent more than half of its customer funds to assist the company, Alameda. And then this account says a man, WTF? And truly WTF. Right? This was just, this goes beyond being a cowboy. This goes to the point of just being absolutely reckless, right? So there's that, there's that kind of news there that came out. And then Greg here, who works at the block, as in the research team, did a deep dive into the FTX balance sheet and revealed over the weekend by the Financial Times. And Greg says he'd be surprised if users are going to see more than $0.05
00:05:34.566 - 00:06:07.854, Speaker A: on the dollar after all of this is over. So as I mentioned before, even though the bankruptcy proceedings are ongoing and will take a while, there's only so much money that they can actually get back. And Greg here is estimating that they're probably only going to be able to pay out once it's all said and done, $0.05 on the dollar, aka 5% of what people had. So if you had $1,000 on FTX, for example, you may only get back $50, which, yeah, that's so sad, right? Like, it's so insane. And by the time you get it back, I mean, at that point, you've probably written off that loss completely. You've forgotten about it doesn't even matter to you anymore.
00:06:07.854 - 00:06:25.860, Speaker A: Just like how the funds lost on Mt. Gox still aren't returned. And I'm sure all of those people have written it off at this stage. They're not just sitting around waiting and being like, oh, yeah, I'm getting my funds back soon. I can start my life again soon. I got this massive payday coming. I mean, maybe there's some of those people, but most of them have written it off, definitely.
00:06:25.860 - 00:07:06.720, Speaker A: And I think a lot of the people that were affected by that are still in crypto. You know, I'm seeing a lot of people go on about crypto being dead, so to speak. And it's funny whenever I say that terminology, because I've seen it a lot from people who lost money on FTX, and it's totally rational response to have, right. If you lost money in any capacity, if you lost it because of the bear market, if you over traded, if you lost it in, obviously, a centralized exchange going under or any other way, you definitely start to feel like you want crypto to be dead so that crypto doesn't succeed without you and that you miss out on the gains you would have had if you hadn't you blown yourself up or lost money on a centralized exchange and all that stuff. And I've been there myself. I mean, after Mt. Gox blew up, I didn't have any funds on there.
00:07:06.720 - 00:07:41.370, Speaker A: But what ended up happening was that I traded away a lot of my BTC in 2013, being like super Noob, super amateur, not having much BTC to begin with, wanting to increase my stack. Then Mt. Gox blew up, and any BTC I had ended up being worth very, very little over the course of the next few months. So I sold, and I was one of those people in 20, 1415 and even 2016 saying, you know, crypto's dead. It's, it's all kind of like a failed experiment, blah, blah, blah. And then I came back in 2017 and I've been extremely active in crypto since then, putting much money than I put in in 2013. I think there's plenty of people like that.
00:07:41.370 - 00:08:02.802, Speaker A: So crypto isn't dead. Like, that's just such an over exaggeration. I totally understand that people, you know, why people are saying that, but at the same time, it's such an over exaggeration. And I wouldn't actually put any stock in people saying that. It doesn't mean that the bear market is going to end today, tomorrow, next month, or anything like that. I got no idea what the prices are going to do. But crypto as an industry is definitely not over.
00:08:02.802 - 00:08:42.620, Speaker A: Definitely not dead. Hope that we see the death of these super unregulated shady exchanges and the death of people trusting these egomaniacs with their money. But I'm not holding my breath for that either, because we always have a new crop of people every cycle that come in and they don't remember or they don't know about the, the sins of the last cycle, and they repeat the same mistakes. I mean, history doesn't repeat, but it rhymes. Or that's, that's the saying there. So just really sad to see that Greg here thinks that there will only be about a 5% recuperation for people who have lost money. So really, if you did lose money in FTX, honestly, just for your own mental health, I would not be holding your breath for any, anything here.
00:08:42.620 - 00:09:19.710, Speaker A: I would just be writing this off as a total loss. And if you're interested in staying in crypto and still think crypto is the place to be building yourself up again, and I think that goes for anyone that's lost money in crypto, is that if you still want to be involved here, learn from those mistakes, uh, and try to build yourself up again. And if you want to exit, and if you think crypto is dead and you don't want to be involved in it anymore, that's totally fine as well. I mean, you wouldn't be listening to my show if that was you. But I totally get that position as well. Like, it is something that can take a heavy toll on people mentally if they lose all, all this money, and then they think that, well, I can't make this back, you know, screw crypto, it's, it's all a scam, blah, blah. I get that line of thinking.
00:09:19.710 - 00:09:46.928, Speaker A: If you have suffered a big loss, for sure, because I've been there myself. Right. And not in a direct way, but definitely in an indirect way there. All right, moving on to. This is funny. So Tom Emma, who is a congressman in the US here, said that Gary Gensler runs to the media while reports to my office allege he was helping SBF and FTX work on legal, legal loopholes to obtain a regulatory monopoly. We're looking into this.
00:09:46.928 - 00:10:27.100, Speaker A: And then I had a tweet where I basically said, so Gensler actually was going to give SPF a pass for all of his shady dealings. Seriously? F the SEC. So this is part of a broader, I guess, conspiracy theory that is playing out right now with regards to SPF and the US government, because it's hard not to get into the conspiracy theory territory here. And I'll explain why. We all know that SBF has been, had been cozying up to regulators over the last, I guess, like, you could say, six to twelve months, right? Especially the Democrats in the US. He was Biden's second biggest donor in, in the presidential election, and he'd been donating a lot of money to Democrats over the past twelve to 18 months, I would say. Right.
00:10:27.100 - 00:11:12.508, Speaker A: And he'd been having lots of meetings with different regulators. I showed a picture last week of him with the CFTC commissioner. He'd been cozying up to the SEC. And it seems that in DC, in Washington, he was definitely the person that, that politicians went to to talk about crypto. So the fact that, you know, it came out that Gary Gensler and it was, there was some documents that said this was going to give SPF a pass, so to speak, for all of his previous shady dealings in, in order to get him to, I guess, be an advisor on all things crypto to the US government is extremely screwed up. Right. And if these allegations, I mean, they're just allegations right now, like, it's not proven, but it seems pretty, pretty plausible.
00:11:12.508 - 00:11:25.580, Speaker A: If these are true, then I don't understand how Gary Ganzler can still have a job, let alone be a free man. I mean, this is blatant corruption if it is true. Right? Like, that's. That's. That's how I see it anyway. And I'm glad there's another person looking into this. Tom.
00:11:25.580 - 00:12:06.812, Speaker A: Emma. But unfortunately, given the fact that SPF was such a large donor of Democrats here and given the fact that the Democrats are still in power, they, they kept the Senate in the midterms. They obviously have the presidency. We don't know yet if they're going to keep the House or not. But if they, even if they don't, I don't really expect any big moves from them against SPF because it would embarrass themselves for getting into bed with essentially one of the greatest fraudsters of our time. I mean, if you really think about the amount of fraud and damage that was done by SPF, it is one of the greatest financial frauds of all time. Like, probably, we don't know the exact figures yet, but it's probably just as big as, as Bernie Madoff.
00:12:06.812 - 00:12:45.578, Speaker A: And, and it's crazy to, to think that Gary Gensler was prepared to give this person a pass, right? A pass, just because he was being communicative, communicative with regulators and with, with politicians and helping them with things. Well, I mean, helping them, I guess, like, depending on your point of view here, he was helping or not helping, but definitely that. That bill he was trying to get past was not helping. Defy. And it's hilarious thinking about him trying to pass that bill when he was the one doing all the shady stuff. Right? So there's that happening, and there's a lot of conspiracy around this, right? So I'm not going to dive too deep into that. But there are a lot of connections here.
00:12:45.578 - 00:13:13.348, Speaker A: SPF's parents, there are a lot of connections of SPF and around him, the SEC, CFTC, bunch of other politicians in the US. But I'm not going to draw any conclusions just yet. I'm going to keep monitoring this situation. But I think that's something that people should be aware of as well there. I just think that I don't understand how Gary Genzler still has a job, to be honest. He should have been fired long ago. But such is politics, right? I guess, like, he's probably doing the right.
00:13:13.348 - 00:14:28.362, Speaker A: The right job as per his real mandate, rather than he stated mandate. Right. All right, so moving on to another thing that came out over the weekend is an exclusive here from Reuters, who said in a subsequent examination, FTX legal and finance teams also learned that SBF implemented what the two people described as a, quote, unquote, backdoor in FTX's bookkeeping system, which was built using bespoke software. They said the backdoor allowed SBF to execute commands that could alter the company's financial records without alerting other people, including external auditors. This setup meant that the movement of the $10 billion in funds to Alameda did not trigger internal compliance or accounting red flags at FTX, they said. So I've talked about this before about how even if you have auditors and regulators and, you know, proof of reserves and balance sheets and everything being plastered all online to attest to a company's solvency, you can never trust that the same way you can trust something like a public blockchain, because on a public blockchain, if a backdoor like this was installed to fake metrics, everyone would be able to see it, right? Like, if it's open source, everyone would be able to see it. There'd be no way to hide this.
00:14:28.362 - 00:15:25.216, Speaker A: But because this was not open source, because this was closed source, SPF was able to install this backdoor, which tricked the people that were auditing FTX and attesting to FTX's solvent solvency, which is, I guess, an extremely fucked up thing for SPF to do in the first place. But the fact that this is possible in, you know, traditional finance, in centralized fine, and centralized crypto finance, just speaks to the fact that in defi, this can't happen. Because if anything is closed source in Defi, people call it out straight away, and they're like, okay, well, you know, why would I trust your app if it's closed source? I don't know what's going on under the hood. And I guess, like, maybe me saying it can't happen is not the right word. Right word. But the thing is, it can happen, but it can be called out relatively quickly, and then you don't even have to trust anyone. You can order it yourself by running a full node that goes back to all the conversations I've had previously about why it's so important to run your own full node and for the ability to use this to run their own full note.
00:15:25.216 - 00:15:48.524, Speaker A: So I think that was just a really great little example here of something happening on centralized crypto finance that is extremely difficult, if not impossible to happen in defi. I mean, in proper defi, it is impossible to happen because everything's open source, everyone can audit it. If a backdoor was installed, then that thing isn't defi to begin with. But also people could see it. So this. Yeah, I mean, this is just crazy. The fact that he was doing this.
00:15:48.524 - 00:16:15.998, Speaker A: I don't know what kind of drugs he was on. There's definitely drugs involved in this and definitely he has some, some deep issues to be able to do this because normal people do not do this level. And this is just pure fraud. Right? Like absolutely pure fraud. I mean, if SPF does get arrested, I say if because, I mean, there are still other scammers on the loose right now, right after the collapses of this. Of this year. But if SPF does get arrested, I do really wonder how long he would actually spend in prison.
00:16:15.998 - 00:16:51.872, Speaker A: Like the. The level of crimes that he has committed at this point. From what we know, he should spend his life in prison. But financial crimes tend to get punished a lot less severely than, you know, other crimes. So, yeah, I'm not holding my breath there, but just another thing that came out over the weekend that I felt was worth covering. Next up was another fucked up thing that SPF and FTX did, was that they said that they were processing withdrawals for bahamian residents because the securities regulator there forced them to do this. And then the securities regulator came out in the Bahamas and basically said that, no, we didn't force them to do this, that's a lie.
00:16:51.872 - 00:17:19.940, Speaker A: So essentially the withdrawals were probably FTX insiders getting their money out. And there was a lot of drama around people buying accounts that belong to people in the. Sorry, the FTX accounts and then kycing them as bahamian residents and then withdrawing the funds that way. And they were buying these accounts for like $0.10 on the dollar sort of thing. So they were making money from this, which again is just absolutely screwed up. Another lie here.
00:17:19.940 - 00:17:48.184, Speaker A: And a lie like after the fact too, after they got caught doing things. And I guess, I mean, the fact that they've already been caught doing all these sorts of stuff, they probably thought, well, what's the worst that can happen? We just lie again. We'll get money out. Hopefully we can avoid being, you know, go into jail or something, run away to some country that doesn't extradite, extradite to the US. And no one knows where SPF is right now. It's, it's kind of hard to tell, obviously, but I don't know, maybe, maybe information will come out about that. You know, it's at some point this week.
00:17:48.184 - 00:18:26.098, Speaker A: All right, so Frank Shapiro has another thing over the weekend that he put out, or a tweet here. He put out where he said, just spoke with an LP and several crypto funds. He said when he asked funds why they did lazy due diligence on FTX, they responded by basically saying he was on the COVID of Fortune magazine. He was a big name. There's going to be a lot of lawsuits and a lot of funds will shut up. So this is, this is funny because I was talking about this in the deli Gray Discord channel, I think, today and yesterday. And I was saying that last year doing due diligence in for deals within crypto as a fund was a liability.
00:18:26.098 - 00:19:29.566, Speaker A: Because by doing due diligence, you are basically taking longer to do a deal that your competitors were probably jumping right into and everyone was making so much money that you not doing that deal would have your investors, your LP's asking, like, why weren't you in that deal? Why weren't you alongside all these big name investors? Because FTX wasn't just invested in by small, unknown investors. They were invested in by like, the biggest names in this space. Right. And the biggest names in just normal tech vc. So if you are a big name crypto fund or a medium named crypto fund, and you weren't getting into the FTX rounds, because you did, you did your due diligence and you thought that they were dodgy or that didn't look right, your LP's and your investors probably asked you why that was the case, given that the other reputable investors were kind of, were involved in those rounds, and this is the warped incentives that were playing out, especially last year in the bull market, and that's why they didn't do actual due diligence. They just kind of said, oh, well, this investors investing. And, you know, SPF is on the COVID of Fortune magazine.
00:19:29.566 - 00:20:04.230, Speaker A: He has this reputation of being like a really shrewd businessman, a really, really good operator. We're just going to invest here. And it's not just FTX that this applied to. It's a lot of things, especially last year, because the bull market was so, was so, so frothy. There were just a lot of really, really bad deals done and those things. I mean, there's a lot of teams that were invested in by FTX ventures as well, and that money kind of, or that those partnerships that they're hoping to get has evaporated. I'm not sure if they kept that money on FTX, but I'm sure a bunch of those projects did.
00:20:04.230 - 00:20:56.854, Speaker A: So a lot of their runways definitely been evaporated, and it's just not a really great sign, I think, as well now to have FTX or Alameda research and FTX ventures on your cap table. I really do think that that's probably going to be a bit of a knock against certain projects. But at the same time, I hope it's not, because at the end of the day, like, not every project that FTX invested in is, is dodgy or is, like, not sound. There are plenty of projects that they invested in that are definitely really great projects and don't deserve to be, I guess, caught up in the contagion here, but they are if they want to be or not. So that was just another thing that came out over the weekend from Frank. So, Zach, XBT was able to confirm that multiple former FTFT, FTX employees confirmed that they did not recognize $383 million worth of transfers out of FTX. Now, this happened over the weekend as well.
00:20:56.854 - 00:21:38.014, Speaker A: People were speculating that FTX was hacked or that insiders were. Well, FTX said they were hacked, and insiders were withdrawing funds from FTX and getting whatever they could out. And I don't know if there was any clarity on this, but, yeah, it seems like about $400 million was able to be withdrawn from these FTX wallets by, by insiders. I don't believe for a second that they were hacked or anything like that. I do believe it was insiders, and maybe the insiders were the ones that hacked them, but still, I mean, that's not really a, what I would call a hack. So just more, I guess, like, fuckery going on here with, uh, with FTX and with the, with the team there and with the insiders, they're just crazy. I mean, I think that there was.
00:21:38.014 - 00:22:15.364, Speaker A: I mean, it came out over the weekend as well, that, that there was kind of, like, about ten people that were part of FTX and Alameda that were part of some, like, sex cult orgy thing. I don't know how true the, the sex cult part was, but there definitely was, like, a very inner circle of people at FTX and Alameda that did all of this and knew about all of this. And the wider team seemed to not know anything about it, even the. The auditors in the legal department, because they were being lied to. So if anything, it would. The insiders that were taking this money would have been probably part of that very inner circle there, and maybe even SPF himself. We haven't got any confirmation on that, but, yeah, that was another thing that happened over the weekend.
00:22:15.364 - 00:22:49.372, Speaker A: That bunch of funds started moving out of FTX after they had frozen withdrawals. And on top of that, Lucas Nazi here had a. Another thing that another dodgy found, another dodgy thing that FTX did. Did where he said FTX might have minted serum or srm tokens out of thin air to pop up its balance sheet. Serum's total supply increased by 60% this year via two huge mints. These were not previously disclosed based on anything I could find. First mint in February of, in February of of this year and second mint on in May of this year, both 50 million SRM.
00:22:49.372 - 00:23:13.194, Speaker A: The serum protocol, for the longest time, I thought was just like a giant. Not. I mean, I don't think the protocol itself was a giant scam, but the tokenomics were very, very scammy because they had a really, really high, fully diluted market cap with a really, really low circulating market cap. Pretty much the worst I'd ever seen. And FTX was basically in control of this thing. They were in control of the token. I believe they were using it as collateral for certain things.
00:23:13.194 - 00:23:38.188, Speaker A: And it was just really, really dodgy from the start. So the fact that people didn't even catch these mints happening is hilarious to me because it means that people weren't really watching anything because SPF could do no wrong. Right? Like, everyone seemed for SPF for such a long time, and they thought that he had, he was. He was a God and he could do everything right. And, and serum was great, and Solana was great, and all this stuff was great. I mean, I don't want to knock Solana too hard here. They did that serums on Solana.
00:23:38.188 - 00:24:07.914, Speaker A: That's why I mentioned them. But Solana did get into bed with FTX, and I would attribute a lot of Solana's success, especially its price rise, assault token price rise to directly to FTX and Alameda. So it's kind of wild to see the contagion there as well and see how the Solana ecosystem was basically dominated by FTX. I'm not sure what that ecosystem looks like going forward, given that FTX was such a big part of it. They are trying to distance themselves from it, because, of course, they are right. They get in bed when the going is good. They try to distance themselves when the going is bad.
00:24:07.914 - 00:24:55.974, Speaker A: And it really, it came out also recently, I don't know if I have the tweet here, but it came out that SPF was using a lot of the fund to prop up certain token prices, and pretty much all of them were part of the Solana ecosystem, including solar. And it kind of reminded me of how icos in 2017 caused ETH to go on incredible run. Right? And I think the same was true for Seoul in 2021, where it went on that incredible run that it had, because SPF and FTX were just buying so much of it using customer deposits, using profits from these certain activities. And now that's gone. I mean, you've seen what's happened to the Solana price and the Solana ecosystem projects over the past few months. It's just gone down only, right? Like, really, really bad. I mean, the soul token is down more than ETH went down in 2018.
00:24:55.974 - 00:25:42.846, Speaker A: I think it went down, like 96% or something like that, from all time high. ETH went down 94%. So it does strike similarities, though, to me, in terms of the incredible buy pressure that ETH had in 2017 and then the credible sell pressure in 2018 from the ICO selling kind of similar dynamics here, but, yeah, just another dodgy thing out of the FTX ecosystem there. Um, and Frank had, from the block, had another scoop here where he said FTX spent at least $74 million on real estate in the Bahamas this year. So much for that effective altruism that Sam always went on about. Right? And so much for wanting to give away all his money and not living large and driving a Toyota Corolla and being vegan and all this other bullshit that he manufactured to make himself seem like an effective altruist, which I always called out as bullshit. Bullshit.
00:25:42.846 - 00:26:16.734, Speaker A: I mean, the effective altruist altruism movement, I think, has some merit to it in that you want to basically make as much money in any way possible and then direct that money towards, I guess, public goods, for a lack of a better term. Right. Donating that money around to. To causes that you believe in, and that causes a do doing good for the world. But I don't believe SPF ever actually wanted to do that. I don't believe. I believed he used that as another marketing gimmick, another psyop, in order to get people to think that he was some kind of God or to just craft this Persona around him.
00:26:16.734 - 00:26:50.966, Speaker A: And, yeah, I mean, definitely now that's all pretty much proven, right? Like, he was never an effective altruist. He was all about himself, all about building his own empire, all about making as much money as possible. And the fact that he blew it all is still amazing to me, considering how. I mean, considering what they started with, right? Like, they had every advantage. They were making so much money and they somehow lost it all because they got super, super greedy. And then they tried to make it all back after they blew up, which seemed to have happened in q two of this year. They tried to make it back with customer deposits, which obviously is the worst thing you can possibly do as a.
00:26:50.966 - 00:27:26.020, Speaker A: As a custodian and as a centralized exchange, which is blew up in their face. But, yeah, just another thing that, that FTX had done. Spent $74 million on real estate in the Bahamas, which is just absolutely crazy there. And autism capital put out a tweet as well over the weekend where they said from a block fire block employee, the only reason FTX bailed us out was to get our user funds onto their platform to use in their shell game. They applied immense pressure to get blockfi funds migrated to FTX custody. Employees were told by executives not to ask questions about the move. So Blockfi was another thing that blew up this year.
00:27:26.020 - 00:27:48.704, Speaker A: And then FTex came in all white knighting saying, yeah, we're gonna bail you guys out. It's gonna be fine. We're gonna lend you some, some line of credit. It's gonna be all well and good. Well, turns out that, I don't know how verified this is, but it's pretty believable. It turns out that SPF only wanted Blockfire to get access to their customer deposits in order to gamble them away and use them for his own nefarious activities. I believe that totally.
00:27:48.704 - 00:28:20.978, Speaker A: I don't know if it's been verified, but I think given all that we know, we can be pretty confident that it is true. And, yeah, that's just another thing that just is crazy to me. The companies that SPF bailed out, you know, or already blew up once and they've blown up again now and basically have gone to zero here. So I think as far as I can tell, Blockfi is a zero as well there, but that's just absolutely crazy stuff going on there. And then woo. Blockchain here has made a chart of institutions that publicly, publicly indicated damage in the FTX crash event. But this is only a small part.
00:28:20.978 - 00:28:37.788, Speaker A: You can see the exposure to FTX via investment at the top. So Paradigm invested a total of $290 million in FTX, which they're riding down to zero. That money is literally gone, guys. Like that's a. That's so much money just gone. Sequoia, over 200 million. Temersack, over 200 million.
00:28:37.788 - 00:29:30.406, Speaker A: The Ontario Teachers pension fund, 80 million and then inability to withdraw. Their hardest hit here was Genesis trading, which with 175 million, which was plugged by digital currency group, which is the parent company. So they basically covered that whole Galloway's capital, $100 million, I think, or I think it was 50 million or $100 million, but definitely a big hit for them. And for those of you who don't know or don't remember, Galway's capital was the one pushing the Ethereum proof of work fork. So I guess like a bit of karma there, you guys know, my opinion on Galways Galaxy Digital, which is Nova Gratz's firm, $76 million worth of exposure and then a bunch of smaller ones here, and then you've got a bunch of other ones under there, which you can check out on the chart for yourself. But I mean, this isn't the end of the exposure here. There's plenty of exposure to go around, I think, in terms of how many people have gotten wrecked by FTX going under.
00:29:30.406 - 00:30:05.294, Speaker A: But you know what, guys? I think at the end of the day, this is a really positive cleansing event. I really do think that especially when it comes to investing and it comes to, I guess, like trusting certain platforms, these bigger investors and institutions are going to be much more, I guess, much more picky going forward. And they're definitely probably going to get much more regulated than they have been in the past, given what has happened here. So that's a net positive to me. And honestly, I'm very, very glad that we've washed out SPF from this ecosystem. For anyone who's followed me for the longest time, I have always thought he was a dodgy actor. I've always distrusted him.
00:30:05.294 - 00:30:17.870, Speaker A: I always thought he was a net negative for this space. So I'm just super glad that he's been washed out. Yes. This fallout. Yes, a ton of people got hurt. But at the end of the day, like that is just an effect of the washout. Like he did this.
00:30:17.870 - 00:30:37.466, Speaker A: It's his fault. It's not, you know, the fact of the matter is that it's all on him and his cronies. They did all this, they did the damage here. But I'm glad that the damage was relatively contained. I'm glad that it didn't keep going, just like I'm glad that terror didn't keep going. We need to get better at spotting these things early on. We need to get better at weeding them out early on.
00:30:37.466 - 00:31:13.126, Speaker A: As an ecosystem. People just need to get better at listening to people when, when stuff gets called out, because calling everything Fud does not do any good. But also, like, there is a lot of bullshit fud out there. I mean, how many people were saying just a few months ago that Coinbase was insolvent? Well, I mean, that was complete bullshit. I was saying that it was complete bullshit, and none of those same people were calling FTX insolvent, which is just hilarious to me. But really, we do need to get better as an ecosystem to listen to the smart people who are actually saying these things and actually pointing out the dodgy things, rather than, I guess, ignoring them at face value here. So.
00:31:13.126 - 00:31:40.616, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm sure there's going to be an updated chart here with exposure, but yeah, I think this is a positive washout. All in all, even though lots of innocent people have lost money, at the end of the day, as I said, like, that's just an effect of, of this blow up. That is not. I mean, I can't do anything about that, right? I mean, I tried to warn people. I've always said people don't to people, don't leave your coins on exchanges, regardless of what exchange it is. Doesn't matter how trusted it is, just, unless you're actively trading, don't leave your coins on there. It's not hard to self custody.
00:31:40.616 - 00:31:59.964, Speaker A: Honestly, if you're, if you're a daily guy, listener and watcher, I'm sorry, but you should be able to self custody. That is not it. Honestly. Like, I should make it a prerequisite for being able to listen and watch the show, because the daily way is not a noob show. Like, I go into very deep topics about a theory. I'm not a noob friendly channel. I'm not trying to be a noob friendly channel.
00:31:59.964 - 00:32:15.994, Speaker A: I know there are different, different people listening and watching this, and there's different levels of knowledge, but if you don't know how to use a hardware wallet, like, I'm telling you, it's not that hard. There's plenty of guides online. It's very simple. If you can use metamask, you can use a hardware wallet. That. That, to me, is the, um. That.
00:32:15.994 - 00:32:44.930, Speaker A: That, to me, is the, the short and sweet of it. The hardest part of a hardware wall, I would say, is the same as the hardest part of something like metamask is securing your seed phrase, making sure that you don't lose that. That, to me, is the most difficult part, and that, in of itself, is not that difficult. Right. Um, so please, please, please, like, if you've got coins on exchanges still, please just transfer them to a hardware, a ledger, a lattice one, or any of the other trusted brands out there. Honestly, I've only ever used ledger and lattice one, so I can only recommend those. And please only buy them from the official website.
00:32:44.930 - 00:33:15.418, Speaker A: Don't buy them from a third party vendor because they could become compromised from a third party vendor. Only buy them from the official ledger website and the official grid website, which makes. Which makes the lattice one. And then, you know, move your assets to them. You can do test transactions as well to make sure that you're moving it to the right address and everything, but you won't regret it. You'll feel a lot better, and you'll feel like you are actually doing crypto, right, so to speak. Because we invented self custody for a reason, guys.
00:33:15.418 - 00:33:41.504, Speaker A: Like, we shouldn't be just giving all our funds to these centralized entities and being like, oh, yeah, we trust you with our money, because we don't. I mean, I don't. I honestly, doesn't matter how. How legitimate. Legitimate I think an exchange is, I do not trust them to custody of my funds. And to be honest, like, if I didn't have to do it, I wouldn't keep fear in a bank account. Like, I have to do it because practically, I can't keep large amounts of cash on my person or in, you know, under my mattress.
00:33:41.504 - 00:34:07.188, Speaker A: Like, that's not very secure. It's very impractical. It basically locks me out of the digital banking system. Right? It's like, I need a bank account to access that. But when it comes to crypto, the practicality of being able to self custody large amounts of money is. Is just as practical as, um, being able to. To have a bank custody your funds, right, in terms of, like, digital, but you do it in a self custodial way instead of.
00:34:07.188 - 00:34:29.416, Speaker A: Instead of giving custody over to a third party. So, anyway, that's my. That's my rant there on that one. Not your keys, not your coins, all that good stuff. I think that's definitely more apps now than ever. All right, so shifting gears a little bit here, still on the FTX topic, but I put out a tweet where I said, most of SPF biggest simps have been dead silent for days now. And they are cowards.
00:34:29.416 - 00:34:49.328, Speaker A: They are cowards like I. Like. And I named some of them. In my reply here to someone, I said, sino, Samani and Kanav. So for those of you who don't know, Maddie, Sino was a very big name, or is a very big name investor in the Solana ecosystem and in the FTX ecosystem. He's been silent through this whole thing. Somali.
00:34:49.328 - 00:35:07.748, Speaker A: Same deal here. And I went on my rant about Carl Somali last. Last week, so I'm not going to continue there. And can of. He is the CEO of Jump Crypto, which I've talked about a bunch of times before, but basically, he has lost money on. On a lot of things this year, and I'd be embarrassed to be him right now. I know jump capital in traditional finance, basically.
00:35:07.748 - 00:35:27.044, Speaker A: Yeah. Prints money, and they've got so much money, they don't know what to do with. But Kanav has also been silent. So money's been silent. Haven't said anything. What's happening? Probably lost a lot of money in the FTX exposure, and they have to basically do damage control with. With different parties that they interact with, which is fine, but, you know, they were their biggest simps.
00:35:27.044 - 00:35:54.768, Speaker A: And I mentioned last week that Somali said, haters take note over concerns around FTX being insolvent, implying that he believed FTX wasn't insolvent. And then he was all. He was withdrawing funds from FTX as part of Multicoin. So the fact that they've been silent to me is just, you know, I mean, I'm not surprised, but very clear indication of the fact that you should never trust these people ever. They do not have your best interest at heart at all. They don't care about you at all. They don't care about this ecosystem.
00:35:54.768 - 00:36:16.400, Speaker A: All they care about is lining their pockets with as much money as possible, and they profit maximalist. Right. That's what they do. So don't trust them and don't think they care about you. Just a small note on that one. And one of those people is Suzu. So both Suzu and Kyle Davies of three arrows capital are trying to do a comeback arc right now, redemption arc right now in the wake of FTX blowing up.
00:36:16.400 - 00:36:37.564, Speaker A: Now, sue put out a tweet over the. Over the weekend where he said, it's a long story, but we were scammed just like you guys. It's okay. Justice is coming. So basically, he's trying to shift blame from himself and Kyle and three arrows capital to alameda, FTX, and SPF. I think that this is complete bullshit, complete horseshit. It is not.
00:36:37.564 - 00:37:10.290, Speaker A: Alameda and FTX's fault that 3 hours capital did, all the dodgy borrowing that they did and all the dodgy leverage games that they did. They're fully responsible for that. And they actually were completely in bed with FTX as well, promoting them, you know, shilling them, all that sorts of stuff. So don't give these guys a pass. Please don't welcome them back with open arms. Same with do Kwon, same with Mashinsky. Same with all of those people that gaslighted you, that basically scammed you, that shield, you garbage that did all these dodgy stuff.
00:37:10.290 - 00:37:23.058, Speaker A: Please, please, please do not welcome them back. Keep, keep the pressure on them. Keep replying to them, saying, no, you're full of shit. You're a fraud. Get out of here. I don't want to see these people coming back. I don't want to see them have any kind of redemption arc.
00:37:23.058 - 00:37:57.402, Speaker A: Please, like, just, just keep doing that. Keep the pressure on. I believe that that's the, the best way to go about it here. All right, so speaking of, I guess like I get, early in the episode, I spoke about how SPF had a lot of connections in DC and in Washington, in, in politics, in the US. There's a good thread here from Ron Hammond, who said this week in Congress and crypto, the FTX drama has captured DC's attention more than anything before, but for different reasons. FTX's approach to lobbying has been scrutinized by the hill and industry alike. Here's what we're hearing from the Hill on what to expect next.
00:37:57.402 - 00:38:20.440, Speaker A: Now this trip was put out three days ago, but it's still very informative and very relevant. So go read this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But basically, this is definitely a red mark on, on Washington and on DC politicians here. They're definitely going to be feeling the heat from different, different areas. Maybe they do make SPF an example, but I don't know, because it makes them look bad and makes them look embarrassed. But still, give this thread a rate.
00:38:20.440 - 00:38:51.052, Speaker A: It goes into great detail about this and it gives another view about this whole thing. All right, so I put out a ton of tweet over the weekend where I said I'm really glad that regulators, sanctions, tornado cash cozied up to SPF and focused on killing DeFi instead of putting in guardrails to potentially prevent the FTX clearly collapse. I feel very protected. Protected as an investor right now. Like, as I said, they all got into bed with SBF, these regulators. Gary Gensler seems to have gotten into bed with him cozied up to him. They did nothing to protect investors from this.
00:38:51.052 - 00:39:35.600, Speaker A: And as I said, this is the biggest collapse in Crypto's history, one of the biggest collapses in finance, financial history besides 2008. And the regulators who say that they want to protect us, they want to put in guardrails, they want to regulate things, didn't actually prevent this. Now, I know FTX was not, was not domiciled in the US, they were in the Bahamas. But there is an argument to be made that because the regulatory environment in the US is so harsh for crypto, FTX didn't incorporate in the US. It incorporated overseas. And then they had to do a separate entity called FTX US, which was more obviously more heavily regulated. But the only reason, or one of the major reasons why FTX was able to get away with stuff for so long was because they were offshore, they weren't heavily regulated by proper, proper regulators.
00:39:35.600 - 00:39:59.800, Speaker A: And that was in part due to the fact that crypto regulations in the US are so ambiguous. There's no clear guidance here. And it's actually not worth it for a lot of companies to spin up in the US. It's worth it for them to go overseas, which contributed to this, I believe, as, as well. All right, so I. Yeah, another tweet that I put out over the weekend, I know I'm getting to the relative end of the FTX stuff. I know I rambled on a lot about it, but I think it's important to get through it all.
00:39:59.800 - 00:40:38.806, Speaker A: But another tweet I put out, I said, kind of fucked up and sad how it seems that 90 plus percent of people in this industry have supported one or more of the things that blew up this year. Terra, 3 hours capital, FTX, Celsius, Voyager, Blockfi, Hodlnut and more. We need to be better than this. So I was thinking about this over the weekend. If I was to call out everyone that supported one or more of these things, I would have no friends left in this industry. But I also think that there are different levels of supporting something. For example, if you supported the terror ecosystem and the terror project, because you truly did believe that it was a sound project, right.
00:40:38.806 - 00:40:55.400, Speaker A: And you weren't just doing it because you wanted to make lots of money and you knew it was a scam, but you wanted to get. And you knew it was a ponzi. Sorry. And you wanted to get out before the whole house of cards clapped, collapsed. If you actually believed in it, truly believed in it, then that is different to people supporting it. Knowing that, knowing that it was a ponzi. Right.
00:40:55.400 - 00:41:35.418, Speaker A: Knowing that it was gonna blow up. I think that there's a line to be drawn there. Then if you were supporting something like FTX, for example. Well, I mean, FTX caught most people off guard, so you could be forgiven for supporting FTX to an extent because they lied about everything that portrayed a very legitimate image, and it fooled a lot of the smartest people in this ecosystem. So again, like, supporting the word support here varies from, from thing to thing. But also, as I said, like, there's a lot of people that, that are, that are smart and then have supported these things, but now they have egg on their face. Now they're going to be probably a lot more skeptical of a lot more things, which I think is a net positive.
00:41:35.418 - 00:42:24.552, Speaker A: But I'm trying to call out as many people as I can, but only the bad actors. I don't want to call out the good actors who just got duped or who, you know, supported something because they thought it was legitimate, genuinely thought it was legitimate for a bunch of different reasons, and it turned out it wasn't. But at the same time, I am trying to call out as many bad actors as I can. But again, like, I obviously am a very public person. I'm not anonymous, I can't call out everyone as well because I'm just one person. But I think I've done a good job so far, and you can let me know if I have or haven't actually. But I personally think I've done a good job so far of grinding that line between calling out everyone that you know, and no matter who they are and just sticking to the people that I believe to be actual bad actors who have demonstrated that they're bad actors over longer periods of time and for supporting these things.
00:42:24.552 - 00:43:08.550, Speaker A: So I think that, you know, let's not be too hard on everyone in the ecosystem, even if they supported, you know, one or more things on this list, but make sure that they learn from those lessons if they're, especially if they're public people, and, and help them not to repeat those same mistakes by calling things out to them saying, hey, this looks dodgy. I saw that you were a supporter of this. You know, look into it more closely because I see this as looking dodgy and all that sorts of stuff. So I just thought that was worth bringing up because I see some people, you know, got all the pitchforks out for everyone, when in reality they should be focusing our pitchforks on the actual bad actors rather than the good actors that just got caught up in certain things because of being duped themselves. I mean, we're not perfect guys. Like humans get duped all the time. We get lied to.
00:43:08.550 - 00:43:47.238, Speaker A: We fall for stuff. And I've fallen for stuff in the past as well. I'm not perfect, but my, these days my bullshit detector is like way, way tuned, tuned up. Like I, you know, it's funny because like I used to call bullshit on a lot of things, not just the things that are on this list, but also a lot of other things. And some of those things turned out to be completely legit and they weren't actual bullshit, and I was wrong about them. And the biggest one I was probably wrong about is binance. I do think that binance did a lot of dodgy, shady things early on, but they haven't done, you know, anywhere near as bad as these other kind of, these other things in crypto.
00:43:47.238 - 00:44:29.532, Speaker A: And I think Cz, even though he, I don't consider him a hero, I still consider him a bit of a villain, right? Definitely a shrewd businessman, definitely a profit maximalist. I do think that he's a lot better, right, than these other actors. And I've been wrong about him too, I think. Not to say that he's perfect or he's infallible or anything like that, but yeah, that's just an example of something I've been wrong about in the past. But I think on net I have stuck to at least trying to call out the, the obviously bad actors is the way I see them anyway. And yeah, moving to, I guess like a bit of positive news here. I said, one positive thing that has come out of the FTX debacle is that some centralized exchanges are actually doing proof of reserves now.
00:44:29.532 - 00:45:05.776, Speaker A: Really hope to see this continue at a regular cadence. It's the least that these platforms can do to build trust in this ecosystem. And then I said, you know, the replies are right, that proof of proof of liabilities is also important. And I hope centralized exchanges start doing this too, though this is more complex and involves third parties that may not want this information disclosed. Disclosed. So I'm not sure if we're going to get proof of liabilities anytime soon, though I hope we do. Proof of reserves I think the main strength of it is that it identifies that the addresses, the on chain addresses that centralized exchanges own and actively use so that users can follow them and spot anything that looks suspect.
00:45:05.776 - 00:46:12.960, Speaker A: That to me is the main, the main benefit of this. Obviously, proof of reserves can be faked, and we've actually seen some exchanges seemingly fake their proof of reserves by borrowing funds from another exchange and then doing a snapshot and saying, hey, we have like this, these funds on this address, and this is our proof of reserves, and then moving those funds back to the address that they borrowed it from. And basically, you know, the proof is basically worthless, but we can see that on chain, and that's, I think, the value of it. So I think that's just a positive that has come out of all of this. I do hope to see more of this and the proof of liability stuff, but at the end of the day, we're still trusting these centralized exchanges to be truthful here, whereas we don't have to trust things like DeFi. So as I explained before, that's, again a massive kind of benefit to DeFi over something like c five here. And speaking of centralized exchange transparency, Defi Llama released a transparency dashboard for centralized exchange exchanges with a TVL of user deposits in the centralized exchange and liability audits, along with auditor and date.
00:46:12.960 - 00:46:41.630, Speaker A: So you can check out this dashboard for yourself at defi llama.com sexes or SC Exs. And you can see here the TVL clean TVL liabilities auditor and last audit date. So most exchanges do not have a liabilities auditor at all. You can see in this list here, even the biggest ones don't. The ones that do, a Coinbase, Kraken, Gator and Nexo. Coinbase has theirs from Deloitte, and this was done 31 December 2021.
00:46:41.630 - 00:47:14.310, Speaker A: So it's coming up on a year old here. Krakens was last done in June this year, gates in October of this year, and Nexo basically three days ago, and they are done by minnow LLP. So great to see that there are at least some centralized exchanges that have liabilities auditors, but you can see here that most of them don't. But good to see this dashboard. Good to have something that aggregates all this information for us to keep tabs on here. All right, so another thing that happened over the weekend has got to do with crypto.com dot.
00:47:14.310 - 00:47:59.944, Speaker A: So they basically said that they accidentally sent 320,000 ETH, yes, 320,000 ETH to a exchange address on gate IO exchange instead of their cold storage address. And I put out this tweet saying, you know, why would anyone ever trust a centralized service that, quote unquote, accidentally sends 320,000 ETH to the wrong address? This is pure amateur level shit, and crypto.com deserves to be called out for it. If your funds are on there, I highly recommend moving them off right now. So honestly, like, this should never happen. Like, it's mind boggling to me that this was even possible, that this could even happen, that you would send 323,000 ETH, which is not a small amount of ETH. Guys, like, this is a very, very large amount of ETH.
00:47:59.944 - 00:48:23.066, Speaker A: This is probably all of the ETH of crypto.com has. They sent it to gate IO and then they got most of the funds back, but not all of it. I think they got like 285,000 ETH back, but not the entire amount back. So what did they owe gate that I owe 35,000 ETH in a debt or something like that? I don't know. I haven't tracked it since, since this kind of news came out. But yeah, this is amateur level shit.
00:48:23.066 - 00:48:55.896, Speaker A: I will never, ever use crypto.com. I mean, I was already not going to use them because I've thought they were dodgy for quite a while. But given this latest, I will never use them. I will never recommend them to anyone. And I recommend that if you are using them to stop and to withdraw all of your funds from them, you cannot trust a centralized operator. You shouldn't trust any centralized operator to begin with, but you can't even begin to trust one at all that accidentally sends this amount of money to the wrong address. Right, because it could have easily, I mean, they said that it was a white listed address and that's why it was able to be sent there.
00:48:55.896 - 00:49:21.068, Speaker A: It can't be sent to any address, but that doesn't matter, right? Just because it's a whitelisted address. Why was it whitelisted? As you should have separate addresses here, you should have a set of whitelisted addresses for your cold storage and a set of whitelisted addresses for things like other centralized exchanges. They shouldn't be comingled at all. So that was a massive oversight by them. But as I said, I am never ever going to trust them, ever. I'm never going to use them. And if you do use them, just use somewhere else.
00:49:21.068 - 00:50:02.784, Speaker A: There's plenty of other options for you if you need fiat on and off ramps, if you need centralized exchanges, and please do move your funds off there, because they obviously can't be trusted. All right, so another bit of positive news. Just to break up the negative news here, I put out a tweet where I said, just a friendly reminder that amongst all the crazy bad shit that happened this year, Ethereum had an extremely successful merge and work on the next protocol upgrades continues unabated. Ethereum remains the strongest ecosystem in crypto, and I'm incredibly excited for its future. What I think about what's happened this year, I split it up into two buckets. Ethereum has had an incredibly positive year. Defi has continuously been tested on Ethereum and worked just fine.
00:50:02.784 - 00:50:49.324, Speaker A: If the Ethereum network went through its biggest upgrade in its history with the merge and it was extremely successful, was basically a perfect merge. The ETH price, as compared to other assets has been relatively stable, and that can be measured by the ETH BTC ratio. Work on the next upgrades continues, right, and is continuing at a really rapid, rapid clip. The L2 ecosystem on Ethereum has gotten so much better and has matured so quickly. All of the L2s are building out some crazy cool shit that, that is being released slowly as time goes on, their ecosystems have been built out. And on top of that, I think that the Ethereum community is just in just such a great place right now because of all of that. Right then you look at crypto as a general thing.
00:50:49.324 - 00:51:05.548, Speaker A: It's all gone to shit. I mean, like all the old tail ones are pretty much dead. Even the biggest ones have had just their worst years ever. I mean, they haven't been around for very long, but they've had really, really bad years. Things have literally gone to zero. Like Terra. Terra, guys, Terra was one of the biggest ecosystems in crypto.
00:51:05.548 - 00:51:28.666, Speaker A: It went to zero. Some of the biggest players have gone to zero. One of the biggest centralized exchanges have gone to zero. Like crypto is really not having a good time. But Ethereum, in the face of all of that, is having an absolutely excellent time. I can't even find anything negative about Ethereum that's happened this year. Besides the censorship stuff, that is really the only thing that I can think of off the top of my head that I would consider a large knock against Ethereum is the OFAC sanctions.
00:51:28.666 - 00:52:29.182, Speaker A: But even that, we've turned into a positive because it's got a lot more people thinking about, uh, enhancing Ethereum censorship resistant properties and, and got a lot more people thinking about Mev as well. So I think that that would be the only major negative thing that's happened to Ethereum this year. But that in of itself, as I've mentioned before, is a positive thing because not just because it's kicked our ass into gear to take censorship resistance more, more make it more prevalent, but it means that Ethereum is doing what it was made to do and, and be the that thing that challenges nation states, challenges governments, challenges the existing order of things. And it's doing it. And you can still get your tornado cash transactions in. You just have to wait a little bit longer because the Ethereum is still essentially resistant network. Even though 75% or whatever it is today of blocks on Ethereum are censoring those transactions, you still have 25% that aren't, and you're still able to get a tornado cash transaction in in less time than it takes for a bitcoin block to be mined, right.
00:52:29.182 - 00:52:50.948, Speaker A: In less than ten minutes, which is, which is absolutely hilarious to me at the same time as it is crazy. So yeah, Ethereum has just had a killer. Yeah, it keeps killing it. I'll never be more excited for Ethereum's future. And I hope to see, obviously, Ethereum keep kicking, kicking goals as time goes on. All right, I think this is the last bit of news about FTX. Yes, it is.
00:52:50.948 - 00:53:16.132, Speaker A: All right, I'm finally at the end here. So CZ put out a tweet just before where he said, to reduce further cascading negative effects of FTX, binance is forming an industry recovery fund to help projects who are otherwise strong but in a liquidity crisis. More details to come soon. In the meantime, please contact Binance labs if you think you qualify. Also, welcome other industry players with cash on hand. Who wants to co invest? Crypto is not going away. We are still here.
00:53:16.132 - 00:54:06.478, Speaker A: Let's rebuild. So basically, CZ is doing what F, what SPF was doing and basically purchasing distressed assets, purchasing distressed companies, or investing in distressed companies in order to get himself a really good deal, which I think is very smart. SPF obviously had the right idea, wrong execution, but CZ definitely has the right idea and the right execution, it seems. Yeah, but this is great. I think it's great to be able to invest and make sure that the projects that are actually building sustainable things and building things, people that people actually want to use are still able to do that without the worry of not having the Runway. So it seems that CZ is putting his weight and his money behind this, and this is a much better use of his money than the original offer to bail out FTX. As I said, bailing at FTX was basically, would basically bring no benefit to CZ or binance at all.
00:54:06.478 - 00:55:00.676, Speaker A: But investing in these distressed companies, or just in more companies in general through binance labs definitely brings a huge positive to binance and to CZ. So obviously he wants to do that. So if you are a project that is distressed, or if you know that one that is, maybe you can go to, to binance labs and see if they would like to invest in your project to give you more Runway or in the project, you know, to give them more Runway in order to keep going for however long this bear market lasts. All right, shifting gears completely now into the last set of up, last set of updates, which has got to do with Ethereum. So Marius from the Geth team put out a tweet where he said Neth the next withdrawal Devnet will be started next week, next week being this week. There's a Lodestar Geth lodestar Nethermind withdrawal Devnet running Sysx fully already, but we wanted to add prism into the mix. So work still continues on the beacon chain.
00:55:00.676 - 00:55:45.604, Speaker A: Withdrawals that are slated for Shanghai, the Devnet's are being a new Devnet is being spun up and as I said, it goes Devnet's testnets, sorry, private testnet or short lived testnets, then public test nets, then main nets. Withdrawals are, I mean, as I said, 99% coming into Shanghai with ERP 4844 still on the fence, which is a perfect segue into a few 4844 related updates. So op labs put out a summary that was written by Infi here, all about proto Dank sharding and ERP 4844. So it's quite short. You can definitely check this out for yourself and read the blog post for yourself. But yeah, I just wanted to highlight that one there. There was also a thread from Alex Stokes here about ERP 4844 and what this looks like from a builder's perspective.
00:55:45.604 - 00:56:35.508, Speaker A: So if you are a builder or a developer, this is the thread for you to read, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And then just a couple of last things here. Super fizz put out a tweet where he said if you came to the ultrasound money negative issuance celebration on November 8 and sent $5 to negativeissuance ETH, you're probably able to claim a po up at this address that he links. So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. You can go claim that poop now. Last up here is a shout out to another YouTube channel that I learned about a few a while ago, but I actually joined the rocket pool voice chat the over the weekend on Friday actually, and someone mentioned to me that I should give this channel a shout out because they were inspired by the Daily Gwei. Well, that channel is rocket fuel, which is a YouTube channel that covers all things got to do with the Rocketpool community with daily updates.
00:56:35.508 - 00:57:06.358, Speaker A: Now this channel was created by Whack Whack Attack, a rocket pool community member. And it's honestly amazing to me that he finds enough content to do a daily video about just one project, considering I do it about the entire Ethereum ecosystem. He does it just about Rockerpool and covers everything you want to know about Rockapool. So if you love Rockerpool and you want to keep up to date with them, definitely go subscribe to his rocket fuel channel or go check it out, watch his videos. I think they're very informative. He does a really great job of explaining things. So I just wanted to give a shout out to whack, whack attack and rocket fuel there.
00:57:06.358 - 00:57:45.324, Speaker A: Now, before I end today's episode, because we're coming up on the hour here, I just want to say that I hope all of you are doing okay, right? Not just financially, but also mental health wise. The last few days, last week have been some of the craziest, if not the craziest, in Crypto's history. I know I said that about terror and three ac and a bunch of other things this year, but I think this whole debacle over the last week takes the cake. There has not been anything bigger than this. It's just been, you know, eyes on the screen, eyes glued to Twitter the whole time. Especially for me. I mean, I went away over the weekend to the beach with a bunch of friends, and I was still, like, I was trying to stay off my phone, but I was still glued to it because I'm like, you know, this is just too much going on.
00:57:45.324 - 00:58:06.838, Speaker A: You know, and even if I didn't look at my phone for a couple of hours, I missed so much stuff. So it was quite difficult. But, you know, I think it's always worth remembering that your mental health, mental health should come first. If you're feeling really burnt out, if you're feeling really tired, if you're feeling like this, everything's just too crazy. And it's very hard to, to keep up with things. Don't get down about it. Maybe take a break.
00:58:06.838 - 00:58:26.986, Speaker A: Force yourself to take a break. Try and just step away. The ecosystem will still be here. If you do that, you can probably take a break for a few days and just watch the refuel if you want, and you'll get caught up with everything you've missed. Anyway, there's no need to sit on Twitter if you've got the refuel, like I do that for you. I mean, honestly, like, this applies equally to me, the advice that I'm giving right now. But I, like every person, varies.
00:58:26.986 - 00:58:55.596, Speaker A: And for me personally, like, I live and breathe this stuff, like, this stuff just, I mean, it doesn't get me burnt out or tired or down or anything like that. Like, this is my bread and butter. I live and breathe it. I love being able to talk about it with all of you guys and, and get this information out there and educate, but I know not everyone is like that. So if you do feel burnt out or you feel tired or you feel very run down and exhausted from the last week, take a break. There's no shame in that. There's, there's, and the, as I said, the ecosystem is still going to be here.
00:58:55.596 - 00:59:16.104, Speaker A: Everything's still going to be here. The refuel is available for you if you need to catch up at any time, right? So, yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's extra long episode. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't, haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
