00:00:01.120 - 00:01:47.100, Speaker A: Okay, so, good morning everyone. So I'm going to continue this discussion about the problem of elimination of unstable locus for differential operators. So I recall to you very briefly, I have this problem of, to consider a differential operator that I note by phi, and the germ of this operator on a point will be called strongly unstable if these two conditions here are satisfied. Right? So I should, it should preserve the filtration given by the powers of the maximal ideal, and then it should be satisfied, this property of being unstable in the preceding sense, which means that there is some coordinate system where you can, you can exclude the origin from the Newton polyhedron, right? So I just recall this example to show to you that this, so the first condition which appears here is always satisfied where when phi is of order zero or one, I mean for vector fields or for function germs, but it can be, even if the operator is unstable, this condition cannot hold in some cases. Here I show you an example. I was a little bit quick, perhaps like last time. So in this case, you can see that in this coordinate system, the polyhedron is separated by, let's say by a plane through this point, like a plane is separate from the origin.
00:01:47.100 - 00:02:35.760, Speaker A: But so the first, the second condition here is satisfied, but the first one is not satisfied. Why? Because, well, this is a way to see it. When you, let's say when you take the second power of the maximal idea is not sent into itself by five. Okay? Because, well, you just look at the equation here and you see that, let's say x square is sent to a unit, no, sorry, x square is sent to x. It sent to y, in fact, okay, so x is correct, sent to y. So it maps, effectively, it maps m squared to m. So this also explains to you why I need this condition for all powers k.
00:02:35.760 - 00:03:30.894, Speaker A: Because in fact, if you just look for the first power, you have a phi of M mapped to m. But this is not, holds for the second power. Okay, so why we have to make this, let's say stronger definition? Because in fact I'm not able to prove that the stable locals, I mean the, sorry, the unstable locals, the one which I don't use, the first condition, I cannot prove that it's closed. Perhaps it's true, but I don't have a counter exam, but I don't know how to prove it. But this strong unstable locus is closed. Okay? So it coincides with the previous, the weaker notion, when the order is more than one and it's closed. Well, I have written the proof here, but I think I'm not going to show too, but because I want you to tell you about other things.
00:03:30.894 - 00:04:31.898, Speaker A: And in fact, the most important part of this proof is to use these techniques from geometric invariant theory. So I'm going to give you a very brief review of this concept of geometric invariant theory, because in fact, all the procedures that I'm trying to apply here are based on this sort of ideas, the circle of ideas. So the setup is the following. You have what you call a reductive group acting linearly on a phi dimensional vector space. Okay? So the first thing that you want to understand, of course, is the quotient by this action. And for this it's necessary to describe this ring of invariant. So I mean that all polynomials which are environed by the g action, where of course g, since it acts on the group on the space v, it acts also by, on the, on the set of polynomials, by the usual, let's say, dual loss.
00:04:31.898 - 00:05:16.222, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a very important theorem. So Hilbert's proof that proven, let's say for some particular case. But then has it been extended for the whole set of reductive groups, that this ring of invariants is finite generated. Okay, so it means in fact that you can define some sort a quotient, a space which would be the quotient of V by the action of G. So there are some polynomials, a 01:00 a.m. which can be chosen to be homogeneous, which generate this ring of invariance. And here we are, we are going to be interested in fact in what we call the null cone.
00:05:16.222 - 00:06:01.354, Speaker A: What's the new cone? In fact, is the fiber above zero of this quotient map. Or we can also define it as the zero set of the set of the collection of all the generators of the invariant ring. So one of the results is that each one of the level sets a one to a n equals to constant contains a unique closed orbit. In fact, the Unix closed orbit inside the nucleus is the origin. All the other orbits will contain which are in the new cone. So there are several other orbits we are going to see here. They contain the origin on their closure.
00:06:01.354 - 00:06:49.574, Speaker A: So one of the important factors we'd like to characterize this new cone without computing the ring of invariance, which can be quite tricky in some examples. And well, this is a very nice idea. So how can you do to compute this new code some sense you fix a maximal torus. So again, here is a. So now we are in a finite dimensional settings. We have this group g, and then we have some torus inside a copy of c to the power c star to the power n. And now you define, let's say, the, the graduated decomposition of v in this direct sum where each alpha is, let's say, a generalized eigenspace associated to t.
00:06:49.574 - 00:08:16.514, Speaker A: Okay, so, for instance, if you take g equals to the linear group, the full linear group, this maximal tolerance is simply given by, let's say, a copy of enough in a convenient basis, a copy of the subgroup of diagonal matrices in Cn, for instance. Okay, so as a, so as in the case of, in the finite, in a finite dimensional setting, we can define the support of a vector on the vector space v small v, simply by taking its decomposition with respect to this direct sum and taking the support as being all v alphas, sorry, all alpha such that v alpha is non zero. So the components which are non zero in this direct sum in trigon basis. So this is the central piece for us is the Hilbert Manfrott criteria, which establishes an equivalence between three conditions. So v lies on the maximum on the null code, so it contains zero on its closure by the action of g if and only if there exists a maximal torus t such that the convex envelope of the support of v with respect to this torus does not contain zero. So. Okay, this recalls a lot, the condition of instability that I've defined in the infinite dimensional set.
00:08:16.514 - 00:09:47.914, Speaker A: And there's a third condition, which is, I've already also discussed it in the, in the, the case, in our infinite dimensional case is that you can find a one parameter subgroup, lambda, such that the support of v with respect to Lambda has all positive, let's say, has only positive terms on its graduation. Okay, so these three conditions are equivalent. This is the so called Hilbert mantle criteria. So for us, in fact, what we would like to do is to, well, I have defined the instability. In fact, having this result in mind, I have defined the instability by these two conditions here, right? But the Hilbert manifest criteria says that they are, it's also defined by this first condition here, which is purely algebraic. Okay, so the first equivalence here allows in some sense to eliminate this existential quantifier which appears here, right? And says that, well, in fact, to find, let's say, to prove the existence of a maximal tolerance, it suffices to see that v lies on the vanishing locus of the generators of the invariant ring. So in some sense, it translates this instability condition by an algebraic condition.
00:09:47.914 - 00:10:42.092, Speaker A: So, in fact, this is in the heart of the proof that this strongly unstable locus is closed, as I mentioned in the theorem that I've not. Okay, so geometrically it means the following. So v is on the nucleus. It's the same thing as saying that zero lies on the closure of g of v with respect to g. And now with this condition, with this equivalence, by the Hilbert manifest criteria, it says the following thing. If you can send, let's say if zero lies on the closure of orbital v by g, then there is a one parameter group, lambda, which also sends v to zero on its closure. Okay? So it says that what I mean, it's this.
00:10:42.092 - 00:11:47.014, Speaker A: So zero belongs to the closure of our g orbit, the g orbit of v if on all, if we can steer v to zero by a one parameter group. So it's like a curve starting from v, which accumulates on zero by along this parameter, this one parameter group here. Okay, so this is an economic, so let's give some examples very quickly. So here two classical examples, okay, so we consider, so this is one example of examples which motivated Gilbert effect. So we consider the case of the reductive group sl two of C. So it acts on the, let's say on c two, and then it acts also on the space of homogeneous degree d polynomials, simply by the formula that, sorry. Yeah, simply by this formula, which changes the linearly coordinates x and y according to the matrix g.
00:11:47.014 - 00:12:25.054, Speaker A: Now we'd like to understand the orbit of a polynomial of degree d by this action here. Okay, so what now we use the Hilbert Mulfer criteria to show which is the null cone. I mean, which are the polynomials which are, whose orbit contains zero in its closure. Right? So you take this maximal torque. So the standard maximal tolerance on sl q of C is this one. It's given by the, so this is a matrix with determinant one, right? And it's diagonal one. So it's, there is in fact one.
00:12:25.054 - 00:13:07.972, Speaker A: This is the so called standard maximal torque. But of course, if you conjugate this lambda of t by any element of sl two, you obtain another torso. Okay, so we have to take a chuck out this whole bunch of maximum torso. So you take this maximal torso, this one, which is one dimension, of course, and how it acts on a monomial. So you say you have x to the k y to the power l, and this transformation maps this to t to the power of k minus l x k y l, right. It's very simple. So how such a monomial is positively graduated.
00:13:07.972 - 00:14:18.474, Speaker A: It's positively graduated when k minus l is positive, strictly. Okay, so, so this means that the support of p with respect to lambda is positively graduated is in this, let's say all its terms are positive graduate if and only if p is divisible either by x the power d, let's say integral part of d over two plus one. Or of course you can, yeah, have these stores, but you can also change t to the t to the power minus one. And then you have the condition, this condition here. Okay, so in terms of the, let's say if you draw the poly, the polygon of p with respect to this coordinates, you have these two configurations. You see that either all terms, all monomials should lie above the diagonal or below the diagonal. Okay? See that these are the two situations which are give a positive graduation with respect to this maximal tolerance, or to this, the inverse of this maximal tolerance.
00:14:18.474 - 00:15:05.364, Speaker A: So, by Hilbert Matho criteria, the new cone is the set of polynomials. So now you have to change, of course, you have to take all possible maximal tauri by conjugating this lambda by the action of sl two. And then what happens that these terms x, let's say this factor x becomes just a linear factor, right? So the characterization is the following. So p, sorry. So a p is in the null cone. If on a leaf it has a root of multiplicity, at least d over two plus one. Okay? So it means that in some good coordinate system, you can push all the support above the diagonal or below the diagonal.
00:15:05.364 - 00:15:52.454, Speaker A: Another case which we have already found is this case here. You take the x of gl, two of gl on the matrices, okay? So it's well known that the ring of invariance in this case are the coefficients of the characteristic polynomial. So this is the action by, on a matrix, by conjugation, of course. And so a lies in the nucleus if and only if it's nipple. Well, I have given a proof here, but it's, it's very easy to show this by the Hilbert man for criteria. Just prove that. Well, in fact, it's a very, very, very easy way to do so.
00:15:52.454 - 00:16:54.300, Speaker A: It's to put, so you put a, supposing that it's important to put a in its Jordan normal form, and then you see very easily that by conjugating a, by a matrix, a diagonal matrix, where you put some powers of t, some, let's say, nice convenient powers of t. On the diagonal, you have a one parameter group which makes all coefficients of this new matrix tends to zero as t goes to zero. Okay, so we have, this condition here is on the new cone, if and if it's important. And in fact, this is one of them. If you recall, this is precisely one of the ways that you use it to characterize the need potent singularities. In the case of vector fields, as you call it, we have this property of separating the support from the origin by a hyperplane. Well, so let's go back to our original problem solve.
00:16:54.300 - 00:17:56.316, Speaker A: Okay, so I'm not going to prove, but we can use this circle of ideas to prove that the unstable locus is closed. I just going to show the drawing. In fact, what happens that you just look at the initial part of the support. Okay, I'm sorry, just to make a drawing here. And then there is a reductive group which acts here. And assuming that it's unstable, you can make this group g separate the support from zero, but this inside the, let's say the plane given by the hyperplane through the origin on the, let's say on the space of Newton polyhedra. And then you can use this argument of that I call the hinge argument to show that you can extend this red line to a hyperplane separating the support from it.
00:17:56.316 - 00:19:17.324, Speaker A: I haven't written the details here, but I going to discuss too much because I'd like to show to so how it's the problem. Now you have this locals which are closed analytic subset of the amendment space, and I'm going to probably the problem is given a differential operator, we'd like to prove that there is a locally finite sequence of blow ups, let's say the usual problem, which will eliminate the strongly unstable lamp. Okay, so the idea is that at the end we have, we finish with a pair m prime, feed prime, where this unstable logs of feed prime is empty. So here for the moment, I'm not requiring to have a logarithmic resolution in the sense that I not included in this data the exceptional divisor, because well, for the moment have to see the algorithm that I'm going to propose. In fact it does not guarantee that the centers of blow up will have normal crossings with the divisor at each step. This is something that perhaps can be incorporated in the algorithm by, let's say by changing a little bit environment that I'm going to propose. But for the moment, I'm not requiring this.
00:19:17.324 - 00:20:21.724, Speaker A: So what's the basic idea? It's based on, in fact on a thing that's called a question of man for Tietz. So recall I have this, I'm going to state that the result, let's say the problem in the context of finite dimensional vector spaces. So I have this reductive group which acts on a vector space v, as I mentioned before. And now I have a vector v which lies on the new cone. So, just in the same context as before. And recall that I said that this is equivalent by the Hilbert manful criteria to the fact that there exists a one parameter group lambda. Okay? So there is a one parameter group lambda such that you have this sort of asymptotic equation which says that lambda of t applied to v is something of the order of t to the power k times v, where k is strictly greater, let's say greater or equal than one.
00:20:21.724 - 00:21:56.296, Speaker A: So by this I mean that when t goes to zero, lambda t of v goes to zero, right? So you can say that this k here measures somehow the order, the speed with which the vector v goes to zero by direction of lambda. And let's notice by mu of v lambda, right? So this the greatest exponent k that I'm able to put here. Okay, so the question of Hilbert monoportists is the following. Can we characterize the subset of one parameter groups for which this order is maximal, right? So now I know that I can send v to zero by, by this one parameter boost, but I would like to know for which one of them I can send v to zero in the fastest way. Okay? So, of course, I have to make the, to put this, to make this question to have a sense, you have to normalize in some, some way the lambda, the lambdas which appear here. Because if you take one of this lambda here, and then you define a new one parameter group where you change t to the t to the power r just made here. Okay? Then, of course, the k, let's say the new which appears for this new one parameter group, lambda one, will be equal to the previous one times r.
00:21:56.296 - 00:22:37.374, Speaker A: So, of course, you can increase this sort of order just by this sort of artificial manipulation, right? So, have to normalize in some way to look at the problem without a modulus, such kind of transformation. Right, so this is the content of. So, Kemp has answered this question in this very nice paper. It's very well written and easily understandable, even for people which, like me, which are not special. It's on the subject, so I recommend this paper. And in this paper, he introduces a notion of a length. Okay, so, a length.
00:22:37.374 - 00:23:23.824, Speaker A: It's a way to measure the size of elements in a one, in the set of one parameter groups. So I recall to you that so gamma of G is the set of all one parameter subgroups of this group G. And now I going to associate a length to each one of these one parameter subgroups. So this is a real valued function like this satisfies these two requirements. So it should be gene varied by something. I mean that if you take lambda and you produce another one parameter group by conjugation, by conjugation, by v, by g, sorry. The length should be preserved.
00:23:23.824 - 00:24:25.624, Speaker A: And the second one is very important is that this length should be given by inner product. So in fact, it's, if you restrict this length to a maximal torque. So a maximal torus is, it contains a lot of one parameter groups. So for each maximal tolerance of t contain it on g, the restriction of the length to each element of t should be given by this formula here. Okay? Where, let's say this bracket here is a integral valued billionaire form on the set of one parameter subgroups of T. Okay, so it's that. So in, sometimes we can say that this, this length should be sort of given by a, by a Hilbert in a pre Hilbert structure.
00:24:25.624 - 00:25:54.794, Speaker A: This is important because we are going to use very strongly the convexity, convexity properties of this, of this inner product, the strict convexity, okay, so yeah, I'm going to let in some sense if, then you recall that I've mentioned to you this so called wire group, which is the group which acts on them, on the one parameter subgroups of gamma. So in fact, if this group, while the while group sufficiently large, as in the case where for instance, if you take g equals to the full linear group, then in fact, this group, the wild group, attacks by permutation on the coordinates and the gene variance of the length, essentially says that the inner product should be unique up to a constant factor. So this is very nice. It means that in fact, if the wild group is sufficiently rich, the g inverse implies that this inner product is essentially unique up to a constant factor. Because you have to permute all the, all the, if I have a basis, then this viral group, we can permute all elements on the basis. So essentially it gives you the same length for all elements in the basis. And so it's a unique aperture concept.
00:25:54.794 - 00:26:51.862, Speaker A: Okay, so now using this basis, we can define. Finally, what's the problem? So, recall that I said that we have to normalize some way to make this question of Munford and Tietz to make a sense of how to normalize. And the way to normalize that is proposal by Kempf is just by define the speed. So suppose that v is an unstable vector. So for each nozzle, no zero, one parameter, sorry, each one parameter group, lambda. I would define the speed of v with respect to lambda as the quotient of the exponent k. Recall that there is this exponent k which appears, which measures the speed, let's say the, the order of convergence to zero of lambda t applied to d.
00:26:51.862 - 00:27:55.204, Speaker A: But now I divide out by the length of lambda. So now, so have this formal object, let's say this precise object, and I go to define the speed of v as the supreme of the speed of v with respect to lambda. Four with respect to all. Lambda on the one parameter, on the set of one parameter will allow us to measure something somehow how much v is unstable. Okay, so I said, how fast can I send it to zero by action of one parameter groups? And now I define this optimal set key of v as a set of all parameter groups which realize the maximal speed. So, of course, it's a theorem to prove that this speed. So this is the content of Kemp's result.
00:27:55.204 - 00:28:51.594, Speaker A: So you would like to characterize this optimal set, a set of imperimeter groups, which realizes this supremo. Okay, so this precise, yeah, I want to escape this, I think. Yeah. So there is how to see this speed in a geometric way. So, in fact, there is a dual pair, let's say a pairing between the one parameter groups on one side and the character set and the group of characters in a maximal torus. And in fact, using this duality between the one parameter groups and the characters, you can transpose the length to length on the set of characters. Okay, so you can, in fact, so I'm going to make the drawing to see how can we see the speed through the Newton polyhedron.
00:28:51.594 - 00:29:36.950, Speaker A: Okay, so in fact, this is just a drawing. So you draw the Newton polyhedron of v with respect to the maximal torus. And then you give, let's say one parametric group which lies on this maximal torus, let's say lambda. And, well, so there is, as I say, there is a dual, but usually the inner product, you can define the Joule character. So it is defined as hyperplane here. And in fact, the speed is nothing else than this distance here, conveniently normalized. So, in some way is to measure the speed of v.
00:29:36.950 - 00:30:19.490, Speaker A: Lambda measures the first point of the Newton polyhedron, which touches this hyperplane defined by lambda. Let's say in a product with k equals to constant. So once we have this speed, of course, for a fixed maximal torus, sorry. Yes. Yeah. The speed, now in absolute terms, is defined by the nearest point. Okay, so now you look inside the Newton polyhedron, the point which is nearest, near the origin with respect to this distance function.
00:30:19.490 - 00:31:14.924, Speaker A: So in this case occur, you have this set of, let's say of spheres. And then you see the first time that one of these spheres touches the Newton polyhedron. And as I said, by the strict convexity of the function which defines the inner product, this holds in a unique point. And this point is the point which realizes the maximum speed inside this torus. But the problem is that now you have a torus, you have a lambda inside the torus, and this realizes the maximum speed inside t. But now there is the group g, which acts, let's say, by on v. But you can think of this as the group G acting, in fact, on the points of the support.
00:31:14.924 - 00:32:07.858, Speaker A: So each time you make g x on v, you change the support. So the question is default. Now, when you make this whole support change, of course, you can put the point lambda farther and farther. So the question now is, is it possible to find for which, and let's say in my notation here, for with g, we can realize a polyhedron such that the point, the nearest point, is as far as possible. So it's a sort of min max problem, right? So you minimize the, let's say you, yes, you take the nearest point, but then you want to maximize the distance of the nearest point. So the theorem of Kemp. See the folders.
00:32:07.858 - 00:33:15.434, Speaker A: So, first of all, that there exists the set of optimal speed, let's say the optimal one parameter groups exist. So it means precisely this, that this speed, the supreme, is sustained. And more important for us is the second conclusion. So this set exists, but in fact, you can fully characterize the set of one parameter rules which realize this optimal speed, which is given as follows. You pick one of the elements, let's say lambda, and then you can obtain all other elements by the action of what we call a parabolic group. So what means that you have this lambda, and then you conjugate lambda by all elements g on the group capital g, but which are positively graduated with respect to lambda. So this is what we call a parabolic subgroup of g with respect to lambda.
00:33:15.434 - 00:34:43.044, Speaker A: Okay, so this will be technical, but for us, the important conclusion of this is that is that all elements of this optimal set define exactly the same filtration of v. Okay, so we recall that was in some sense where we had to have somehow an intrinsic filtration. This is our goal. And this precisely conclusion, one of the consequences of the theorem of Kampf is that in this finite dimensional setting, we precisely obtain this intrinsic filtration, which is something which is attached to the two v only and the action of the group g. So now, okay, we'd like to adapt this context to the context of differential operators, of course, the basic idea is quite simple. You have this differential operator phi on a manifold, and we'd actually find some sort of speed which would be the maximal invariant, sorry, the main invariant will be the speed. So the measure we would like to measure the distance between the polyhedron of phi and the origin with respect to the Charles, let's say to a conveniently defined length.
00:34:43.044 - 00:35:41.844, Speaker A: And then the local strategy, of course, would consist in blowing up with the filtration defined by the optimal one parameter groups. Okay, so I said that this filtration is intrinsically attached to this optimal set. So, okay, so why this should work? Well, if you look at the combinatorial effect of a blowing up, it's of a weighted blowing up on the nearest point. It's quite easy to see that, let's say things should work well, modulo some complicated things which can happen, of course, but. Okay, so let's see this drawing. So you see now I'm drawing the neutral polyhedron of an arbitrary differential operator. So you don't mind what happens here in the negative part, but there is always a nearest point which lies inside a positive quadrant, right? So this is the nearest point, this black colored point here.
00:35:41.844 - 00:37:05.844, Speaker A: And now when I blow up, you see that this with the weight defined by this dashed arrow here, right? So you see that the effect of the blowing up again is to project everything on one of the coordinate hyperplanes. And of course you see that there is a point, let's say the dashed point gets projected on the hyperplane. And of course the resulting distance would be smaller than the previous one. So in some sense, if you define now the speed for the transformed object here, since there is a point which is already near the origin than in the previous situation, the environment should decrease. Okay, but this, of course, is module, this complicated phenomenon, which is the so called compensation phenomena. So when now you take this combinatorial transformation and then you apply the translations, then of course you can have this compensation phenomenon which makes this, this vertex disappear altogether. And then you should, in fact, you can produce very easily examples where you should have a new polyhedron which will be far away from the origin than the previous one.
00:37:05.844 - 00:38:25.544, Speaker A: So how to prevent this bad compensation phenomenon which appears by the translations? So we'd like to define in this context what would be the analog of this stabilization procedure, this stabilization procedure as a procedure to prevent precisely this compensation phenomenon that we're trying to prevent here. So this is a very nice result of Kir one and s simultaneously independent, I think. So they they proved the following thing. There is a way to characterize the unstable vector, which is, let's say, going back to the context of finite dimensional vector spaces, which is very nice and in some sense constructive, and allows us not only to define the optimal set in a sort of, let's say, iterative way, but also to define a full stratification of the new cone into constant speed subsets. Okay? So that is the following. So it's given by an equivalence, sorry. So it says that you take a vector v which is unstable.
00:38:25.544 - 00:39:47.234, Speaker A: Then you recall that we would like to look at this one parameter groups which are optimal, right? So it lies, lambda lies in the optimal set if and only if the component of v, the smallest non zero component of v with respect to the graduation defined by lambda, is semi stable. Now, with respect to the action of the, what they call the slice group, is the zero degree gradient subgroup of g. So, well, I'm going to try to explain this by drawing. You see here there is the nearest point, right? And now I would forget everything except this initial part of the polyhedron. So the supporting hyperplane which contains the nearest point. And now I'm going to consider only the action of the group, which, let's say slide monomials along this blue line. So this is the slice group, which is precisely the group of degree zero, the subgroup of degree zero, elements of g with respect to t.
00:39:47.234 - 00:41:14.328, Speaker A: Then the idea is that this situation is, let's say the lambda, which appear here is optimal, if and only if I cannot, by the only x of g zero, sorry, only the action of this last group, gr, zero of zero, I'm able, I should not be able to remove the, the point, let's say the, the nearest point from the support of the poly, of the polyhedron inside the hyperson. Okay? So here I've drawn the, let's say a two dimensional picture of the, of the face. So this is the blue face. And in order to have an optimal group, we should have the situation where I'm not able to separate inside the face, let's say the blue point, from the support. In some sense, what I want to prevent is some sort of instability inside the face. So if you're not able to produce instability inside the face, it means that the group, the one parameter group is optimal. So this, precisely, recall that this is a sort of analog of this unstabilization, sorry, of this stable stabilization problem that I've described to you, let's say, in more simple context.
00:41:14.328 - 00:43:19.650, Speaker A: But here, what we want to do is to prevent the fact of removing the nearest point from the support inside the face by the action of the group acting just on the face. Well, why, this is nice because, well, in the case, in the, let's say in the usual case of reductive groups, you can prove that this slight group, this slice group, is also reductive modulo, let's say module, some direction of itself, but it's essentially reductive. So, in fact, when you restrict yourself to this lice, you have again a sort of geometric invariant theorem which can, which can be applied, but now to the action of the slice group on the, let's say the vector space defined by the restriction to this slice. So in some sense, I have an inductive procedure which now which interests us to, is a problem in dimension n minus one. So this effect allows them to define what we call the Hessen link stratification, which in fact can, let's say it's a very nice well behaved stratification of the new column in a union of algebraic, smooth algebraic sets, each one essentially given by the speed of the corresponding element. So we'd like to translate all these things to our setting. So, in fact, for us, the advantage is that we have this, in our case, we have this infinite dimensional problem, because the group which we're going, we're trying to make act is the group of all automorphism of the, let's say of the local ring.
00:43:19.650 - 00:44:26.518, Speaker A: So it's a group of all possible chains of coordinate, which is a huge group. It's not finite dimension. But with this strategy, in fact, to characterize the stability, we just essentially has to look at the action of this slice group here, okay, which most of the time are going to be finite dimensional groups, which are some sort, let's say, almost nice to work with. So now in the general context, I have five minutes, I think. Okay, so I think. So now, in the context that in our infinite dimensional context, recall that I have this one parameter groups which, but now they lie inside the set of, let's say this huge infinite dimensional group. But I can define exactly as in the case of ness and kiran, I can define the lambda slice group like this.
00:44:26.518 - 00:45:06.564, Speaker A: So g of lambda is the set of elements of optomorphisms which are of degree zero with respect to lambda. Okay? So let me just give you. So this degree zero component of the graduation defined by lambda. So let me just give you an example of this. So, for instance, if you take the simplest possible one parameter group, yeah. So the group, let's say, for a fixed system, of course, which acts on it coordinate by multiplying it by, by t. Okay, so this is the one parental group which simply.
00:45:06.564 - 00:45:47.724, Speaker A: Yes. Whose graduation is just the usual homogeneous graduation. Right? So it gives, it gives a weight one to each variable and then gives weight d to each monomial whose exponent is, has some d. Okay, so in this case it's easy to see that this slice group is essentially. Okay, model discussion is essentially the group of automobile fields of the projective space, the usual projective space. So this is a Pl cell, n of C is simply the group of. Yeah.
00:45:47.724 - 00:46:39.414, Speaker A: So it's very split in this case. So we can simply see that this group, when you make expansions is a finite, of course, a finite dimensional group and it's the group of optomorphisms of the projective space. So in fact it acts on the, on the lines through the origin by permutating the lines through the origin as the original action of PSLG. Okay, so in this case, this slice group, the one that we want to control by this procedure is quite nice because it's, in fact, it's a reductive group. Yeah. Okay, so it's a reductive group. So in some sense in this case, just by looking at the action on the slice as I made before.
00:46:39.414 - 00:48:10.738, Speaker A: So in this case, if this element here corresponds to a weight of 111, then the group which acts on the slice is the group of optomorphisms of the projective space. So I can apply the classical, so, sorry, the classical geometric environment theory to understand this action here. Okay, so in fact, in particular I can characterize when this bad situation here appears in algebraic terms by the vanishing locus of, let's say some set of polynomials which are invariant with respect to this action. Okay? So in fact, in this case I can apply the classical theory and to have this preparation of coordinates that prevents, as I said, the goal is to prevent this problem of full compensation due to the translations. But now consider the second case. So now I take lambda, the one parameter group which gives weight omega y to the variable xi. Okay? So in this case, when you look at this slice group, you get the optomorphism group of the weighted projective space, okay? So the omega weighted projective space.
00:48:10.738 - 00:49:02.664, Speaker A: So unfortunately this group is not reductive in general. Okay? So except in general, except for the case where all the weights are equal to one and what some. In fact, for this group to be reductive you should not have any sort of integral relation between them between the weights. So this is a problem because it means that we cannot apply the classical geometric invariant theory to the action, when you try to understand the action on the slice. So, for example, let's just give the very simple example. So we take the weights one and two. I can describe explicitly which is the group of optomorphisms of this weighted project space.
00:49:02.664 - 00:49:44.404, Speaker A: So it has a structure of a semi direct product. So this is a copy of the two torus. And then there is a second part here, which is a copy of the addictive group C. Okay, so this is the problem. This is the problematic part. The second one is the problematic part, because this, when you have a piece of a group, which of this form, then it cannot be reductive. So how is, what's the, to be explicit, what's the action of this additive part? It acts on the, let's say on a pair x and y just by mapping y to the y plus cx squared.
00:49:44.404 - 00:50:59.496, Speaker A: So this is an optomorphism of the weighted projected space one, two, okay? Which embeds a copy of the additive group inside. And in fact, this prevents this group from being reductive. And in some sense this is a problem, because this is what makes the theory a little bit problematic in higher dimensions, is that for the moment, we need some analog of this geometric invariant theory for non reductive groups. Well, it's known that this, such a theory cannot exist without any hypothesis, because there are examples due to Nagata, where the ring of invariance is not even finite, generated when g is not reductive. In fact, there can be very, very bad, very, very wild actions of a group, even algebraically, when this group is not redeployed. Well, so, as I mentioned to you, well, I don't have time to do this, but in the case of surfaces. So when I look at the differential operator on surfaces, I can easily make a list of a complete list of possible slice groups which appear.
00:50:59.496 - 00:51:58.686, Speaker A: So some of them will be reductive and some of them will not be reductive, as the case that I mentioned. This is one of these examples that we have to deal with in dimension two. But fortunately, each time that you have such an example, we can treat it by hand, because essentially, when the additive part is one dimensional, there is a theorem which allows us to show that there can be no such a bad phenomena here as in the Nagato's example. So in this case, let's say in dimension two, I can some sense prove things by hand. So vitamin the analogs of kemp and clearness results. So there is a stratification, and we can make the machinery work to provide a resolution of singularities. And.
00:51:58.686 - 00:53:04.234, Speaker A: Well, what keeps me optimistic for higher dimensional situation is that there is, let's say, a lot of people working on this, what we call the non reductive geometric environment theory. So, essentially, they are trying to define on which conditions we can make the machinery of, let's say, Hilbert Manfro criteria and providing good cautions in the case of non reductive groups. Okay, well, so I'm observing the, let's say, the progress in this area, but I think that at some point, I be able to use the results, perhaps, to generalize my strategy to higher dimensional situations. I'm going to stop here. Thank you. Thank you, Daniel. I'm going to put the notes on the website so they're more material than I was able to tell you.
00:53:04.234 - 00:53:21.914, Speaker A: Thank you. Extra, extra time. You follow me? 10 hours.
