00:00:00.720 - 00:00:29.678, Speaker A: Welcome back, everyone. So our second speaker this morning is Professor Katia Konsani. So katia is going to tell us about absolute realmen Rock for Q. Yes, thank you for having me here. It's always a pleasure to be back in Toronto after several years. I was here, and I enjoy very much the time I was here in the department. So I'm trying to catch up with what Alain mentioned in his talk.
00:00:29.678 - 00:01:27.944, Speaker A: He talks about the validity of a Riemann rock with real coefficients for the periodic orbits. So this is kind of new in algebraic geometry, as you imagine, because we are used to Rima rock with integer coefficients. And while Alain was talking, I was thinking, yes, there must be a very, very important reason behind, because the Riemann Rock I will present now will have integer coefficients. So back to a traditional case of the Riemann rock, except that it's a Riemann rock for Q or for spec, Z bar, as you prefer to think about. And so, okay, let's start. I start by also is. Is connected a little bit with what Alain was talking about.
00:01:27.944 - 00:02:50.426, Speaker A: Here are the two masters of number theory, really, Andrea Weil and Emil Artin. And the sentence I will present here, just to warm up, it's from a letter, famous letter, that Andre Weyl wrote to Emil Artin two years after he found the first striking intuition for the Riemann hypothesis in characteristic p. So he just brought up these lines just for an idea that he had at the time. And so our proof, let's read it together a little bit. Our proof of the Riemann hypothesis, dependent upon the extension of the function fields by root of unity, which means by constant, the way in which the Galois group of such extension operates on the classes of divisor in the original field and its extension, given a linear operator, the characteristic root of which, or the eigenvalues, as you prefer, are the roots of the zeta function. And then it continues. Well, yeah, I had a thought about what happened on the number field, the case, and on the normal field, the nearest we can get to this is by a junction.
00:02:50.426 - 00:03:44.314, Speaker A: So fix an l. L is a prime, and the junction of ln roots of unity. The gala group of this infinite extension, as we know, is cyclic and defines a linear operator on the projective limit of the absolute class group of those successive finite extension. This should have something to do with the roots of the zeta function of the field. And finally, if finished in a very down to earth way, a la veil. Essentially, however, our extension here at ramified, there is no way out, but only a finite number of places, because as you know, in the finite extension of the ramifies immediately. As soon as you jump a little bit up from q to a finite extension, you get the ramification only a finite number of places, which means the prime divisor of this prime number l, that you fix at the very beginning.
00:03:44.314 - 00:05:07.394, Speaker A: Thus, a preliminary study of similar problem function field might enable one to guess what will happen in number three. And this is really the very last part of the letter to Artin. So, I don't want to say that we will be led by these lines, but as well, usually we are used to certain sentences, not even put in terms of conjecture, because he was very conservative in writing conjecture, but sentences that they are written here and there in the back of these proceedings of his oeuvre. So at the end, he had the very, very good idea to add for each of these papers, his internal review is commentary, what is called commentary. So it's very revealing. Some commentary really are really revealing of his internal thought that perhaps didn't have the strength or the will necessarily. Okay, so this is the Riemann rock that we know from the very beginning of our courses in algebraic geometry.
00:05:07.394 - 00:06:31.850, Speaker A: Here is an algebraic curve, k is a field, and this is the typical Armand rock formula, in which d is written as we are, and we know as a finite sum of points on the curve with the integer coefficients, the multiplicity of each point in the curve. And it is written in the masa h zero minus the index of speciality which is recalled here. The dimension this h zero and h one is more letter means the dimension of the corresponding k vector spaces attached to the divisor d. So for each divisor we have through the Cartier theory we have and the shift, we have a possibility to construct an invertible sheath attached to the divisor, which is this od. And in the classical Riemann lock, these are vector space, finite dimensional vector spaces over the basic field k. And the dimension is an integer dimension, etcetera. So in particular, there is this definition of the h zero attached to the invertible sheaths related to the divisor b.
00:06:31.850 - 00:08:04.902, Speaker A: These are a collection of the set is a collection of function in the field of fraction of the curve this kx. This function has the possibility to have poles, but their poles, the way the poles are set is described by this inequality. So, f dz may have very well pulsed at some points in the support of the device. But there is the condition that here is written in this form, or you can read it as in one way, as the principal divisor f plus d itself must be effective, what we say effective in the sense that is greater or equal than zero. The story here is rewritten in equivalent terms, in terms of the valuation of the function at p and corresponding multiplicity of the divisor, in case the canonical divisor. So what we do with that? What happens? So Alain told us a lot of stuff about the case from veil, obviously, when the curve is defined over a finite field. In the Book of Veil that Alain recalled, which is a beautiful book in spite of his title, basic number theories, far from being basic, but it's very, very, I mean, pleasant to read because it contains everything really tastes.
00:08:04.902 - 00:09:00.726, Speaker A: So Weill Wright deals with what he called a field. So for him, a fields are what we call now either number field. So a finite extent extension of q, a global field, which means either number of fields which are finite extension of q, or fields which are finitely generated over the basic field fq, and with the transcendence dimension one. So it's the function field of a curve. K is really a finite extension of a prime field. So q is a power of certainty. And Andre Weil sketched an idyllic proof of the Rimmer rock.
00:09:00.726 - 00:10:07.212, Speaker A: I write sketch because in one of those commentaries he said yes, at the time exchanging, I forgot with whom he was talking to in that letter. He said yes, in that 1938, I sketched this idyllic proof. And in fact, there are no details, very much too many details. Then he regretted, because he knew already the story completely in his mind, and said, then I regretted that I wait until the publication of this book in number theory to write in full the proof. In the meanwhile, 1953, I think, a japanese mathematician, the name of which now I escape, he wrote already a proof. So it was, it was something that the proof has a different number, theoretic, let's say interpretation. So it's, it's an idyllic proof.
00:10:07.212 - 00:11:00.034, Speaker A: That's why my title is Riemann Rockford. So in number theory, the situation is like that. The divisor that we saw before is expressed equivalently in this setup by a finite sum with the integer coefficients of the places of the field. So places are equivalent classes of valuation for the field. So we know from geometry that for any field of this type k, so transcendence dimension one over a finite field and finitely generated, there is a way to attach one to one, an algebraic curve in terms of this collection of places. So there is really a geometry with the Zarynski topology, et cetera, et cetera. So you can exchange the interpretation of this development.
00:11:00.034 - 00:12:03.740, Speaker A: It took this number theoretical interpretation, or imagine that behind the scene there is really a geometric curve, as we are used to, over a small k, and these places in fact become the point, the previous point. So, attached to this divisor d can be thought in fact as a function for the collection of whole places, sigma, k to the real, positive real. And the value of this function takes values in q raised to some integer number. Or you can write this as the range of what Vale wrote as the modulus. So, in the book, so means that for any chosen v, there is an absolute value attached to this local fee. And you look at the range. So the range is in this subgroup of Qk, but it has the property, because the sum has to be finite, that the value here is one for almost all places.
00:12:03.740 - 00:13:05.416, Speaker A: So this is the okay, so, attached to d, as we saw before, there is another gadget that corresponds, but is not equal to the one we saw before, corresponds to the previous OD. So remember, OD was a collection of function in the function field of the curve here is a push forward. So in some way of the older version, in the ades. So here, by the way, we speak of ades as product of local fields, restricted. This little thing here means restricted. So this product means that at almost all places you see the local field, at only finite number of places, you see the ring of integers in the corresponding local field. This ad, these are there.
00:13:05.416 - 00:13:42.158, Speaker A: So it has, this set is more than a set. In fact, you can add s and multiplier des. So it is a nice ring, commutative ring, and it's a topological ring. Moreover. So this collection, this divisor b, defines, in fact, a compact open subgroup in the ades, which is described here. So you see that here the f before are replaces by ades. So it's an infinite collection of elements, lethal avoidance, each of which inside the local field.
00:13:42.158 - 00:14:41.376, Speaker A: And the condition that you see here corresponds really mutatis mutandis, to what we had before, the condition about the poles, et cetera, et cetera. So you see, d applied to v is qv raised to av. What is this qv? As Alain mentioned a little bit in the talk, you start with this q, the really the bottom field, and each place has its own degree. And so then maybe if you take a place that degrees, not quite one, but a little bit higher, so each v has its own place, which is always of type q raised to some dv, where dv is the degree of the extension of the field. And so then you have nDv, obviously. And then you have to raise eventually to the multiplicity that you see in front. So this is the idyllic view of the previous sheath, first invertible sheath in a dash.
00:14:41.376 - 00:15:41.344, Speaker A: So you extend the previous one because it's larger than the. But also we know that the field k itself embeds diagonally in adels. So then through this diagonal morphism, you put stuff inside the adhesive and imagine that if there is more space, because you pass from a setup of the tea itself to adults, if you allow more space, more, this basket gets larger, you might catch something more than good respect to the previous. Okay, so in fact we have, oops, sorry, I didn't want to go back, but instead I go back. Yes, we have this map. This morphism, in fact is a group morphism, because as I said, the kids embeds diagonally in a del. So take any f as before and diagonally embed fff everywhere.
00:15:41.344 - 00:16:37.756, Speaker A: And then here it's already written in terms of Adele. So for instance, the map can be defined properly as I map my pair of f and av f in here to the sum of the two adels, correspondingly to the f itself and av. So this is a nice group morphism. So it has a lot of property. And what Aveil tested in fact was the kernel and the co kernel of dysmorphism. So in fact, it turns out that the kernel of dysmorphism, very straightforward computation is again the restriction of this od time into k. So kind of intuitively you get back as a finite dimensional vector space over small k, the previous h zero xk.
00:16:37.756 - 00:17:50.354, Speaker A: So x k. Here is the geometric curve attached to the field, capital bold k, the co kernel. It's more intriguing and interesting because you take the quotient of the address by the image of the range of this map psi, and with a little bit of work, which means obviously the introduction of what is the idyllic counterpart of the canonical device or the canonical adels, then you finally found that there is an isomorphism between the straightforward definition of the Copernicus and this h zero of ok minus d. And so here is the, in a way, is the idyllic proof of the Riemann rock written using adels. So this is a kind of inspiration, because you see that there is no loss of information or curves over a number of a finite field. And the guess is. So now what happened? If I take another example of a field which is not anymore a finite field of transcendence, dimension one over finite field, but it's the first one we want.
00:17:50.354 - 00:18:35.566, Speaker A: So it's q. So what happens if I try to rephrase the whole story here in the case of q. So for the a field, the q, the beginning is pretty much the same, because you have your definition of divisor in terms of places. You have still this way to interpret the divisor as a map from the sigma q, the place of q, to r positive, r star positive. You have that v applied evaluated at v. It's in the range of the modulus at v. And obviously that dv is one for almost all places.
00:18:35.566 - 00:19:53.976, Speaker A: Okay, so this way to see things is equivalently, can be equivalently restated by implementing really basic aracle of geometry, saying that now the curve x over small k, it's here substituted by what we call Arachel of compactification of spec z. So by adding to spec deinterpret as collection of places or crimes, depending what you prefer, the place at infinity, but the place at infinity, it's really of a different nature than the place at non infinity. And so the definition at infinity requires, well, this is a symbol just to write infinity. And r here is taken to be a real number. And so you have this first moment in which you realize, yes, but the correlation between these two cases seems to break here, because I don't know exactly how to match the story with the previous case where infinity will be one of the same, a place of the same nature, for any other place in the function theta here is different. So. But okay, so there is.
00:19:53.976 - 00:21:02.122, Speaker A: Suppose we fix one d and we construct the corresponding here. I didn't write anymore the accent over OD, but in fact is diadelic, is the adelic space attached to the divisor d. So, being an idyllic space, it will have a finite part and the part at infinity. But here the story breaks badly. Maybe not badly, but okay, so you see that when I take a fix a place which is non archimedean. So with one of those in the support, for example, of the divisor, and it's not an archimedean place, then od is the collection. Is this group of power negative? The fact that there is a negative power is a little bit, in the sense that there is a distinction between the definition of valuation and the definition of the absolute value at the non archimedean place, and the absolute value of this pj.
00:21:02.122 - 00:21:45.484, Speaker A: In fact, is pj to the minus mj and j being the multiplicity. Because of the law behind, the algebraic law behind, when v is not in the support, you have the full ring of integers of this local field. But here you see what you have at infinity. Exactly because of this condition here, this condition tells you that infinity, these things are not anymore group. It's just as you might see, a symmetric real interval. That's it. There is no way to escape this point, because exactly the valuation has a different length.
00:21:45.484 - 00:22:38.338, Speaker A: But okay, so you have, let's see how this intuition goes on. So you have still this map. And the definition of this map is as before, with the conclusion that this time is a map of sets, because of this infinity part of the divisor. So the non archimedean part is nice and easy, compatibility and subgroup of the finite part, in fact of the adele. But the part at infinity is a symmetric interval. I emphasize with the symmetric interval for reason you'll see in the next slide. So it's the moment when we realize now we have to do something different, because we cannot pursue with veiled description of the kernel of the co kernel, because we don't have any more groups to handle.
00:22:38.338 - 00:23:44.100, Speaker A: So it's the moment when we turn to this topological understanding of science. Okay, let's see. Alain already introduced a little bit this part. This is really a change of gear from set theory to a theory in which sets are substituted by functors. And the operation, the addition that you have, for example, if you deal with a monoid, additive monoid, the operation you handle, it is substituted by a clever idea of sigel, the fact that you can, if you phrase things in the category of pointed sets. So what is this gamma set that we like to write in terms of mod over s? So one starts with a category, and the category Sigel use is the category gamma op, the opposite of gamma, which is the skeleton of the category finite pointer set. Skeleton means essentially, that is the smallest subcategory, which has the same property of the category pointer set.
00:23:44.100 - 00:24:45.418, Speaker A: But it's more handled, more easy to handle, because the objects in the scale in the skeleton are really of type k plus or m. K plus are finite sets of type zero up to k, where k is positive, positive integer stuff here, always pointed. So you see zero everywhere, star everywhere. So this is, as Peter may emphasize in many instances online, it's a must. So you cannot escape of pointing procedure for really technical, I mean, basic technical reason. So the category, the objects of the category I described for you, the morphism between two objects, obviously they have to map zero to zero, because and otherwise they are maps between k to m. So among them, Alain already mentioned in the talk there is the first one.
00:24:45.418 - 00:25:23.132, Speaker A: So the first one means what would correspond to the. So the basic, the fundamental set or algebra or groups. So we deal in an abidient category. If we have an acute abelian category. So this font or s, which I say corresponds to some identity point. It's really the identity font. So, which maps any element in here to the very same element, interpret in the category of point, et cetera, rather than in the skeleton category.
00:25:23.132 - 00:26:08.296, Speaker A: So it's really an object that you see. What do I do with that? I mean, how important would be this object in the development? And at the beginning, one cannot figure it out if you are not an omotopy theorist. So, okay, so we have this first important object. And we have essentially two examples of important fountain, which corresponds to objects that we see in septior. So essentially what we said was that if in set theory we handle. We deal with the monoid, the multiplicative or additive. Or if we deal with a group, there is a fully faithful pointer, in fact, which maps these two categories.
00:26:08.296 - 00:27:09.062, Speaker A: And point out obviously to the fact that the pointer is faithful. Because this is an important thing not to lose information at the level of morphism, the grot, and yet already emphasized this point. You have to focus on morph. It's not an object. But there is this fully faithful funko that you can push, using, which you can push classical algebra in terms of rings, modules over a field, or modules over any ring, even monoid inside, to this new realm of understanding classical algebra. So you don't speak any more about sets with operation, but you speak about functors with certain property. The point is, how do I recast the operation in this new environment? So, for example, if you have a multiplicative monoid and zero, this pointed object should be already put in there anyway.
00:27:09.062 - 00:27:49.478, Speaker A: So this m defines an object in the category of modules over S. And the way you define the objects is in terms of a font, which for any finite object is the smash product. Which replace the multiplication in classical algebra between m m or pointed m with x. And here is the behavior at the level of morphism. So the same story can be carried on when you have a little bit more structure of USB. So you suppose you have and a billion monoid and zero is in the monoid. Also defines an element in mod s.
00:27:49.478 - 00:29:14.360, Speaker A: Again, it's in terms of effronter. But this is one of those that even if you don't do theory, you have heard in the past, because these is Maclean. Objects pop up here and there in mathematics. And so what is the Eileenberg Maclean objects when is evaluated at an object k plus of the category gamma op, it's the cartesian product of ak times. And here is the operation that the definition of the morphism in terms of finite sum, and say with the ruler that if you want to see what happened in position j, then you take all preimage which are related to j in the sense of fl j and write the corresponding sum. So, as I said, the brilliant idea of Sigel was to make it clear to us that ha encodes punctorially the operation, the operation that you had in section. Now, with the process written in this term, you start with this ha at the level one plus, which is in fact only the set underline a if a was a monoid.
00:29:14.360 - 00:30:15.464, Speaker A: So this is the meaning of my double bar there. So the underlying set, and then using the functor reality, the relation between what usually we call higher levels and third level. Then this higher level entering in with the prescribed operation, which is written here in a way, input on the first level, on the set itself, the operation. So it's a clever categorical, minimal categorical way, and it went very far. So here we have mod s, the category of modules of rs, which are nothing but finite set, with this operation, and we speak about monoidal categories. So if we, if we want to see what happened with rings, where how rings are described. In rings, there is a second operator, the operation, there is a multiplication how to handle the second operation.
00:30:15.464 - 00:30:59.160, Speaker A: So, in category theory, we speak about, we know, I'm not a category theorist. In category theories, they speak about monoidal categories. So, monoidal category is a category with a biphonor which satisfy certain conditions. For example, one is the sociativity up to isomorphism, and then the existence of an identity which is left and right identity. Here, the way to translate things. For example, a monoid is a monoid in this modoidal category, the category of set with the cartesian product and pointed object becomes. It's a way to re understand our perhaps way to think about a monoid.
00:30:59.160 - 00:32:28.806, Speaker A: In these terms, airing becomes a monoid in the category of abelian group, because we know from the very beginning that the second operation is. So you have already an abelian group with the first operation. Then with the second operation is a monoid, the ring itself. So, with the operation of the tensor over z and z here as a third entry, any k algebra where k is a commutative ring, is a monoid in the category of modules over k, with the tensor product, and here is the field k. So I wrote that because now I want to keep in mind this idea and understand what is an S algebra in the same fashion. So if s is the basic object, then an S algebra, an S algebra is a monoid in the category of modules over s with the operation which is the smash, because we are in topological framework and the fundamental object here is our function is s itself. So a is a gamma set, because this is what means the ammonoid over s with an operation which is the one producing the multiplication and the associativity, as you see, of the multiplication and the identity an identity, so that these two diagram commutes and the category of algebra.
00:32:28.806 - 00:33:18.114, Speaker A: So whereas embeds are obviously nicely in the category of modules of s, they are more structured. So, as we know from classical viewpoint, with good. So here is the first lemma. So remember that we had this with this interval symmetric with respect to the origin in the case of the address for the, so for the case of q attached to a divisor. So here is the point. Is there, the question was, is there any way that I cannot use anything from set here, because that was a set symmetric set. Is there any way I can reinterpret this set in this functorial fashion in basic way? And here is the beginning of the first lemma.
00:33:18.114 - 00:34:03.080, Speaker A: So suppose that a is an abelian monoid. So remember it was an interverse symmetric subset of the real. So you should think of the real taking eventually the place of a. But this lemma is an earlier. It's a really basic lemma that then will be introduced in the case where a equal r and this x here, which is a subset of a containing zero, would provide for me what a gadget of the same type that we have seen in the previous slides in the case of S modules, pulmonoid, etcetera. So it is applied when applied. This is a font which is applied to k.
00:34:03.080 - 00:34:47.954, Speaker A: For example, it's the collection of elements in the cartesian product k times of a with the condition that has to be satisfied, which is written here. So for any possible solution subset in k plus these sums, this partial sums needs to belong to x. So this is a subfunctor of the s module ha. So ha is the, is the Eilenberg Maclean functor. The way it would be written is without this second condition. So the ha applied to k plus is really a to the k. So we impose a condition which means we get in a way in a sub functor of the functor ha.
00:34:47.954 - 00:35:42.464, Speaker A: And here is the proposition, as I said, when it is applied to the particular case, a equal r and this x which is subset here. But it's the symmetric interval, the symmetry in the interval. It's something that is good in relation to the fact that you have to have zero anyway in certain, and also is a primitive form of what we do when we take the absolute value, because in the absolute value of x, you take only x between such and such. Here we don't have absolute value to handle, but we have a baby interpretation of the absolute value. And this is what is behind the scene in the description of the conditions that you see here and here. So if we had an absolute value, then it will be absolute value less or equal. In fact, you can use this absolute value, but it will come later.
00:35:42.464 - 00:36:38.840, Speaker A: So in fact it comes immediately later, so, because, so now in the category of algebra over s, the module action over itself, this is an s algebra of Hr on itself by multiplication. And we do, when we do the multiplication with an algebra, but now the multiplication is the smash induces an action of the s algebra. This is a new one and a new one. I just input here the definition. You see, the difference between this definition and this definition is that here you handle a situation in which in r there is an absolute value. And so you can input the idea of the absolute value which here was not present. I mean here, sorry, was not present a priori here was not taken up to be in the same level of thought as in the previous line.
00:36:38.840 - 00:37:28.592, Speaker A: So this is, there are these two possibilities, and in fact we play with both of them. So in fact, you will see that we have two version of the Riemann rock over this s for the integers, one, which takes really the basic objects, s one basic object. It's an extension, little extension of s, like we do in function field, where you extend the basic field by degree two thing. So you go a little bit higher in the extension. And then we had a version, an earlier version of the Rimmel rock in this context, using these objects. I'll come back later because I have to catch up. So here is back to the setup.
00:37:28.592 - 00:38:13.016, Speaker A: We have, we have this raquel of divides. Yeah, it looks like that. Now these are divisor. We have the interval I lambda at infinity, because there is this condition on OD, remember? And there is this map of sets. So, just to refresh what we had in few slides before, so we have these s modules. Now what we do here, we take OD and we input the Eileenberg Maclean font over it. So now we push forward the story in the hope of a better development from the original development to the case when h is included.
00:38:13.016 - 00:39:26.042, Speaker A: So there is the Hf, the elementor move the story from set theory to this S algebra or S modules environment. Here in fact is a very nice group. I mean, it's an island module, but in fact ODS is a group, so it has a better description. But the part which concerns infinity, in fact has to be phrased in this form. And that was the reason to introduce the previous lemma, to be able to reinterpret this symmetric interval minus r r, which o minus lambda lambda becomes here as the Eilert Maclean s module corresponding to this interval symmetric interval. And here is the definition of the explicit definition of the module with the condition. So now we have at the same time a nice and easy abelian group morphism, because these two left hand side and right hand side are groups.
00:39:26.042 - 00:40:12.752, Speaker A: And so we have a group morphism here, but also we have another one which we would see immediately, in which the morph is not anymore. Group morph is. But let's now take more from Alain mentioned already, the dold Khan correspondence. So here is where the more help from topology enter in. So let's re understand dysmorphism as a small complex of obedient groups. So in terms of a small complex, then it's ready to be inserted in the Dolcan machine and produce a simplicial object. As Alain recall of a billion groups which is described here.
00:40:12.752 - 00:41:00.862, Speaker A: In fact, there is an explicit version of that. If you are reading topology, you know the meaning of that. This is. If not, I say now this is the three simplicial objects on the simplex dn. And then you apply the more normalization, which is a tech description in a tech process in topology to embellish, to make more better a certain complex. So then the explicit version of this simplicial group is described for n here means the level of the complex. We will see that here we have only n equals zero and n equal one, in fact.
00:41:00.862 - 00:41:57.806, Speaker A: But just I want to give the very general. So I'm trying my best or I put the hand badly. Anyway, so the general description of an is given here. And you see ck is this complex at position k. So as I said, the case of c in question is really an easy case, k equal zero and k equal one. But the construction of the DoD count correspondence applies in more general setup. And the an in our case has, in fact, this description is divided as a direct sum involving the Eileenberg meclane of this group, h at the level one plus, and the second group here after Eileenberg Maclean at the level n.
00:41:57.806 - 00:42:41.006, Speaker A: So, I mean, here it's kind of a little technical. So I want to give you the form of the rimmer growth. But there is this proposition that's saying that this simplicial Albedian group is isomorphic to a composite point. So these are the two isomorphic, what is now the partial here, and h five partial is in pointer, which in topologies use kind of with some frequency. So you move, you see here now I move to the opposite of delta. So delta, it's an object of delta is of this type. When you move to the opposite, you deal with a pointed interval.
00:42:41.006 - 00:43:33.786, Speaker A: And so moving from delta to delta op means that you map n to an interval which is of type zero and plus one and partial, in a way, grab from the interval two important information. It grabs the pointed set I, which is x and y. Here in the second position is the smallest and largest element in the interval. So u land in variation of the pointed sign. You land in category, in which the objects are pairs. And then morphism corresponds in a way which is precise. But then there is the second morph that we consider, which is really connected to the phi in question.
00:43:33.786 - 00:44:51.364, Speaker A: So h phi really applies something that you do after taking the partial. So you apply the construction in this form. And the main fact, in fact, turns out that the composite of h phi with u, which means the forgetful functor, is still meaningful after extracting to this part. So this is the important point, because if we could handle a situation like that, then the Dolcan correspondence will be really written in books, in several books, and you would know. But the point is that we want to restrict, we want to understand phi when we restrict from the left hand side, from q, cross AQ to this new e, in which you replace, in a way hq by h a q by this Hod that has the issue, because inside OD, there is this Archimedean component. And here is where the new issue with respect to classical construction. So this e sits inside H, the Eilenberg Maclean of this product.
00:44:51.364 - 00:45:57.494, Speaker A: And then, okay, so you, what are, what this main factor states and proven in the paper, is that if you restrict this composite two e, then it's still meaningful. It has still, well, obviously, you land in a category, simply in the category gamma sets. So, the theorem, in fact says that the gamma space, which is the composite of h of PI, restricted to e with the eigenvector lane frontal. It's a functor from the opposite of the simplex category to the category of gamma sets. So catalog gamma sets, remember, are founders for gamma output sets. And we claim that this budget input because of this way to see things or this restriction way to see things input in a topological form, the absolute chromology of the divisor. So when I say chromology in quote, I mean here chromology is replaced by homotopy.
00:45:57.494 - 00:46:47.850, Speaker A: So let's see the story. So here again, the beginning with this new compact gamma set, say simplicial set that describes the chromology or the omotopy of the device. And here is I also written how the maps are connected, but in view of the time escape. Once again. And so here we are with a definition. So let's define h zero here as the first of this HD and h one as the PI zero of this gadget. But here you see this blue thing.
00:46:47.850 - 00:47:53.578, Speaker A: So here is the fact that in the category of simplicial set, unfortunately the equivalence of a multiple is not an equivalence relation. So this is well explained in the little book of Peter may very, very nicely. And so then, in the process of defining h one, you have trouble because you don't have an equivalent relation. You cannot proceed modulo motor, the module equivalence relation of a motor. So what is this gamma star? So, first of all, the theorem says, by the way, that both of them, independently of this maybe difficulty, they depend only on the equivalent class of D. So this is a good sign. And first good sign is that when you enter in the computation of the h zero, which has no problem, by the way, so the kernel, as before, remember, h zero was a terminal in function field case.
00:47:53.578 - 00:48:57.042, Speaker A: Then you recast a version, a classical version of the story for spec D, for the curved spec three, in which you deal only with the finite part of the divisor. But you have this construction that, like in the previous lemon, that you handle for the infinity. So sorry for the. Yes, for the part which concerns infinity, you handle with the lemma or proposition we saw in the previous page. So from here to here, it's a number theoretic result is the fact that q has plus number one. So you can move the support of the divisor all to infinity. And so then what? Even if the divisor might have some places, finite places, some prime, then through this idea, the class number one, and the fact that the first statement, then you can rewrite, as here was written, h zero spec z o.
00:48:57.042 - 00:50:26.952, Speaker A: So that's why you see an hz here. And then obviously there is this condition that is the new re understanding of hz zero for each one is where you have to enter which relation then should I input, because it's not an equivalent relation. And here is what I discovered from Allen and previous work he had with Walter and Sulikan of the fact that already poincare a long time ago thought about a replacement in some context of an equivalence relation with a more flexible one called tolerance relations and tolerance relation by Googling, because I didn't even know the existence of, I saw that they have really different application in science outside also mathematics. So, tolerance relation in terms of tolerance relation that I will define in the next slide, we are able to define the meaning of the co kerner, so the meaning of each one. So let me enter a little bit into the definition of tolerance relation and module. So, tolerance relation on a set is a subset of the x plus s which is symmetric and contains the diagonal. So you use what you have, it's symmetric and what is it? It satisfies the first two properties of the equivalence relation, not the transitivity.
00:50:26.952 - 00:51:20.912, Speaker A: And so then using this relation type new type of relation, then you construct the corresponding category, the category of tolerance relation on pointed set, which satisfies. So you have a pair of set with tolerance relation here and there you define a map which satisfy this with respect, its inclusion with respect to the tolerance relation. And this story has to be implemented in the gamma set view of any object. So any category. So suppose you have any category with the initial and equal to final object star. Then you can describe the category gamma c star as before I describe the category of gamma set. So this story definition of gamma set, it's really broad in the application.
00:51:20.912 - 00:52:13.668, Speaker A: You may apply to any category with this property and it naturally enriched nest modules. So this is important thing, because then the internal ohm in new category is endowed with a structure of s modules. So the fact that the collection of maps between these two s modules in fact is an object, it's a form in the catholic. The tolerant s module is a pointed functor between gamma up to this category gamma star, and we call gamma t star the cathode of tolerance model. So the point is now is it? We can proceed. Yes, because the point was also to define a suitable notion of dimension. I mean the vector space have dimension h zero and h one classically is finite dimension vector space.
00:52:13.668 - 00:53:20.654, Speaker A: And here, how do we phrase the notion of being finitely generated and corresponding dimensions. So if you start with a tolerant s module, let's say that subset f generates e one plus. If two conditions are satisfied. This is the first one, and this is the second one, which is like the more technical means that you have a hand, a collection of elements in f, so that with coefficients in zero and one, then you can write any element y in e one in this form as a finite sum with coefficients zero and one, and the dimension of the four is the minimal terminality of a Generating set. Likewise, we could define the dimension in a vector space, as, you know, as in terms of cardinality for basis, as we are used to. I avoid this part because it's a Technical Detail. So now the point is computing.
00:53:20.654 - 00:54:04.876, Speaker A: So, starting with an interval which is symmetric like minus a and a, with the condition that a is between two to the n minus one and two to the n, it's easy to see that the dimension in terms of what I just said is n plus one. So, some examples, just to make you understand what's going on. Suppose I choose a equal one. So then it's the interval minus one and one. And then this gadget, it's minimally generated by minus one and one, which means any element in Hgi. With this, I can be written as a finite sum. As I said before, for a equal to, you have the corresponding minimum generated, and so on, on and so on.
00:54:04.876 - 00:55:00.298, Speaker A: So, if you wonder what is why, I read why I put in red this, because if you look here, what happened is that the sum of the negative, except this case, the sum in absolute value of the negative is equal to the sum of the positive one, except a case which is this one, for this one doesn't work. So what we get, we get this theorem, which is the first part of the Riemann rock. In the case of the degree of the divisor is non negative. So then the dimension of, in terms what I said before, vh zero, is the ceiling function of ceiling value of the function degree 2d. What is degree two is when you sort of use base two rather than base e. So it's the degree of the divisor divided by log two. And the ceiling here is described in this.
00:55:00.298 - 00:55:59.558, Speaker A: So this is the positive way. I have the proof, but I like to conclude. So the proof is kind of elementary when you enter in this idea to realize that there is a way to input this weird information about the setup infinity in a topological form for the h one. So here we have, so you have modulo, the fact that you can change your divisor in class number one, you can have the support moved to infinity. So in the previous development, when you do this thing, you end up with an abelian group, which is r mod z. The z is in fact the justification why the divisor is also supported to infinity. And, well, one d I define as a pair of the group are mod z and the canonical matrix of length one.
00:55:59.558 - 00:57:32.960, Speaker A: So a fact here is that h one b, in fact, has this description in terms of this tolerance module. Tolerance module. And for example, if you just forget what's going on after k equal one, this is the relation, the tolerant relation at level one, where you have a k equal one and you look for pairs x and y, so that the distance between x and y is less or equal than lambda. And the, and the proposition, which is the earlier version of the Rimarov final theorem, is that there is a possibility to give a dimension for this u one lambda, which is n if n, sorry, if lambda here is between two to the minus n minus one and two to the minus n and zero. Otherwise, if lambda is greater or equal than one half. So, inputting this idea of passing to topology, putting a tolerance relation, then you get a version of the Riemann rock, which is really the classical one, because you have finally not any more than h zero of k minus t. But you have a meaning really for h one itself, which was really totally new in the sense of, also in archaeology geometry, it's always a question to define h one and where the degree is here using log two.
00:57:32.960 - 00:59:22.424, Speaker A: And this ceiling function now has also the definition for the negative x. I'm sorry, I have to jump over. What I want to conclude with is that, as I said at the beginning, we had a previous version of the theorem of the Riemann rock theorem, where rather than doing the machine, so to say, developing the machine over s, we input an extension, a small extension of s, by adding roots of unity. In a way, this is connected to the first slide I had in the this mod this afternoon, because so there are roots of unit in the story at the level of this is a nice module when mu two is the monoid, is the multiplicative monoid of two roots of units. And there was this formula was, I mean, for us it was revealing, but there was still this fact that we had to subtract the characteristic function from an exceptional set of finitely bag measure well, because the degree of d, being a real number, could fit into these l's exceptional sets. And if it does do that, the dimension of each zero would drop of one unit, like using the theorem. But as I said, this h zero and one are there, as understood as essence two modules, not anymore as an x module and corresponding definitions applies in the sense that one work now with the double bar, as I mentioned to you before, with the condition of the absolute value.
00:59:22.424 - 01:00:22.602, Speaker A: I'm a little bit fast here, but the nice thing is that we had also said duality, more like Pontreagin duality as written in this form. And this is where you see the application of the fact that the hom is an internal home. So you can state that there is bijection between this S module and this S module. In the category of tolerant S modules, this U one Solanda here is one pore. The choice of one four is there to make the story completely symmetric with respect to d and k minus d. In fact, at the level of proving sir duality, we have a little bit more flexibility in the choice of this lambda. But the canonical divisor is this in both cases, obviously, even though in the previous case over s, I didn't bring the definition.
01:00:22.602 - 01:01:16.060, Speaker A: So it's minus two two. And the degree, as we are used to write in Arachelov geometry, is minus two log two. So the u 1214 here in the form really plays the role of h one of k. So from this formula, by the way, the previous one, in fact, you understand also from this one, because you see that with the canonical diagram of this type, the genus is zero. So this is in agreement with certain results that you find in classical book in number theory, in algebraic number theory, in which like lang, Serge lang formula. So this is the statement of Serge length for any number field. But you see the way the Riemann rock is phased, it's an asymptotic, a real formula.
01:01:16.060 - 01:01:52.892, Speaker A: So there is no h one people understood and realized. So everything here is saying that safety stated that if the index of speciality of the divisor tends to zero, as the degree of the divisor tends to infinity, the difference between LD and the degree is bounded. And this is in the case of q. Here is what you get asymptotic. So there is no precise formula. Moreover, it's a real, in a real context. Here we have a, what we call absolute has two meanings.
01:01:52.892 - 01:02:32.048, Speaker A: Here it's an integral formula. So classical type absolute in the sense that the base of s is not anymore a field. I don't want to imply with that that s has any field interpretation into algebraical part. S is the basic ring as a substitute for ring. In fact, motor p theorists localized s at their primes. So there is a process of localization. So I guess, yeah, my student has generalized a little bit story from the case of q to the case of real quadratic number field of plus number one.
01:02:32.048 - 01:03:06.752, Speaker A: It's important to have this condition in it. And the theorem states that, yeah, as I said before, the difference between the dimension of h zero and the degree is still bounded, so. But the definition of h one is still working progress. Okay, so I think this is the part just recalling that the curve at genus zero and. And yes, behind the scene, but I don't have time. It's that the integers, and this is the Rosetta stone. I want to finish back to the Rosetta stone.
01:03:06.752 - 01:03:48.124, Speaker A: So, in the Rosetta stone slide that Alain put it, there were two cases, cx and fqx. So, polynomial ring in one variable, and then there was this z with the question. So now what we have done is a re understanding of z. And this probably is the source of the reason why the story develops so well. The fact that the integers have a polynomial description in one variable. The only difference is that in the left put in the slide is that. Okay, so you choose the put variable equal minus two, and there is a condition that has to be satisfied one plus one equal x plus x squared.
01:03:48.124 - 01:04:47.482, Speaker A: Under this condition, any integer can be written in as a finite sum in terms of coefficients alpha, j in zero, one and power with minus two. And the story has developed outside the mathematics enormously not in mathematics. This theory called the mega binary representation of the integers, or when the integers can be described in a singular fashion, when minus two is substituted by three, I guess. Yeah, three. And with three, you have to use the alpha j in the set minus 10 and one. So then people outside the realm of mathematics have implemented the story in a general context. So they wonder whether you can have any integers, ring of integers in a number c, in a number field that can have the same description.
01:04:47.482 - 01:05:09.174, Speaker A: So, is it really casual, the case that the integer have this interesting interpretation, as a polynomial in one variable, apparently only finite number of cases are possible. But this is a study completely open for the mathematical applications for a number theory. Thank you.
