00:00:00.280 - 00:01:33.960, Speaker A: I'll talk about some relationships between loopholes of some spaces arising in Toric topology and in homotopy theory of polyhedral products, and some structural results about commutator subgroups of right angle cockstre groups and more generally arbitrary graph product of groups. Well, there seems to be very nice correspondence between these two series of results and the unifying framework behind this is a theory of polyhedral products. And so I'll give you a couple of examples where you can translate some results on homotopy theory about the loop homology or the rational homotopy l algebras of some spaces on one hand and right angled cox two groups are commutator subgroups and modern graph products on the other side. And it seems to be there is much more to explore about this correspondence. So it's only the beginning of the journey and I invite you all to continue as it seems to be very fascinating for myself as well. And this project is a joint work with several people. I tried to list it here, most of them Jelena Grubic, Marina Ilya, so George Simons, Steve Therio, Jakub Derivkin, Jiwoo and there are also others which I'll mention during my talk.
00:01:33.960 - 00:02:43.384, Speaker A: Okay, so I'll briefly recall the definition of the polyhedral product just to set up the notation, because there are several competing notations for these spaces. So it's like we have a sequence of pair of spaces, xiai, which we denote the sequence, we denote the sequence by the bold face letters and we have a simplicial, finite simplicial complex on an ordered set m of m indices. We always assume that the empty set is a simplex and then we, for each subset we prepare a subproduct in the product of x's. So like in the usual way, we take the smallest set if I is not in this index set, and we take the bigger space if I is in the index set. And then we form this k polyhedral product of this sequence as a union of all those subproducts over all synthesis in k. So it sits, it's like this union of those products and it sits inside the big product of X is the product of all x's. And we use a shortened notation.
00:02:43.384 - 00:03:32.252, Speaker A: So when all the pairs are the same, we just do not use the plain letters instead of bold faces. And when the second, the smaller space is a point, we just use the notation x to the power k. It's like, it seems to be very convenient for myself. It's like a polyhedral power of a space or of a sequence of spaces. Well, most of you know many examples of this, but I'll give you some more in a second. But let me first review the sort of basic categorical approach to this, so you can look at that as a, as some simple co limit of some very simple diagram. You look at the very small posit category of faces in your simplicial complex.
00:03:32.252 - 00:04:17.626, Speaker A: So it has an object for every simplex. And morphins are inclusions, so there is at most one morphism between two objects. And we have the big category of state, topological spaces for start. And we look at the diagram, the functor, from the small category to the big category, which takes a simplex to this product. Remember, this is like the product of xs and a's determined by I. And obviously, because everything is pointed, whenever you have amorphism, you also have an inclusion of the corresponding spaces here. So it's a function.
00:04:17.626 - 00:05:45.424, Speaker A: And then you can say that the polyhedral product is a collimate of this diagram. Or in a more simple way you can say that it's like a nested union of all those products over all simplicity. Well, I spent this little time to set this up in a categorical fashion, because we are going to change the categories very soon, but this kind of formula will be kept. So right now let's go briefly through examples, many of those examples you have already seen in the previous talks. The first one is you take the circle and the point, and then you get this sub product, sub complex in the M torus, the polyhedral power of the circle. In the geometric group theory it's often called the Salvetti complex, corresponding to the right angle arch, although yeah, Salvetti complex is defined for arbitrary arching group, not just right angled one. And for the right angle arching groups, it was known before, probably the first paper where it appeared was the one of Kim and Rouge in 1980s, where they just proved that this space is a k by one space for the, what they call partially commutative group, which is the same as a right angle artin group when k is a flag complex.
00:05:45.424 - 00:06:28.794, Speaker A: So anyway, and nowadays we think of it as a polyhedral product. So it interpolates between the m fold wedge and m fold product of circles. So if k is a discrete complex, you get a wedge. When k is a full simplex, you get the product. And another important example is when k is just the boundary of simplex, you have just only one subset missing, the whole set, the whole set of m letters is missing and all other sets are present in your simplicial complex. Then you get what is called in topology, the fat wage. It just is obtained from the torus by removing the top cell.
00:06:28.794 - 00:07:34.374, Speaker A: Okay? And in general, this polyhedral power interpolates between m fold wedge and m fold product, right? Another important example is you take the pair real numbers and integers. Now the second space is not trivial, it's not a point. So you get something sitting inside rm inside the euclidean space. And it's like it's formed of planes parallel to coordinate planes. So for instance, if k is disjoint of disjoint point, then you get a grid consisting of all lines parallel to one of the coordinate axes. And again, when you have this boundary of this simplex, you have this infinite cubile age, like it's a union of all integer hyperplanes parallel to coordinate hyperplanes. It's like an infinite cubicle complex, right? So we denoted Lk.
00:07:34.374 - 00:08:47.442, Speaker A: Right? So another power of important examples, when you take infinite dimensional real projective space, which is a classifying space for the z two cyclic group of two elements, and then you can form the corresponding polyhedral power which sits inside this m fold product of Rp infinities, in the same way as we've seen for the torus and similarly cp infinity to the power k. This space is often called the Devis Januszkevich space because it's homotopy equivalent to the space considered in the work of Devsy and Jadushkevich. The equivalent, the Borel construction on the moment Engel complex. Okay, so, and now the final set of examples are the real and complex moment angle complexes. So you have the pair d, one is zero. So it's a segment that, it's two boundary points. Then you have what we call the real moment angle complex, because there is no, I don't know of a better name.
00:08:47.442 - 00:09:41.992, Speaker A: If you suggest a better name, I would be grateful. It appeared throughout all different papers on geometric group theory, like Mike Davis, Ruth Czerny and all others. But I couldn't see a good name for that. So, it's a cubic sum complex in the m dimensional cube, and it's a manifold. Well, again, if k is disjoint, just one dimensional skeleton of the cube, if k is a boundary of the simplex, is just the boundary of the cube. And moreover, what is more important is like if you start with a triangulated sphere like a boundary of a simplicial polytope, for instance, then you get a topological manifold, which is a very good feature of this space, which adds brasses in some geometry into all those constructions. And there is another version of this space where you replace d one s zero with d two s one.
00:09:41.992 - 00:10:04.140, Speaker A: This is called the moment angle complex. It has lots of nice geometric structure, but this is a very different story. And, well, it's, it's forms of discs and tori. It's, it's patched of disks and tori. And again, it's a topological manifold when you start with a sphere triangulation. So actually, this is a moment angle complex. And this one is its real version.
00:10:04.140 - 00:10:51.150, Speaker A: That's what we call it, real moment angle complex. But there are, there are no angles here, unlike here. So maybe it's not a very good name, but I don't know a better one. Okay, so now what can we do with all that? Well, first of all, let's look at this construction of the polyhedral product as a generic categorical construction and then try to change the categories. So what we can try to do, we can change spaces by groups. And then we arrived at another familiar construction in geometric group theory, which you can also do with topological groups. And this is kind of interesting as on its own.
00:10:51.150 - 00:11:15.678, Speaker A: So you start with a sequence of groups. There can be topological groups or just discrete groups, whatever. Well, for some reasons, it's better to assume they are non trivial. Non trivial. That will save some space later. Then you don't have to put these assumptions in later statements. So a sequence of non trivial topological groups or non trivial groups.
00:11:15.678 - 00:11:52.460, Speaker A: And then again, you can, for arbitrary subset, you can form a subproduct in the M four product of those groups and. Oh, sorry. Yeah, so this is a sub product. The groups are naturally pointed, so there is no problem with base points. And then you can say, look at the same sort of diagram. But now in the category of groups, you send a simplex in your simplicial complex, K, to the product of those groups. And then you take the collimate.
00:11:52.460 - 00:12:45.394, Speaker A: But now the collimate is taken in the category of groups or in the category of topological groups rather than spaces. And that's a very different object it uses. Like the core product is a free product, whereas in topological spaces, a core product is a wedge, but it's the same sort of formula. And it's called the graph product of groups. It's called graph product because it actually depends, although it's as we wrote it, there is a simplicial complex in this notation, so that it universally fits with their previous constructions like polyhedral production. But it depends only on its one skeleton, on the graph. And therefore, it's called the graph product, because like the category of groups, is not as rich from the homotopy theoretical point of view, as a category of topological spaces.
00:12:45.394 - 00:13:32.494, Speaker A: You cannot do homotopy with just groups. You can do with topological groups, but that's again kind of different story. So now, well, yeah, the graph product depends only on the graph of K. Namely, you can write it down with generators and relations, whereby various precise formula you just, so there is an isomorphism of groups. So you take the free product of all your groups and set up the commutative relations whenever you have an age in your simplicial complex. So when two vertices in your simplicial complex are joined by an age, the corresponding elements in your, all the corresponding elements in your groups commute. So you can do this also with topological groups, you have to be a bit more careful, you have to look at the well pointed topological groups, but this construction exists in the topological category as well.
00:13:32.494 - 00:14:19.050, Speaker A: So you can see from this that it depends only on the graph, right? So you have to check the universal property of the collimate for this presentation to see that it actually agrees with the previous definition. But it's an exercise, it's not complicated. So, and as a corollary, you get that, I mean, it depends only on the graph, therefore it's called the graph product. Well, and then there is a natural question to ask how those two constructions are related. Namely. Well, yeah, before I proceed to this, let's go through two very basic examples which are familiar to all of you. Like the right angle arching group is a graph product, when all the groups in the vertices of the graph are just z infinite cyclic groups, as algebraically say, or groups of integers.
00:14:19.050 - 00:15:24.396, Speaker A: And. Well, yeah, then you have the quotient of the free group, that's a free product of all those gis by this commutivity relationship. And. Well, and it like interpolates between the free group, which you obtain when you have discrete complex, and the free abelian group, which you get when you get a full syntax. And another example is a more geometric example is what's called right angle cockstra group. So it's when you take z mode two as a vertex groups, then you have a quotient of the free group by the relations, you have one extra relation that the square, each element is one. And here what you get this right angled nest, because many of those groups have geometric presentations as like reflection groups, like Euclidean, or in Lobachevsky space, hyperbolic space, and therefore they correspond to the case when you have the right angles between the reflecting hyperplanes, and therefore they are called right angle, this right angle in their IT groups.
00:15:24.396 - 00:15:56.864, Speaker A: This words just came from this coaxial setting. Okay, so these are two examples, but there are many more. Of course, you can form arbitrary graph products with other finite groups, like six cyclic groups for instance. And, well, that is a natural question, how this graph product relates to the polyhedral product. Namely, you can form the graph product and then you classify it. Or you can classify each group and then take the polyhedral product. And when those two things agree.
00:15:56.864 - 00:16:47.414, Speaker A: And of course, well, because this polyhedral product depends on the whole k, on the whole simplicial complex k, whereas this graph product depends only on its one skeleton, you cannot expect this to be called in general to be true in general. And well, in order to see to what extent it holds and when it fails, it's convenient to look at this homotopy vibration. So you have this homotopy vibration of polyhedral products. So you classify each group in your sequence. This bold phase g is a sequence of groups. You classify them and form the polyhedral production. And then you look at the universal spaces for those groups and take the group itself, that's another set of pairs.
00:16:47.414 - 00:17:52.814, Speaker A: And then you, well, you can either do it by hand or use the functorial properties of the polyhedral product. You can see that there is such a homotopy vibration. For example, in all those examples we considered before, like you have this Lk space like infinite Cubulh, it's a homotopy fiber, the homotopy fiber of the inclusion of this sub complex in the torus included in the whole torus that corresponds to the case g equals z. All the vertices vertex group are z. Then this finite cubicle complex, the real moment angle complex, is a homotopy fiber of the inclusion of the Rp infinity to the power k, to the rp infinity to the power m. That's an inclusion of CW sub complexes and that's its homotopy fiber. Well, here you have to classify s zero while so as the Bb mod two is like rp infinity and instead of e, that's infinite dimensional sphere, but you can replace it by d one, just anything contractible.
00:17:52.814 - 00:18:34.894, Speaker A: That's a better model, it's a smaller one. And similarly with Cp infinity to the power k includes into the m four product of simple fiber is this moment angle complex that corresponds to the case g equals the circle. That's not a topological group. All right, so these are all examples of this homotopy vibration then. Well, there's this terminology of flux complexes. So the flag complex is basically the simplicial complex determined by its graph. You fill in all complete subgraphs by simplices.
00:18:34.894 - 00:19:37.102, Speaker A: Or you can say simplicial complex is flagged whenever any set of vertices which are pairwise connected by edges spans a simplex. So, and then we have this CRM with nitrate and fork that basically this is this. The classifying space of the graph product agrees with the polyhedral product of the classifying spaces if and only if k the flag complex. And, well, you need to prove that for flag complexes, and you need to see why it fails when k is not flagged and to see why it fails when k is not flags. It's convenient to look at what's called high whitehead products. Basically that work something which is, which exists in homotopic theory of spaces and does not exist in groups, like in groups, whenever you have elements which are pairwise commute, then they commute in total. But in spaces, this is not quite the case.
00:19:37.102 - 00:20:28.910, Speaker A: You can have all the versions of higher commutativity and therefore in the homotopy groups of this polyhedral products. When k is not a flag complex, that's basically if and only if condition. When k is not flagged, then you have a high white hat product for every missing phase. You have a higher whitehead product in there, this space and this what obstructs this identity to be true in general, well, this can be fixed by, you can define graph product using homotopy collimit rather than collimate. When you do polyhedral products, collimates and homotopical limits agree in the definition of the polyhedral product. You can replace collimate by homotopical limit because the appropriate diagrams are already co vibrant and therefore the homotopical limit agrees with homotopy limit. But in groups this is not the case.
00:20:28.910 - 00:21:15.470, Speaker A: You can do homotypical limits in the category of groups, but that's going to be a very complicated gadget. But this is what actually replaces the graph product if you want this to be true in general. Okay, so, well now, yeah, when you restrict yourself to the case of topological, to the case of discrete groups, then you get from this kind of homotopy equivalence, you get something much more familiar. And well, I'll set it as a theorem, but it's actually like a folklore result. Different parts of it go back to like thirties, to the work of Whitehead and so on, on aspherical spaces. And many parts of this. I collected here these facts.
00:21:15.470 - 00:22:22.466, Speaker A: But many parts of this statement appeared in different works in geometric group theory from fifties and well, so if you have a graph product of discrete groups, then there are several things you can say about the polyhedral product of their classifying spaces. First of all, for arbitrary k, the fundamental group of this polyhedral product is a graph product that holds for arbitrary k. But then the asphericity holds if and only if case flag. So higher homotopy groups vanish. If and only if k is a flag complex, then the higher homotopy groups of those two pairs, two polyhedral products agree, and the fundamental groups of this pair, remember we had all this vibration, this pair features in this homotopy vibration. So it's like a fiber of these inclusions, right? So that's an important pair. So, and the fundamental group of this pair is isomorphic to the kernel of the canonical projection from the graph product to the cartesian product.
00:22:22.466 - 00:23:19.884, Speaker A: It's sometimes called the cartesian subgroup of the graph product. So again, well, that asphericity statement, as I said, it's, it's basically the Whitehead theorem. And he has a theorem on saying when you glue a spherical spaces along some recipe, when you get in a spherical space, a Whitehead theorem tells you when this is the case, and this follows from that. To see that it is not flagged, sorry, to see it's not a spherical one, k is not flagged. You have to look at this kind of high whitehead products. Yeah, well, I briefly recovered it here, but it's like, yeah, so if k is not flagged, then you can pick up like a sub complex corresponding to this missing phase, the maximal non phase, sorry, minimal non phase. And the property of the polyhedral product tells you that it's actually a retract of the whole thing.
00:23:19.884 - 00:24:20.954, Speaker A: So it's a fat wage of those spaces, and it's a retract of the whole gadget. And the homotopy fiber of this inclusion is like this wedge of k minus one dimensional spheres, because if groups are discrete, so here, so these GI suggest discrete sets and that this k minus one fault suspension is just a wedge of k minus one dimensional spheres. So you have a higher homotopy groups appearing here, and because it's a red tract, you have this higher homotopy group appearing here. And therefore, then those things are not a spherical, and the rest is a like obvious, like the statement about the homotopy group of this space, that's the fundamental group is a cartesian subgroup. The kernel follows from this homotopy exact sequence of this vibration. Okay, so now, okay, specializing to those the most, well, known cases of the right angle arch groups and right angle coax groups. We get these two corollaries well over here.
00:24:20.954 - 00:25:13.314, Speaker A: So that's like the, this thing about this, what's called Salvetti complex, or Kyman Rouge complex. Like this fundamental group is a right angle arching group, and it's a spherical space, if and only if, case flag. And now, if you look at this gadget, this infinite cubile edge cubicle complex, then its fundamental group is isomorphic to the commutator subgroup of the right angle artery group. Because the cartesian subgroup, when all the groups in the graph product are billion, the kernel from the map of the graph product to the cartesian product is just a commutator subgroup. But this is a commutator subgroup of the right angle arting group, and similarly for the right angle coax groups. But here you have a finite k by one space. And.
00:25:13.314 - 00:26:01.738, Speaker A: Yeah, and the fundamental group of this real moment angle complex is a commutator subgroup of the right angle. Okay, so why those? Well, I am primarily interested in those two commutator subgroups. Well, first of all, they have a very, very nice geometrical meaning. Well, this can be illustrated by two examples. First of all. Well, if k is just an m cycle, the boundary of an m gon, then if you look at this real moment angle complex, then you can actually prove that it's an orientable surface of some particular genus of this genus. So if you have, like one sphere, then a torus and a surface of genus five, surface of genus 17 and so on, that's what you get from the m ones.
00:26:01.738 - 00:26:46.824, Speaker A: Those surfaces are, in a sense, the most symmetric out of all surfaces. They have the most possible commuting involutions acting on them like local maxima of number of commuting involutions. The most symmetric remaining surfaces, in a sense, like the surface of genus five, is more symmetric than a surface of genus four or surface of genus six. It has more commuting involutions. And, well, this observation, well, all those kind of things are, you can find other sort of ideas in the work of Cockstar of 1938. And so, so the fundamental group of this one is the commutator subgroup of the right angle Cox. So in this case, the commutator subgroup is a surface group.
00:26:46.824 - 00:27:27.484, Speaker A: And now that's like boundaries of m going like triangulation of one sphere. And if you look at the triangulation of two spheres, you get something which is much more kind of abundant. There are lots of polytopes in dimension two or in dimension three lots of simplicial polytopes. And for every simplicial polytope, you get some dimensional manifold out of this construction of real momentary complex. And the commutator subgroup of this right angle Coxor groups is the three manifold groups. And those manifolds are quite interesting. They, in many cases, they have kind of hyperbolic structure and so on.
00:27:27.484 - 00:28:13.526, Speaker A: So you look at not just an abstract commutator subgroup in some subgroups, but you look at the fundamental groups of some manifolds with knight geometry by looking at this commutator subgroups. Okay, so, well, now, yeah, let's see how you can say something about these things, about this group. So, well, okay, let's study those commutator subgroups more closely. So, we first consider the topological case where all the groups, that actually was where our approach began. We started from the toric point of view, from the toric topology. Then we came to momentangle complexes, polyhedral products. And only after that we realized that there is some links to geometric group theory.
00:28:13.526 - 00:28:54.614, Speaker A: So that's where our approach started, at least. So we look at this group's circles, right? And we have this homotopy vibration from this moment, that's now the moment angle complex, right? The one formed of discs and circles. And it's a homotopy fiber of the inclusion of CP infinity to the power key to the product of MCP infinities. You have this homotopic vibration and you can loop it. Consider the loop spaces. And then it splits after looping, as a vibration of spaces, because it has a section. So that as a loop space, the loop space on this Davis Januszkevich space is this polyhedral k.
00:28:54.614 - 00:29:29.134, Speaker A: Power is a product of the loop space on this finite CW complex. And the terms, however, this is not an age space splitting. This is not true as age spaces or as topological monoids, topological groups. This is not the case. And the way to see that is to look at the contracting algebra, loop homology. So, if you look at their loop homology, then you see that the corresponding sequence of Hopf algebra, the loopholmology algebra, doesn't split. You have a short exact sequence of loopholmology algebras, but it doesn't split in general.
00:29:29.134 - 00:30:13.548, Speaker A: What it looks like is you have this, like in the center, you have in the middle, you have this loopholmology of that complicated space, that CP infinity to the power k. This is a large non commutative algebra. Here you have the loop homology of the CP infinity to the power m, which is just the homology of the torus and it's a very small commutative expression, exterior algebra, commutative, graded commutative algebra. And this map, which comes from this vibration, is like an abelianization map. So you abalanize, you make everything commute. So this huge non commutative gadget becomes commutative. And now this loopholmology of this moment angle complex is, it's like algebra kernel.
00:30:13.548 - 00:30:58.964, Speaker A: It's like commutator subalgebra in this, inside this non commutative algebra. So that's like the homotopy theoretical approach. So then, yeah, that's what I said. It's commutator subalgebra. So you abelianize this non commutative gadget and you take the kernel as a Hof algebra. And, well, you can say something about this non commutative algebra. So to do this, you look at this kind of graph products, but now in yet another category, now you look at the graded lie algebra, or lisuperalge, I mean graded in topological sense with science.
00:30:58.964 - 00:31:35.074, Speaker A: So you look at the free graded lie algebra on m one dimensional generators, and take the put the commutative relations like in right angle coxster group. So you make the square of each element is zero, but now it's a least square. These elements are for degree one. So this is untrivial relation in the graded sense, right? So this is not automatic because you have degree one elements. So you put these relations, and you put the commutative relation whenever you have an edge. It's called like graph product l algebra. So the bracket here is a graded lie bracket with this sign.
00:31:35.074 - 00:32:07.994, Speaker A: So we denoted this by l sub k. It's a very similar to right angle Cox group. But you do it in the category of lead groups, sorry, li algebra graded l. Then, well, you can do the very same business, simple exercise. You can write it as a collimate of graded lie algebras, when the things that you take limit of are just trivial li algebras, like commutative ones. But the whole thing will become non commutative because. Yeah, because of the collimit.
00:32:07.994 - 00:33:03.814, Speaker A: And this is similar to writing down the right angle cockstre group as a collimit of zero to the power I. Okay, so now you can look at its universal enveloping algebra, and it's just the quotient of the free associative algebra, the tensor algebra by the same relations. And this free associative algebra is what features in this description of this loopholmology of the cp infinity to the power k. So what you can say that there is always an injective homomorphism of hob algebra, this graph associative algebra, the quotient of the tensor algebra. By those two sets of relations, the square is zero and the commutator is zero. Whenever you have an edge, it embeds into this graph, into this porn checking algebra, it always embeds as a subalgebra. And this embedding becomes an isomorphic if and only if case flag.
00:33:03.814 - 00:33:43.836, Speaker A: So if k is flagged, you have the whole description of this group it had by generators and relations. And then you'll want to look at its commutator subalge. It's still quite complicated even in the flag case. So now, sorry, I go back a little bit. So if you look at this exact sequence, and even if you know this one by generators and relations, like in the flag case, it's still hard to say how this looks like, and. Well, but if k is not flagged, then this is much larger. It contains like ravaged images of all higher white or higher summers and products.
00:33:43.836 - 00:34:40.850, Speaker A: So there are much more in that than just those commutators, right? So that's like, that's like the homotopy theoretical side of the story. And now, so you have in the homotopy theoretical side of the story, you have this, from dragging algebra loop homology of the Cp infinity to the power k, it has a subset of subalgebra which is like this graph algebra with graph relations. And in a non flat case it also has this high white head products. And the loop homology of Zk of the moment angle complex is its commutator subalgebra. And now let's look at the discrete group case. In the discrete group case, you still get this homotopy vibration you start from. Then if you loop that one, then you get a short exact on the level of PI one at least.
00:34:40.850 - 00:35:29.230, Speaker A: So, well, this is true in general for arbitrary k, not just flag, but if k is flags, and you just get a spherical spaces and you just get an exact sequence of PI ones of fundamental groups. If k is non flagged, then this is still a k PI one space. So that will just tell you that the higher homotopy groups of those two spaces agree in the non flat case. But let's look at the fundamental groups first. So you have this short exact sequence of groups, which just tells you that these fundamental groups of this polyhedral product is a cartesian subgroup inside this graph product. And in the case of right angle architecture groups, you just get the commutator subgroup. So this group is a commutator subgroup of this graph code.
00:35:29.230 - 00:36:02.124, Speaker A: That's how I denote the commutator subgroup by prime. So, but like in the, in the, in the case of topological, in the case of circle or topological groups, we loop this vibration and then look at the loop homology. But here we're actually doing the same. If you loop this one, then you get just loops on a discrete group. The loop space on the classifying space of a discrete group is a group itself. So it just, if you loop this one, you just get this sequence. So it's just, you're doing the same thing as in the previous topological cases.
00:36:02.124 - 00:36:52.454, Speaker A: So now you have two results. One about the homotopical situation with momentangle complex and the commutator subalgebra. That's due to Jelena Grubic, Steven Therio Dzuvo and myself of 2012. It tells you how to write down a minimal generator set for this commutator subalgebra. In particular, in those cases when this happens to be free, and that's quite a wide family of simplicial complexes, for which that case, a moment angle complex, is a radio sphere, you get a minimal basis for the free associative algebra. But in general, it's just a minimal generator set. So you have like, you have one generators for every component in every full sub complex.
00:36:52.454 - 00:37:23.844, Speaker A: Well, basically zero, one less than connected components. You have to look at the reduced zero homology. So you look at all possible, you look at, sorry, that k. Yeah, that's a simplicial complex. Yeah. So that here you look at the all possible full sub complexes in your ca, and look how many connected components they have. And for every connected component except for the base point, you choose some nested commutator, and that like procedure tells you how to choose it in a more or less canonical way.
00:37:23.844 - 00:38:07.670, Speaker A: So that's how you get a basis in the commutator subalgebra, a minimal generator set, so that this commutator forms a basis in the sub modules of intercomposable elements here. But these commutators are understood as commutators in the, in the, in the loop spaces of the Devis Januszkevich space, right? So I mean, this commutator sits here, right? These commutators of those canonical generators here, they're not, you don't have Uis in the commutator subgroups, right? As in groups. Yeah. You have like this, sorry, I'm skipping between slides. Yeah, that's not good. But anyway, so that's like the iterated commutators of that. So you write it as a commutator sub group.
00:38:07.670 - 00:39:24.104, Speaker A: So that's how you put a basis, saying a commutator subalgebra of a free tensor algebra and so on, but in a more general setting of arbitrary simplicial complex. Okay, so that's one side, and another one is like a more recent one with Jakob Bereovkin, that you can do actually the same thing for the commutator subgroup of the right angle cox, or you can actually do with arbitrary graph product, it's the same similar description, I just put the simplest possible case, the right angle cost, when you have that like the finite generator commutator. Otherwise, in the arbitrary graph product, it's usually not finitely generators like in the right angle arching group, you can write a similar sort of basis, but it will be infinite. So that like the commutator subgroup, so you see that commutator subgroup of the right angle coaxer group, you can write it either as a PI, one of your real moment angle complex, or you can still write it down as a loop homology, although it's like it just has h zero, h zero, it doesn't have h one, and so on, because k is flag and. Yeah, yeah, I forgot, yeah, I need to say that case flag here still. Well, because otherwise this is not true. But yeah, if you drop this one, then you don't have to say that case flag.
00:39:24.104 - 00:40:04.812, Speaker A: So anyway, so this kind of, you still have this minimal set of generators, and with exactly same formula. But now you take group commutators, put their round brackets instead of square. Square brackets are lead commutators and round brackets are group commutators. So it's exactly the same formula and the same sort of procedure to picking up nested commutators. But the proofs are very different. That's kind of a drawback of our approach, that as of yet, we do not know how to translate one homotypical statement into a group theoretical statement, and why vice versa. I mean, you can guess, once you know a homotopy theoretical statement, you can guess how a group theoretical statement will look like.
00:40:04.812 - 00:40:31.800, Speaker A: But then you need to prove it separately. At the moment, we don't have a machine, a technique to directly translate one statement to another. You have to reprove. And we are trying to develop some kind of techniques to do it simultaneously. But so far we cannot do this. So far there are two separate sets of results which look similarly, but the proofs are very different. So anyway.
00:40:31.800 - 00:41:20.988, Speaker A: And now, well, as I mentioned, sometimes this calls for arbitrary flag, but the important case is when you actually, this commutator subalgebra of this commutative subgroup is free, then you can actually say that this is the basis for your free group. So there is quite a simple answer to this question, which was partially known in the group theory, probably not in chromatopy theory. So it's related to what's called chordal graphs. A graph is chordal, or in other terminology triangulated. If each of its cycles with at least four vertices has a chord. That means that it does not have empty cycles. So you can have like triangles, empty triangles, because there is no way to put a coordinate triangle.
00:41:20.988 - 00:41:57.364, Speaker A: But whenever you have a four cycle, there is a diagonal in this square, and whenever you have a five cycle, there are two diagonals and so on. Therefore it's called, also like triangulated, there are no empty cycles, that graphs are called chordal. And they feature in this optimization theory on graphs. And it was known from sixties that like this, these graphs are very special. They have like their vertices can be ordered in some nice way. It's called a perfect elimination order. So that like for each, they can be ordered in such a way that for each vertex it's less enables for a complete subgroup, a clique, that's an if and only if condition.
00:41:57.364 - 00:42:57.084, Speaker A: And you can apply it to say something about these polyhedral products, actually. So those two criterions have different powers. So absence of empty cycles and this special order, I used both in this kind of, in this theorem, another theorem of the four authors, that whenever you have a flag complex and k is a field, and the following three conditions are equivalent. Remember this loop homology of the moment angle complex is a commutator subalgebra in this loop in the loop homology on the cp infinity to the power key, right? You always think of it as a commutator subalgebra. And if this commutator subalgebra is free, that's one condition. Another one is that Zk has a homotopy type of hierarchy that basically is this equivalent features in homotopy theory. And the last one is that the one skeleton of your flag complex is a cordon bra.
00:42:57.084 - 00:43:35.766, Speaker A: So you can completely classify the case when that case, a homotopic type of wedge of spheres in the flag case. And that gives you criterion when the commutator subgroup is free. And then there is a similar statement for the graph products of discrete groups like this. Also our theorem with Burjovkin. Then again, now you look at this cartesian commutator subgroup, or in more general case, it's cartesian subgroup in your graph, protect the kernel of this map. Abelianization map, sorry, not abelianization is a kernel of the map to the direct product. It's an abelianization.
00:43:35.766 - 00:44:01.534, Speaker A: But all gis are abelian. So this kernel is a free group. That's one condition. Then, like this pair, this polyhedral power, as this polyhedral product is homotopy equivalent to a wedge of circles. So in the previous theorem, we had a wedge of spheres, higher dimensional sphere than the all dimensional sphere. Spheres of arbitrary dimension can appear in this wedge. But here you have just circles.
00:44:01.534 - 00:44:46.206, Speaker A: And again, k one is a chordal graph. So. Well, that's not a very complicated statement, but it uses both kind of approach to chordal graphs and you the sum results on polyhedral products. I'll just outline how. It's nice. The ideas are very simple here. So that while the one implies two, implies one, is just because this is a fundamental group of this space, right? So if it's the wedge of spheres and it's a free group, now, three implies two, then you need to use this Barry, Banderski, Cohen and Gitler decomposition of the polyhedral products into the wedges and some results of grubic and terrior earlier ones.
00:44:46.206 - 00:45:25.166, Speaker A: So, yeah, actually, and then the way you use it is you use this perfect elimination order on chordal graphs. So using this perfect elimination order, you can decompose this polyhedral product and see that it becomes a wedge of spheres. So if it's a chordal graph, then you use the decomposition to show that it's a wedge of circles, and it's the same for the previous theorem. You show in the same way that the wedge of spheres in the topological and one implies three. While that's probably the well known argument in the group geometric group series. So if it's not chordal, then you have an empty cycle. For this empty cycle, you can find a subgroup in this kernel, which is a surface group.
00:45:25.166 - 00:46:00.380, Speaker A: Because remember that example, when you have a cordless cycle, then the group corresponding to this cordless cycle is a surface group, and it retracts out of the whole thing. So you find a surface subgroup inside your group, so it cannot be free. So that's kind of three simple steps. Okay? So that's how you prove both theorems. That's simpler than to construct a basis in general. Okay, I have three more minutes, so I need to kind of speed up. So, well, you have this corolla rays for the right angle, arching and coaxed groups.
00:46:00.380 - 00:46:47.504, Speaker A: So the commutator subgroup of a right angle arching group is free if and only if k one is a chordal graph. And the same for the commutator subgroup of the right angle cox. So. And yeah, they said that part a for the right angle arching groups that followed from the 1981, I think, work of cervacious drums and cervacious. So that's, and, yeah, and, but the difference between those two things is that, like this commute here, the commutator subgroup is infinitely generated, unless you have just commutative group. And in this case, a commutator subgroup is always finitely generated. Right? It's a PI, one of a sub finite subcomputer complex, this real moment angle complex.
00:46:47.504 - 00:47:19.282, Speaker A: Okay, so that's how you understand commutators for the right angle artery and commutator groups and coaxial groups. So I prepared a couple of examples. Yeah, I don't have time to go through this, that illustrates this kind of order, which you use to choose a basis in your commutator subgroups that we illustrated in those theorem. So like when you have a graph like this, or simplicial complex like this, then this is a chordal, this is a tree. So it's a chordal graph. Any tree is a chordal graph. And then you have to choose that.
00:47:19.282 - 00:48:01.584, Speaker A: Like for any pairs of non, for any pairs of non adjacent vertices, you have commutators. Then you can look at the full sub complexes on three vertices, and the one, those which are connected like one, two, three do not contribute here. And like those which have like one, three and four, the full sub complex on one, three and four, it has three connected components, so it contributes two commutators, like three four, one and one four three. And the other two contribute one. And now you have, the whole thing has two connected components, so you have only one commutator on all four letters. This commutator subgroup is free on those generators. It's a very algorithmic way to choose a basis.
00:48:01.584 - 00:48:29.408, Speaker A: And well, if you have a cycle, then you can again write down a basis in your commutator subgroup, but it's no longer free. So there is a relation of those basis elements. You can, for instance, for the boundary of a pentagon, you choose ten elements and there is one relations. But this is by no way, this is a canonical basis. So the relation will not be like the product of five commutators. It will be something different, but there will be just one relation. So you have a one relator group.
00:48:29.408 - 00:49:05.886, Speaker A: So whenever you start with an M cycle, you get a one relator group as a commutator sample. And then you can ask, well, the next step after being free is a one relator, either group or algebra. And you can ask maybe, well, you could see that there are many examples when you get a free group. And you may guess, are there so many examples when you get one related groups? And that's the most recent thing that we discovered, that there are actually not so many examples of one relator group among those commutators. So we have a pair of theorem. Again, this is a pair of theorem. It's not one theorem, because their proofs are very different, although the statements look very much same.
00:49:05.886 - 00:49:29.898, Speaker A: So one is a group, theoretical one. It characterizes the case, the simplicial complex, for which is a commutator subgroup in the right angle Cox group. Or you can do arbitrary graph product is a one relator group. And so it's basically a cycle. And you can join with a simplex. That's all you can do. And it also has a homological characterization in terms of second homology groups.
00:49:29.898 - 00:49:57.086, Speaker A: And then you have also the same characterization for the algebra, so that the homology is a one related algebra, if and only if k is just either a cycle of a join of a cycle and a simplex. And there is also homological characterization, but here you need a bi graded by T number, so that you cannot go with just one graded homology. So. Okay, sorry for being slightly over time. Yeah, I'll stop here. And these are some references. Yeah, and yeah, I'll stop.
00:49:57.086 - 00:50:03.094, Speaker A: Thank you for your attention. Thank you. If we could all unmute and thank terrace.
