00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.494, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 26 May 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for not putting out an episode or newsletter yesterday. Unfortunately, I had to deal with a plumbing emergency happened at the worst time. But I had to kind of like, get that sorted and make sure that my house wasn't gonna get flooded. But it's all good.
00:00:23.494 - 00:00:41.174, Speaker A: It wasn't. It didn't turn out to be that much of an emergency as I thought it was. But by the time I got it all kind of like, fixed up, I could. I was too tired to record the refuel, so I just figured that I wasn't going to do it. I'll just kind of like, do a longer episode today. And, well, today's episode is going to be quite lengthy, as you can see. I've got a bunch to get through and I'm pretty fired up.
00:00:41.174 - 00:01:08.270, Speaker A: I'm actually pretty pissed off at the moment, and I'll tell you why. So there was this tweet thread from Martin Koppelman yesterday, who is one of the co founders of Gnosis, talking about this seven block reorg on the beacon chain. Now, for those of you who don't know what reorgs are, I'm not going to kind of like go into depth about what they are. It can be quite a complex topic. But I've talked about it before, basically, the way blockchains work. Specifically. Specifically.
00:01:08.270 - 00:01:22.574, Speaker A: So not. Not all blockchains, but like, specifically, like Ethereum proof of work. Bitcoin proof of work. Ethereum proof of stake. Is that like blocks. I mean, especially in proof of work, there's no concept of finality, right? So the blocks aren't finalized. Technically, both Ethereum and bitcoin can be real to genesis.
00:01:22.574 - 00:01:54.260, Speaker A: So what that means is you can basically replace blocks that have already been mined with kind of like other blocks. But in the case of kind of like this reorg that happened on the beacon chain, it wasn't due to a kind of consensus issue, it wasn't due to a bug or anything like that. And it was already an issue that had been, you know, fixed and rectify. It's just that the clients that. So the issue got rectified in the clients, and there were a bunch of clients that hadn't updated their software with the fix in place. And the fix is what's called a. Propose a boost.
00:01:54.260 - 00:02:24.012, Speaker A: So I'm not. As I said, I'm not gonna get into the weeds of all these stuff because it will take me forever to explain it. But essentially Martin got like a wrong reading on what that was. Yeah, he was kind of relating this back to a paper or analysis that was done by Vitalik and Georgiosia around Rios on the beacon chain. And it's. It wasn't really kind of like relevant, I think. And then you can see here, actually, Preston Van Loon kind of like replied to Martin said, we suspect this is caused by the implementation of proposer boost fork choice, which has not fully rolled out to the network.
00:02:24.012 - 00:02:49.532, Speaker A: This Reorg is not an independent of a flawed fork choice, but a non trivial segmentation of updated versus out of date client software, aka people needed to update their software, essentially. Right? So. So, yeah, and just as well, on this front, seven blocks in beacon chain is 86 seconds. Seven times twelve second blocks, 86 seconds. Right. So it's not actually that long. Like, I think some people look at seven block and think that it's like a bitcoin block, which is every ten minutes, and I think it's like a 70 minutes real.
00:02:49.532 - 00:03:09.998, Speaker A: No, it's like 86 seconds. It's not actually that deep of a, kind of like real there. Um, but that's kind of like orthogonal, I guess. One thing, and the reason why I'm kind of like really upset today is because people took this thread from man and ran with it. Especially people who don't like ethereum, such as the bitcoin maximalist. No fact checking. No.
00:03:09.998 - 00:03:36.786, Speaker A: Kind of like looking at what the core devs are saying and seeing what the actual issue is. No nuance, just, hey, here's something that happened on Ethereum that looks bad. We're just going to kind of like fight Ethereum with it. And it's really, really pissed me off because not only kind of like that happening, but also, I'm sure you guys noticed today the ethic bitcoin ratio went down a little bit. I mean, it's not even that. It's not even down like that much compared to like what it's been doing the past few weeks. It's just today kind of like dumped a little bit and everyone's talking about it for some reason.
00:03:36.786 - 00:04:06.746, Speaker A: I don't even know why. It's just kind of like all coming at once and people are like, oh, you know, people are selling their ETH because they finally realized that aetherium is kind of like a petrol motion machine. It's deeply flawed and the merge is going to fail. And all this bullshit, I'm like, what the fuck is going on? Like, I'm just in my mind right now, like, I'm actually recording this earlier than YouTube because right now I'm just like, what the fuck? To be honest, like, I've got no idea what's going on. And I feel like people are literally just, like, overreacting to things because the price is going down. And the thing is, though, ETH isn't the only thing going down. Everything's going down.
00:04:06.746 - 00:04:25.394, Speaker A: The entire market is selling off. So I don't know. But, yeah, that's just kind of, like, got me fired up. And especially because, you know, you guys know, obviously, I'm an educator. Whenever I see misinformation, I get really, really pissed off about it. But anyway, there was a kind of something that Martin said after he posted this tweet. Martin, by the way, isn't trying to fight Ethereum isn't a bad actor or anything like that.
00:04:25.394 - 00:05:00.850, Speaker A: And he said, the amount of attention this tweet quickly got specifically from people not interested in Ethereum success, makes me almost regret doing it. And then Vitalik replied by saying, you know, please don't regret it. Truth seeking is more important than not giving the wrong people rhetorical ammunition or whatever. So I actually, I agree with, I agree with Vitalik, but, like, I would actually take, like, a different kind of view on that as well. The problem with, like, truth seeking, especially on places like Twitter, is that most people are interested in the truth. Most people are interested in confirming their biases and. And kind of, like, spreading a narrative that is better for their bags, especially, obviously, in crypto.
00:05:00.850 - 00:05:38.658, Speaker A: Right. So I kind of disagree with Vitalik there that I think that putting out, like, bad information, even though you maybe even unknowingly doing it publicly, is, is not a great thing to do because, as I said, people run with it. They kind of, like, spread it out to their audience and they don't correct it, and they don't kind of, like, follow up with kind of, like, the accurate information later on. And then it falls back to people like myself, like, a lot of people on Twitter, like bankless, like, all these people that do education to correct this sort of stuff. And it's super frustrating, guys. I get super frustrating that, like, this is like a never ending battle. I want to educate out of the love for Ethereum.
00:05:38.658 - 00:06:05.368, Speaker A: I don't want to have to, like, keep, you know, all the time, keep correcting this misinformation. It's just, it makes me depressed, to be honest. Like, the fact that it's been so long since I've been doing this and we still see the same thing over and over and over again. I know it's never going to end. I know that there is a, a segment of kind of like the crypto community, you know, the bitcoin, Maxis, and a bunch of others that want a theorem to fail that will use any information they can to make Ethereum fail. And I get that. Like, I'm not trying to get people to feel sorry for me.
00:06:05.368 - 00:06:36.896, Speaker A: I'm not trying to say that kind of like, I don't understand that this is going to be the way it is forever, but it's just incredibly frustrating. Um, but anyway, that's kind of like, again, just like, I guess a little bit off topic from, from the actual cop topic at hand. But for the best explanation on what happens, you should get read this, uh, tweet thread from Terrance from the prior labs team. So, I mean, this is coming straight from the horse's mouth, so to speak, right? Terrence is a core dev. He builds the beacon chain, kind of like software. So if anyone's going to know, it's going to be him. Right? So I already went through the kind of like TLDR.
00:06:36.896 - 00:06:59.588, Speaker A: This was basically. Well, I mean, the TL doctor, Terrence says here, propose a boost is the defense against various LMD ghost attacks. It gives the on time block an extra boost for votes. So there was a bunch of attacks against Ethereum, proof of stake highlighted a while ago. And this is kind of like the proposal boost is one of the fixes to those attacks. So we already knew about this, the attack. Like, I'm not saying what happened on the beacon chain was an attack.
00:06:59.588 - 00:07:18.770, Speaker A: It wasn't from what I can see. But we already knew about this kind of like possible attack and we put in a fix for it. And it wasn't because it wasn't a fix that required a hard fork. It was an optional, I mean, it wasn't. Technically it's an optional upgrade, so people don't have to upgrade because they're not going to, you know, get kicked off the chain or whatever. Because it's not a hard fork, but because it's not a hard fork. Let's people updated.
00:07:18.770 - 00:07:45.708, Speaker A: So those who didn't update means it resulted in what we saw was that seven block kind of like real there. But essentially the proposal boost is kind of like a defense against that attack, and it actually works quite well against, against that attack, from what I've seen. It's just that you need the clients to update to get there. Right. Anyway, I was just reading through this, this tweet thread from Terrence. Kind of get a full breakdown on exactly what happened here. But I just want to stress guys that this was not a critical bug.
00:07:45.708 - 00:08:05.956, Speaker A: This is what, not an attack on the network. This is not something that wasn't already known ahead of time. This was simply due to people not upgrading their clients because it wasn't a hard forked kind of like update. Didn't require hard fork to do this. And it's good that it happened now, right. It gets more people to kind of update before the merge. And speaking of the merge, I don't think this is going to result in a delay of the merge or anything like that.
00:08:05.956 - 00:08:35.196, Speaker A: I don't think this, this has any impact on the merge to be honest. From what I can see, you know, this would happen pre or post merge. It doesn't really matter. Right. This could have happened after the merge and, you know, probably, I don't know if it would have been like worse after the merge or not. It just depends on kind of like what happened there. But, but yeah, I think, you know, given the fact that, that the beacon chain is going to go through another hard fork anyway to kind of like get itself ready for the merge by the time that happens and people upgrade their clients, it's always, it's already going to have the proposal boost fix in place.
00:08:35.196 - 00:09:04.739, Speaker A: So theoretically 99 plus percent of the clients should have this fix in place before the merge happens because of the fact that they're going to be forced to upgrade anyway as part of the consensus layer hard fork for the merge. So that's that there. And then the final kind of like tweet on this that I put out before was people using the beacon chain. Seven block real is incident. To say that Ethereum proof of stake has failed is really silly. They don't even know what they're talking about and are just looking for literally any reason, a reason to fight Ethereum. I did say the fight would increase the closer we got to the merge.
00:09:04.739 - 00:09:36.240, Speaker A: And I mean, it's playing out exactly as I said it would and it's just frustrating. As I said, guys, I know I seem a little bit flustered on today's episode. It's more than, I'm just like really fired up about this sort of stuff and, and I literally, it was funny. I got really fired up about it like 1010 minutes ago or whatever and I was like, okay, well now fuck it. I got to record the refuel now, got to get this out there. I want people to kind of, like, understand that what they're reading from a lot of people that are, that are completely uninformed is just trash information. I encourage all of you to always question everything you say.
00:09:36.240 - 00:09:56.376, Speaker A: Question what I'm saying, too. Like, don't just take my word for it. This is why I always guide you guys towards kind of, like, other people. Other, you know, like I said, go read Terrence's thread, right? Go into the ETH R and D discord channel and see what's being discussed there. Don't just take any one person's word for something. And that. And this is exactly why I encourage you to do that, because of the fact that I can get things wrong.
00:09:56.376 - 00:10:27.260, Speaker A: Like, I'm not infallible, right? Just because I think I'm giving you the right information doesn't mean that I necessarily am. I try my best, my very hardest, to make sure that I'm not spreading any kind of bad information. But that's why I always highlight that you guys should go kind of, like, read these things. And I think, you know, as I said, as we get closer to the merge, the fight is going to increase, unfortunately. And, you know, probably after the merge as well. Like, bitcoin maximus always love to use, like, literally anything to say that Ethereum has failed, proof of stake has failed, blah, blah. And it's just like, kind of like, why do you guys care so much? Like, I've always had that kind of, like, question in my mind.
00:10:27.260 - 00:11:05.398, Speaker A: It's like, okay, the only explanation I can come up with of why bitcoin maximalists care so much about Ethereum is that they view Ethereum as a threat. Now they'll say Ethereum's on a threat. It's not money, right? It's not kind of like, sound money. ETH is a scam, blah, blah. But, like, okay, but, like, there's so many other things that are actual scams in crypto that you never talk about, but you talk about Ethereum all the time and have for years. And literally every single thing Ethereum does is apparently, like, evil, right? So. And the only explanation I've ever come up with is the fact that they are scared, right? They're fearful of ETH, kind of like gaining value on BTC, being, you know, paying off, being a better investment over the long term.
00:11:05.398 - 00:11:48.084, Speaker A: They're fearful of Ethereum kind of like, kind of growing more than bitcoin, which it already has, and they're fearful of something like the flipping happening. And that's totally fine. Like, I get that. I get that fear, right? I've had that in the past around some of the alt l one s. Not, not recently, but like a while ago, especially during 2017, and when there were, like, other alt out ones that kind of like, and it was my first, kind of, not my first cycle, but it was kind of like my first time experiencing the all tau one hype. I was like, okay, well, if you're, is Ethereum actually going to win? Is Ethereum actually going to be the thing that kind of, like, goes on and becomes, like, the big platform and everything else dies off? I wasn't anywhere near as convicted on that as I am today. And, you know, that's why a lot of the other altar ones, whenever I see them, I don't really get scared or anything.
00:11:48.084 - 00:12:12.420, Speaker A: I see them like, okay, like, why are they getting usage okay? Because they have cheap fees. All right, well, I mean, long term, I think that's unsustainable, blah, blah. And I've explained this to you guys before, I have my reasoning for it now. But in the past, for sure, in 2017, even 2018, I was scared. I was like, oh, fuck, like, am I holding ETH? Like, is it going to go down because of these competitors? But this is the thing, guys. This isn't the natural thing of a free market, of a free capitalist market. There's always going to be competition.
00:12:12.420 - 00:12:33.856, Speaker A: No matter what it is. Ethereum, defi apps, nfts, whatever it is, there's always going to be competition. There is always going to be things that are a threat to your investment, to the thing that you're interested in. And if you can't stomach that, well, then, you know, you probably shouldn't be in this ecosystem because it's hyper competitive. And yes, it gets frustrating. Yes, it gets depressing. The most frustrating thing for me is the misinformation.
00:12:33.856 - 00:12:52.886, Speaker A: Like, especially from other kind of, like founders of project. Like, there's plenty of the altar one founders that are spreading bullshit and misinformation about Ethereum. That's what pisses me off. I don't care that they got a bit of kind of like usage. I don't care that avalanche, for example, copied Geth. Like, I think it's kind of, like ironic that they copied geth and then bash Ethereum, but I don't care about any of that. Right.
00:12:52.886 - 00:13:37.454, Speaker A: And I do point out the flaws in these things, but I think what I do is I try to point out the flaws in these things and then kind of, like, reiterate why Ethereum doesn't have this and why Ethereum is the way it is because of the could lead to some of these other flaws playing out on Ethereum if it wasn't. So anyway, that, that's kind of like a 15, almost a 15 minutes rant there on all of that. I hope I cleared up a lot of this stuff for you guys. But as I said, like, please read Terrance's thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. Please, if you've got time, if you're interested, go into the ETH R and D discord, read what's being said in there, and please study the, the kind of like, things that Terrence linked in his thread as well, which is these kind of like attacks that were, that were kind of like identified and the fixes for them. And in saying that this stuff is inherently complex, this is core protocol level stuff.
00:13:37.454 - 00:14:16.318, Speaker A: So don't feel like an idiot just because you don't understand it. Like, I'm not going to say that I understand the technical details of all of this, but I understand that enough, I think, to realize that it is not a big deal and realize why it actually happened and what fix is actually in place to fix it. So, yeah, please go, go look for more information on this if you need it. Don't just take my word for it, but I think that's going to be it. On that issue, issue or topic for today, there's a bunch of other things to get through, so I'm going to move on to those. All right, so superfizz put out a great little tweet here where he said six steps to the merge, which is, it's his interpretation of this. This isn't kind of like what the Ethereum core devs have put out.
00:14:16.318 - 00:14:49.308, Speaker A: This is super Fizz's interpretation of these six steps. So we have the Ropsten testnet fork happening on June 8. As you guys know, the next testnet fork will be sepolia, which is the new Ethereum testnet, and then girly after that, and then we're going to have parrots, which is the execution layer fork to prepare for the merge, aka the fork on the ETH one side, the ethereum that we all know and use and love today. And then Balatrix is the name for the consensus layer fork on the beacon chain to prepare it for the merge. That's that one I was talking about before. And then you have the merge, right? We hit the total terminal difficulty on the execution layer and the merge is done. One blocks proof of work.
00:14:49.308 - 00:15:09.098, Speaker A: Next block will be proof of stake and that's it. Merge is done. Hopefully it's gone smoothly. Hopefully nothing breaks and, and we're all in like an ethereum proof of stake world. Now, timing again, as I said, august, high chance. Still, as I said, I don't think this real thing is going to delay that, but it could always get kind of like pushback from August. Like August is my estimation.
00:15:09.098 - 00:15:38.646, Speaker A: It is not kind of like official data is not anything out there. It's just my estimation based on the information I have today. Now the funny thing is I was actually talking to someone about this depending on the, on kind of like the difficulty bomb and depending on, I guess. Okay, so let me take a step back here. TTD, or total terminal difficulty is basically the difficulty of kind of like a theory mine, the ethereum mining difficulty. Right. And that's what's been chosen to kind of, I guess, do the merge.
00:15:38.646 - 00:16:21.014, Speaker A: Like that's when the merge transition will happen. Now because of the difficulty bomb going off and because of the block times getting longer, it's going to be funny to see if, because of potential of miners dropping off before the merge, it's going to be funny to see like if we set a TTD, we estimate it to happen in say mid late August. But then because of the block times getting longer and, and the difficulty bomb and kind of like maybe mine is leaving the TTD actually doesn't get reached till September. So it's like kind of like it's not a delay due to kind of like any human delay. It's, it's more of a delay based on what the network did. So I don't know, maybe, maybe it could push into September because of that. But as I said, like I think that the initial kind of like timeline is looking like August right now in terms of kind of like when the TTD date will be set.
00:16:21.014 - 00:16:44.404, Speaker A: But we'll have to see. But yeah, this is a great little summary from superfood is here. Alright, so an interesting tweet from Mudit Gupta, deciso at Polygon today where he said web3 is not about forced decentralization. Web three is about the ability to be decentralized. It's about having the choice. Inferior alchemy are not bad as long as you have the choice to run your own node. Custodians are not evil as long as you can self custody as well.
00:16:44.404 - 00:17:36.642, Speaker A: So I've talked about this before and I've written about it in my newsletter. The most bullish thing about this ecosystem for me has always been the fact that you can choose your own adventure, right? And I know I've spoken about this a lot, but basically what I mean by kind of like choosing your own adventure, is that exactly what modit says here? Infuria and alchemy, you use those most likely to relay your transactions. So if you're using metamask and you're using the default RPC on Metamask, you're using infuria to relate your transactions. What does that mean? Basically, every time you sign and confirm a transaction, it go, it shoots off to inferiors nodes. Inferiors nodes? Kind of, kind of like have it in their mempool and then it'll get mined and put into a block. Now, is this the most trustless way to interact with Ethereum? No, of course not. If inferior wanted to, they could censor you, they could block your transactions, and they could do that without the network being centralized.
00:17:36.642 - 00:18:17.102, Speaker A: But they could do that because they're the ones running the nodes, right? Their nodes are centralized. But in saying that, and alchemy is the same thing, but in saying that, you can run your own Ethereum full node, right locally on your computer or on a server, wherever you want to call, kind of like run it, then you can point your metamask RPC to that full node. Then you have a fully trustless experience, because you're not going to censor yourself, right? You're not going to sense your own transactions. And unless someone was able to get control of your full node, no one can censor you, essentially. So that is the full self sovereign, trustless way to interact with Ethereum. Now the reason why this is a choice is because it's exactly that. You can have your RPC as inferior alchemy, or you can have your RPC as your own full node.
00:18:17.102 - 00:18:39.670, Speaker A: That is what decentralization is all about. And in my mind is that we're not forcing people to use it, we're giving users the choice. And this goes back to basically everything within crypto. There's a million examples of this. You have the choice to self custody your funds and your own wallet with your own keys, or you can custody your funds with a centralized exchange or some other custodian. It's a choice right there. It's a conscious choice that you're making.
00:18:39.670 - 00:19:08.870, Speaker A: No one's forcing you to choose either either or, right? You're making that choice yourself. You can choose to interact with the Defi protocol directly, with the smart contracts directly yourself, or you can choose to use a front end, or you can choose to use a centralized front end. Like, you can use the. You can, sorry, I should kind of like change my wording there. You can use the front end that the team has provided. Says, for example, you can use Uniswap's front end, or you could use a third party front end such as Zappa. Or you could use an essentialized exchange as a front end.
00:19:08.870 - 00:19:30.014, Speaker A: Right. You could kind of like use even a decentralized front end. But, you know, you don't know, kind of like what the risk profile is. There may be more risky than using your own local one. You can use your own local one to interact with the contracts as well. Not many people know that you can actually run as long as the front end is open source. You can run that front end locally on your own pc instead of having to go to the website and then just kind of like do everything like that.
00:19:30.014 - 00:20:11.458, Speaker A: But again, you could run your own full node on your computer, and you could interact with the smart contracts yourself as long as you knew which functions to call to do what you needed to do. So as, again, choice. Right. And maybe a lot of this stuff is sounding a little bit complex to you. Well, that's why I think what, what the onus is on the ecosystem, not so much to decentralize everything, which we are obviously trying to do, but also on making it easy for people to make the choice to be decentralized, to do things in a trustless way instead of using a centralized custodian or a centralized kind of like provider. And to do that is hard, like, for people to choose to use their own kind of like full node as their RPC. Most people will never do that.
00:20:11.458 - 00:20:30.688, Speaker A: Okay, so how do we, you know, what's the next best thing? Like, clients. Okay, where are, like, clients? Well, they're a technically hard thing to do. They're on the Ethereum roadmap, but we're not there just yet. All right, fair enough. Custody. I think self custody at this point in time is a solved problem. If you don't want to self custody, it's more that you, it's more of a social thing that you don't trust yourself to custody of funds.
00:20:30.688 - 00:20:56.548, Speaker A: Otherwise, there's a million different ways to custody your funds on your own, securely if you know what you're doing. Right. There's hardware wallets, there's kind of like other forms of cold storage and things like that. There's kind of like custodying it in hot wallets that you control the private key to, which I wouldn't recommend doing, by the way. I always recommend hardware wallets, but there are different, you know, various different ways to custody your own funds. That's, that's not like something that we have to solve. Obviously we can make it easier, but I think at this point in time, it's pretty easy.
00:20:56.548 - 00:21:15.724, Speaker A: Right, right. Like to self custody. Self custody is inherently going to be more complex than using a custodian. But, but it's still good. It's still pretty easy today. Like if you buy allergy device, I mean, it's, it's pretty easy to use and they give you like all these instructions and everything. I honestly would, I would feel comfortable giving my parents alleged advice and giving them the instructions.
00:21:15.724 - 00:21:28.534, Speaker A: And I reckon they could go through the whole process of getting funds onto, onto it. It's just, it's not a hard thing. Right. So that's, that's kind of like solved. But a lot of other things we need to kind of like get better. Get better at. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that.
00:21:28.534 - 00:21:48.046, Speaker A: So many more things to get through and I'm already at minute 21. This is crazy. But yeah, maybe today is going to be a really long episode. But anyway, leaving it at that thought it was an interesting tweet. All right, so just a quick shout out here to rocket pool. So Jasper shared today that for the first time since its inception, Rocketpool is launching more validators than Lido. The markets are taking notice and hopefully balancing out the staking shares.
00:21:48.046 - 00:22:29.842, Speaker A: So I think, and just was, quote, tweeting a tweet from data always who said the steep seems to have temporarily paused lido centralized concerns. Until market forces push the peg back into equality, lido inflows will be dramatically slowed. Rocket pool inflows are twice that of Lido since the latest drop on Saturday. So I, I mean, I think this is correct, right? Obviously, it being off peg, people don't want to kind of like mint Steve because then they're instantly kind of like at a loss because they can't trade it directly for, you know, that kind of like a one for one ETH again. So that makes a lot of sense. But yeah, Rocketpool seems to be growing really nicely as a consequence of that, which is awesome. And as I've discussed before, they are kind of like talking about lowering the minimum kind of like ETH requirement for staking.
00:22:29.842 - 00:22:49.642, Speaker A: And they're doing a bunch of other things as well. I think they're doing like a marketing blitz on bankless soon as well. So good to see rockerpool getting some really nice growth here. All right, so I put out this tweet just before. I actually just earlier today where I said, I always find it funny when people celebrate low gas fees on ethereum. L1, low gas fees mean that there is little activity and that the market is really bearish. Congrats.
00:22:49.642 - 00:23:27.332, Speaker A: You can now go sell that shit coin on a Dex for $5 instead of $50. Except that shit coin is now down 90%. I find it puzzling, though, a lot of people don't realize this. The reason why the easy money was, was kind of like, sorry, the gas fees were high is because there's a lot of activity happening, and that led to a lot of easy money flowing, that led to a lot of tokens pumping, a lot of yields being high, and all that good stuff there. So in turn, let me put some numbers to this. Say you spent $100, $150, $200 on fees, right, to sell a few tokens off, right. It was more likely than not that you were signing these tokens for much higher than what they are today.
00:23:27.332 - 00:23:44.004, Speaker A: Even though the fees are much lower, right. Even though you could, like you spent more in fees, you would have netted out better. So let's say you had $10,000 of a token at its peak. You spent dollar 200 on fees to sell it at ten grand. I'm putting numbers on this just so I can illustrate my point. $200 to sell it at ten grand. Okay, that's a 2% hit.
00:23:44.004 - 00:24:05.034, Speaker A: And you got $9,800 out of it as kind of like not profit, but like as. Because depending on how much you put in originally, that's what you got out of it, right? Accounting for fees. Okay, fair enough. That's on like the extreme end of example as well. I never. There was periods where it cost $200 to swap, but most of the time it didn't cost $100. But anyway, as an illustrative example.
00:24:05.034 - 00:24:38.296, Speaker A: Okay, well, now that tokens gone down 90% because it's a bear market, it's worth a gas fees to swap is kind of like. It's like $5, right? So you. I mean, you know, even if it was kind of like $5, which is, which is really cheap, right? And you still gonna. Depending on how much you put into it, you're still going to make like $995 if the swap is a $5 fee, but you're not making an extra $9,000 or whatever it was, because you just waited to sell and you sold when the gas fees are cheaper. So just. You can see what I'm saying here. Like maybe I.
00:24:38.296 - 00:25:13.814, Speaker A: Hopefully, I'm illustrating my point correctly, but it's kind of like you're better off a lot of the time, especially if you have, like, thousands and thousands, tens of thousands in these things, selling when the gas fees are high, rather than saying, I'll wait till later, till the gas fees are lower, and then I'll sell when the gas fees being low for sustained periods of time usually means the market is incredibly bearish. So I just wanted to kind of, like, illustrate that point to you guys, because it always confuses me when people kind of go on about this sort of stuff and like, oh, my God, gas fees are so low. And then I asked them, okay, well, what are you doing right now? Oh, I don't know. I haven't really got anything to do. Oh, why is that? Oh, because, like, there's not much activity going on. There's not much happening. You know, the market's quiet.
00:25:13.814 - 00:25:35.060, Speaker A: It's like, well, I mean, there you go. Right. Anyway, I just wanted to illustrate that for you guys. All right, so massive news out of Starkware today. So they announced a $100 million Series D at an $8 billion valuation. So I remember saying to you guys that I thought a series D was coming from Stockware because there was rumors about it, and I, you know, I wouldn't put it past them to do it. And they did it.
00:25:35.060 - 00:25:58.342, Speaker A: And now they have a $8 billion valuation, which I believe is the highest l two valuation out there. Even Polygon isn't valued that high. And they're trading publicly. I think they're valued at a $5 billion market cap or something like that. So Stockware is at $8 billion private market valuation. Mind you, there's no token or anything for stockware yet, and there's no. They're not public yet, but this kind of, like, round was led by Kotor, and.
00:25:58.342 - 00:26:16.630, Speaker A: And so Green Oaks and Kotor with Tiger Global, and many of their existing investors participated as well. So, obviously, congrats to the Starkware team here. They're killing it. They've got tons of money now to survive. Like, any kind of, like, bear market, I guess. Like, even a two, three year bear market, they got plenty of money. I do like stock.
00:26:16.630 - 00:26:43.750, Speaker A: Where is that one thing where I think they're going to do a token? But I do wonder, like, how they're going to do it, because, you guys know, I haven't really been a fan of how they've done their fundraising so far. And, like, how much of the cap table are they selling to? Kind of, like, raise these funds. Like, what is their token distribution even going to look like? I'm not sure. Not even convinced they're going to do a token anytime soon. We'll have to see. But I'm glad to see more of these l two teams being funded, of course. Like, I want them to have as much money as possible in order to build out their vision and scale Ethereum.
00:26:43.750 - 00:26:59.894, Speaker A: But I'm cautious on starkware. Kind of like, that's for sure. But anyway, congrats to them on this huge valuation. Wondering if they're going to do a series e. Like, I don't know, are they going to tokenize next? Are they going to IPO or something? I don't know. It's kind of like, weird. But anyway, big valuation, big raise.
00:26:59.894 - 00:27:27.894, Speaker A: Congrats to them. All right, so speaking of big raises in crypto, a 16 Z has raised $4.5 billion for their fourth crypto fund. This is an insane amount of money, especially given the current climate. Now, I don't really want to talk about the money itself. What I want to talk about is they're using this money to fund private markets, not public markets. And this is actually what can be construed as bearish.
00:27:27.894 - 00:28:09.246, Speaker A: Let me put it to you this way. I know people like Kobe have actually talked about this a lot, and we both talked about this on our episode on the drive through that I did with him. But I mean, if $4.5 billion goes into private deals, and then these private investors, obviously, you know, when these projects tokenize, they want to return on it, they're going to need to use the public markets as exit liquidity. And who dominates the public markets? Well, it's retail a lot of the time, right? So where's all this money going to come from? Like, if these. If people, if the. If they're kind of like big money, is throwing money into funds, like a 16 Z's crypto fund here, which is only funding private markets, then we have this massive divide between private and public markets where this money isn't going into public.
00:28:09.246 - 00:28:35.912, Speaker A: Kind of like tokens. And I'm not just talking about Ethan, I'm talking about, like, everything. There are a lot of kind of, like, tokens right now. I'm not going to name them because, you guys know I don't like to name specific tokens, but a lot of things right now that I look at, and they make no sense to be trading at what they're at. Like, I think they're actually bargain value buys. There was a fund the other day, that got a few weeks ago that got announced from Ryan Watkins and our cumber, his cofound can't found his name. Now that is going to be doing exclusively public market investing, and I applaud them for that.
00:28:35.912 - 00:29:23.592, Speaker A: But so many of these kind of like VC's and funds a private market only, which is just puzzling to me because they're gonna fund these things, they're gonna get locked up, they're gonna get kind of like vesting and stuff like that. And they're gonna kind of like rely on retail wanting to buy these things where they could probably buy something much better on public markets today, which over the longer term will, I believe, give them a better return on investments and kind of like won't have that kind of, I guess, overhang of all the tokens vesting out and stuff like that, because a lot of them already have done their token distribution. So I don't know. I think if I had to say it's probably neutral for the space that this crypto fund exists. And just like crypto funds in general at this point in time exist because they're just going to the private markets. I wouldn't say it's a negative, but it doesn't really scream positive to me. I know some people were like, oh my God, this is huge.
00:29:23.592 - 00:29:40.800, Speaker A: More money coming into the space. It's like, yeah, guys, but like, where is that money going? It's not going to the public markets. It's going into the private markets, which are already overheated. There are seed rounds, you know, in the bloody. How many digits is it? The seven, eight, nine digits. Right? Like maybe we're going to see a ten digit and that's a billion dollar seed round. Like, this is crazy.
00:29:40.800 - 00:30:07.034, Speaker A: So we'll have to see how it shapes over the next few years. But so far, there's been so many tokens that have gotten destroyed because they have a lot of early investors. They get in early, they up like 100,000 x and then they want to sell, they want to exit, especially when they have LP's in their fund. And, yeah, I just. I'm not sure how to feel about this. I think right now I'm neutral, but I just don't see this being positive for public markets. But like, I think ETH is a separate thing.
00:30:07.034 - 00:30:28.874, Speaker A: I think of ETH kind of like separately. I mean, this, some of this money could go into eat, but I don't think these VC's are going to be buying kind of like Ethan public markets, at least not a large chunk of it because they, they kind of do the math right. They're like, okay, well, it's already worth $200 billion. We want to get a hundred x at least from these projects, or a thousand x. Well, to get that from ETH is not happening anytime soon, if ever sort of thing. Right. So when you kind of like frame it like that, I get it.
00:30:28.874 - 00:31:16.898, Speaker A: But at the same time, it just kind of like makes me neutral on this thing, and I'm gonna have to see how it plays out here. All right, so immutable has announced their cross roll up liquidity solution. I guess I think I talked alluded to this the other day, but basically this allows cross roll up liquidity to kind of like be traded on multiple l two and l three ZK roll ups. Kind of like with Starknet, Stockx and star quest technology. Here you can read this thread for a breakdown of it. There's also a podcast that immutable did with bankless that you can go listen to, which gives more information on this. And there's a thread or TL doctor here from Robbie as well, a co founder of immutable, who said, you know, they can settle NFT trades instantaneously with no trusted bridges across hundreds of l two s and l three s, trade any asset on any marketplace with shared liquidity on open order book, irrespective of the underlying roll up.
00:31:16.898 - 00:31:34.324, Speaker A: And they're integrating with rarible as well here, which they announced today, which is really, really cool. So I think. Not announced today. Announced a couple of days ago, I believe so, yeah. Some big announcements out of immutable. You should definitely go check out. I'm gonna get through the rest of these updates quickly because I don't want this episode going for too long, but I'll link these in the YouTube description below.
00:31:34.324 - 00:32:07.480, Speaker A: So Hot Protocol has announced that they want to kick off l two season by requesting that 1 million op tokens from kind of like optimism to use to refund 80% of users bridging costs to optimism, which is really cool. So this is actually pretty unique. You can see here. Million op tokens will go towards kind of like refunding people who are bridging into optimism, which will obviously encourage more people to kind of like bridge in and you have to worry about Sybil resistance and stuff like that. But this is, I think, still a pretty cool kind of proposal. I don't know if it's been approved or anything like that. I think that's kind of like in discussion phase right now on the governance forum.
00:32:07.480 - 00:32:18.702, Speaker A: You can go check this out. It'll be linked in the. The YouTube description, polynomial sinks is a brilliant proposal. So. So you. There you go. Speaking of Polynya, I don't know about you guys, but, like, I don't know if you've seen them lately on Twitter.
00:32:18.702 - 00:32:44.698, Speaker A: They seem to be an expert on everything. I thought they were just, like, really into roll ups and really into kind of, like, crypto and, like, was, like, super smart about that, but they're super smart about everything, and it's making me feel dumb, and I love it. Like, I have a lot of knowledge about crypto and, like, a few other things, but Polly nut seems to have knowledge about so many different things. And the fact that, like, they said that they maintain different Twitter accounts for their different interests, I was just like, oh, my God. Mind blown. Like, this person is crazy smart. I love it.
00:32:44.698 - 00:33:17.606, Speaker A: Anyway, I'm not gonna kind of gush over Polynya again. Go read this proposal thread here. I think it's a really cool one. I think, you know, subsidizing cost of people to get onto l two s makes a lot of sense. All right, speaking of optimism, there was a tweet kind of, like, shared here by quick quick exotic, I think is his name exotic? I know I'm not pronouncing it right. But anyway, they're kind of like the largest Nft marketplace on optimism. So you can see here there's an optimism nft bridge that they're going to be doing as you can bridge your nfts from Ethereum mainnet to optimism, and you see a nice little interface here that's really cool.
00:33:17.606 - 00:34:05.738, Speaker A: I love this, you know, bridging your nfts in. Maybe you're kind of like nfts. You want to actively trade or you want to speculate with. You can bridge them in, or you just want to hold them on optimism instead of holding it on a theorem main net, you can use this to bridge in, which is, which is really, really cool. All right, so Tom Schmidt kind of, like, corrected a little bit of, I guess, like, not direct misinformation or anything like that, but, like, incorrect information here from Li Jin, who was comparing magic Eden, which is an NFT marketplace on Solana, versus Opensea, and saying that magic Eden had more users and more transactions and more everything than kind of like Opensea. And then Tom Schmidt says, yeah, respectfully, the data is totally wrong because due to the different architectures of OpenSea versus magic Eden, because magic Eden has all actions on chains such as bids, offers, cancels, and sales, while OpenSea only has sales and cancels. You need to filter out transactions in order to compare one to one.
00:34:05.738 - 00:34:42.630, Speaker A: In fact, OpenSea transactions are greater than magic Eden transactions. When factoring this in, this is always something that I tell you guys when you're looking at these kind of metrics, is that you can't compare the metrics of kind of like different blockchains and even kind of like blockchains to l two s and stuff like that without putting in nuance like this. Obviously, Opensea isn't going to do everything on chain because it's very expensive on Ethereum layer one, but on Solana, it's not. Right. They've obviously got those cheap fees, so they're doing everything there, which inflates the metrics. And this is true for so many metrics, like total value locked, kind of like active addresses, active traders. There's a lot of nuance at this sort of stuff.
00:34:42.630 - 00:35:06.008, Speaker A: And I've described this before, I'm not going to get into it today, but I just wanted to highlight this thread from Tom because I thought it was a good one. All right, just a few last things to get through. So, another governance proposal from the protocol guild here. This time it's for Ens to donate to allocate a percentage of their unclaimed airdrop to the public goods. Sorry. To the protocol guild pilots. So you can see here the proposal from Trent.
00:35:06.008 - 00:35:48.004, Speaker A: I believe this is the fifth proposal, I think, or 4th, 5th, 4th, or fifth, anyway. And I think it's really cool using the unclaimed airdrop or a percentage of the unclaimed airdrop with which they saying they want 200,000 EnS tokens to fund kind of like the protocol guild. Now, for those of you who don't know, all the unclaimed tokens from Ens that people didn't claim from the airdrop went into the EnS treasury. And now Trent's like, hey, why don't we donate this to the protocol guild? Makes perfect sense, right? I'm actually all for this. I hope this goes through. I think it will, considering an s is so aligned with Ethereum and public goods funding. So, anyway, go check out this, um, this kind of like a foreign post here for all details on that, and I hope to see this go through soon.
00:35:48.004 - 00:36:18.076, Speaker A: And speaking of protocol guild, they now have a tweet Twitter, an official Twitter here, so you can go to guild that and go follow them there. And there's also a tweet here with basically how to keep up with protocol gear. The full docs the pilot program, the interfaces, the contracts, all that good stuff there. So definitely go give them a follow. Alright, so Uniswap hit $1 trillion of all time or cumulative volume recently, I believe the other day, actually in May. This is huge, guys. Like, I know cumulative volume isn't going to go down.
00:36:18.076 - 00:36:38.216, Speaker A: By definition, it's just up only but $1 trillion of all time volume on Uniswap. This is really, really cool. I remember unisop when it first came out, like, no one knew what it was, no one understood what it did, no one. You know, people were fighting and saying, this isn't gonna work. You know, amms have been around as a, as a kind of like idea for ages. They haven't worked in traditional finance. They're not gonna work in crypto.
00:36:38.216 - 00:37:14.364, Speaker A: Well, they worked, guys, like, they worked wonders. They worked, I think, better than anyone expected them to. And they've gone crazy. And a trillion dollars on Uniswap, I mean, that's just the first kind of like step here. They're gonna get 10 trillion, hundred trillion, a quadrillion, maybe one day, right, of cumulative volume here, which I think they will because amms, especially uniswap, they're so popular, they're so useful that I think this is going to keep growing over time. So congrats to Uniswap on this major milestone. All right, so the second part of Hazu's kind of like merge podcast is out with Danny Ryan in Tim Bico, but also joined by Stefan Gosselin here as a co host.
00:37:14.364 - 00:37:39.348, Speaker A: And it's, he's kind of like first podcast here. So you guys may know him as the ghost step on, on Twitter. Been doing a lot of Mev related stuff for a while, but yeah, definitely go give this a listen to. I haven't listened to this yet. Someone pointed out to me that people were kind of like fighting this podcast, saying that Tim Bico's or Danny Ryan's or someone's answers were unsatisfactory or something. I saw that. And because I haven't listened to the podcast yet, I can't really talk to it.
00:37:39.348 - 00:38:19.264, Speaker A: I can't really speak to what was said, but I want to kind of like front run it by saying that I think in Ethereum, the ethereum ecosystem, especially the kind of like dev side, they're really honest publicly with a lot of the flaws and a lot of the issues and a lot of the things that kind of like need to be fixed with Ethereum because that's just the way they are. That's just the community that we've fostered. Now, this doesn't mean that a theorem is broken, that things are fundamentally unsound, that that a theorem is gonna fail or anything like that. But, you know, nothing's perfect. No blockchain is perfect. No, no software is perfect. So people being open about the issues and kind of like the things that need to be fixed, I think is a net positive.
00:38:19.264 - 00:38:48.558, Speaker A: And I don't want a theorem to change on that. But obviously these things can be misconstrued. People can look at them and be like, oh my God, this means ethereum is going to fail. This means Ethereum is done. And I think, because I think the topic of the podcast was Mev and liquid staking, I think some of the answers given are probably unsatisfactory because Mev is still an, I mean, mo, I mean, it's not a solved thing. There are a bunch of ideas of how to, quote unquote solve it or how to make it better and how to kind of like remove the negative externalities of MeV. But it's not exactly something that should be treated lightly.
00:38:48.558 - 00:39:13.192, Speaker A: And I think that's what was probably relayed in the podcast. But I have to listen to it to give a better kind of opinion on it. Hopefully I can listen to it tomorrow or the day after. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like shout it out. Definitely go listen to it as well. I'll link it in the description. And just a final shout out here, I reposted my recent newsletter, the titled you don't own enough ETH to via mirror or to, sorry, to mirror as a writing NFT.
00:39:13.192 - 00:39:40.112, Speaker A: So they launched these kind of like writing nfts today, when anyone can publish their own kind of like blog post here as an NFT and you can collect it. So you can click this collect button up here. And there's already been 15 collectors of it. It's 0.01, I believe, ETH per per collection. There's 469 nfts to own because that was the addition of this newsletter. And of course, all of the money raised or funds kind of like gotten from this will go towards public goods funding.
00:39:40.112 - 00:39:51.904, Speaker A: I'll probably just throw it to the protocol guild. They can do whatever they want with it. So, yeah, if you want to mint this as an NFT, you can. But I think that's it. 40 minutes here, guys. Hope you enjoyed the extra long episode. But yeah, thank you again for listening and watching.
00:39:51.904 - 00:39:58.944, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel if you haven't yet. Give the video. A thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
