00:00:00.520 - 00:00:36.792, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 19 March 2021. Alright, let's get into it everyone. So there was a proposal to prioritize the merger after London posted last now last night. So I'll kind of just code this for you guys. So the merger basically refers to the ETH one, to ETH two merger that's going to be happening, you know, hopefully, I guess sooner rather than later. And this proposal here is saying that we should prioritize the merge and get it, and get it done after the London network upgrade or hard fork, which is scheduled for July.
00:00:36.792 - 00:01:22.858, Speaker A: And you know, as you may be aware, that's when AIP 1559 is going to be going into the network. So there is actually another hard fork after London called Shanghai that hasn't got like a schedule or anything like that, but that was scheduled to go after London. But now people are saying we should do the merger before Shanghai and after London obviously, which would mean that we may get the merger by end of this year. Now, I mean there's obviously a lot of people in favor of it. There's not too much discussion, discussion going on here yet. But I did see some discussions in other kind of threads and you know, it definitely would mean that Shanghai, the next kind of upgrade for, for ETH one would get delayed until sometime next year. And it comes with a bunch of upgrades as well people are excited about.
00:01:22.858 - 00:01:52.318, Speaker A: So, you know, that would mean that those people would have to wait. But I think, you know, most of the ecosystem is at a point now where we, we kind of like agree that the merge just needs to be done right. There was the drum with the miners and everything like that. You know, we're paying so much for proof of work issuance. There's the energy use of proof of work which is coming under screen scrutiny now. And you know, having two kind of, I guess, networks up and running when we only need to have one and we can fulfill the full proof of stake vision, you know, sooner rather than later. Think is definitely that the path forward here.
00:01:52.318 - 00:02:21.884, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean I'm all in favor of getting the merge done as soon as possible. It's a pretty, I mean, I wouldn't say it's an easy thing to do, but like it's been specced out, you know, there's lots of people working on it. Lots of people kind of like coming up with, you know, ways to do it. I mean, I've gone through Vitalik's proposals before about like executable beacon chains and things like that. So, yeah, I don't, hasn't been a decision yet, I don't think, whether we would do the merge after London or not at this stage. So I'll keep you guys updated on that. But I think it's, it's the prudent approach.
00:02:21.884 - 00:03:14.050, Speaker A: I definitely think that we can't wait, you know, too much longer to merge here, not just because of the environmental concerns from proof of work, but also because it's just like, it's kind of like, why not do the merge if we can do it sort of thing, right? If we can do it safely and securely and the researchers and developers are confident in this, then let's just get it done. Let's get ethereum to that kind of like proof of stake vision. Let's get rid of proof of work and miners and, you know, miners are going to be stakers too, and everything like that. But I just think that proof of work Ethereum is pretty much on its last legs for a variety of reasons, and, you know, let's just rip the band aid off, essentially. So, looking forward to seeing where this kind of, this prioritization goes here. So Opensea, the popular NFT platform, announced a $23 million series a today led by Andreessen Horowitz or a 16 z. So this is quite a large round here.
00:03:14.050 - 00:03:39.390, Speaker A: And I mean, it's not very surprising to me considering the hype NFTs have right now. Right. And Opensea is definitely one of the leading marketplaces for NFTs right now. But, yeah, so they raised this money from, from a 160 as a lead and then they had a bunch of people kind of join on board, like novel Ravicant, Mark. Mark Cuban, Tim Ferriss. I mean there's, there's tons of people here. Alexis Ohanian, which is Reddit co founder Balaji, of course, everyone knows who, who he is.
00:03:39.390 - 00:04:19.414, Speaker A: And there's like a bunch of other people in here with, with some funds joining again, you know, as part of this round, like one confirmation and, and blockchain capital and things like that. So, yeah, a nice list of names there of investors. I mean, this is huge. And, you know, I don't even know what's going to happen. Is open sea going to have a token? I mean, I would assume so. It's funny because like, you know, there's a lot of fundraisers going on right now and I kind of get like some, some Dex across, across my my desk and I look at them and, you know, I think a lot of investors now looking at and being like, okay, if it has a token, you know, you know, we all want to be in it, right? Because everyone wants it wants a token. So it's hard to tell what's going to be like pure equity investment versus a token investment.
00:04:19.414 - 00:05:06.508, Speaker A: I would say, you know, almost everything is going to have a token eventually, you know, and that's not necessarily a bad thing because a token can just represent equity in the, in the system, right? Like opensea as a business can be generating revenue and that could go to token holders, right? And it's just like a classic kind of equity there. So. Or a stock, you may, you know, or like how a stock is a dividend, right, that gets paid out to stocks. So I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. But there is a kind of bias here where it's like, okay, well, tokens like go up, you know, and down. Like they're really, really volatile, but tokens tend to basically like go up a lot in value because it, you get access to such a wide and global consumer base, right? Like if you were to launch on the US stock market, you know, that that takes a lot longer. There's a, I mean, there's huge regulatory hurdles there to get it done.
00:05:06.508 - 00:06:10.596, Speaker A: You know, it takes a long, a long time to get into the right place to do it and then you have to bar a lot of people, right? Whereas if you, if you just launch a token, pretty much anyone in the world can access this instantly because it's just on uniswap or something like that, right? So I think that's a big reason why as well. And it's just better, I think tokens in general are just better for capital formation if done right. Like, I'm seeing a trend right now where a lot of tokens are launching with like super low circulating supplies and I don't think that's good because what it ends up doing, especially if it's a hyped up token, is that the fully diluted valuation of these networks end up being like really, really high and then over time they kind of like bleed out because of the fact that more tokens are coming to market. And this isn't just like on Ethereum, this is very prevalent on other networks, I've noticed where the fully diluted values of the projects are so, so high, like tens of billions. And I mean, for one, the project is nowhere near worth that much. But the second point is that like it just has a lot really low circulating supply and, you know, a lot of tokens are usually locked in, staking and things like that. It's.
00:06:10.596 - 00:06:35.348, Speaker A: It's just. It's pretty crazy to see. So I mean, that's another reason why it happens. But, you know, when tokens are done right, I think they add a lot, a lot of value to a lot of people and let a lot of people kind of be part of this, right? Get. Get like a dividend or. Or kind of like be part of the network or if it's a decentralized kind of like protocol, be part of the protocols, governance and things like that. So yeah, I mean, congrats to open seal and their race here, but I would not be surprised to see a token from.
00:06:35.348 - 00:07:04.906, Speaker A: From them, you know, sooner rather than later. So Rari Capital officially launched their fuse app today. So this has been teased for quite a while now and they're doing a safeguarded launch, which I thought was. Was pretty cool, where basically, I think there's like a TVL cap on this. But essentially what fuse is, it's like a money market where you can basically, you know, do the same thing you do with other money markets, like put up collateral, kind of like borrow against it. And it. It's funny, they have like, you can put socks up as collateral.
00:07:04.906 - 00:07:26.014, Speaker A: So uni socks up as collateral and borrow some. Some die against it and go yield farm using your socks as collateral, which I thought was. Was actually pretty cool because, you know, you can imagine that compound and aave are probably, I mean maybe they add it sometime in the future, but, you know, not for a long time like I. Maybe, maybe Aave does. I don't know about compound. They. They don't seem to add kind of collateral assets very often.
00:07:26.014 - 00:08:11.234, Speaker A: But in general, you know, I guess there's like an opportunity here, right, for other platforms to capture these kind of, I guess, long tail assets for lending and borrowing here. So really cool to see that. But yeah, this was hyped up for ages, you know, I guess like the last few months or maybe a couple of months or something like that. And, you know, it's always funny because I'm not saying that the Rari capital team did this or anything like that, but they were hyping it up because they were excited about it. But, you know, I've spoken about how this whole space runs on narratives and, you know, the rari token kind of pumped up on kind of like the anticipation of this launch. And then I checked it today after they launched and it dumped like, 30% or something like that. Because usually what happens is that people buy up the news, right? They buy up the narratives, or they buy up the hype, and then they sell.
00:08:11.234 - 00:08:22.010, Speaker A: Sell the news. Sorry, not buy up the news. They end up selling the news, like, when it gets released, like, okay, it's released now. You know, the hype of it coming soon is gone. Let's. Let's sell. And that's not kind of like long term investors.
00:08:22.010 - 00:08:56.024, Speaker A: Those are just speculators. But it happens, right? And this happens, like, all across, like, crypto all the time. I mean, it's actually bad if you deliver something in crypto, which is just insane to me, because you can build a really, really kind of, like, strong narrative, really strong hype behind, you know, your. Your upcoming kind of product or upcoming release. But then when you actually release it, you have to deliver, right? Because it, you know, and this is. This is what happens a lot in the investing space, too, is that teams will sell a narrative, right? Because especially if they're. They're at the earlier stage of their project, their pre product, they're just raising capital in a seed round.
00:08:56.024 - 00:09:22.904, Speaker A: They've got to sell a story and sell a narrative and to get investors on board. Now, what ends up happening is that, you know, as long as you're selling a story and selling a narrative and you don't have to be doing this maliciously, but the investors kind of, like, can let their mind run wild, right? Because there's no reality to look at. It's just all imagination. Because you're like, okay, well, this product is coming soon. You know, if x, x, and x happens, and then, you know, y, y, and y happens, maybe z will happen. Right. Right.
00:09:22.904 - 00:10:07.816, Speaker A: And then, you know, what ends up happening is that people buy in anticipation of this kind of product launch. They buy on the hype, they buy on the narratives, and then when the product goes live, inevitably it kind of dumps. Because, like, you know, people either, you know, sell the news because they're like, oh, I thought, you know, someone else is going to sell, so I better front run them and sell. Or they're like, maybe newbie investors where they bought into the hype and they realize that maybe the hype doesn't match reality. And I'm not saying that this. This is just, you know, I mean, this is what happened with Rari capital or anything like that, but it's always funny to see the same kind of thing play out. And, you know, I know I go on a lot about it, but, like, I think Cardano is like a perfect example here with their smart contracts thing where they, you know, they've been hyping up smart contracts for so long and they've been hyping up, you know, as soon as smart contracts go live, Ethereum is going to die.
00:10:07.816 - 00:10:23.770, Speaker A: All the theorem developers are going to come over to Cardano and it's going to be, you know, fine. And they're not the only project doing this, mind you. But the funny thing is, is that, you know, the token price keeps going up. Its market cap is ridiculous for what it is. You know, it's worth 20% of Ethereum. It doesn't have any smart contracts. And.
00:10:23.770 - 00:10:53.230, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that it's just all hype and narratives at the end of the day. But once they actually deliver smart contracts, sometime in the future, I don't know when it's gonna be. I haven't kept up with it. But when they actually deliver this, because this is a major feature, right? And then people see that developers aren't suddenly flocking to the network, right? The network isn't getting more activity from. From smart contracts being live and all this stuff isn't happening. They're like, oh, okay, wow, maybe it's not gonna kill Ethereum, right? Maybe this is what. Maybe this was all bullshit, right? And then the price inevitably dumps.
00:10:53.230 - 00:11:21.244, Speaker A: So, so much of this going on and something to keep in mind, you know, and I just, I know I've got off a little bit of a tangent there, but, you know, basically I saw it happen with rari capital, so I thought it was. Was prudent to kind of point out. But yeah, if you're interested in, like, collateralizing with different exotic assets, like uni socks, definitely go check out fuse. And they're gonna be on L2 as well. I think they've been teasing an optimism integration for quite a. Quite a while now. So it's gonna be really cool to see, I guess, what happens here.
00:11:21.244 - 00:11:53.012, Speaker A: So loopering put out this tweet today, which actually prompted my tweet, which is the next tweet here, but I'll read out what loopring said. So they basically say roll ups pay for peace of mind in ETH, and roll ups being the L2 scanning technology. Ethereum security is not cheap. That's the point. Loop ring is thus not just an exchange, it's a vault. And they kind of put a screenshot saying kind of like how much loopering has spent on gas in ETH to secure themselves to Ethereum layer one. They've spent 555 ETH, which at current prices is, you know, almost a million dollars.
00:11:53.012 - 00:12:17.734, Speaker A: Right. To, to layer one, just one app, just one, L2 to secure themselves, which is awesome. And that's what prompted this tweet from me when I said, in the future, ethereum l one will be generating billions of dollars in fee revenue per day. But these fees will not be paid by individual users. They'll be paid by Ethereum l two s. And with EIP 1559, a lot of these fees will be burned. Thus ethy's ultrasound money.
00:12:17.734 - 00:13:01.412, Speaker A: Now, this is a new meme that came out of the Justin Drake, and I explained it yesterday, so I won't go over it again. But essentially, you know, today the Ethereum network is generating on average $20 to $30 million in fees a day, right? And this is with capped kind of, I guess, scalability because we've reached a ceiling at this point where new users really aren't coming in anymore because they're just priced out. That's just the reality of it. So because of that, we have L2 coming on, lives coming online soon, and they basically act as a user wrapper. So you'll have, like millions of potentially billions of users in these L2s one day, and they're going to be generating their own revenue. And part of that revenue will have a cost of securing themselves on ETH one. And that's what they'll be paying in ETH fees, and that'll be what's getting burned.
00:13:01.412 - 00:13:57.592, Speaker A: So we will get to a point, you know, if Ethereum succeeds, as we all think it will, where the l one is generating billions of dollars in fee revenue every day, which is insane because of the fee burn, right? Imagine burning billions of dollars of ETH per day. Like, even if ETH is worth trillions of dollars, say we get to a point where ETH is somehow worth like $10 trillion, right? And you have an annual burn rate of, you know, say there it's only a billion dollars of fees per day, you have an annual burn burn rate of potentially $365 billion. And, okay, don't get me wrong, not the whole base fee is going to be burned here, that there's going to be just a portion of it. But the thing is, is that, like, even if only half of it is burned, right, that's still like 100. God, my math here is gonna suck. But 100, 6170 or 180, sorry, billion dollars worth of fever fees being burned every year. Just if the fees are a billion dollars a day, which I actually think they're gonna be more than that, right.
00:13:57.592 - 00:14:55.800, Speaker A: And if ETH is $10 trillion already, I mean, that means ETH is like $100,000, you know, but I think that ETH would have to be kind of like worth that much if the l one is generating that many, that much fee revenue, basically because that means it's kind of scale to like the worldwide scale and where, you know, ethereum is the dominant financial system essentially. But yeah, from, from that point of view, you can imagine like, you know, that's just insane, right? Like let's just say for simplicity sake, it rounds up to $200 billion of fees being burned every year. That's in five years, you'll burn a trillion dollars worth of fees. Right. That's just crazy, right? That's just puts constant upward pressure on the price of ETH. Because not only do these l two s have to have to pay in ETH for security, right, they have to buy that ETH first. And you're actually going to see, I reckon a lot of companies, especially the l two operators, or at least the l two, kind of like treasuries having an ETH reserve, right, because they're going to need it, because they're going to need to pay these fees to the network.
00:14:55.800 - 00:16:07.528, Speaker A: So why not buy it cheaper and why not buy it now to have a reserve for later rather than buying it when ETH is much more expensive? Because you get both the upside and you get to basically lock in a nice deal today, you know, when eats $10,000, you're going to regret not buying more at, you know, $1800. Um, so I think, you know, individuals can do that too, right? And, and stockpile, I don't think people really think about that, about stockpiling kind of ETH because, you know, the price is just going to inevitably go up because of all the usage that's happening. And then the fun thing is, is that, you know, a lot of it is burned right in the end, which is just, it's just insane. I mean, I guess for me, when more people understand this at a deeper level, uh, that's when ETH really kind of, I guess starts, uh, starts shining because I mean, I've gone on about it a lot. Each monetary policy, to me, when it's, when, when the merge happens and when 1559 is in is amazing and probably the best monetary policy in all of crypto. I don't think a hard cap is the best thing we can do. I think a perpetual issuance to stakers plus fee burn, making a deflationary supply, aka ultrasound money is the one of the best, if not the best, ways to secure a network and to add value to the, the economic asset of that network.
00:16:07.528 - 00:16:42.568, Speaker A: So, yeah, something to think about. I'm going to put some actual numbers to this, I think, you know, in terms of growth rate for Ethereum, l one, and stuff like that. And, and kind of do a, kind of do a breakdown here because, I mean, this is just like insane, right? And Ethereum is worth $200 billion today. And I really do truly believe that if Ethereum succeeds, $10 trillion market cap is going to be a reality, which is almost $100,000 per ETH, which you might, might sound insane today, right? You might think I'm insane. But, you know, if ETH goes to bitcoin's market cap of a trillion dollars right now, ETH would be like $9,000 or something. So, you know, bitcoin's already showed the way. It showed us the way.
00:16:42.568 - 00:17:13.158, Speaker A: And if bitcoin keeps going up, it's going to keep going up, too. But I do think ETH will, will go up on its own merits as well. You know, the ETH bitcoin ratio seems to, you know, love to just like, it's like what I like to call the maximum pain chart. You look at it and you're like, okay, you know, when's ETH going to go up against bitcoin? I think this plays into it when ETH is understood as this extremely powerful economic asset that is going to, you know, be used in staking, be used to pay fees. Those fees are going to be burned, be used as, like, extremely good trustless collateral. Right. Extremely liquid.
00:17:13.158 - 00:18:00.372, Speaker A: I mean, there's so many benefits here, and I've spoken about it so much. I'm not going to, not going to shield too much here, but I think this is the, I guess, gospel that we should be preaching to people when we're talking about ETH as an asset and kind of getting them to realize why it's valuable and just how valuable can continue to be into the future. Speaking of ETH, Coingecko put together a really cool page here where they say, where they've got basically listing which treasuries or corporate treasuries hold Ethan, their balance sheet. Now, obviously, I spoke about my two yesterday that have about $50 million worth of ethno on their balance sheet. But I did forget to mention that they're not the first publicly traded company to do this. ETH cap is, or ether capital is the first publicly traded, um, kind of like company to put ETH on their balance sheet here. And, I mean, I don't know how much ETH they have.
00:18:00.372 - 00:18:26.184, Speaker A: I think maybe they have. I think maybe once I saw it, they might have 60 or $70 million worth of ETH. So more than. More than my two here. But I spoke about also, or at least in the newsletter yesterday, I spoke about how Grayscale is also gobbling up ETH, rather another institution gobbling up ETH. They have billions of dollars worth of ETH at this point, I think in their. In their kind of like in their vault, I guess you could call it, or in there in their possession.
00:18:26.184 - 00:18:54.966, Speaker A: And then there's a Ethereum ETF that's been filed for in Canada, and Canada already has a bitcoin ETF. So this is not like the US, where they're going to keep saying, no. Canada has already said yes to this bitcoin ETF. So you could imagine that, you know, ETH is going to. Going to be there as well as an ETF. And, you know, more companies, I think, are just going to be putting Ethan their balance sheet in general. I mean, my two actually said in their statement that they bought ETH for kind of future use of the network.
00:18:54.966 - 00:19:12.302, Speaker A: So they're doing that stockpiling that I'm talking about for gas. And we're gonna see more and more of that because, as I said, like, no one wants to buy, you know, ETH later on for gas when they could have bought earlier. So, you know, maybe something for you guys to do as well. I mean, I buy if anyway. It's just like a no brainer investment for me. I'm always buying ETH no matter what the price is. I don't really care.
00:19:12.302 - 00:19:27.596, Speaker A: Whenever I've got money, I buy Ethan. But this is just another investment thesis to kind of, like, think about. And that's not investment advice. But I mean, it's pretty obvious right now that, you know, I think buying eats. It's a good idea for the long term, of course. Like, I don't. I think that should be obvious.
00:19:27.596 - 00:20:00.706, Speaker A: Right. But I think, you know, come more and more companies doing a public, companies doing it just sends us such a great signal, such a strong signal to the market that ETH is here to stay as an asset. It is an asset that companies expect to appreciate alongside bitcoin, maybe even outperform bitcoin, which I'm betting on for sure. So, yeah, definitely cool to see this page from Coingecko. And I can't wait to see how it populates. There's only one there to technically, if you, if you account ether capital here, I think we can get to like, you know, 10, 20, 30 before we even know it. So.
00:20:00.706 - 00:20:23.486, Speaker A: Yeah, looking forward to that. So Dune analytics had their biggest release ever today, which is dune v two. So comes with a bunch of really cool features. They have automatic and reliable query, refreshing. So for those of you who have used dune before, the querying in the, in the past could be a little bit slow, a little bit clunky. So they've basically fixed a lot of that. They've prettied up the site as well.
00:20:23.486 - 00:20:40.294, Speaker A: I checked it out before. It looks really, really cool. And there's a bunch of other improvements as well that they've kind of detailed in this blog post here. Basically they go into, I guess, like detail here. I mean, I mean, a lot of it's got to do with making it faster as well. I love this. They kind of say here, a super fast experience.
00:20:40.294 - 00:20:55.364, Speaker A: The dune application is now many times faster than it was before. That's it. That's the paragraph. I mean, yeah, it's much faster. I mean, I noticed that when I was using it before, which I thought was really cool. So, yeah, definitely go check this out if you haven't yet. And I disclose you how I'm an investor in Dune, so I just want to put that out there.
00:20:55.364 - 00:21:20.604, Speaker A: But I mean, I invested in them because I love their product and I've used their product so many times. I mean, you will have definitely seen me using their charts and kind of shilling their charts on, on Twitter over the years. So, yeah, definitely go check it out if you haven't already. My favorite dashboard is the decentralized exchange dashboard from doing analytics. So you can just google that. And it's one that I cover in the daily way data pump as well. So, yeah, definitely go check that one out.
00:21:20.604 - 00:21:59.164, Speaker A: So an interesting tweet here from Dan Romero where he said Wikipedia should fundraise by selling nfts for every page. And I mean, that just, I mean, today I just, like, when I saw that tweet, I was just like, wow, okay, why didn't I think of this already? This is such an obvious use case because, you know, obviously Wikipedia is one of the biggest websites in the world, but they have no monetization strategy. They don't have ads, you know, they don't collect user data, none of that stuff. And, you know, from time to time, they'll run like a fundraising campaign where they bug you to donate to them. Right. To pay for server costs, to pay for staff and all that sort of good stuff. But imagine how much money they could make and how they could fundraise by selling an NFT for every single page.
00:21:59.164 - 00:22:23.540, Speaker A: You know, imagine owning an NFT for some of the most popular pages on Wikipedia. I don't know what the most popular pages are, but. But imagine owning that NFT. And they could do it in such a way where they'll get a portion of the resale, like every single time it's sold, right? They could say that, okay, well, there's 10% royalties on all of these nfts. Every time it's traded, we're going to take 10% and that's how we're going to. That's what we're going to use to fundraise. This is just such a no brainer idea to me.
00:22:23.540 - 00:22:58.030, Speaker A: Like, honestly, like, I was actually mind blown by this that I hadn't even thought of this. And this is something that I think a lot, a lot of people have thought about nfts as well. I mean, me included, obviously, is that it goes far beyond just art and collectibles and in game items. Anything that is unique, right, can be turned into an NFT. And this for like the web in general goes. Goes beyond Wikipedia too, right? And it goes, it goes beyond like music streaming as well. I've seen like tokenizing songs and audio and all that sort of stuff, and tokenizing videos and turning them into nfts.
00:22:58.030 - 00:23:43.390, Speaker A: It goes beyond that. It goes like, I mean, there's a project called Mirror doing this right now where, you know, they're doing like tokenizing or publishing, you know, it turning published by kind of blog posts and pieces into nfts and things like that. That's another use case there, you know, tokenizing, you know, real world kind of things like property rights and stuff like that. Obviously it'll still exist in the legal system, but making it into an NFT is just like moving a lot of the friction, right? Making it easier to trade and everything like that. I mean, there's a project called Realty that already does kind of real estate on the blockchain, but I'm not sure if they kind of like have nfts that you can basic. I think they do for some of their properties where you can like buy and sell the different things to different people. But there's Kyc as well involved, which is just like an unfortunate side effect, of course.
00:23:43.390 - 00:24:25.778, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, I think we've just scratched the surface of what we can do with nfts and it's just going to be a really powerful fundraising vehicle, I think, in general, a really powerful vehicle for. For monetizing different things and. And feeding the value back to creators at the end of the day, because, you know, as a creator, you want to get paid for your work, you want to get guaranteed pay for your work. You want you to know if you want royalties on your work, then having them on a kind of like, NFT is just a streamlined process and an easy way to do that. So. Yeah, really, really interesting tweet from, from Dan here. So Arthur Zero X pointed out this article from Coindesk that where bank of America basically says that they think DeFi is potentially more disruptive than bitcoin.
00:24:25.778 - 00:24:56.322, Speaker A: Um, yeah, I mean, it is like, like there's no kind of hiding that, right? Bitcoin is good for what it does and you know what it does. It's just digital gold, right? Like it to hold it and it number go up and, you know, protect your wealth from. From government, state, nation state control. That's fine, right? BTC does that eat does that too. And I think it does that better, but I won't, you know, kind of dig too deep into that one. But basically defi. And I mean, not just defi, but like, a lot of the use cases on Ethereum are definitely more disruptive than bitcoin.
00:24:56.322 - 00:25:17.918, Speaker A: It disrupts entire industries. Bitcoin maybe disrupts like, you know, I guess they're going for a sovereign kind of fiat currencies. But I don't think we're going to get to the point where bitcoin disrupts like that sort of stuff. It's definitely disrupting gold. You know, it's worth like 10% of gold right now, which is pretty crazy. But digital gold is such a niche thing and such a. It's just like not very interesting.
00:25:17.918 - 00:25:43.984, Speaker A: Right. You know, bitcoin is actually go as far as to consider bitcoin. The bitcoin network actually just waste that secures BTC. So really the bitcoin network is not something that the biggest bitcoin is interested in, kind of, I guess, working with, whereas Ethereum is completely different, you know, a theory. The Ethereum network can do so much more. You do deFi, you do nfts, right? And these things are disrupting, like, entire industries. Obviously, Defi isn't disrupting finance, the biggest industry, you know, in the history of humanity.
00:25:43.984 - 00:26:43.424, Speaker A: But, you know, nfts themselves are disrupting a ton, tons of industries, right? Gaming collectibles are, you know, how, how kind of like even platforms like Instagram, monetize, because if everyone kind of like, gets off Instagram and goes to another platform because they're able to monetize there, you know, that, that, you know, that's the disruption there. You know, dows, of course, and stuff like dows, I mean, daos can't have the potential to disrupt, like organizations in general. But I think that dows, at least in the maybe short to medium term, are more going to be about finding new ways to coordinate rather than kind of like disrupting the existing ways. So, I mean, that's really cool. But, yeah, I mean, it's, it's fun to see kind of like banks say this, especially bank of America, which is obviously one of the biggest banks in the US because of the fact that they're the people that DeFi is disrupting. And I've said this before where on the refill where I think that, I don't think banks are going to fight this. I think banks are going to see this and be like, okay, well, this is the next stage of finance.
00:26:43.424 - 00:27:03.254, Speaker A: How do we get involved? Right? How do we add value here? How do we extract value? Of course, because they're banks and they're going to do what I guess a lot of websites did when the Internet came out. A lot of businesses. Sorry, did when the Internet came out. It's like, okay, well, we need to be online. Let's build a website, right? Let's see what we can do. And they grew their businesses by doing that. It's the same with banks.
00:27:03.254 - 00:27:43.104, Speaker A: Banks are going to see Defi and Ethereum be like, okay, how do we get a piece of this? Right? All right, let's tap into Defi. Let's tap into yield farming. Let's put some stable coins in curve. Like they're going to be doing this, maybe not anytime soon, but they're going to do it because they know if they don't, they're going to be disrupted. I think the Internet in general made a lot of businesses very sensitive to disruption. And they probably have like entire teams looking at emerging technologies and making sure that they spot these trends before they kind of take off so that they're at less of a risk of being disrupted, which is just really great in general for the, I guess, the world, right? For innovation, for competition. So, yeah, very interesting to see bank of America say this.
00:27:43.104 - 00:28:27.680, Speaker A: So super fluid is a money streaming protocol that I've spoken about before. But to celebrate their launch, they're basically auctioning off five unique NFT, which I thought was a pretty cool kind of way to do, I guess, launch here and actually doing it with the first ever streaming auction, leveraging their programmable cash flow protocol, which is, which is super fluid here. So basically all the details are in this post here, which I'll link in the YouTube description for you. But basically there's a bunch of five different unique nfts here, which I thought was really cool. So, you know, I guess like they're in the GiF here at the top. You know, they can see them there and obviously you can see them in the blog post as well. But I did want to talk about how they're doing this on XDai and, and Polygon.
00:28:27.680 - 00:29:23.774, Speaker A: So Xdai and Polygon are kind of other networks that are scaling aetherium, but as I've discussed before, they're not layered twos, so to speak. They're kind of like sidechains, a crappy word, I hate using it, but they're kind of just like, you know, alternative systems to a theory and where you can kind of offload activity to those networks. So yeah, they're leveraging this because obviously doing this kind of like streaming stuff where it's low value amounts or minting nfts on Ethereum l one is, is super expensive and it's kind of like priced out a lot of people at this stage. But yeah, I just thought it was a really cool way to do a launch because you don't really see people doing this. Usually a launch is basically do a Twitter thread, you know, do a press release, contact some influencers, you know, do, do some launches in some newsletters and get the word out. But, you know, doing the NFT stuff is really innovative here because it's catching on to a trend. It's giving people like, I guess a piece of, of, kind of like the protocols history, so to speak.
00:29:23.774 - 00:29:35.480, Speaker A: Right. Which I thought was, was really cool as well. So, yeah, kudos to the superfluity for doing this. All right, everyone, that's it for today. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to that channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up.
00:29:35.480 - 00:29:42.224, Speaker A: Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all next weekend. Have a great one, guys. See ya. Bye.
