00:00:00.240 - 00:00:38.134, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the designer entertainer 25 March 2024 alright everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today's episode with some positive news, I guess you could call it. So I was checking over the stats for the refuel on YouTube and the podcast, and I noticed that we're now up to around 5000 people that tune into this show every, well, almost every weekday. So I just wanted to give a shout out to each and every one of you to thank you again for tuning in and to welcome all of the new people. I mean, I remember saying that it was 4500 people that tuned in maybe a couple months ago. Now we're up to 5000.
00:00:38.134 - 00:01:12.734, Speaker A: Hopefully it continues growing. Obviously I love seeing the growth here, but it's great because for me, when I see this, it means that the growth is happening very naturally and very organically. As you guys know, I don't do any clickbait for the videos. I mean, the thumbnails are very innocent on my videos. There's no clickbait there, there's no clickbait in the titles. I don't really kind of go out of my way to try and grow this thing, and I've done that on purpose, and I've done that since day one. I mean, I've been doing these videos since late 2020 and I've been purposely about not attracting the, I wouldn't say like wrong people, but not attracting the crowd that I didn't want to consume the content and to be part of the community.
00:01:12.734 - 00:01:31.702, Speaker A: Because there are always those kind of fair weather crypto fans that come in. All they really care about is making money. They don't care about the tech, and that's fine. Like, there's no issue with that. But the community that I wanted to build around the Daily Gwei has always been around people who are actually interested in the tech as well as the money aspect to it. Obviously, the money aspect is a huge part of crypto. There's nothing wrong with that.
00:01:31.702 - 00:02:07.246, Speaker A: And there's a lot of people in the daily Way Discord channel that are discussing different ways to make money, you know, sharing alpha, airdrop hunting, all that sorts of stuff. And I love seeing that stuff. But what I really wanted to do was cultivate a community that was really bullish on ETH, really bullish on ETH the asset, and really bullish on just the technology behind all the stuff that we're building here. Rather than just coming in and being like total and complete DJ's and not caring about what we're building. And I feel like I've been able to grow that. And as I said, that's why I've been very, very kind of concerted about the efforts that I've made not to kind of turn the daily gwei into any sort of like shill channel or anything like that. Especially because I don't monetize it, too.
00:02:07.246 - 00:02:48.806, Speaker A: And that's another kind of thing that I did on purpose, is where I don't monetize anything because I don't want the incentives to be warped there at all. I just want to be able to educate you guys about Ethereum each and every weekday. Well, most weekdays, you know, some days there are rug fuels, of course. But yeah, once again, I just wanted to say thank you to all of you and welcome to the new people. Hopefully you've been enjoying the show and I hope you stick with us here. But on that note, going to move on to the news from the last 48 hours or over the weekend. So there was a tweet here that was put out by Walter Bloomberg, who basically covers a bunch of media related stuff within the, within the global markets where he kind of, quote, tweeted, I think, a coindesk article that was a bit of a mistweet here, misquote here.
00:02:48.806 - 00:03:30.574, Speaker A: But he said Blackrock is seeing only a little bit of demand for Ethereum from clients, says head of digital assets, the asset management giant. Blackrock's clients have a little bit interest in Ethereum compared to bitcoin, which the head of digital assets, Robin, Robert Mitch, Nick said, I think that there was a bit of a misquote here where if you actually read that, the quote itself, it wasn't exactly this, but I, quote, tweeted this. And I basically said, you know, there's two possibilities here. The Blackrock rep is downplaying how much demand there is for ETH because they don't have a product to sell yet. Right? They don't have the ETH ETF's yet. So why would they talk about how much demand there is? I mean, it's that age old thing of like, you don't show something before you buy it yourself. Like anytime you see someone shilling a coin on Twitter, they're not doing it because they don't own any.
00:03:30.574 - 00:04:01.390, Speaker A: They bought it and then they started shilling it. And it doesn't matter that this is Blackrock and not just some random Twitter deal. It's the same thing like, you're not going to show something if you don't ever, if, you know, you didn't buy it or you don't have a product to sell. There's no point that Blackrock talking up ETH if they can't sell a product to people they're talking it up to, or clients are talking it up to. So of course, they want to downplay the demand here until they have a product, and then they're going to, you know, shill it as if it's the best thing ever. Of course. And the other possibility is that the demand for ETH is actually small right now, which means there is lots of room for growth.
00:04:01.390 - 00:04:31.782, Speaker A: And either way, this is bullish to me. And I know that some people might look at this and they might say, oh, well, that's just, you know, hopium or copium, whatever you want to call it, because you're obviously an ETH max, and you want there to be a lot of demand for ETH. But I don't really think it is. I mean, I think the first point that I made makes a lot of sense. But even if there isn't that much demand, right, right now, that's actually what you want when you're investing in something. Because unless you believe that the demand is not going to go up for one reason or another, that is really your only bear case. Because if you do believe that the demand is going to go up for whatever reason, then that is in of itself a bull case.
00:04:31.782 - 00:05:28.566, Speaker A: Like the only bear case is that the demand is not going to go up, and then ETH is not going to be in demand, it's going to fizzle out? But how could that be? You know, how could that be true when once Blackrock and other, in these, these other trad five firms have a product to sell, like the ETH ETF, and then in the future, the staked ETH ETF, then why wouldn't they try everything they can to sell that to their clients? Especially because with a staked ETF, they're going to get a yield. But even with a normal ETH ETF, they can say to their clients that they're still getting a yield because ETH is deflationary. And people would debate this, have been debating this for decades around stocks, you know, buybacks versus dividends. Um, but essentially it's, it's net the same thing. And essentially what ETH has is basically a buyback and burn where, you know, 70% to 80% of the fee revenue is burnt, which makes ETH deflationary which is a yield, you know, the net result is still the same here. So I think that they're going to be selling that product to people like that. So I just wanted to cover that and kind of give a bit more context around that.
00:05:28.566 - 00:06:00.030, Speaker A: But I will say one thing here is that we haven't seen any updates around the ETF since Friday. Obviously, it's the weekend, so there's not really going to be any updates there. I got, like a bit of a gut feeling that we may see some movements around the ETH ETF this week. I feel like it. I mean, I feel like we have to start seeing movements. I think I mentioned this in the delegate discord channel where I said that if we don't see movements over the next two to three weeks at all from like the SEC and the issuers of the ETF's, then I'm going to say it's basically a 0% chance of the ETF being approved on May 23 simply based on the. The fact that the paperwork wouldn't be able to be done in time.
00:06:00.030 - 00:06:28.374, Speaker A: So the logistics work wouldn't be able to be done in time. It's got nothing to do with the SEC wanting to deny ETH. It would basically have to do with the fact that they wouldn't be able to get it over the line even if they wanted to, because there just wouldn't be enough time to do that. At least that's from my understanding there. Maybe they could do it if they pulled like all nighters and they worked, you know, weekends and stuff like that. But as far as I know, that's not necessarily how it works. And it would depend on the, you know, the SEC actually wanting to engage and wanting to do this stuff and wanting to speed it up here.
00:06:28.374 - 00:07:02.486, Speaker A: So really the next two to three weeks is absolutely critical. If we don't see any movement at all, then it becomes like basically a 0% chance that these things are going to get approved in May. And then we start the circus of once they get the night in May, the ACC get sued, and then we have months and months of just headlines and rumors and crap just continuing until eventually the ETF's just get approved anyway. And among all of that, we also have the presidential election, which is going to be very, very noisy. And it's going to play into crypto, of course, because there's a lot of crypto people who are obviously in the US and so on and so forth. So it's just going to be like, not that great. It's not going to be a fun time for anyone.
00:07:02.486 - 00:07:55.726, Speaker A: So. Yeah, but no, no other updates besides that on the, the ETF front there. So moving on from that to some ETH core dev related news or core protocol related news here. So you can see here that Tony has put out another visualization for us all to marvel at, where he said blobs now constitute a significant portion of the data that validators are handling. As the usage of blobs began to increase, the trend in coredata usage started to decline. So just another visualization of how all of the roll ups, or most of the roll ups have changed from using coredata to blobs, and how blobs now take up a large part of the kind of load that validators are handling when it comes to the data and the bandwidth that they're handling here. And this is a reason, I mean a major reason or basically the main reason why blobs started off so conservatively, where we started with like a target of three and a max of six blobs instead of, you know, a target of, of nine with a max of 18 blobs or something like that.
00:07:55.726 - 00:08:23.646, Speaker A: And why the blob sizes were relatively small is because we didn't want to put too much pressure on the network and make it so that solo stakers would fall off the network. You know, for example, I, you guys know that I run one of my solar staking boxes using a ROK five B board, which is very low powered device. It's been handling this just fine. I still, it's basically the same as it was before Denkun went live. And I haven't made any changes to that box. And on that box right now, I'm running Nimbus and Geth actually on there. You know, don't, don't shoot me for running Geth, but I'm running Geth on that box right now.
00:08:23.646 - 00:09:06.314, Speaker A: I mean I run nevermind as well and other execution layer clients on my other boxes. But yeah, I'm running Geth and Nimbus on there and it's working just fine. Like as I said, it's working as well as it was before. And then on one of my other boxes, I'm actually storing the blobs long term as well on my nas, which I discussed the other day. So yeah, all of that going on, of course there and I haven't fallen off the network, but I feel like that maybe if the blob sizes were increased here and the blob count was increased, then maybe it would fall off in this current world, because as I've discussed before with Max EB up going in Petra, we're going to be able to reduce the load on the network from the attestation load from the validators. And that will allow us to basically, essentially replace that load with more blobs. But right now, we don't need blobs.
00:09:06.314 - 00:09:56.516, Speaker A: I mean, as you guys have seen, the main bottleneck for l two s is on the execution side now, where essentially they're not even, they're not even making the most of the blobs. Like, I don't even think we're at the capacity of blobs because they're getting bottlenecked on the execution side. So once they fix the execution side of things, once they scale that up, which I'm going to talk about a little bit more later in the episode, then that's going to move to data again. So we're going to have this, as I said, like this balancing act between blobs and execution side of l two s, and how they're going to handle that and how they're going to scale without both of those things considered there, which is awesome. We actually have breathing room now on the l one side because the l one side is not a capacity. And then there is also the optionality, at least until call data. Call data cost is increased of the l two s or of the roll ups actually switching back to call data if blobs get too expensive.
00:09:56.516 - 00:10:42.554, Speaker A: And I've spoken about this before, how there could be this arbitrage opportunity between coredata and blobs, but that will go away. I think once they increase the cost of call data, there is an EIP to increase the cost of call data by a lot, which basically makes it economically unfeasible for coredata to compete with blobs at all, really, because right now it can complete with compete with blobs as long as the gas price is low enough. And it has been relatively low over the last couple of days. I think it got to like ten to 15 way. But I mean, obviously, given the market that we're in right now, where, I mean, the market can just spike up randomly and then the gas goes up with it. And given that blobs are separate from that, that normal l one fee market, it doesn't really seem that feasible right now, but it still is more feasible than it could potentially be in the future there. So that's one thing to keep an eye on on that front.
00:10:42.554 - 00:11:18.118, Speaker A: All right, moving on. So there was a lot of talk about how the reorg rate went up post den kun. So, essentially, there is a percentage of the network or percentage of blocks that get reorgan each day. And I think you can see here on the chart that it trended up a little bit. I think this chart is not showing the percentage of blocks I think it's showing, or slots, I should say it's actually showing the number of blocks and slots each day that were reorged. And it went up post then Koon, for multiple different reasons. I think the two main reasons, the clients needed to fix some things on their end, in terms of optimizations, we know within this new blob world that we're in.
00:11:18.118 - 00:11:47.464, Speaker A: And two, I think a lot of it also had to do with Mev boost and the builders and relays as part of that network, and them having to upgrade their infrastructure as well. So those two things, you know, I think, have been fixed, or at least, at least have improved since then. Kim went live, and we can see this played out in the. In this chart here. And I feel like that this is a chart that the core devs pay very close attention to, because, obviously, reorgs are not something that we want to see happening on the network. They happen just naturally. And there's always going to be a smaller number of.
00:11:47.464 - 00:12:19.488, Speaker A: Of blocks or slots that get reorged each day just for a number of different factors. But we don't want to see this, like, increasing, and we don't want to see this going really, really high. Like, if we went to, like, 10% of slots, that's really, really bad. And that would constitute a. Basically an emergency situation, for my understanding, because it means that the network is becoming very unstable. And this is something that the core devs pay a lot of attention to, because it means that if the network is becoming unstable, then that is not an equilibrium that you want to be at, because we have to identify that issue. And then if that issue is something inherent, like, let's say we did.
00:12:19.488 - 00:12:44.366, Speaker A: You know, this is why we started with blobs being conservative. Let's say that we put. We made the blobs too big, or we made. We had too many blobs, and now the network is getting spammed with too much, um, too much traffic, and the network can't keep up with it because there's too many validators on the network, and there's too many attestations going on still, and there's too many kind of too much communication going on. And then we have people falling off the network, and then reorg start going up. Like, it just becomes. I wouldn't say it's like a death spiral, but it becomes a thing where it's like, oh, shit, like, we need to do something about this.
00:12:44.366 - 00:13:34.316, Speaker A: So that's why things are always very conservative when it comes to the core protocol, because the network reliability and stability is the most important thing, especially because there are a bunch of moving parts here. There are moving parts that aren't actually part of the protocol. Like, mev boost exists outside of the protocol, but 95% of the validators use mev boost. So essentially, it is part of the protocol, but as a sidecar. And that is something that the core devs are trying to address and the core researchers are trying to address, because having it be, you know, not an enshrined part of the protocol makes it more difficult to reason about, and it makes it harder to pinpoint where these reals were coming from, because the core devs only have insight into, mostly only have insight into what they're working on, which is the clients that they work on. Right. Whereas something like Mevboost, they will have understanding of it, they will have oversight of it, but they're not part of the development of mev boost.
00:13:34.316 - 00:14:06.098, Speaker A: That's a separate team. You know, that's flashbots. Right? So they may have some understanding of it, and they may be able to pinpoint issues in it, but their ability to, I guess, like, fix it is diminished compared to the ability to fix things within their own clients. So there is a kind of concern there with that. You know, that given that it's a sidecar software, and if it was sidecar software that was only used by, like, 10% of the network, then it wouldn't really be a big deal. But it is literally used by 95% or something, last time I checked, of the network. And that's what makes it a bigger deal here, and that's what makes it harder to reason about when it comes to this.
00:14:06.098 - 00:14:50.304, Speaker A: But, yeah, anyway, great to see that the reorgs have come down means we've kind of alleviated that issue there, because obviously, anytime we see Reorg spiking, we want to make sure that it's not going to be a permanent thing. All right, speaking of risks and stability and all that in between, Eigen Layer posted a great blog post over the weekend titled on liquid restaking, risks and considerations. Now, of course, liquid restaking is a very new primitive, has only been around over the last few months. There are a bunch of projects doing liquid restaking, such as Etherfy, swell and puffer, of which I am an advisor to all of them, just to disclose there. But there are plenty of others out there that I'm not involved with, such as Renzo. I think mantle is doing their own thing with their hybrid l two. You know, I think blast is working on something like that.
00:14:50.304 - 00:15:12.786, Speaker A: You know, there's all these protocols that are doing this now. Obviously, restaking comes with a bunch of its own risks and considerations and inherent things that you have to think about. But then you kind of layer on liquid restaking on top of that. Then it becomes even more risky. I mean, there's always risk. Whenever you layer like a new primitive on top of something else, there's always risk. I mean, obviously, the lowest way to get a lowest risk way to get exposure to ETH is to own ETH.
00:15:12.786 - 00:15:38.442, Speaker A: But then you can stake to ETH, okay? And then your risk just went up a little bit. Okay? Then you can liquid stake it or you risk it up a bit more. Then you can restake just vanilla ETH. Your risk goes up more. You could liquid, or you could restake that. Ls t, now you can, like, get a liquid restaking token on top of that, and then you can go put that into defi and then you can borrow against it and go do something else, or you can put it into something like pendul and run a strategy on it. There are all these different things that you can layer on top of each other.
00:15:38.442 - 00:16:13.282, Speaker A: And yes, you'll get more reward for doing this, you'll get more yield, but you're taking on a lot more risk. So it's good to keep in mind what these risks are. It's good to consider what these risks are. And it's also good to realize that these risks aren't only on the person, on the individual doing these things. The risks also apply to the protocols themselves, as has been discussed at length, about Eigen layer or about restaking generally, and about staking generally as well, because there is a cascading effect that can happen here, especially in mass deleveraging events. As we saw last time this happened, I think, was May 2022. We had a mass deleveraging event because terror was collapsing.
00:16:13.282 - 00:16:35.996, Speaker A: And all this, Steve, was being sold into the market. Now, at the time, there wasn't staking withdrawals, so you could only essentially sell into the market. You couldn't actually withdraw Steth from the beacon chain, uh, sorry. You couldn't actually withdraw it from the beacon chain using Steth. So we saw what happened. ETH dumped really hard Steth went off its fair value, it went to like 0.9. So you could essentially buy Ste for 0.98
00:16:35.996 - 00:17:18.827, Speaker A: even though it was backed up by a full ETH in the beacon chain. And that led to a pretty, you know, substantial cascading effect there on the ETH price. Now, of course, in a post withdrawals world, this effect can become even more exacerbated by the fact that we can now arbitrage the beacon chain itself so we can withdraw assets from the beacon chain itself using these lsts in a deleveraging event. And then on top of that, there is an exit queue as well. And then everything on top of that that's got to do with restaking. It's like there's this kind of string of risks that are put together that can cascade and can cause issues if not properly managed and considered here. So I just, I guess, like more context around this post here and why Eigen layer posted this, but you should definitely go check this out.
00:17:18.827 - 00:17:53.488, Speaker A: The main two risks they kind of talk about is the financialization of liquid restaking tokens, as I discussed, about putting them into deFi protocols and so on and so forth, and then lack of liquidity as well. Because at the end of the day, if you want to quickly sell an LRT, but there's not much liquidity for it, then, and everyone's trying to do the same thing, then these things can still trade at a discount to their fair value. They're not a peg like people like to think, okay, well, it's a peg. It can't trade below that peg. I mean, yes it can. We've already seen this happen with, you know, stable coins like tether has traded below what's pegged before. USDC has traded below its peg before, and even at a premium to its peg.
00:17:53.488 - 00:18:36.928, Speaker A: So it's more, I think that we shouldn't really refer to these things as pegs and should really refer to them as kind of like what their fair value is. Because the fair value of USDC is $1. The fair value of USdT is $1. If you believe that there is 100% of USDT and USDT backed by dollars or dollar equivalents, right? Because then it would obviously match one to one, your liabilities and your kind of assets match one to one there. Whereas with staked eat, it's a very similar thing here, where essentially nothing is pegged to, you know, to, to eat the asset. But you know that there is ETH in the beacon chain that is backing up that asset. But then there are some more complications here with LST, LSTs and LRT's in that some of them are restaking.
00:18:36.928 - 00:18:54.984, Speaker A: Sorry, rebalancing, or what's. What's the word I'm looking for here? Not rebalancing? Some of them are. There's ones that kind of accrue to the token itself. So the token price goes up over time. And then there are ones that basically pay you out more tokens to represent the yield, essentially a rebasing. That's what I'm looking for. So they're rebasing tokens.
00:18:54.984 - 00:19:54.766, Speaker A: So there are different ways here, but the principle of it, the fact that it's still worth what the beacon chain plus the rewards are worth in the kind of beacon chain here, depending on how the rewards are meted, is, is still true. And that means that the secondary markets should trade at that value, but it doesn't necessarily mean they will due to liquidity issues, due to the leveraging events and so on and so forth. And because of that exit queue, it means that even if you want to arbitrage to the beacon chain, there are still going to be times where the fair value of these assets is, is not at par with what it should be and is at a trading at a discount because of the fact that there is that exit queue there. So it's a good thing to keep in mind when playing around with these assets on Ethereum. All right, moving on to some L2 stuff, or just a quick shout out here that I wanted to kind of talk about was that you guys know that I am an advisor to the Ethereum in all the ETH Investors Club here. And you know that I'm an unpaid advisor. All of the shares are going to the protocol guild here.
00:19:54.766 - 00:20:25.440, Speaker A: But what was really cool is that base does this on chain daily thing where they basically have an NFT that they feature each and every day as part of this collection. And it's on Zora. And as you can see here, that the ETH Investors Club edition one was featured in this. This is the winter 2024 digital edition, and you could mint this. And a lot of people minted this. And I think over 13,500 people minted this. And the creator earned six ETH, which is, you know, six times whatever the 8th price is today, 3400, that's over $20,000.
00:20:25.440 - 00:21:09.828, Speaker A: And now that's going. A lot of that is going to, going to go to the protocol guild here. You can see here that 50% of the creator earnings from this mint will be donated to the protocol guild, which is a collective, obviously for a theorem core contributors, as you guys know. So this is just, I guess, going into what I've been saying for a long time about kind of like turning degens into regions because there are definitely a lot of people who mint these NFTs for Djen purposes where that maybe they think they're going to get an airdrop or something. But also there are people who get to mint it to collect it, to be part of a kind of ethereum history here to get to read the report, which, as I've said to you guys before, this report is awesome. You should definitely go read it. But then also getting to kind of donate over three ETH right now to the core, to the protocol guild, which is just an amazing outcome.
00:21:09.828 - 00:21:22.708, Speaker A: So I just wanted to give a shout out there. You can still go mint this for yourself. The mint price is not too expensive here. I think that. What is the mint price? I can't actually see it in front of my screen right now unless I'm. Unless I'm blind here. But yeah, you can go mint.
00:21:22.708 - 00:21:42.322, Speaker A: And actually, I should say that there is. The unique minters are over 11,000. So there's 13,500 that have been minted. Obviously, people minted more than one here. And this is on base as well. So the cool thing about this is that it being on base means that it's basically free to mint because base is so cheap to use right now. But yeah, anyway, you can go check this out for yourself.
00:21:42.322 - 00:22:13.252, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Speaking of base, I think base has been the hardest hit in terms of, like, new activities since then Kun went live. It seems that everyone has just aligned on moving to base or like, rotating into base. I know there is a lot of, like, meme coins popping off on base and so on and so forth. But yeah, I mean, it seems like base is the place to be right now. And now because of that, as I've discussed on other episodes, it means that bases transaction fees have gone up, even though blobs are underutilized on l one.
00:22:13.252 - 00:23:06.898, Speaker A: And this is because of the execution side of things. And I've talked about this as well on previous episodes, but Jesse Pollack, the lead, lead of base here, basically put out a tweet saying that the base team aligned on their medium term scaling goal, which is to hit a target of one giga gas a second on base. So the current target is only 2.5 mega gas per second. So this is going to be a 400 x increase with a long term goal of pushing even further past 1000 x x. So this is what I mean by these l two scaling on the execution side of things, where essentially they can scale up their gas limits or their kind of a gas usage to huge amounts. Because the whole beautiful thing about l two s and about roll ups, I guess specifically here, is that you get these really cool kind of trust guarantees in that you can scale this thing to be the beefiest machine ever to run this l two.
00:23:06.898 - 00:23:40.062, Speaker A: Beefiest sequencer to run this l two. But you still get the verification properties of l one ethereum. So, for example, and someone asked me this, this question on forecaster, this is just my understanding of it. I may be wrong here, but this is my understanding of how this would work. Essentially, when these l two s are kind of doing this, doing these sequences and sequencing these transactions, they obviously post these down to l one, right. They post the data down, or in the, for both an optimistic roll up and a zk roll up. And then they also post the zk proof down after a zk roll up to l one.
00:23:40.062 - 00:24:32.230, Speaker A: Now the beauty of this is that if you want to verify the integrity of an l two over roll up, I should say all you need to do is run an ethereum full node on layer one. You don't need to run a node on, on these l two s. You don't need to run a full, no, you don't need to kind of like replay everything that they've done, all the beefy stuff that they've done. And also from my understanding on these l two s, if you run a full node for the l two, you can actually use the last proof that they've posted down, or the last bit of data that they've posted down to l one as your checkpoint to sync to, because, you know, everything up until then was verified, you know, verified completely and was actually the correct, correct way to do things. Or the actual truth, I should say, because Ethereum is a trust anchor for these Altus. This is really a superpower of Altus that I'm going to talk about more in a sec. Alex G from Matter Labs had a really great tweet about this, but that is really one of the superpowers here.
00:24:32.230 - 00:25:07.726, Speaker A: So you can make the sequencer as beefy as you want, you know, as beefy as you can get it, while still retaining the verification properties of, of l one. And of course, I think that from my understanding, ZK roll ups and, you know, ZK proofs give you even better guarantees than optimistic roll ups give you. But they're still more expensive because of the proving costs and so on and so forth. And they're still a little bit less scalable because of that. But the end game really is ZK, as we like to say, within the ecosystem here. But great to see that base has aligned on scaling up here. This means that the, I guess if they do this, it means that the scaling bottleneck is once again going to fall to blobs.
00:25:07.726 - 00:25:55.904, Speaker A: Because essentially what's going to happen is that even if they scale based up ten x from here, it means that they're going to be able to fit ten x more transactions into their blocks, so to speak. Right. And I know it's not like one one, but like, just for illustrative purposes here, it means that, yeah, they could fit ten x more transactions, which means they're going to be using more data, which means they're going to be using more blobs, which means that the blob blobs are going to reach max capacity, and then the blob price goes up, which means that now we've moved from the execution side being the bottleneck to the data being in the bottleneck again. So this is what I've been saying, you know, for a few weeks now, where we kind of like having this game of back and forth between the l one costs and the l two costs themselves here. So, yeah, just great to see Jesse tweet that out there. And another tweet from Jesse as well was just showing how fast bass has been growing. You know, it took 203 days for base to get to $1 billion of TVL.
00:25:55.904 - 00:26:51.532, Speaker A: And now it only took 23 days for base to get to $2 billion of TVL. And it's not just TVL that base is killing it at. If you go to l two beat.com, you can actually see that not just base, but like all the l two s on the activity front are at like a ten x scaling factor, which is all time highs right now for them. And you can scroll down and see what their activity has looked like. It's just up only across the board on all of these roll ups right now, which is great to see it because it basically means that our thesis of, you know, induced demand is coming true, essentially, where, where there is demand there, but it was too expensive before, but now that fees are dramatically cheaper, we've induced this new demand that is coming and that will actually hit these scaling limits and then we'll just keep doing it. So I feel like we're going to be doing this game of chasing, or like this cat and mouse game of like chasing the scalability kind of, kind of mouse for a long time now as the cat, to use the loose analogy there, because of the fact that there's just so much demand that is going to be met by having cheaper ways to meet it.
00:26:51.532 - 00:27:54.190, Speaker A: And there's going to be so many more apps that can be built, so many more kind of experiments that can be run, so many more different kind of programming languages that people can build stuff in. And that's all going to be happening at the l two Cr. So just great to see the growth happening and our thesis for, I guess like induced demand playing out there. All right, speaking of l two scalability, Roald Jordan from off chain labs, who obviously works on both the prism client and arbitrum one here, posted a tweet thread where he said, we're always thinking about how to push the envelope on scaling roll ups at off chain. Now that posting transactions to the chain is much cheaper due to data costs being reduced, a key question is how can we pack more power per gas? And we've had an answer for a long time. So this is basically Raul illustrating what Jesse was illustrating about, essentially cranking up the gas on these l two s in order to use more to gas to get more transaction capacities for users, and to essentially make it so that the bottleneck of execution doesn't become a bot, you know, is no longer a bottleneck until we kind of switch back to data being the bottleneck. And then we play again that cat and mouse game.
00:27:54.190 - 00:28:28.674, Speaker A: So you can go check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So now, the last thing I wanted to talk about was this absolutely awesome tweet from Alex G. Who is the founder of Zksync, works at Matter, founder of Matter Labs as well here. But I didn't want to read the whole tweet out because it's pretty long, but I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I wanted to focus on one sentence that he kind of said, yeah, and he said verifiability is what turns a database into a blockchain. This single sentence basically describes the key value prop of a blockchain.
00:28:28.674 - 00:29:05.646, Speaker A: And the only thing that turns a blockchain, sorry, a database into a blockchain. If you do not have verifiability, then you do not have a blockchain. Because verifiability is critically important for censorship resistance, which I've got, I said before that it is the only way. It is the only kind of like core value prop of a blockchain over a database, because everything falls off of that. If you don't have censorship resistance, then there is no point having a blockchain. There is no point to decentralization. There is no point to this extra cost of running a distributed system in order to achieve something if you don't have censorship resistance.
00:29:05.646 - 00:29:41.974, Speaker A: And. And what falls off of that is the verifiability. Now, Alex was talking about verifiability in the context of l two s, where essentially you can verify that an l two has or a roll up has behaved correctly because they have posted a ZK proof to l one, or they've posted their data to l one. And then you can challenge that in the optimistic roll up sense with fraud proofs. Or if ZK proofs, you don't need to challenge it because you have this, you know, the ZK proof that it was done in a, you know, in a proper way, it was done in a truthful way in. And as I said before them, is this trust anchor. But what's really key here is that you can put l two s or you can settle roll ups.
00:29:41.974 - 00:30:17.290, Speaker A: I should just say roll ups for now. You can settle roll ups to other l one s. Right? Because there's been a lot of discussion recently about putting roll ups on Solana, for example, which is hilarious for a bunch of different reasons. But I just want to focus on this part of it for now. I don't want to. I don't want to go on a tangent, the other part of it. But the reason why this doesn't really make much sense is because within Ethereum L1, everyone with consumer hardware around the world can sync a full node and verify that the l one chain is correct and truthful, and verify that the l two S or the roll ups are correct and truthful here.
00:30:17.290 - 00:30:51.406, Speaker A: Whereas on these other chains that have maybe sacrificed the ability to do this at l one in order to achieve scale. But it's not just Solana, it's other chains as well. And I think Solana is actually a lot better in this regard to a bunch of other chains out there that are the monolithic chains. But essentially, if you can't actually verify the chain or consumer hardware yourself, then you're not actually building a blockchain. Like, it's not really a blockchain, it's really more akin to a database. Because verifiability is, as Alex G said here, what turns a database into a blockchain. It is the entire point of what we're building, because we want to be able to verify the rules of the game.
00:30:51.406 - 00:31:36.516, Speaker A: We want to be able to verify that, you know, someone's not printing unlimited ethnicity. We want to be able to verify that censorship isn't going on. We want to be able to verify that no one's changed the rules of the game, you know, Willy nilly, or we haven't been attacked by something, or something fishy hasn't gone on. Because if you don't have that, then really you just have a database where traditionally centralized databases can be changed at the whim, like they're not controlled by you. It's not decentralized by nature. And anything can be edited. I mean, for example, like, if you're playing like an online game and the list of items in that your character owns is, is in a centralized database at any time, anyone with access to that database, anyone with read and write access to that database can now edit that and basically take those items away from you at any time.
00:31:36.516 - 00:32:02.248, Speaker A: And you have no kind of, I guess, like recourse there. Whereas within Ethereum, you don't need recourse because the Ethereum blockchain is decentralized. No one can take your ETH away from you. Your ETH is secured by the decentralized blockchain that is Ethereum. So you're eating your wallet and cannot be taken away from you by the network. Obviously you can get phished, but that's a different thing. Obviously, you know, someone could force you to, you know, with a wrench attack to send, send your ETH to them.
00:32:02.248 - 00:32:28.188, Speaker A: But the network itself cannot take your Ethan. A person randomly can't just come in, edit the Ethereum blockchain protocol to say, hey, we're going to take your ETH away from you and give it to this person. Now, of course people will think, oh, well, you know, we did this with the Dow in 2016. We took the ETH away from the attacker and gave it back to the people that were hacked. I will say that there's two major things here. One, that was a network wide thing where everyone had to opt into that. So that was not just one person.
00:32:28.188 - 00:33:00.232, Speaker A: That was like, everyone at that was running nodes at the time, was like, okay, you know, this is the good of. This is for, the good of the network is for the good of Ethereum. If we don't do this, then it's going to be really bad for a number of different reasons. And there was verifiability still of where the funds were going, you could see that the funds were going from this address to this address and it was just returned. We were basically just doing what was called an irregular state transition where we made it so that the attack never happened, essentially. But since then that hasn't happened at all, like in any fashion. There has not been anything like that that's happened since then.
00:33:00.232 - 00:33:22.404, Speaker A: But again, that took the whole network coming together to do that. So it's not like I can go on there right now and go into my full node and say, hey, okay. I mean, I actually, I can. So I can technically do this. I can go to my full node and basically say, okay, well, I want to move, you know, this balance to this balance. And guess what happens when I do that? It forks me off the chain because I'm no longer in consensus with everyone else. I'm on my own chain, where I've basically modified it by my rules.
00:33:22.404 - 00:33:39.444, Speaker A: But that's not a theorem anymore. That's like Anthony Ethereum or sassle Ethereum. No one cares about that. And the only way that people care about that is if I was to get people to care about it. Just like how bitcoin cash forked off of bitcoin and it became economically relevant, relevant because people cared about it. And exchanges listed the bitcoin cash asset. But bitcoin cash wasn't bitcoin.
00:33:39.444 - 00:34:04.866, Speaker A: It was a different asset, it was a different blockchain. From the point that it forked, it was completely different. It was no longer part of the bitcoin consensus rules. So the same is true for, you know, anything that I was to do locally on my node. It would not be part of the Ethereum protocol, would not be part of the Ethereum consensus rules. So that is what makes, you know, turns a database into a blockchain, a verifiability aspect, which then feeds up into decentralization and all of that other stuff. But you can read Alex's full tweet.
00:34:04.866 - 00:34:16.170, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I think that's going to be it for today. I've gone on long enough. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:34:16.170 - 00:34:17.914, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
