00:00:00.520 - 00:00:47.818, Speaker A: My talk today is going to be about some similar solutions of the one the land elicited equation. And if I have time, I'm going to, at the end of my talk, I'm going to talk about some related problems, or what I'm going to say is a joint work with Andrea Delaire from the university Lille. And it covers a period from 2015 in, I think, until now. So, a lot of to take on this. So, let me, the workshop is about vortex filaments. So, I had to make a connection of this Landau rich equations with vortex filaments. And the first slide is about that.
00:00:47.818 - 00:01:55.534, Speaker A: It's something that Luis said in his talk previously. And so the connection is as follows. So, we have the localized induction approximation Leo vortex filament equation, that is described as this set of equations. And it models the dynamics of a vortex filament in an envisaged fluid. And when one consider the tangent vector to resolution of this equation, then the tangent vector is a solution of the so called London lipset, or sometimes Schrodinger map equation that models the evolution of ferromagnets, of the spin in ferromagnets materials. Okay, so, in the context of Leah, let me see this in the context of Leah, a long time ago, in a John Borg with Rivas and Vega and myself, Amber, later on, we studied similar solutions and solutions that preserve the shape. That's what we call them.
00:01:55.534 - 00:03:21.924, Speaker A: And these were examples of particular solutions of the borders filament equation that develops singularities in either a shape of a corner or in the shape of a logarithmic spiral. This is the other type of solutions that that Luis was talking about before. Okay, so the drawing of this particular solution in the setting of paramount nets is that one, I cannot draw the solution of this in the ferromagnet setting, because the limit is a logarithmic limit. So I cannot draw that what this solution is in here. Okay, so, the whole life story is the main idea would be to develop or to study how did the techniques that we develop for studying solutions of the vortex equation, how these techniques can be applied to study similar solutions of by other significant relevant models in physics. And in particular, one of these models is the so called Landau Lipset Kilbert equation. I'm going to go through the question in a minute, but it can be seen.
00:03:21.924 - 00:05:18.274, Speaker A: So, the diffusion limit of this equation is the Schrodinger map. So, the whole point of this talk is about considering or discussing what do we know about the one dimensional lambda Ellipse Gilbert equation and what can we know about charcin resolutions about this equation using the techniques that we develop in the setting on both experiments? Okay, so, the land ellipses equation is an equation in dimension one, though obviously there is an obvious generalization of two higher dimensions, and it is a preservation model of the dynamics of the magnetization vector in ferromagnetic materials introduced by Lando and Lipset and Kilbert in the mid 19th century. And it gives me, the time evolution of the spin is given in terms of a so called strength interaction time and a dissipative term. My solution of the spin lives naturally in the sphere in r three, and there are two constants here, alpha and beta. Rand finds the so called Gilbert damping parameter, and high beta is the so called strength interaction. And they measure the interaction between the strength and the damping of the equation. So, it's very easy to see that if we consider an appropriate reparametrization of the time, then we can assume, without loss of generality, that the coefficients alpha and beta are in the interval and that are related to the relation that a squared plus beta squared is equal one.
00:05:18.274 - 00:06:13.654, Speaker A: Okay, so, as I said before, this is a family of equations. Depending on the parameter alpha, we have a particular equation. In the particular cases, one alpha is equals zero. The Lrg equation reduced to the so called Schrodinger map into the sphere in r three given by this equation in the particular case when alpha is one. So we don't have, we don't have a dispersive term here. We can describe this term using the fact that the spin vector lives in the sphere in an equivalent way as this one. And we can see, therefore, that in the case when alpha is equal one, the Landau limited Kilbert equation reduces to the so called heat flow for hamlet maps into the sphere in real.
00:06:13.654 - 00:07:42.194, Speaker A: And when the parameter alpha is between zero and one, well, we can see it, or we can see the energy equation as an interpolation model between the Schrodinger map equation and the harmonic map equation into the sphere. Okay, so, what can we say about the properties of this, of this equation? So, it's very easy to see that the norm of the, of the solution is preserved by, by the flow. So that means that if I have an initial data that lives in the sphere, then the solution corresponded to that initial data also lives in the sphere. For every time there is a scale invariance of the equation that says that for every lambda, if I consider the function m lambda defined in terms of resolution mix in this way, then we can also say that this also, if m is a solution of, then m of land is a solution. There is a rotational invariance. So, rotations of solutions of LNG are also solutions of the led. And in dimension one, there is a strong relation between these Lg equations and the go to say, diffusive Schrodinger equations via the so called hashimoto transformation and stereographic connection.
00:07:42.194 - 00:08:52.234, Speaker A: This connection is very relevant in the study of cell similar solutions in the case of a Schrodinger maps. And that relation has been very well exploited by the borgs of a panica and mega in our case. In this talk, we are not going to use this relation, but I may hint a little bit when this relation is important when studying solutions of this, of the equation towards the end of the talk. So again, maybe it's important to notice that when, obviously when we don't have a damping parameter, when we don't have a diffusion, then the question is time reversible. And when you have diffusion, we don't have the time reversibility. And the energy equation is a parabolic type equation, which is good and it's bad. So, I'm going to move, if alpha is bigger than zero, I'm going to be moving away from the little monster that Luis was talking about in the previous talk.
00:08:52.234 - 00:10:43.518, Speaker A: But on the other hand, I'm going to lose the interability of the equation if I have the question. So it's a no win, no gain situation. Okay, so, from the point of view of a natural question, that it has been proven to be relevant to the understanding of the global solutions of certain equations, and the understanding of similarity formation is whether or not there are solutions of these equations that are preserved by the scaling of equation. In the case that we have a division in the system, since we don't have time reversibility, we can discuss, we can talk about what we call expanded solutions or shrinkage solutions, depending on whether the, the solution is given by a profile, a profile evaluated at points of the form s over square root of t, where t is positive, or over s over square root of minus t if t is negative. Okay, so maybe to mention that the motivation of studying expanders and a single solution to, to this particular flow and many others, is that the spandex evolved from a singular time at t equals zero. And they are usually related to a non uniqueness phenomena, resolution of similarities and long term description of solutions and shrinkers. They evolve towards a similar time at t equals zero, and they are very often related to phenomena of similarity.
00:10:43.518 - 00:12:01.292, Speaker A: For mycin and moreover, I think I have to emphasize that understanding the dynamics and properties of particular solutions of differential equations or partial differential equations also provide an idea what are the natural spaces that are the natural spaces to develop? Well, post nerve theory that captures these very obvious physically relevant structures. Okay. So there is a lot of motivation, I hope, to understand why the study of this type of solutions is relevant. Okay, so the aim of this talk is to prove the systems uniqueness and study analytically whenever we can. These are similar solutions of the 1D equation. And the emphasis will be on study. These solutions with respect to the damping parameter in the one dimensional case have been studied when we don't have divisions.
00:12:01.292 - 00:13:38.374, Speaker A: In the case of the sonic map previously by Laxman and Budek in the setting of ferromagnes, and also the works of my work with Luis and Rivas and posterity, works of Bega and Vanika in the setting of OCLA. And in general, I can say that there is very little known about how the effect of damping is affecting the evolution of, of this, of the spin of the magnetic. I cannot pronounce that of the spin, I'm going to say, yeah, in higher dimensions, there are works that cover certain solutions of the LRG, higher dimensions. And most of the works that are in this setting, in the higher dimensional setting, relates to either a few on the Schrodinger map. And most of them relate to the other case. So, when we are considering the kid probe or harmonic maps, but I don't want to get close to the higher dimensional case in this talk. Okay, so before, maybe before I start looking into what is the difference between spanders and shrinkers and study the properties, I want to start the talk discussing or telling you about the rigidity result that we can see that holds for this cell, similar solutions.
00:13:38.374 - 00:14:32.074, Speaker A: The result is the following. If we have a regular solution of the energy equation, that is of the type, either responder type or a slinger type, for some profile m, then we can, you know, just by plugging this answer into the LRG equation, you can see that the profile is a solution of this, of this equation. Okay. Which just using again the fact that m lives in a sphere, and using vector identities, we can write this term here. So, I don't know, can you see me when I, when I do this? Can I? Yes. Okay, thank you. So, we can recast this equation in this, in this following way.
00:14:32.074 - 00:16:22.694, Speaker A: Okay, so if we look at this equation to see that the higher order derivative is not inside this cross product, better product, and it's very unlikely that in the case when alpha is between zero and one, we are going to be able to find an explicit solution to this equation. However, in a surprising way, we can say something or we can find a necessary condition that is a smooth solution of this equation, hard to satisfy. And this is what we call the rigidity result that says that if m is a regular solution of this equation, then the norm of the derivative is prescribed and is given by a positive exponential of this type or minus the positive exponential of this type, depending on whether we are considering a Sumter's or spanners. Okay, so now the more difficult question is how to find solutions that satisfy this relation here. Okay, and in order to do that, we are going to, we're going to follow the procedure that we follow when looking at the solutions for the vortex filament equation. And in order to do that, we are going to first derive what I call, what we call the geometric representation of the Lng equation. The geometric representation consists in the following.
00:16:22.694 - 00:17:53.070, Speaker A: So it consists in identifying my solution, my tangent vector, as the tangent vector of a curve of a regular curve in r three, okay, that is parameterized by the arc length and has associated curvature c and torsion tau. Okay, so using the Serefrend formula, the seraphine formula give us the space evolution of the tangent normal and binomial vector associated to, to this curve in terms of the intrinsic quantities, curvature and torsion of my curve. So from using the referenet equations, I can derive what is the second derivative of the tangent vector in terms of the intrinsic quantities of the curve and the normal and normal tangent. And by normal vectors. And using this relationship in the Lg equation, we can write the energy equation in this setting as this partial, as this e one geometric, geometric, geometric flow. So, the derivative of my solution is given in terms of intrinsic one, the intrinsic quantities of the curve. So in terms of the curve at the torsion and the normal.
00:17:53.070 - 00:18:40.014, Speaker A: Amen, normal vectors in the way that we have here. Okay, so now let's start looking at the self spanners. And for self spanners we are going to consider that the parameter alpha is between zero and one. And we are considering also the cases alpha equals zero and alpha equal one. So for sls if we are in the respective cell surface spanders. So this is solutions of my energy equation of this, of this type. Looking at the serafinate system of equations, we can easily deduce that the normal binormal curvature and torsion are also similar.
00:18:40.014 - 00:20:53.124, Speaker A: And assuming that I have a solution of my geometric Lng equation of expanded type. Just by taking the derivative with respect to t of this equation and using the equations to say that the first derivative of the tangent equals to the curvature times the times the normal, we get to this identity here involving carbon torsion, normal seminarmal vectors. Now using, now if we take the scalar product of this equation with the normal vector and with the binomial vector, using the fact that we have orthogonality of these vectors, we arrive to a system of differential equations for the curve veteran and the torsion, and from there we can solve these equations in this particular case. And I write that in the case of the self expanders, the curvature of the profile I'm using a little bit of a abuse of notation here. The curvature of the, of the profile is given by a constant c zero times exponential of minus alpha s squared over four, and the torsion is given by beta times s over two. Okay, so, and we are very happy because given any alpha between zero and one and any positive quantity c zero, I can solve by solving the reference system of equations with a curve vector given by this identity here and torsion given by this one and some natural initial conditions. When I consider the tangent vector after solving that equation and I rescale it that way, by the way that we have constructed the solution, I automatically obtain that this is a solution that is a regular solution of the energy equation for every positive time t.
00:20:53.124 - 00:22:03.854, Speaker A: So once that we have found proof the systems, what is more delicate is to study the properties of these solutions. And in particular, we are interested in two questions here. So we want to understand how this solution behaves for when t is small, and second, how the dynamic is affected by the presence of, of the damping. Okay, the dynamics of the solution when t is big is also interesting, but we haven't covered that yet. So now we want to study what happens with these solutions when t is small. In other words, what are the kind of initial data that are associated to this type of solution. Okay, so understanding the solutions when t goes to positive zero is understanding when t goes to zero is understanding the profile at plus or minus infinity.
00:22:03.854 - 00:23:41.534, Speaker A: We can reduce to the case when s is plus infinity, because there are some symmetries of the system that allows me to just consider that that case, instead of considering the case s goes to plus infinity and minus infinity. And understanding the profile at infinity is understanding the suburban system of equations with that particular curvature and that particular torsion. And in general, recovering the curve from the knowledge of the curvature and distortion is quite a difficult job and most of the cases can be only done numerically. We can do a little bit of mathematica and plot the solutions that we obtain when we have fixed a particular value of the code, sorry, of the constant, in this case 0.8, and we plot here the plots of the profile for different values of the diffusion parameter alpha. So when the parameter alpha is small into what is a little bit bigger, and what we observe in the three cases is that the solution when s goes to infinity tends to convert to a limit value to limit vectors in the three cases. So here, here and here.
00:23:41.534 - 00:24:59.884, Speaker A: And it does it around these limiting vectors, there is some sort of limiting sort of wave like behavior, and the wave like behavior is stamped is accelerated. When the convergence is accelerated to these limiting values is accelerated, the bigger the parameter arpais, as expected. Okay, so we want to prove that analytically, and that means that we need to integrate this reference system of equations. And the way we can do that, and this is something that is classical in the geometry of curves, is by considering tens of variables related to the stereographic projections that reduce the system of self net of equations to study particular equations. And a further nonlinear change of variables reduces everything to the study in this particular case of the solutions, sorry, of this second order complex differential equation. Okay, and moreover. Sorry.
00:24:59.884 - 00:26:01.464, Speaker A: Moreover, the components of the tangent, normal and binomial vectors can be given in terms of the solutions of these equations in this particular way. So if I want to study the profile at infinity, everything reduces in principle to understanding the behavior at infinity of the solutions of this second order differential equations. Okay. When r phi is zero, then there are split solutions in terms of parabolic cylindrical functions. And the way we did it in 2003 is by doing poly analysis techniques. And in that case there is a full understanding of the solutions of that differential equation. Again, when alpha equal one is also, there is an explicit solution and it's not too important.
00:26:01.464 - 00:27:47.808, Speaker A: But when alpha is between zero and one, then we need to understand a little bit better how the solutions and infinity of this equation behaves. I should say that this study is easy because we have a strong, I'm going to call it, I have a strong damping here because alpha is positive and secondly because we have a decaying term, exponential decaying term here. So the analysis of the behavior is easy if I'm not worried about losing of the behavior of the constant on in the asymptotics depending on the parameter alpha. The difficulty is to obtain the behavior of the asymptotics of these equations with constants that are independent of the parameter alpha between zero and one. So in order to do that, we can, what we did is define neural variables in terms of the solutions of this equation, and analyze the system of equations that are satisfied by this, by these quantities. If you go back to the relation that of the tangent vectors with the functions f, you can see that actually in order to understand m, n, and b, is understanding these quantities here. So actually these are the relevant quantities.
00:27:47.808 - 00:29:10.544, Speaker A: Anyway. So we could do, the key point in the argument is using inter color synthetics and using the oscillatory behavior of the solutions to really obtain bounds independent of the parameters. So we can pass to the limit when alpha goes to zero in all our asymptotics. Okay, so we did that, and what we obtained is what we saw in the drawings. So, for any alpha between zero and one and any positive quantity, if I consider the profile given by the self reference system, then when s is sufficiently large, depending on the parameters, is zero, the profile converts to a limiting value. The second order of the asymptotic of the profile has some oscillations encoded by this veto funcion five given in this way. And we can see that the amplitude of the oscillations is exponentially decaying in s, and the exponential decay is given by this parameter.
00:29:10.544 - 00:30:42.844, Speaker A: Okay, so now if we look at the other face of the oscillatory behavior of this face, we can see that when alpha is equal to zero, when alpha is equal to zero, this exponential disappears. And we have a logarithmic correction to the standard dispersive relation. And the minute we have some damping, some diffusion, that logarithmic correction is not present in the interface. And again, one should emphasize the lower order terms here don't depend on the parameter. Okay, so once we have that, that information, we can go back and to the car, to the solution of the lig equation and say, from data synthetics, what we want to, what we saw is that the solutions, expanders of Lg equations are regular. Sorry. So I'm going to say, given the profile determined by the reference system of equations, if I construct the function mc in this way, in terms of the profile, we obtain that that is a solution, regular solution of the energy equation.
00:30:42.844 - 00:32:03.844, Speaker A: And when t goes to zero, my solution converts two vectors, a plus and a minus. And from the syntactics of the profile, it's very easy to obtain a quantification of the rate of convergence to this initial data that in this case is measured by the LP norm. And moreover, we have a precise asymptotic of the behavior four times close to zero, because we have a precise asymptotics of the profile when s goes to infinity. Okay, so the relevant question is, what can we say about these two limited vectors? How do they do depend on the parameters c and alpha? Okay. And in particular, whether these two vectors are the same vector or not. Okay, so saying that the two limiting vectors are the same just by using the symmetries of the, of the, of the components of this vector, is the same as to say that the first component is either plus or minus one. So the two vectors are the same only in the case when the first component is a plus or minus one.
00:32:03.844 - 00:33:48.376, Speaker A: When alpha is equals zero, we had the magic relation that Luis was talking before that says, I guess this because due to the integrability of the equation, when alpha is equal zero, we have an explicit expression of the constants in the asymptotics depending on the parameters is zero of the problem. And because this guy is different from plus minus one, we can say that the two vectors are different for every c zero, okay, when alpha is between zero and one, we don't have explicit presence of the coefficients depending on the parameters c zero and alpha. But we can use the continuity of the map that assigns the parameter, the limit vector, the continuity up to zero and up to one to study the behavior for fixed alpha and for small values of c zero. So using continuity arguments, we can say that the second and the third component are close to zero but positive, and therefore the first component cannot be one and hence not minus one. And at least when the parameter is small, these two limiting vectors are different, at least analytically. Okay, so in other words, expanded solutions are linked to initial data that are jumps. And this can be proof is being proved analytically, at least when the parameter sees zero is small.
00:33:48.376 - 00:34:57.378, Speaker A: Okay, but in order this type of initial data, the jumps can be parameterized by the angle determined by the vectors a plus and a minus. So, in order to understand this initial data, what we are going to consider is the angle, the function that measures the angle between a plus and a minus. And see what kind of properties we have about these vectors, about this function. Okay, following a little bit what we did with Leah, I consider instead of the angle of a plus and a minus, the angle between a plus and minus a minus. So sorry about that, because it leads a little bit to compulsion. But what we want to study is to study the suggestivity and the activity properties of this, of this map, okay? So in particular, does the angle between a plus and a minus attain any value between zero and one between zero and PI. When we vary the parameters is zero.
00:34:57.378 - 00:36:10.726, Speaker A: Okay, so this is related to the problem of given two limiting vectors. Can I find a solution of my LLG equation, that is, with that initial data? And the second question that we want to answer is whether we can generate the same angle using different values of c zero. A positive answer to that question would be that will lead to phenomena of non uniqueness of solution. Because we could generate the same solution, I mean the same, because we will have two different solutions generated, associated to the same initial data. So, graphically or numerically, we have the following. So we are going to just pay attention to this graph, the one in the middle, because it's representative of what happens when alpha is between zero and one, different from zero and different from one. And we can see through this angle, through this graph, that any angle is attained by some c zero.
00:36:10.726 - 00:37:09.964, Speaker A: So all the angles here between zero and PI are attained by cen c zero. However, if I consider an angle that is small, then I can attain that angle by different values of c zero. So there is a non uniqueness phenomenon for alpha between zero and one when the angle between a plus and minus a minus is small. Or in other words, there are problems when the angle between a plus and a minus is big. Okay, so this type of non uniqueness phenomena is being observed previously in the setting of Hamlet maps. And it's nothing new. Okay.
00:37:09.964 - 00:37:53.440, Speaker A: But I was going to say yes, so it's not nothing new. And also graphically, we can see that the two angles are the same when the angle between a plus and a minus are PI. And at least graphically, this only happens when the parameters is zero. In other words, numerically, we can see numerically, that all the initial data associated to expanders are jumps. Okay. Okay. So that's what I wanted to say about this pandemic.
00:37:53.440 - 00:38:14.164, Speaker A: Sorry, I'm just panicking about the time. I don't know what's the time? So you still have seven minutes. Oh, goodness me. Okay, so I need to dive. So the second part was about the self shrinkage. And this was a result, a recent result. It's been published in 2020.
00:38:14.164 - 00:39:06.254, Speaker A: What we did is the same. The question is the same as before. See how this cell patient can behave. As you can imagine, we can use the same technique. And the only difference is that the carburetor and torsion associated to the profile are now given by these quantities. So we change alpha by minus alpha and beta by minus beta with respect to the case of spandex. Analogously, we can find the solution of the system of equations, and we can see easily just by construction, that the definition constructed in terms of the profile in this way is a regular solution of the energy equation for energy negative.
00:39:06.254 - 00:40:29.616, Speaker A: And what we are interested in knowing is how does the solution behave when, when t approaches the singularity time? Okay, so in this case, let me put the whole thing. So again, understanding what happens at t close to the singularity time is understanding the profile for large values of s. And in this case, the behavior is fully different. So, in this case, the first term of the syntotic of the profile is an oscillating term, where the function given the oscillation is a very highly oscillatory term. Yes, it's given by the integral of the positive exponential. The second term is given by a term that is not oscillating, and this vector is of decaying, is decaying exponentially, and the vector b plus is just the limiting value, the limiting vector of the binomial vector. Okay, so again, using the syntactics, now, the synthetic doesn't convert.
00:40:29.616 - 00:41:49.054, Speaker A: One x goes to infinity or minus infinity to a vector, oscillates hugely. And using the asymptotics, we can say that the solution of the lg equation, the shrinker, doesn't convert, but it gets arbitrarily close with the one indices to this cell, similar oscillating term. How do we prove that? Well, we could think that we can do the same as we did before, but the problem is that now, when we consider shrinkage again, there is a sign of time and a change. That implies that this coefficient is now exponentially growing. And this is a sign minus that makes my life very difficult. So, instead of analyzing the behavior of the profile, analyzing the solutions of these equations, what we did is we obtained asymptotics of the profile with a direct analysis of the reference system. But in this case, we can only do it for values of alpha, which are strictly between zero and one.
00:41:49.054 - 00:42:46.332, Speaker A: Okay, okay, maybe what I can say is that, I want to say that the shrinkage provides the samples blow up in finite time, where the singularity develops due to the rapid oscillations of the profile. So, why do I say this? Now, the solution of the LLG equation with initial data at time minus one, given by the profile, is given by this formula here. Okay. And if you consider the derivative of the solution, the more the norm of the derivative of the solution, and you take the limit when t goes to zero. This quantity explodes. Okay. But now the derivative of the profile is given by this term here.
00:42:46.332 - 00:43:28.382, Speaker A: And this is just the phase that it was appearing in the encoding, the oscillating behavior of my solutions. So the derivative grows because of the profile, is highly oscillatory. Okay, we can do a little bit of drawings, okay. And the drawings of the solutions are the following. So this is just the profile. This represents the profile for a particular value of c zero or c and alpha. And this represents, this is only when S is positive.
00:43:28.382 - 00:44:24.096, Speaker A: And this is when s is positive and negative. Okay. And what the figure suggests it is that the limit sets of the, of the trajectories of the profile are great circles. So circles passing through the ordinary gene and with a certain normal vector. Okay, so can we prove that? And if so, what can we say about these circles? And what can we say about these circles in terms of the behavior of the parameters? Okay, and the good things is that we were able to say, or at least answer partially some of these questions. And the result is the following. We could identify the normal vector of the circle.
00:44:24.096 - 00:46:13.564, Speaker A: The limited circle of the profile is the vector that is the limit of the binomial vector of my profile. So if we consider the circle given by the intersection of the sphere with a plane that passes through the origin and whose normal vector is the limit of the binomial vector, and plus and minus infinity, what we have proof is that for super large, the distance of the trajectory of my profile to the circle, to that great circle, and the trajectory is exponentially close to this circle. And consequently, when t goes to approaches the singularity time, the solution of the energy equation are very close to that red circle for s positive and for s negative. Okay, the difficulty here is that if you want to find this relations here, study the distance between the profile to this circle. You need to be able to have a relation that links the normal vector associated to this circle with the constants in the syntotics of the profile m. And that is not trivial, but there is a magic and the magic works. And in the right relationship, we were able to find this.
00:46:13.564 - 00:47:19.204, Speaker A: And finally, I'm going to say that we could not say much about the behavior of these two circles when, when, depending on the parameters alpha and z. But we could say that for large values of c, the angle between these two circles is bigger or equal than this quantity here. And in particular, when c goes to infinity, this goes to zero. So the angle between these two circles, a spy when c goes to infinity. In other words, when c goes to infinity, what you see is that the two circles are the same circle, the limiting circles are the two, the same circle but parametrized. But what is called but in a different, pointed in different directions and oriented in a different way. Okay, so a summary.
00:47:19.204 - 00:48:17.966, Speaker A: When alpha is zero, expanders are the same as the sinkers and solutions oscillator about eliminating vectors as time approaches the singularity time where the solution creates gems. When we have diffusion expanders are regular solutions that are associated to singular nasal data that are gemstone. And when we have, in the case of shrinkage near the similarity time solutions oscillate close to planes that passes through the origin and with normal vector given by the limiting vector of the normal ovary profile. Okay, I don't know if I have 1 minute. You have minus minus three, but okay, one minus three minus epsilon, you are in shrink time. Okay, so just some perspectives. So is this the end of the story? And the answer is no.
00:48:17.966 - 00:49:10.380, Speaker A: Thank God for that. And we could use these techniques to study other type of solutions for this equation. But maybe more importantly is that maybe it's worth exploring how to use this geometric approach in higher dimensions. And this is a very one dimensional analysis. But if we are in higher dimensions and we are assuming special answers that reduce to the one dimensional analysis, so for instance it will reduce to gradient solutions. We could use this geometric approach to study for instant radial solutions of the led heat flows or resolving m. And it's something that I'd like to study.
00:49:10.380 - 00:49:10.924, Speaker A: Thank you.
