00:00:00.520 - 00:00:38.510, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Dailygui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 10 February 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours. So I think the biggest bit of news was that Matic Network is rebranding to Polygon. So before I jump into this, I did want to offer a kind of, I guess, disclaimer and a little bit of an announcement here that I've actually joined Matic Network as an advisor. So I'll be advising them, particularly on the community and marketing side and kind of helping them on that side of things. And I'll explain basically why, you know, I've decided to join them and help them out.
00:00:38.510 - 00:01:39.792, Speaker A: You know, as I've said before on the refuel, I like to join and help out projects that I think are going to add lots of value to the Ethereum ecosystem and that's exactly what Polygon is doing. So for those who don't know, Matic Network is a scalability solution for Ethereum. They've been developing kind kind of of, I guess, solutions for a couple of years now and they've been, they've got like a bunch of kind of solutions live, as they say in this thread here, they have a bunch of plasma chains live, the Matic PoS chain. And now with this kind of rebrand to Polygon, it's not just like a rebranding name, but they're actually bringing on a bunch of new features into their feature set. So they call themselves a swiss army knife of ethereum scalability. They're not only going to be doing their side chains, kind like of sort of like their plasma and PoS chains, they're also going to be doing L2 solutions like ZK roll ups, optimistic roll ups, validium from starkware, stuff like that. And they're going to have an interchange communications protocol and kind of this is all going to be available to developers through an SDK to use as well.
00:01:39.792 - 00:02:24.838, Speaker A: So yeah, it's pretty big. I mean this is, I guess like the main reason that I decided to join was that I think, you know, Polygon, they're developing some really great tech. They have a really awesome team, a team that ships constantly. I mean the Matic team is great and on top of that they, they deeply understand the Ethereum ecosystem and they're trying to be additive, they're not trying to be parasitic where they, they kind of hold the, the same values as the Ethereum kind of community and the ethos, and they really just want to build scalability solutions that benefit everyone, really, at the end of the day. And that's what they've been doing to this date, really. So, you know, I guess like they're calling themselves Ethereum's Internet of blockchains. And that might remind you of some of these other multi chain systems, like Polkadot or Cosmos.
00:02:24.838 - 00:03:03.588, Speaker A: And it is kind of like the same sort of, I guess, architecture there, except they're bringing it to Ethereum where, you know, they're going to be Ethereum's kind of multi chain system where you'll have the Ethereum based chain and then you'll have like the Matic Pos and side chains as their own kind of thing. And then you'll have, I guess like the entire polygon suite kind of secured by the Ethereum network and feeding back into it. So, you know, I often talk about Ethereum being this economic nexus for value, for activity, for basically all this kind of like economic kind of activity to feed into it. And I think Polygon is going to be a big help here. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go read this thread here. And there's also a blog post here.
00:03:03.588 - 00:03:51.268, Speaker A: I won't shield too much as I obviously have a conflict here as I am part of the project now. Um, but yeah, I'm really excited for this. I'm really excited to see them kind of grow and to see this kind of grow because scaling is, is needed, right? We need an ASAP. We, we need to scale ethereum because if we don't, you know, there's, there's lots of things that can happen here, right? I mean, I'm sure you've all been seeing kind of like, I guess some other chains, like the binance smart chain, get some activity lately. And I've talked about it before and about how I don't really consider a competition for Ethereum, but in general, you know, we can't have persistent high gas fees. So Polygon is just another kind of scalability solution that's thrown their hat in the ring here with, with a lot of experience to help scale aetherium. You know, we have so many now, right? Like how many do we have? Like, we have stark where we have loop ring.
00:03:51.268 - 00:04:30.212, Speaker A: I'm optimism with optimistic roll ups the matter labs, arbitram, arbitrams roll up that there's so many. I mean, I'm obviously forgetting some here. Go have their plasma chain and stuff like that. There are so many kind of like out there now that, you know, it's insane to me that anyone's kind of bearish on the future of Ethereum scalability, I think, you know, and we even have the bridges. Right. I've spoken about connects vector before and hot protocol that was announced the other day to kind of bridge these things together and Polygon is actually going to be working on a way to bridge this stuff together as well. So, yeah, I mean, I've just personally never been more bullish on the L2 ecosystem within Ethereum and the general scalability ecosystem.
00:04:30.212 - 00:05:15.664, Speaker A: And you know, that's, that's I guess one of the major reasons why I was so excited to join Polygon is that I get to actually be at the forefront of something that's incredibly important to the ethereum network but also incredibly important to just me personally. And then kind of that's, that's kind of what runs through my mind when I joined projects is like, is this project going to add value to Ethereum? Yes. Is it going to add value to kind of what I want to do? Like am I going to enjoy working with this? Yes. Right. And do I think it's like a net net kind of positive overall and yes, those are like my kind of three check marks. And I've, and I have personally knocked back a lot of projects in the past that wanted me on as an advisor or something like that because at the end of the day, if it's not adding value to Ethereum, I don't really want to be a part of it, really. So yeah, I mean I'm an advisor to some other projects, obviously like set protocol.
00:05:15.664 - 00:05:48.338, Speaker A: Like I was working full time there, but I'm an advisor M stable, of course, been an advisor for them for a while and there's a few more unannounced projects as well that, that I've joined too. But yeah, as I said, that's my general kind of play when I get involved with this sort of stuff. And yeah, I'm kind of like fully aware that, you know, if I put my name on kind of any project, people look at it and it's like, oh, maybe it's legit, right? It must be legit. And I don't want to be kind of herding people into the wrong sort of stuff. Right. I, I'm an educator. I definitely don't want to be, want to be kind of leading lambs to the slaughter, so to speak.
00:05:48.338 - 00:06:12.892, Speaker A: So yeah, anyway, I think I've been off on a little bit of a tangent there, but definitely go check out this thread from polygon. I'm super excited about what they're building. So interesting tweet from Ashley from uniswap here. So I'll read out what she said. She said the first cell phone came out in 1983. It was eleven inches long, two and a half pounds heavy, and cost $4,000. Early adoption is expensive and clunky.
00:06:12.892 - 00:06:47.908, Speaker A: Hang in there. Just as with cell phones, soon nobody will be able to imagine what life was like before Ethereum. Now this goes back to what I guess I've been talking about a lot on the refuel, about obviously, how early we are and how we're kind of pioneers of this technology. You can imagine, you know, having a cell phone in 1983, you had to be, I mean, $4,000 back then is, I mean, today it's more because of inflation. So, you know, most people couldn't afford to spend $4,000 on a cell phone. And it was a cell phone that really wasn't that great, right? It wasn't like a smartphone or anything like that. So, you know, back then it was only for rich people.
00:06:47.908 - 00:07:10.508, Speaker A: Just like how the Ethereum network today is, is pricing out a lot of, I guess, users who can't afford it, right? And on top of that, it was really clunky, right? Eleven inches long, it's huge, right? Two and a half pounds. Very heavy. I mean, I think that's like four or five kilos. So very, very heavy there. If I'm doing my math correctly, I think I am. Maybe I'm not. Anyway, no, I don't think it's five kilos.
00:07:10.508 - 00:07:41.886, Speaker A: I think it's like a kilo or kilo and a half or something like that. I'm. My conversion right now is probably butchered. But anyway, it's still heavier than what we have today. And then, you know, fast forward, I guess, like, what is it? Like 20 something years from that date to when the first smartphone came out, where we basically put a supercomputer in everyone's pocket. Right? And I know smartphones are expensive today and, like, you can kind of spend $3,000 on an iPhone these days. But I guess if we're talking about like the general cost, like, most people buy smartphones that are less than $1,000, like us dollars, essentially.
00:07:41.886 - 00:08:14.442, Speaker A: They are not eleven inches long. I mean, you know, they can get big. You know, they got the phablets and stuff like that. But it's a different kind of thing where it's all screen, it's not like a keyboard and like just space everywhere because you need to fit all the parts in and stuff like that. So I guess the general point here is that you can look throughout all of history and look at all the new technologies and kind of how they've progressed, right? A new technology will come out, it'll be very limited. It'll be only available to, I guess like a very limited set of people, usually people with money. And then quickly over time it'll get better and better.
00:08:14.442 - 00:08:52.846, Speaker A: You know, it'll scale out and then more and more people can get access to it. The same thing happened with television, right? The same thing happened with automobiles. The same thing happened with air travel, like all this sort of stuff, right? You know, look at, look at air travel today. Like for a few hundred dollars you can fly across the US from end to end, right? You know, and, you know, without advancements and kind of like economies of scale in that technology, it would cost like a ton because, you know, it's not really cheap to fly an airplane. Like the fuel is super expensive. So in the same vein, ethereum is super expensive today because there's limited capacity, right. The network is limited to around 15 transactions per second.
00:08:52.846 - 00:09:25.000, Speaker A: And any more than that kind of like means the network's overloaded and you have to like outbid each other to get into an ethereum block. So that's not always going to be the case for end users. You know, the base chain will probably always stay kind of limited and, you know, we're always probably going to fill up the capacity there. But as I've said before, most users are going to sit on L2. They're going to go and play there, they're going to get better kind of scalability. The costs are going to be way cheaper and that's coming very quickly. So, yeah, I mean this is what I, what I always talk about.
00:09:25.000 - 00:10:01.524, Speaker A: I know I harp on about this and I know I'm probably preaching to the choir here, but this is what it is at the end of the day. And I think because we're so early and it doesn't feel like we're early because the markets get really ahead of themselves, same people kind of get like a false sense of, you know, we should already be like scaling to service the world sort of thing. And I don't think that's true. I think there's a very big disconnect between the prices and the actual tech readiness. I actually think that we're going to go through this entire new cycle of crypto, this bull and bear cycle. Well, at least the bull cycle and not be anywhere near ready for mainstream adoption. I think maybe by the next crypto cycle.
00:10:01.524 - 00:10:25.204, Speaker A: So maybe in like three or four years, right. Will be ready for mainstream adoption in that the network will be able to handle, you know, hundreds of millions of users potentially. We're not there yet. We're not anywhere close to that yet, I don't think. Not on Ethereum, not on any other network, if I'm being honest. Right. Even the famed binance smart chain is, is just a clone of Ethereum, and even that can get congested if enough people use it.
00:10:25.204 - 00:10:48.044, Speaker A: So we're. Yeah, we're not close to that. And at the same time, people are probably kind of underestimating how long that's going to take because we're still so very, very early. I actually think we're not even at the dial up Internet stage. I think we're at like the 56k modem stage of the Internet. So we're pretty much in the nineties, if you were to talk about the Internet. And then over the next, it'll be, it'll be a faster progression.
00:10:48.044 - 00:11:28.512, Speaker A: Like, obviously the Internet took a long time to kind of roll out because it was hardware and kind of like infrastructure based, whereas Ethereum and its ecosystem is software based. So it's much easier to scale software. Right, than it is to scale hardware, because with the Internet, you needed to actually lay all the kind of like infrastructure. And even though they laid all the infrastructure, they were still piggybacking off the existing kind of landline infrastructure too, or the telephone line info infrastructure. Right. So even though they did that, it still took a while. Whereas with software you can scale out this stuff really relatively quickly and kind of like, you know, once you've got the foundations laid, you can actually have like hundreds of millions of people using your thing within a couple of days.
00:11:28.512 - 00:12:20.870, Speaker A: They've actually been apps before that launch. They get tens of millions of users within just a few days because all the infrastructure is already there and software can, can just scale way easier than kind of hardware and that, that hard infrastructure. So from that perspective, yeah, I think it's going to be a quicker rollout with Ethereum and L2, and I'm excited to see that. But yeah, I don't think it happens during this bull market because I actually don't think this bull market lasts for very long, maybe over the next few months until we have like a big crash. And unfortunately, as much as I would like there not to be another bear market, I'm pretty confident there will be. And I'm pretty confident it's going to be a pretty brutal one from what I've seen in the markets right now. Not investment advice, but, man, like, if you go on Coingecko and see what's going up in price, you kind of think to yourself, like, where's all the money for this coming from, right? Who's buying this? Like, there's stuff that's getting bought that is kind of quote unquote dead and hasn't been like, hasn't done anything in years.
00:12:20.870 - 00:12:58.068, Speaker A: And I just pumping ridiculously and, you know, I just keep looking at it. I'm like, who is buying this stuff? And I know who's buying it, right? It's, it's new people into the ecosystem. But eventually that funnel of kind of new people runs out and then everyone runs for the exits. And that's how you get a kind of like bear market. But not saying I expect it anytime soon, but just what I'm seeing, it kind of like concerns me at the end of the day. But as I've said before, I think, you know, as I even said yesterday, with, with kind of Elon Musk and Tesla buying BTC, I think we have a long ways to go because there's going to be just so much more new people coming into this ecosystem, and it's going to get really, really crazy. It's going to make 2017.
00:12:58.068 - 00:13:23.554, Speaker A: I think it's already made 2017 look like child's play, if I'm being honest. Right? So just keep that in mind. I think no one's ever going to be able to spot the top. I think a lot of the top signals that we used during 2017 are going to be kind of hard to use this time around. But, yeah, keep your head on. Don't get too kind of like, crazy, I guess, and make sure you stay focused. So Kevin Rose, who has 1.5
00:13:23.554 - 00:14:11.746, Speaker A: million followers on Twitter and who, for those who don't know, is the original founder of Digg, which was a popular news board before Reddit, kind of, I guess, like overtook it. He put a tweet out today about nfts and the specifically called out the project NFTX or Niftex. I think that's how you say it or how people say it. Now, I've spoken on the refill about how I think there's a lot of people coming into ethereum through nfts, right? A lot of new people, especially people with, like, large followings. And we're seeing this play out every single day at this point. And you know what's cool about Kevin's tweet here, and I'll read it out. He said, I just discovered that you can take crypto punks in bracket, NfT digital art, closed bracket, and deposit them open bracket, add liquidity, close bracket to a balancer pool, basically creating funds of crypto, crypto punks.
00:14:11.746 - 00:14:40.070, Speaker A: Holy shit. Mind blown all via Niftex. So he's not only discovering nfts, he's discovering the power of Defi as well, in the same thing. And he's broadcasting it to his 1.5 million followers here, which I thought was really cool, because you think about it, the more people hear the term NFt, nor more people hear the term defi, right? You might hear it once as a new person, you might just dismiss it. Then you hear it again and again and again and again. And the more times you hear it, I guess to a point where you're like, okay, I've heard about this thing so much.
00:14:40.070 - 00:14:59.650, Speaker A: What is it? It plays out the same way for, like, when people hear about bitcoin, right? They hear about it from, like, a bunch of different people, and they're like, okay, well, this is obviously a big deal. I'm going to check it out. They google it, they fall down the rabbit hole, yada, yada, yada. Right? The same thing's going to happen with nfTs. The same things happened with Defi to an extent already. Same thing obviously happened with Ethereum. And, you know, I think we're just going to keep seeing this play out.
00:14:59.650 - 00:15:29.104, Speaker A: It's just, it's just crazy that we're seeing so many of these kind of Internet celebrities that have large followings already kind of get onto this stuff. And, I mean, it's unfortunate that they're getting onto it at such an early stage where, you know, obviously the network's very expensive, so these people are going to get kind of burnt by that. But it's still awesome to see. So, yeah, I just wanted to call that out. I think it's really cool. And a disclaimer, I own niftex tokens, so I'm not just chilling it because of Niftex here. I just thought that the tweet was cool.
00:15:29.104 - 00:16:24.184, Speaker A: So Tom Schmidt put out this tweet today about metamask and how they're printing kind of cash right now from the fees in their, in their mobile wallet. So for those who don't know, not mobile wallet, sorry, in their chrome extension. So for those who don't know in Metamask, if you open it up there's actually got a swap feature that they added a few months ago where it's basically a decentralized exchange aggregator that'll kind of tap into all the dexes on Ethereum and get you the best price. But on top of that, they charge their own fee, and I think the fee is about 0.8%. So right now they're doing $170,000 a day in fees on $20 million a day in volume. That's crazy, right? That's crazy good revenue for something that was doing zero in, like, well, October, I think they launched this thing in October or September, they were pretty much doing $0 a day in revenue. From what I know, there was no other way metamask was monetizing, unless they were monetizing, you know, some other way that we didn't know about.
00:16:24.184 - 00:17:01.144, Speaker A: But now they're making $170,000 a day and growing. You can see from this chart that the trend is up here, right? And I think this is amazing. I honestly think this is, this is an incredible way to monetize. I think that people said that there's a lot of people that said, you know, no one would pay these fees, but at the end of the day, you know, there's thousands, tens of thousands, millions of users on Ethereum that, you know, they're going to use what's easiest for them. And if metamask offers the easiest kind of Dex aggregator experience, that's what they're going to use. And kudos to them for rolling this out. And on another note here, I actually think this is the easiest way for them to roll out a token.
00:17:01.144 - 00:17:49.226, Speaker A: If metamask was to do a token, so they can't actually airdrop the token to people who use metamask because they don't know your address, that I don't, I'm pretty sure they don't keep that data, and they don't keep data of what kind of address belongs to metamask, what was created using metamask or whatever. Um, so they would have to do it based on this, right? Based on how many swaps you do through the app? That's the only way that I've found that they could do it. There's, there's no other way to track it and fair and fairly distribute the token. But on that note, I don't know if they're even doing a token. I mean, I suspect they will, because, you know, why not everyone's doing a token, right? Why not do a token? But in saying that they don't even need to when they're printing this much money each day from fees, which, you know, is basically, I guess, like free money. Like, there's not much upkeep here with, with metamask. Like they're developing new features and things like that.
00:17:49.226 - 00:18:15.094, Speaker A: But I mean, this is like just free money because they're not, they don't have to kind of work on the liquidity pools. They just tap into all the other liquidity pools on Ethereum and kind of like, process the volumes and get the fees from it. So, yeah, very, very smart there. But we'll see what happens with possible token. I'm not holding my breath. I kind of put out a prediction that I thought that there was, like, almost 100% chance that they would do one in the next year. And I kind of still think that.
00:18:15.094 - 00:18:39.250, Speaker A: But at the same time, like, I. Given that they're making so much money from the swaps, I just don't see a reason why they would, outside of, I guess, like, wanting to decentralize it with governance and maybe do some cool experiments and stuff. But we'll have to see what happens there, I think. So red phone crypto put out this really interesting tweet thread today, and I won't read out the whole thread. I'll link it in the YouTube. In the YouTube description. You can check it out yourself.
00:18:39.250 - 00:19:15.782, Speaker A: But basically, what the kind of gist of this thread is, is that he's trying to convince people, and it's very, it's a very convincing thread, that when you're looking at charts in crypto and looking at the price charts and thinking to yourself, wow, this growth is insane. Like, it's parabolic, blah blah blah. And it is. Right. But what he's saying in this thread is that even though it's kind of parabolic, what you're seeing are charts that shouldn't exist, because a lot of the time when kind of like, stocks begin trading, right? So think about like a stock. Like, let's just take Uber, for example. When Uber was raising money before their ipo, they raised in different rounds.
00:19:15.782 - 00:19:50.092, Speaker A: So this is normally how a kind of, like, startup gets funded. They'll have, like, it's optional, but they'll have like a pre seed round. Then they'll have a seed round, a series a, series b, series C, series D, series E. I think it can go for a while, but usually they get to, like, series D before their ipo, I think. And there could be different rounds in between them called bridge rounds as well. So usually that is rounds that only kind of private investors get kind of access to accredited investors in the US, people with lots of money funds, all that sort of stuff. Right? It's not typically us kind of retail investors get access to.
00:19:50.092 - 00:20:34.198, Speaker A: Now when the kind of company finally ipos, like what Uber did, the valuation is already really, really high. I think Uber's IPo opened at like $60 billion or something like that. But until that kind of, that $60 billion point, it's not like they weren't getting funding, they were raising all those rounds, right? But there was no price discovery. There was no public kind of price discovery where you see the, the kind of like price of Uber going up over the chart because it's not publicly traded, but it only becomes publicly traded when it ipo's. And then, as I said, it already opens at a really high market cap. Whereas if you look at something like Ethereum, for example, which did an ICO, I think it was like thirty cents per ETH at ICO, they raised like not that much money. It was like 10 million or something.
00:20:34.198 - 00:21:25.184, Speaker A: And then when it launched on market, the market cap was like 30, 40 million for ETH back in the day. Now that would be a market cap of a typical kind of seed seed stage company, seed maybe series a. If they just went and ipo'd right. Now, because of that, you have like this long price history for Ethereum over the last five or six years that you wouldn't have had normally. You can imagine that if Ethereum was like a traditional kind of company that basically raised all these rounds for five or six years, then ipod, Ethereum probably be worth $200 billion when it opened on the stock market, right? But because Ethereum has been publicly traded for its entire lifecycle, essentially, or one year after it raised money, actually, to be fair, you see this insane price growth. So, and this isn't just with Ethereum, this is with all assets. Because of the fact that these assets trade so early, they're obviously incredibly risky.
00:21:25.184 - 00:22:05.712, Speaker A: But the upside is there. Whereas for us normal folk, we don't usually get to get exposed to this upside. You know, VC's and funds typically make 1000 x on their successful exits, 100 to 1000 x on their successful exits from their investments once the IPO goes through because they invest so early. This is the same thing within crypto, right? If you had invested in ETH at ICO, you made thousands of like XS, right? And held till today. You made so much money from that. And not just that, right? Aave, for example, like I spoke, I speak about that a lot. Like most of the Defi tokens, even Wi Fi, for example, imagine if you bought Wi Fi at a $100 because it was trading there for a little bit and then you watched it go to $40,000, right? That's, that's an incredible gain.
00:22:05.712 - 00:22:59.664, Speaker A: That's like a, what, a 400 times gain or something in like a month, right? So I mean, normally it doesn't play out that fast, but generally the idea is that because we have these things that are tradable from day one, you can get in early on them and then the growth that you see on them isn't so crazy when you compare it to the traditional investing world where the growth just happens right through these fundraisers, where the valuation just keeps getting put up every time they raise funds. Whereas in crypto it happens live on the public markets, which is, which is quite cool, I think. So that was the gist of his thread here. I highly recommend going and reading it because it gives you like a tl doctor of everything. But yeah, I really like this thread. So a thread from Eric Connor today about the history of EIp 1559 that I thought was really cool. I'll of course, link this in the description, but for those who don't know, Eric is actually a co author of 1559 with Vitalik Buterin.
00:22:59.664 - 00:23:27.124, Speaker A: And he originally, it was his idea originally, I remember him talking to me about this. He was like, dude, like, the gas fees on Ethereum. The gas fee mechanism on ethereum sucks, right? The first price auction mechanism that we have. And you went searching for some kind of, I guess, like alternatives, and he came across Vitalik's blog post about 1559. It wasn't called 1559 back then. It was just like an alternative kind of proposal that he came up with. So Eric and Vitalik co authored the EiP.
00:23:27.124 - 00:23:57.990, Speaker A: And then, you know, it's kind of like the rest is history, right? We kind of know what's happened since then. But basically this thread was based, it was to say that the original intent of 1559 was to fix the fee market for users and improve the user experience. It wasn't to, you know, pump the price of ETH by burning fees. That's just like a nice benefit we get from 1559. So good to keep that in mind. And I'm glad kind of, Eric called it out here, which I thought was really cool. But yeah, go give this tweet thread a read if you want some history links to some blog posts as well.
00:23:57.990 - 00:24:35.654, Speaker A: It's good to kind of like, know your, your history, especially on something as important as EIP 1559. So some L2 news today. ZK sync has completed an upgrade, bringing their mainnet capacity to over 2000 transactions per second. And the cost of doing a transfer on zksync is one 100th of the l one cost. So you can see here that sending kind of dai here, I think is dollar 65, something like that. They must be paying like a pretty high fee, whereas kind of transferring dai on, sorry, on Zksync is $0.65. So it's much, much lower.
00:24:35.654 - 00:25:09.112, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, Zksync is currently integrated into gitcoin. So whenever you go on Gitcoin and during the grants rounds, you're doing kind of like donations to people. You can choose either Mainnet, ethereum or ZK sync. And Zksync will save you up to 90% in gas costs, which is, which is very, very, very welcoming and very incredible, actually. And on top of the kind of improvements here, the transactions per second, they've also significantly reduced deposit and withdrawal costs. And we saw loop ring do this the other day as well. So, yeah, just more L2 improvements coming.
00:25:09.112 - 00:25:40.250, Speaker A: This stuff's live, and now that it's live, people are just improving it and it's great. 2000 transactions per second, that's a massive kind of improvement over main net. As I said, main net, it's stuck at 15 transactions per second. So this is like a kind of like a massive gain here. I don't know what, I can't do my head math right now, but I think this is like a couple hundred kind of times gain on Mainnet. So really great to see this from Zksync. So Mariano put out this tweet that the DAI supply is nearing $2 billion, which is really, really awesome.
00:25:40.250 - 00:26:12.320, Speaker A: I think what the most awesome thing about this is that people kind of wrote maker off, right? People kind of wrote maker offers like a project. They wrote off the token, but Dai kept growing. Dai is, you know, a huge decentralized stablecoin now. It is the biggest decentralized, stable coin. And, you know, 2 billion Dai is nothing to scoff at. And this is all printing revenue for the maker protocol and for maker token holders where the MKR tokens kind of get burned from protocol fees. So yeah, huge milestone here, and congrats to maker on reaching it.
00:26:12.320 - 00:26:33.602, Speaker A: I think 2 billion is going to just be a footnote here. I think we're going to quickly keep. That's kind of scaling up from there. As I said, I expect stable coins across the board to hit trillions of dollars a market cap this cycle. And Dai is going to play a kind of like big part in that. But I do think decentralized stable coins like USDC and USDT are just easier to scale. So we'll see them grow first.
00:26:33.602 - 00:27:04.484, Speaker A: But yeah, stablecoin growth is just going to continue for sure. Speaking of growth, there is now 3 million ETH in the ETH two deposit contract, which represents about 2.7% of the total supply of ETH. So for those who don't know, the deposit contract is basically where you send your ETH if you want to stake. So 3 million ETH is going to be staking in ETH two. And that's, that's worth $5.5 billion at current prices at, you know, if it's $1800, which is a huge amount of security for ETH two right now.
00:27:04.484 - 00:27:32.606, Speaker A: And you know, this is, this is great because this is still just like the one way bridge, right? Most of this at least. You know, there are some services that let you tokenize your staking position. So. Yeah, really, really great to see that. I just wanted to call that out there. So Faye protocol announced that their genesis event is coming in March, and they also put out a blog post describing their token distribution. So for those who don't know, Faye Protocol is a new decentralized stablecoin using kind of an algorithmic approach.
00:27:32.606 - 00:28:16.690, Speaker A: Now, there's been other algorithmic stable coins like DSD and ESD and debased and kind of like some other ones out there that have tried, and I think at this point have failed to gain any sort of traction outside of speculative manias, because a lot of the mechanisms of these kind of things don't work yet. They're being worked on. Still, don't get me wrong, it's not like the project have failed, but in their current iteration, they need a lot of work. Now, fade protocol I've spoken about on the refill before, but they're coming at it from a different direction where they're not kind of using a coupon system, they're using a bonding curve. And I highly recommend going and reading the kind of blog post here and then reading about FaE protocol. It's a very interesting idea. I think it could work, but we never know what can and can't work unless, you know, this thing's live on Mainnet.
00:28:16.690 - 00:28:45.484, Speaker A: So really pumped to see them go live in March, which I think, you know, it's only a month away, right? So I think we're gonna see more and more of these stable coin experiments play out. And as I was just saying, stable coins are gonna grow to trillions of dollars and we're gonna see tons of experiments. Most of them are gonna fail, but the ones that succeed are gonna change everything. I think. I think algorithmic stable coins can actually work. We just don't know which parameters to set yet to get them to work. So I'm very, very excited to see this play out.
00:28:45.484 - 00:29:20.084, Speaker A: So quick shout out here to validator ETH on Twitter and this person here defy Dawson for building this app called claimable. So what this app does is you put in your Ethereum address and it'll tell you what airdrops that you can possibly claim. So it's obviously very, these are this tools obviously very, very good. If you have multiple addresses, right? You don't have to keep switching between them. You can quickly paste them in here and see which airdrops you have to claim. And it also lets you know about airdrops you didn't even know about, which I thought was was really cool as well. So I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go play around with this tool.
00:29:20.084 - 00:30:01.716, Speaker A: So the fellowship of Ethereum magicians have put out a blog post about their main takeaways and learnings from L2 on Ethereum sessions that they ran over the past few weeks. So kind of, kind of a short blog post here of five minutes, but basically it gives you kind of like a rundown of where I guess like the state of L2, kind of the L2 ecosystem on Ethereum today. So I highly recommend going and giving this a read. It was very interesting. There's a few interesting nuggets actually towards the bottom here with the main takeaways where you know, the kind of problem domains and challenges obviously being costly transactions for users which aren't sustainable. The concerns about l two. So obviously loss of composability is a big concern here.
00:30:01.716 - 00:30:28.210, Speaker A: But I've said how we're going to kind of rectify that with bridges. And then there's kind of like other key highlights here about kind of polkadot and cosmos preparing us for multi chain. And as I've mentioned before, Polygon is bringing multichain to Ethereum. So yeah, I mean, this is a great blog post. Definitely go give it a read if you haven't yet. So last up on the list here is boring. Crypto announced today that the Bento box contract for sushiswap is live.
00:30:28.210 - 00:30:53.352, Speaker A: For those who don't know, Bento Box is a new lending market, part of the sushi family. So it's now live on kind of like the Ethereum mainnet and a bunch of other networks, the Testnet networks and an arbitram. Arbitrum. A L2 testnet as well. So that's really cool. There's a L2 implementation already live, but there's no ui yet that's coming soon, as boring crypto says here. So yeah, really cool to see this, this kind of go live because this has been much hyped within the sushi community.
00:30:53.352 - 00:31:08.874, Speaker A: So yeah, kudos to them for getting this out there. Alright, that's it for today's episode everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. If you haven't done so, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the YouTube channel, join the Discord server, subscribe to the Dailygui newsletter and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
