00:00:00.810 - 00:00:59.790, Speaker A: Hi, my name is Johannes and I'm the co founder of Nftport. Welcome to East Online. We hope that you're going to have an excellent hackathon and NFT port is the stripe for NFTs, a one stop and simple NFT infrastructure and APIs for developers. So our goal is to help you bring your NFT application to market in hours instead of months. And we believe this is super helpful, especially during hackathons where time is of necessity. So during today's video, I'm going to show you what's possible to be built with NFT port and get you up and running super quickly. Just for context, some of teams that are using US range from small startups all the way up to leading Ethereum applications such as Poop.
00:00:59.790 - 00:02:07.830, Speaker A: And NFT. Port is built by TeamFX NATO, Monies and Nvidia, backed by the co founders such as Polygon, Wise and Skype. So why NFT port is necessary, or the reason why it exists is because developing NFT application used to be really hard or slow basically because the whole blockchain stack is complex. Learning, grasping everything, especially all the technical nonsense, is difficult. Then everything related to do with infrastructure is by the nature is difficult. So our sort of goal is to really abstract away the complexity and enable developers. So that's our mission is to really empower developers so they can make the internet ownable by end users and citizens.
00:02:07.830 - 00:03:10.490, Speaker A: We have three sort of core products which help you in your development. One is multi chain data. So basically that includes metadata, files, contracts, et cetera. So if you have to pull any kind of NFT data into your application, then you can do it super simply with simple rest APIs which I'm going to demo to you as well. Then secondly, easy Minting, so you can programmatically Mint super easy using our APIs. Most simplest API is you just have to make one API goal and you can turn basically anything into an NFT. And then we also have enhanced APIs which allow you to do very cool things such as basically doing rural image searches, finding duplicate NFTs, et cetera, et cetera.
00:03:10.490 - 00:04:35.054, Speaker A: And if you get stuck anywhere or you have any questions, thoughts, ideas you want to share, then we have a public NFT developer community as well in Discord, which you can join anytime. So just a few examples. So let's say you want to pull in all the NFTs and you can do it super simply, either from Ethereum, Polygon so you can just basically get all the NFTs that are on Ethereum's chain. Now, let's say you want to do a little bit more, something specific and you want to get, let's see, all punks data. So I'll make punk's contract and I'm going to get all NFTs for this contract. So I just put in the address request and then basically I will start getting where the API returns all the NFDS to their part of this contract. And now, as the next step.
00:04:35.054 - 00:05:40.662, Speaker A: Let's say you want to drill even more down, you want to get specific metadata about these NFDS. Then this is the bunk number one and you will have all the metadata about this punk attributes image URL, where is it stored and a lot of NFTs are hosted on IPFS. But downside is it can be really slow times and end users don't want to wait for IPFS to load. Then we also have cached image URL as well. So you can basically use that URL in case you are building fast end user applications and you want to display NFDS to your users as well. We offer or you can actually get NFDS owned by account. So any wallet account address you can see for all the NFDS that this account owns.
00:05:40.662 - 00:06:50.222, Speaker A: So, let's say one example account I have here and the API returns all of the NFDS that this wallet owns. Again, super useful in different applications. Normally previously you had to do a lot of engineering to get this kind of functionality. Then the second part as a few examples, what have you built already with these multi chain data endpoints. So one is so which is basically Google for NFTs. So let's say you have a cool vitalik image and you want to find, let's say we have maybe some image format and you want to find basically similar images, just similar NFDS just like Google Earth's image would does work. Basically that's what we get.
00:06:50.222 - 00:07:48.954, Speaker A: As you can see, we have vitalik and other similar profile pictures as well. And there's again quite a large design space. All the products that can be built using these simple MultiChain data APIs. Then second big part is what we initially saw a pain that we ourselves had was the Minting is super hard. Like obviously for people who know how to write solidity, then it can be easy, but it still takes a lot of time. So that's why we abstracted away a lot of the complexity. And one endpoint easy Minting is basically so simple that you can just run one command, sorry, one API call to mint an NFT.
00:07:48.954 - 00:09:58.426, Speaker A: So let's test it out, let's take see if you can get that image here and let's say we want to do an NFT, then what we can do and we'll mint them currently on polygon, but Ethereum is also available. So big land online it and I'll Mint to address there we have it and we'll also show them check it later on the polygon scan as well. Also obviously it opens it, et cetera, et cetera. You can use any or sort of the most popular languages as well. So let's say you want to do it in Python, then we show the exact code snippets to do it in all of the basically most popular programming languages. Now, if you want to customize your Minting, meaning let's say you want to create your own collection in Openc, then what you can do is deploy an NFT contract first, your own contract. Again, let's do it in polygon because it's free.
00:09:58.426 - 00:11:11.750, Speaker A: So we provide up to 1000 NFD Mints for free on polygon. And if you need to Mint more than that, then just reach out to us on discord and we can happily increase those limits. But we just set those limits so somebody actually doesn't DDoS us at the moment. So I'll my contract API. All right, something went haywire here. Anyhow I have to do some debugging, but it usually works. And when you have your contract deployed, then as the next step, what you can do is use storage.
00:11:11.750 - 00:13:20.000, Speaker A: You can upload a file to IPFS. So let's say copy paste it here I have this NFT port logo here, super simple cutback hyperfes URL. Now what we can do is upload metadata to IPFS and here I would basically pasting the file URL. So this logo that I just uploaded file Uri, and here I will put then of the name description actually do that as well. And I can set let's put NFD logo and if you want to set any attributes for the NFT, then you can do that here as well. And we get back the IPFS Uri and that we could as the final step we reduce that. Basically in the customizable Minting and in the customer Minting, the contract address would be the contract that we deployed, but it unfortunately didn't work at the moment.
00:13:20.000 - 00:14:35.670, Speaker A: The metadata Uri would be the one that we just got back from the upload metadata IPS and Mint to address the address that you want to mint it and you would shoot it away. Some of the applications that are built with those kind of easy Minting APIs there's all the way up to NFD camera app. This is built for example, only by one person during a weekend. So that's super impressive considering the timeframe. And you can take any photo and turn it into an and it's built on NFT port. There's a lot of other teams all the way from building basically spotify for NFTs, doing ticket events for NFDS, turning books into NFTs, turning Km assets into NFDS, you name it. Basically a lot of different teams building on top of NFT port using this kind of super simple capability meeting wise.
00:14:35.670 - 00:16:45.630, Speaker A: Then I'm going to show you there's also some user endpoints where you can basically get all the contracts and NFDS that you as a user have here deployed or Minted. Then we have search basically, meaning you can search across NFTs by text and you get back the NAV results were either in the NFD title or description. Is this string so vitalik? Then we have Recommendations AI, which is basically something that you just saw in Google for NFTs. So this uses Recommendations AI and we also have copy detection AI. Meaning we could use this endpoint to basically, let's say if there is somebody takes punks cryptobunks and tries to basically mimic them or sort of tries to fraud users. Then you could basically find duplicate NFDS using the CenterPoint and it uses AI to do that kind of visual matching. So here's the sort of quick rundown of NFT port and as I said previously as well, if you have any questions, thoughts, need any kind of support, then we are more than happy to help during the hackathon.
00:16:45.630 - 00:17:00.110, Speaker A: That's why we are here to give you wings. So it's the best time to build NFT based applications and to bring your ideas to life. And with that we'd like to thank you and have a happy hackathon.
