00:00:00.170 - 00:00:50.902, Speaker A: Sam Bankman Fried's criminal trial is officially underway. The 31 year old former FTX CEO is accused of committing wire fraud and conspiracy to commit other types of fraud. He has pleaded not guilty and may face a lengthy jail sentence. The Whirlwind first week saw jury selections evocative opening statements from the defense and prosecution, and powerful witness testimonies that offered contrasting pictures of Sam Bankman Freed and why his powerful crypto empire came crashing down. Here are the key things that have happened in the trial so far. The moppy haired SPF, as he's also called, showed up in court noticeably more kempt, sporting shorter hair and a suit. Judge Lewis Kaplan, who has overseen a number of high profile cases, selected twelve jurors, including a physician's assistant, a librarian, a nurse and a retired investment banker.
00:00:50.902 - 00:01:44.490, Speaker A: During the selection process, potential jurors were asked about their knowledge of FTX and cryptocurrency. One potential juror said, quote, I still don't understand how it works. To which Judge Kaplan responded, you probably have a lot of company in this court. Prosecutor thane wren and defense lawyer Mark Cohen delivered opening statements painting different pictures of Sam bankman fried for the jury, Ren said Bankman Freed deliberately lied his way towards wealth, power and influence fueled by billions of dollars in customer funds. Cohen rejected that depiction, saying it portrayed SBF as a cartoon of a villain. In his words, SBF was a math nerd who didn't drink or party, and that FTX collapsed due to a perfect storm of misfortune that rocked the wider crypto industry. Quote It's not a crime to be the CEO of a company that later files for bankruptcy.
00:01:44.490 - 00:02:48.478, Speaker A: It's not a crime to run a business in good faith that winds up going through a storm. The first witness, Mark Antoine Juilliard, was a cocoa bean trader who said he lost over $100,000 with FTX. In his testimony, he said that he, like many others, believed that there were strong financials behind the company. The second witness, Adam Yadidya, was a software developer at FTX and said he once lived with SBF in a $35 million apartment in the Bahamas. According to his testimony, Yadidya became aware of a bug in FTX's code base that overstated how much money sister company Alameda Research owed FTX. He shared his concerns about the large debt owed by Alameda to FTX with SBF saying, quote, are things okay? To which Sam is alleged to have responded, quote we were bulletproof last year, but we're not bulletproof this year. In his testimony, Yadidia bluntly said, quote, FTX defrauded all of its customers, which left the courtroom silent.
00:02:48.478 - 00:03:51.538, Speaker A: Matt Huang, co founder of crypto investment firm Paradigm, testified that the VC firm expressed concern about the lack of traditional corporate governance structures at FTX, pointing at Sam as the kingpin. Gary Wong, the co founder of Alameda Research and FTX, began his testimony by declaring that he had pleaded guilty to committing crimes including wire fraud, securities fraud, and commodities fraud. He added that he conspired with Bankman Fried, former FTX Director of Engineering Nishad Singh and Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison. He said that SBF directed him to place code inside of FTX's software. Quote we gave special privileges to Alameda Research on FTX, which allowed it to withdraw unlimited amounts of funds from the platform, and we lied about this to the public. He also said that Alameda had a credit line of $65 billion, far higher than larger market makers. Most Damningly Wong said that funds Alameda was withdrawing came from customer deposits.
00:03:51.538 - 00:04:09.300, Speaker A: The next witness to testify will be Caroline Ellison. Whether Sam Bankmanfried testifies a decision that he alone can make remains unclear. The trial is expected to last about six weeks. Keep an eye on unchained coverage of the trial. We will be sharing updates on all of our platforms. Thanks for watching.
