00:00:00.160 - 00:00:21.054, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Allegory refuel, where we got the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 24 April 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode everyone. I did mention at the beginning of the week that I wanted to try and not miss any episodes this week, but alas, I ended up missing one there. Hopefully I won't miss any more for the rest of the week.
00:00:21.054 - 00:00:46.934, Speaker A: Now, obviously this is the last week before I take my breaks on the refill there, and I just wanted to quickly say thank you again to everyone who's reached out about me taking a break and offering me words of encouragement. It really does make taking the break easier. It makes it like an easier decision that that happened there. But thank you for that. But I'm not going to gush about that. I'm not going to go on about that. What I wanted to also mention before I jump into the news was that because I'm going to be away, obviously for two weeks, maybe more, I don't know yet.
00:00:46.934 - 00:01:18.350, Speaker A: I did mention the other day that it may be more. It just depends how I feel. There are other places to get your news, your Ethereum related news, if you are feeling starved because there's no refuel. Obviously there are the popular and well known ones like Bankless, and there's a few other kind of podcasts out there as well. There's infinite jungle from Christine Kim. You can watch the all core devs calls, which aren't really like podcasts, but you can watch them to get your news about core dev stuff. But then there's also rocket fuel from whack whack attack here, who's part of the rocket pool community, and he's been doing the Rocket fuel series for a very long time now.
00:01:18.350 - 00:01:54.940, Speaker A: He's up to, I believe, episode 384, and he covers news from the Rockerpool ecosystem mainly, but also a lot of ethereum related news. So if you are starved for, you know, mostly daily content, let's call it that, on Ethereum, then you can go watch our wax attack. Wack wack attacks our channel. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And he also does a podcast, you know, called the Weekly Orbit, which I think is maybe mostly about rocket pool, more so than maybe rocket fuel is, but it's another weekly show that he does with his co host that's that you can watch as well. So that's called the weekly orbit. I don't have it up here, but I'll link this channel in the YouTube description for you to go check out.
00:01:54.940 - 00:02:09.036, Speaker A: So hopefully that can tide you over until I'm back there. But anyway, enough about that. Let's jump into the news. So actually, before we jump into the news, just a quick shout out. You guys know I'm going to eat global Sydney next week and I'll be there. I'll be at a bunch of the side events. Hope to see many of you there.
00:02:09.036 - 00:02:40.428, Speaker A: But if you are going to be in Australia or in Sydney generally, or live here or live in Sydney and you haven't applied to attend yet, and you haven't, haven't kind of made a decision to attend yet, I highly recommend you do. This is the first time there has been an ETH global in Australia. In Australia we barely get Ethereum conferences, so I think that we should be supporting this one as much as we can. So if you are in Sydney or anywhere else in Australia, and you can make it into Sydney for ETH Global, go check out the event link. I'll link it in subscription. Below are for you to do so. All right, so we have some fresh ETH ETF news today.
00:02:40.428 - 00:03:22.978, Speaker A: And look, I'm not going to say this is news to get too excited about, but it is something. It's news, it's movement. It's not just like pure speculation here. There is actual movement happening. So first of all, Eleanor Tourette here actually tweeted out that we're one month out as of today, wise of yesterday, I guess technically, from the SEC's deadline to either approve or deny the ethnic spot ETF's. And today the SEC delayed making decisions on applications from Franklin, Templeton and Greyscale, which is obviously totally expected here. And then Eleanor continued, as has been widely reported, the consensus is that because there has been little to no meaningful engagement from SEC staff on the issuers applications that they will ultimately deny on May 23.
00:03:22.978 - 00:03:55.842, Speaker A: Now this was posted at I believe my time, 04:46 a.m. Australian time. But then we had another tweet that was posted only a couple hours later at 06:34 a.m. By James Seifert here, one of the Bloomberg guys covering the ETF stuff, where there was a lot of movement happening in the ETH ETF space. So he says here in his tweet, a bunch of movement on ETH ETF's from multiple issuers. And the SEC Greyscale just filed their s three prospectus for converting ETH E. So that's their current trust that they want to convert into an ETF, or they close ended trust that you guys, you know, know about.
00:03:55.842 - 00:04:35.754, Speaker A: There was GBTC that got converted into their proper ETF, and they want to do the same thing with ETH. There was the delay on Greyscale and Franklin, as I just mentioned, and Blackrock also filed an amendment to their 19 before ETH ETF application as. And there was also, I believe, that grayscale filed for an Ethereum mini trust, which is similar to their bitcoin mini trust. So another ETF there. Now, James, of course, said that him and Eric Bultiunas, I believe that's how you say, surname there. Their odds of approval are still at 25% for the approval on May 23 here, which is obviously no change to what their odds has been. Now, the reason I bring all this up, or the main reason I bring all this up is because this.
00:04:35.754 - 00:05:15.702, Speaker A: We're basically like, we're not at the finish line yet. We're a month out, but we're like, we're so close to the finish line now. And obviously everyone has already come to the conclusion that these things aren't getting approved on May 23, so on and so forth. We've been over that a million times before, but it's gotten to the point now where there is a relatively strong case to be made that there is actually back and forth happening between the SEC and the issuers. It's just happening in the background. Because from my understanding, the only things that need to be public is when stuff like this happens, when amendments happen, when, you know, the actual public facing documentation gets changed in some way or a new one gets filed. That, from my understanding, is the only thing that really needs to be public here.
00:05:15.702 - 00:05:40.280, Speaker A: Whereas the conversations between the SEC and the issuers, they don't have to be public by law. I believe. I believe they can be totally private. But the reason why we heard so much with the BTC ETF's, well, I think there's two main reasons. One was that there was a lot of back and forth over the documentation because of the fact that it was the first of its kind. ETF was the first crypto asset ETF. So it was to be expected that there was a lot of back and forth, a lot of amendments that need to be made, and that's what everyone was following leading up to the.
00:05:40.280 - 00:06:07.258, Speaker A: To the spot ETF. Yup. Also, there were a lot of leaks that came out, too. And I put leaks in, you know, in quotes because I guess, like, they're not really leaks, they're kind of strategic information outflows, if you will, from either the SEC or the issuers here. And then also we saw how there was that kind of the stuff that was like extra to that, like the coin telegraph intern. And then obviously the SEC get a Twitter account getting hacked on January 9. So there was all that going on there.
00:06:07.258 - 00:06:34.082, Speaker A: But with the ETH ETF, as I've explained before, it's a copy paste of the BTC one. So there could be some little bits of back and forth going on between the SEC and the issuers, but they're just keeping a lid on things because the SEC, you know, maybe they don't want to repeat what happened with the BTC spot ETF, which, you know, became a whole circus, right. And they ended up getting their Twitter account hacked. It was embarrassing for them. So maybe they don't want to repeat, repeat that there. And secondly, there's just probably not much for them to go back and forth on. As I've said before, it's a copy paste ETF.
00:06:34.082 - 00:07:05.886, Speaker A: The only difference really that is a, you know, two second change. If they wanted to. If the SSE wanted to change it, is that some of these ETF's have a staking portion or a staking part as part of it. Now all the SSE would have to do is say, hey, remove the staking part of it. Now, I would say that if we see these documentation, these documents amended with the staking removed, that to me would be a pretty strong signal that the SEC asked them to remove this or ask the issuers to remove this. I don't think the issuers are going to remove this on their own. I think it's going to be up to the SSE to directly ask them.
00:07:05.886 - 00:07:27.936, Speaker A: Because as you guys know, my opinion is that the ETH ETF's are not going to get approved as staking ETF's. It's just going to be a normal spot ETF first, which is totally fine. They'll be staking ETF's later. So that's kind of where we're at right now. We're still on the could go either way kind of side of things here. I'm still on the, I think it's getting approved May 23, but you guys know, I'm basically dying on that hill. But I am trying to give, like, all sides of the cases.
00:07:27.936 - 00:08:05.616, Speaker A: Yeah, it's, you know, my opinion on this is actually irrelevant in the grand scheme of things because all I'm trying to do, and all I've been trying to do for months with this is give you guys all of the relevant information so that you can come to your own conclusions about this. There's, you know, there's no need to listen to my opinion on this and only need to listen to my, my take on this and no need to listen to me saying to you guys that I think it's being approved. I am just going off the same information that we all have access to. I don't have any insider information at all. Like, I mean, and if I did, I definitely wouldn't be, wouldn't want to have it. I would basically be trying to not have it because I think that's just like crazy that people could have that, that information there. All I'm looking at is just the public facing facts.
00:08:05.616 - 00:08:31.360, Speaker A: Yeah, I have no insider information. I may have no connections in this world anyway. Like, I am so far removed from the tradfi world, it's not even funny. But what I do have is all the same information that everyone else has access to. And what I do have is my way, my unique way of looking at it and my speculative, my speculation on these two. And I've always made clear what I believe is speculative versus what I believe is fact. And really, there's very little fact here to go off other than that there is.
00:08:31.360 - 00:08:49.840, Speaker A: ETF's in the pipeline. You know, Blackrock has a really great track record. The SEC hates crypto. Right. So there, there are certain facts that we can have. 100% certainty, is the, you know, is the facts. But then there is a lot of speculation around those facts, which what we've all been doing for months now, but we know we're a month out and we could get clarity even sooner than that.
00:08:49.840 - 00:09:28.098, Speaker A: As I said, I would personally, not that I would consider this a fact, so to speak, but I would personally find it very interesting. Let's put it, let's use that word. If the issuers were to remove the staking portion of, of their kind of applications here, because I don't think they're going to do that on their own. And that, to me, would send a pretty strong signal to the market that, hey, if the SSE is asking them to remove this portion, that means that there is back and forth going on between the SEC and the issuers. And that means that, you know, it's more likely that they're going to get approved on May 23 than not here. But that's the latest information we have right now. Just a few amendments here, a prospectus filed.
00:09:28.098 - 00:09:59.278, Speaker A: It means the issuers aren't giving up on these ETF's either. They obviously want them really, really badly. Whether they happen on May 23 or not, that's anyone's guess at this point still, obviously. But we know that they're coming eventually. We know that ETH is going to get a spot ETF eventually, whether they, the SEC has to be, you know, dragged kicking and screaming to approve it, or whether they just approve it on May 23 and just put an end to the circus, that would be the best path forward, obviously, in my opinion. But the ACC has different plans here. Who knows what they want to do? Who knows how they want to play this game? They don't seem to care at all if they get sued.
00:09:59.278 - 00:10:43.372, Speaker A: They don't seem to care at all if they look bad in court, which is just insane to me, to be honest, considering that they should, they should be concerned about that. But at the end of the day, they're not for a variety of reasons, and Gary Gensler isn't for a variety of reasons. And it seems like an institutional rot at the SEC that is pervasive and is something that does seem to be changing anytime soon. And which brings me to my next point of discussion, which is related to this. So you guys will remember a few weeks ago, I talked about this debt box case that the SEC lost, where the judge basically told the SEC that it was abusing its power and they basically broke the law in the case by what they were trying to do here. Now we have an update on this. So, basically, two lawyers at the SEC resigned after due to this case here.
00:10:43.372 - 00:11:08.832, Speaker A: Now, you may be looking at this and being like, oh, wow, suddenly, you know, some justice in the world. Suddenly some kind of, you know, consequences for the SEC here. No, no, no. This is no consequences for the SEC. These two lawyers were not high higher up in the SEC. They were not highly ranked in the SEC. I believe one was a junior lawyer, one was more senior, but they hadn't been at the SEC very long, and they definitely, definitely were not calling any shots when it came to this case or anything got to do with the SEC.
00:11:08.832 - 00:11:38.396, Speaker A: So, of course, we make the conclusion that they're just a sacrificial lambs that Gary Gensler put up. They thought to themselves, well, they being the SEC, and more specifically, Gary Gensler thought to himself, well, someone's head needs to roll for this. You know, this was a really big loss for the SEC. It's an embarrassment for the SEC. We need to show the public that some heads are rolling and that, you know, we'll, we'll do better in the future or something like that. So that's what they did. They basically, I believe there was a quote in this Bloomberg, Bloomberg article that basically said that the SEC lawyers did not resign.
00:11:38.396 - 00:12:04.404, Speaker A: They would get fired. So you see what I mean by institutional right here? This is not just Gary Gensler. This is the SEC under Gary Gensler, where it has been set. You know, this rot starts at the top and it has been set in, and then Congress has allowed it to allow it to continue as well because the Democrats are doing nothing to curtail this. The SEC is their thing right now. Right, Gary? Gangs, though, is their appointee, but they have zero interest in doing anything about the SEC abusing its power. They're more interested in banning tick tock.
00:12:04.404 - 00:12:22.304, Speaker A: Right. Like, it's just the priorities are not there at all right now. And this is getting into political stuff here, but obviously, this is very, very political here and very politically charged. But that's. That's kind of the consequences that we saw here. Two lawyers that really had no power at the SEC, no sway over anything. It was definitely not their decision to do these things.
00:12:22.304 - 00:12:58.906, Speaker A: They were asked to step down or else they'd be fired. I mean, come on. Like, I wish that happened to Gary Gensler because it's really him that's kind of started this rot and it's kind of perpetuated down not just for crypto, but just like the SEC generally here. But, yeah, anyway, enough of me ranting about the SEC and everything and all in and everything in between there. But, yeah, as I was saying before, a month out, guys from the ETH ETF, you know, it's funny, I was joking in the daily gray discord before that. Maybe I'll just take a break until May 23 from crypto and then come back and either the ETH ETF is denied or approved, but maybe that'll be the day that I come back. Who knows? We'll see how I feel.
00:12:58.906 - 00:13:15.526, Speaker A: Uh, because honestly, over the next month is, unless we see something that, like, changes the odds in any direction substantially, uh, it's just gonna be more of the same. More of the same circus, more of the same speculation. Uh, and I'm super tired of it. Like, I don't. I. Obviously, you guys know, I'm generally tired right now. I need a break.
00:13:15.526 - 00:13:40.230, Speaker A: But the ETF stuff is really kind of just. But, you know, blow my brain because it's a lot of stuff that I had to learn that I wasn't aware of before. It's not crypto related, really. It's more got to do with how, you know, the SEC acts and how the tradfi world acts and how there's all these politics involved. I'd be a terrible politician, guys, I cannot like this stuff just rots away at my, my brain thinking about this a lot. And I really don't like thinking about it. But obviously it's very relevant.
00:13:40.230 - 00:14:07.022, Speaker A: It's very relevant to ETH as an asset. It's very relevant to ETH monthly, ether as a market, right? Its market price. So I figure it's worth keeping up to date with it so that I can disseminate this information out to you guys and make sure that you guys are as informed as possible on all of this stuff happening here. But anyway, enough on the ETF stuff. Let's move on to a couple of direct Ethereum tech related news. So the first up here is that the Q 220 24 roadmap from ethereum.org was published today.
00:14:07.022 - 00:14:20.678, Speaker A: Now, as you guys know, ethereum.org is the premier place to get all of your Ethereum information. It's amazing. It's great. It looks great. You guys know I've talked about this website a lot in the past. It's really the place you should start if you want to learn about Ethereum.
00:14:20.678 - 00:14:55.050, Speaker A: Really, which is, which is great. It's a huge repository of information there now with this Q 220 24 product roadmap, you can go here, I'll link in the YouTube description below and you can see what they've got planned. So they've got a L2 revamp planned, they've got a bunch of more documentation coming, AI, chatbot explorations, machine and AI translations and so on and so forth. There is a lot in here. As I said, I'll link in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. But I'm really excited about this, this L2 revamp here because they say here blobs are here and L2 activity is surging. The focus of ethereum.org
00:14:55.050 - 00:15:24.642, Speaker A: has always been Ethereum mainnet such aka l one. But these rapid scaling infrastructure improvements make it clear that ethereum.org should grow into a more comprehensive resource for the ethereum ecosystem. We're in the early stages of planning this transition and welcome your thoughts, and you can join the discussion on discord here. So I'm glad that they're prioritizing this because that is definitely a section of ethereum.org that is both pretty sparse, but also comes under heavy criticism because I don't know if it's still like this. Maybe if I, if I kind of go into it here.
00:15:24.642 - 00:16:10.512, Speaker A: But there is on their L2 page, I believe that they called a few things L2s that they shouldn't have called L2s. And there was like drama around that. Um, and, and, and so on and so forth. So I think that they're trying to revamp it and they want to be up to date with the latest and greatest when it comes to defining what a L2 is, defining what a roll up is. And maybe they can take inspiration from l two b because I think l two b does it the best right now. But yeah, it's, it's great to see that they're going to be revamping this because, yeah, there definitely needs to be more information on here and a, you know, more comprehensive overview of the L2 ecosystem on here, given that it is so important for Ethereum going forward. All right, so we have a new post here from Barnaby today on everything got to do with epbs, slot auctions, execution tickets, a tester proposal separation, pre confirmations and even Pep C.
00:16:10.512 - 00:16:59.330, Speaker A: And he's proposed an alternative mechanism called AP's dash burn, which is an alternative to execution tickets in order to achieve a tester proposer separation. So this is quite a lengthy post, guys, and it does get quite technical. It talks all about the pipeline of how an ethereum kind of block gets made, how, how kind of validators are test of those blocks, what we can do to make sure that we can be as sensory persistent as possible, what we can do to make sure that we basically enshrined the existing relay infrastructure into Ethereum with epbs and so on and so forth. So basically, if you are interested in any of this stuff, this is a blog post for you to go read. It is probably the latest and greatest research when it comes to any of this stuff. Barnaby is one of the people that follows this more closely, you know, one of the, one of the people that follows it most closely here. And there's a bunch of diagrams as well.
00:16:59.330 - 00:17:18.930, Speaker A: Just explain things. I wouldn't say it's too technical to the point where there's like math everywhere and scientific notation or anything like that. It's just that it assumes a lot of prior knowledge. Let's just say that. And to be fair, I've talked about a lot of this on the refill before, so a lot of these things will be familiar to you if you read this blog post. But go give it a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:17:18.930 - 00:17:56.148, Speaker A: So here but in terms of timing around this, you know, none of this stuff seems to be going forward for Petra. It still could, like, I think what one of the things, which is epbs, that's the thing that's being pushed hard on right now. And that's the thing a lot of, I guess like core researchers and developers and even community members want to see included in Petra. But I don't know if it will get included by then. But I say that it will get probably included in the upgrades after that, you know, sometime next year. But there's just so many moving parts right now, guys like this stuff is distinctly separate to like the verge for example, which is another major roadmap item that wants to get delivered next year. And then there's so many other things as well.
00:17:56.148 - 00:18:31.622, Speaker A: But I think a big part of the roadmap is definitely centered around, you know, mev hardening the Ethereum consensus protocol and basically making it, and hardening censorship resistance as well, which all fall into this bucket here. So I think that this stuff is going to definitely be prioritized. I'm just not sure on timing of when it's going to get into the network. But anyway, you can go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, finally here we have something that was posted by Josh Davis. So the Ethereum protocol fellowship had a very successful fourth cohort, and a new cohort is on the horizon.
00:18:31.622 - 00:18:54.640, Speaker A: But you can read the recap all about the fourth cohort here. So for those of you who don't know, the Ethereum protocol fellowship is basically an initiative that the Ethereum foundation runs to recruit new core developers and researchers here. So this, as I said, is their fourth cohort. They have a fifth one up and coming now, but this was the biggest one yet. And you can actually go read this blog post and see which projects people worked on with. And there's a lot here. I mean, Jesus, there's a lot.
00:18:54.640 - 00:19:37.230, Speaker A: There's like 30 or something projects here, 35 projects here, which is absolutely massive. And then there's also information about the next cohort. But I want to use, use this as a bit of a springboard to talk about something that annoyed me a little bit the other day. So I got into a little bit of a, I wouldn't say heated discussion, but like a little bit of a Twitter back and forth about Ethereum core development and research generally. And I got a bit annoyed because people were making out as if Ethereum l one is not evolving and Ethereum l one is stagnating too much, and Ethereum l one has lost its drive and its spark and its kind of fire to evolve. And the reason why that annoyed me is because of the fact that that is completely wrong. Like, you guys know, I focus pretty heavily on all of the core dev related stuff happening.
00:19:37.230 - 00:20:12.990, Speaker A: You guys have all seen a Vitaliks roadmap, you guys have seen all of the research going on, and there's just too much to keep up with. So to say that Ethereum layer one, or Ethereum core development is stagnating or slowing down in any capacity is absolutely ridiculous to me. I think it's in the best place it's ever been. I think that there is so much going on and at every base, at every kind of like part of the stack, so to speak, so much going on that it's impossible for one person to keep up with. I know I can't keep up with it all, so I got really annoyed about that. And this is just one example of this. With the Ethereum protocol fellowship, 35 projects all focused on various different core protocol stuff here.
00:20:12.990 - 00:20:43.496, Speaker A: From things like building a node crawler, to dealing with building prisms, epbs support, to doing improvements to metrics, you know, post vertical state expiry, so on and so forth. This stuff is not easy to crock. Guys like this is hardcore bleeding edge core development and research here. And this is just one part of it. There are hundreds of core developers and researchers and then hundreds more people who read and digest all the information. They get involved in their own capacity, maybe as a, you know, as a. As a kind of hobby capacity, more, more than.
00:20:43.496 - 00:21:10.356, Speaker A: More so than a full time capacity. You have all of the teams and all of the efforts that surround the core development and research that feed up into it. So there's just so much going on that I found it bizarre that someone would insinuate, or people would insinuate that Ethereum l one is stagnating in any way. It definitely is not. It's definitely evolving faster than it ever has here. And then that's not even to mention all the l two s which are evolving and. And kind of like developing faster than the l one.
00:21:10.356 - 00:22:04.162, Speaker A: And that's part of the whole roadmap of Ethereum. That that is the roll up centric roadmap. It's not just about scalability, but it's also about being able to move faster, being able to experiment more, and being able to provide a, you know, a more kind of like, how do I put it here a more, more blossoming and kind of like fast moving ecosystem than what we're used to on Ethereum l one, but that does not at all mean that l one is stagnating, as you guys know. I know I'm preaching to the choir here because I cover ETH l one stuff all the time. But that, yeah, that comment really did kind of annoy me, and it was, it was, it was part of the thread where someone said that, you know, there's no young people in Ethereum. All of the, the Ethereum media people are over the age of 35, and, uh, you know, we need more young people in Ethereum, which also is completely wrong, because, for one, I'm not 35, I'm 32, and I'm an Ethereum media person. Uh, two, I work so bloody hard in this ecosystem that I now have to take a break because I've burned myself out.
00:22:04.162 - 00:22:58.254, Speaker A: And three, I'm not the only one who does this. You know, the bankless guys are grinding all the time, and, you know, I don't even think it's relevant to mention anyone's age, because I think you're just being really kind of discriminatory to people by mentioning their age. You know, I'm of the firm belief that really, your age, it doesn't dictate what you kind of are as a person when it comes to your mind. I think that I've met, I mean, I don't think this. I know I've met multiple older folks, like over 50 years old, over 60 years old, that have sharper minds and are more curious and more involved with the crypto ecosystem than people in their twenties. Like, age is not anything relevant here in my eyes. I feel like it's up to the individual if the individual is a curious mind, if they want to get involved with stuff, if they want to be on the bleeding edge of stuff, if they're always willing to learn new things and they don't want to stagnate in their own personal growth, then they are the, you know, they are the people that we should be focusing on.
00:22:58.254 - 00:23:14.080, Speaker A: Whether they're, you know, 80 years old or whether they're 20 years old, it doesn't matter to me. As long as you have a curious mind, that's what matters. And, you know, I have personal experience with this as well. Like, outside of crypto. My grandfather is 92 years old. Right, 92 years old. His mind is so sharp still, and he's still keeping up with things.
00:23:14.080 - 00:23:30.648, Speaker A: He, you know, he's still keeping up with news and developments he's still reading books. He's still trying to keep his mind really, really sharp. And, you know, he's very, like, 92 guys. That's. That's crazy. He doesn't have, you know, dementia or Alzheimer's or anything like that. Obviously, at, you know, when you have those diseases, it's different.
00:23:30.648 - 00:23:55.360, Speaker A: But, like, like, that's a, I think, a different discussion to what I'm trying to get through here, whereas that it just matters on the individual. It just really matters about if you're a curious mind. And that's what I've always thought when it comes to these sorts of stuff. So I got kind of annoyed about that. And I think for all the other people out there who are, you know, my age or older, don't let that define you at all. I certainly don't let it define me when it comes to my mind. Body's a different thing, you know, obviously, as you get older, your body's not gonna.
00:23:55.360 - 00:24:21.470, Speaker A: Yeah. You're not gonna respond to you as it used to. I know that, you know, ten years ago, if I was to, um, not. Not so much me, but my friends, they would get, you know, they get drunk, and then the next day, they'd be bouncing off walls. They'd be fine. If they do that now, it's like a week of recovery, right? So, obviously, physical thing is different, but when it comes to your mind, uh, you know, your mind will obviously slow down over time, but at the same time, you can still keep that curious mind. You can still keep that willingness to learn, that drive to learn all the way up.
00:24:21.470 - 00:24:49.106, Speaker A: As I said to my grandfather's age of 92 and beyond, there is no reason to slow down at all. I mean, I actually think at that age is even more reason to do more stuff because you know that your time is pretty much not up, but you know, that. Wow, okay, I'm 92. Like, geez, this is, you know, this is. This is not, you know, it's not the end yet. But, hey, I'm pretty close, right? I'm not, not. Not 20 with 80 years or 60 years or 70 years or whatever it is ahead of me, right? So I think at that age, it's more of a thing of, like, just do whatever you want and focus on whatever you want.
00:24:49.106 - 00:25:17.864, Speaker A: But I think that, as I said, like, it shouldn't be an age thing as much as it should be an individual thing, where if you've got a curious mind, if you're interested in learning new things, if you're interested in keeping up with things and you want to make the most of life, really, generally, then, you know, age doesn't matter in that, in that capacity there. But anyway, enough of me ranting about that there might cut today's episode a little bit short for today. But yeah. Once again, thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:25:17.864 - 00:25:18.304, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
