00:00:08.970 - 00:00:53.900, Speaker A: You now. Hello everyone. My name is Roti Roche. I'm on the ERC four three seven core team and I'm here to talk about what's new with ERC four three seven with account abstraction and what we've accomplished in, in the past year and moving forward. So exactly one year ago here in Denver, we announced on stage the main net release of ELC 4427. We just passed the security audits passed then. Since then.
00:00:53.900 - 00:01:48.470, Speaker A: If we look what happened since then, so we can see in traffic, we see that now. We reached the vicinity of 2 million transaction or user operation per month. We've reached over 700 monthly users using account abstraction, which I believe is quite good. For the first year. We've seen a lot of activity with our partners on the network. We have like great slideshow. We've seen a lot of activity.
00:01:48.470 - 00:03:06.480, Speaker A: We've seen 27 wallets and sdks active open source bundlers that you can download and use our own reference bundler and many others multiple service bundlers to service and Paymaster as a service available on the blockchain block explorers. A lot of traffic is done there. We also released many grants. Many of those sdks and bundlers and the block explorer received grants for doing things around account obstruction, ERC 447 doing different signature schemes, metric dashboards, accounts, et cetera. Very interesting is to see that this is the actual gas pay by paymasters. We see that 95% of all user operations of all transactions were sponsored, which means that the idea of having a sponsor Paymaster really kicks in. Users like the idea of using a simpler service than using native tokens for paying gas and Paymaster play great deal doing that.
00:03:06.480 - 00:04:33.850, Speaker A: These are several of the ercs and eips that surrounded account abstraction. We have modular wallets led by Alchemy and by rhinestone pushing standard modular accounts standards 69 75 79 using a popular signature scheme that's available on each phone pass keys, and webathan, which is EAP 70 212 and ELC 64 92 for allowing signing transaction even, sorry, signing messages even before your account exists. This is something that basically missing from contract accounts. Now accounts just like on par with the EOAS can perform signatures pushing forward. We are working very hard with our partners to having the Mempool, the P two P Mempool. Several bundlers already support it with the previous release that we released a year ago which called entry Point zero point six, zero point seven, which was just released will move forward and we stay tuned. We're about to release it next month in London.
00:04:33.850 - 00:05:20.250, Speaker A: About our releases. Last year we released version 0.6 and with each version we are trying to make it more secure. We are everything about decentralized accounts, so the entry point has to make sure the network is secured. So version six was all about making transaction hashes available to all the tools around them. Version seven again pushed the simulation and the security of paymasters. And also we move one step forward towards a native account obstruction, which you see shortly.
00:05:20.250 - 00:06:32.838, Speaker A: Now if we try to look what we are pushing the way forward, the way we see it, we have the protocol front. The puzzle there is the ERC four through seven itself, which becomes more mature with version seven. We just passed the security audit, we extracted the core validation rules, the complex part that define how the mount pool is kept decentralized and secure into a separate ERC. And we started to work on the native account obstruction ESC 75 60 and make sure that it is aligned with the 457, more about it later. On the networking front, we have continued the work in the maintenance of our reference bundler and Mempool as we seen, and trying to push a different chain to adapt the network. It is more than just running bundler on a network in parallel. We are working on implementing a guesswork to support the native account abstraction.
00:06:32.838 - 00:07:57.578, Speaker A: This is still not available, there is no chain that currently use it. But all the work that we have done both in bundlers and accounts and Paymasters will work towards both the ERC four three seven and the native account obstruction. On the account front we've seen a lot of work, as I said by alchemy, pushing 6900 for modular account obstruction and another standard for modular account obstruction 75 69. We try to help them moving forward and the various specific ercs we've seen earlier to support those accounts on the Paymasters. All of the Paymaster we've seen, most of the paymaster we've seen earlier are all paymasters that work with an off chain signatures, what we call the verifying Paymasters, which actually it's a way that the Paymaster takes a user confirmation to pay off chain and makes this validation on chain. We are moving forward to push to improve the standard, to have better support for token paymasters, which are completely on chain decentralized to allow you use tokens. I want to stress more about, I mentioned several times the native account obstruction.
00:07:57.578 - 00:09:03.620, Speaker A: First of all, native account obstruction, we call it an rip, which is not an EIP, it's a roll up improvement protocol. We understand that native account obstruction is something that will start with sidechains, actually innovation in general. Start with more with sidechain and with the understanding that mainet is less innovative and more secure. The idea is to push new features into roll ups first. So we started an initiative we called Rip, which is roll up first. Actually AP 70 to twelve for supporting Paskis is past snrip, which means it is not something that is expected in the near future on Mainnet, but it surely will be accepted first on roll ups and side chains. We also pushed the native account abstraction snrip to be accepted by roll up.
00:09:03.620 - 00:09:53.890, Speaker A: Now what is Rip 75 60. In short, it is enshrined version of ESC four three seven. It is built from grounds up in order to be interoperable with the force one. If we think why we are trying to push this, because we're already seeing that several l two s are pushing their own versions of ERC four seven. Like Starkneck and Z casing, they are built on the architecture of four three seven. But each one of them made some modifications. These modifications make them incompatible with four through seven, which means it's going to be very difficult for a wallet to support both standards.
00:09:53.890 - 00:10:57.080, Speaker A: With this understanding that we need something that is compatible, that will allow account modular accounts to support both native and ERC four three seven, we started to work on 75 60, and as I said, it's not something that we think will go to mainet soon. We want to see it on ltools first. What does it give of us? First of all, as I said, it is compatible with 437 in that it's going to be quite easy for account to support both. It has lower gas fees, it reduces the overhead of having the entry point as a contract, because it becomes part of the protocol. In the long term it will support migration from EOAS. This is something that is very much anticipated and everybody asks us, how can we use ESP 447 with EOas? And the answer of course is right now it is impossible. But with 75 60, it will be eventually possible to migrate your account.
00:10:57.080 - 00:12:18.760, Speaker A: It supports some security features like inclusion list, and almost most importantly, it means there is a network commitment. A network that accepts a native account abstraction means that you can expect the network to support it if there is a problem, like there is in the network. You do expect, if needed, the network to do what it need to save the user funds if there is a problem in the account themselves. I moved a bit fast. Anyone has any questions? Okay, thank you.
