00:00:00.170 - 00:00:23.760, Speaker A: All right, so, hello everyone, my name is Alex. I run the book of yield generating strategies for Ledger prime. It's not as exciting as Daos and PFE projects, I'm afraid, but we'll have to make do for now. So first, a little bit of background on ledger prime. Number one, we're not associated with ledger wallets in any way. We get a lot of confusion about that. A lot.
00:00:23.760 - 00:01:32.380, Speaker A: We are multistrategy asset management firm. The DNA of the firm started in options trading, crypto options, and evolved into DFI as the space emerged. We're big liquidity providers on all the options, derivatives, exchanges, derabit, bitcom, CME, et cetera. And then we've invested in over 50 projects over the years. In general, our value add is that we try to build things for the projects that we invest in, whether it's making market, making butts on injective, or making markets behind ribbon finance, or just providing liquidity to bootstrap the projects that we're getting invested in. We're also recently started a group called Ledger Prime Labs, where we are looking to incubate projects of our own and taking the learnings that we've had as investors over the years. And so we're spending a lot of time thinking about both the yield optimization problem from the investor looking to generate returns, but also from the side of the DeFi builder trying to design solutions that are sustainable for the long term, especially on the tokenomics side.
00:01:32.380 - 00:02:38.638, Speaker A: So I think, all in all, it's a question of aligning incentives between liquidity providers and builders. So I'll cover briefly the current state of DeFI, certain tokenomic models that have been prominent over the last year, and then where we can go from here along several axes of innovation. And then fourth point, the boring one, but probably necessary, is some pieces of institutional tooling that will make institutions a lot more comfortable to participate in the space. So where's DFI? We've seen an 18 x Tvl increase over the past year from about 18 billion to 240,000,000,000. While 2020 was mostly DFI, summer was mostly about the simple amm curve, Uniswap, sushi swap, and then money market funds, money market protocols like compound and Ave. We saw a lot of innovation in the types of primitives that are created in DFI over the past year. I'm listing a few there, but there are more options.
00:02:38.638 - 00:03:04.566, Speaker A: Options amms, DFI 2.0 and protocol owned liquidity. And then yield trenching, leverage farming, and then bridges that have become pretty critical both in a good and bad way to the space. The third point is that DFI is now truly multichain. Whether we like it or not. There are over 300 protocols across 35 chains that have at least 30 million in TVL. We've seen over 2.3
00:03:04.566 - 00:03:51.938, Speaker A: billion in ecosystem development funds being announced. And the number, I'm quoting here is at the time of the announcement, back when Phantom was at Avalanche was at $30. So I think we can safely multiply that number by two. The consequences of that for projects is that every project is in a constant search for attention from the DeFi circus and attracting capital right and left. So that's the side from the DeFi builders and from the side of the yield optimizer. The world has also evolved pretty significantly over the past year. We've seen the game of optimization has gone from optimizing between Ave and compound to multi layered strategies on multiple chains.
00:03:51.938 - 00:04:30.500, Speaker A: You start with your providing liquidity to curve. You put that into convex, then you put those convex tokens into fracs, and then it goes on and on. Yields are also very volatile and opaque. What you see on whatever app you're on is rarely what you get. There are small pieces of slippage, right and left, and entry and exit fees. And a 25 basis point entry or exit fees is actually nontrivial if you're trying to generate 20% on your position. And it gets even worse if your 20% that you see on the screen today is 23% tomorrow, and then 17% the next day and keeps going up and down like this.
00:04:30.500 - 00:05:27.800, Speaker A: And so from the side of the investor, more projects, more chains. Every chain needs a Dex, an amm, a compound fork, an Ave fork. They're all throwing money at the problem to incentivize liquidity. And so from a liquidity provider, you're stuck with the need to rebalance your positions all the time. And the cycles of boom and bust have gotten shorter and shorter. So where does that leave us in terms of objectives? I think on the side of DeFi projects is how to design tokenomics that incentivize long term liquidity partners, and also moving away from generating yield on the basis of inflationary tokens towards products that are actually generating sustainable yield based on market risk. And on the other side, liquidity providers would love to just have positions that they can stay in for multiple weeks and forget about without having to monitor the next 36 projects that launched last week.
00:05:27.800 - 00:06:19.958, Speaker A: So I'll cover two types of tokenomic designs that we can learn from the past year or year and a half the first one is the sushi swap master surf contract. The general structure is that you provide liquidity to a protocol, you earn governance tokens. There's no lockup on the governance tokens that you earn. And then you put that into what is called the pool two, where you stake those governance tokens for more governance tokens. In general, it starts with a lot of liquidity mining available, which means that people get excited, they buy the token, you get reflexivity on the upside, because the yield is paid in native tokens. So higher token price, better yield, people get more excited, et cetera, et cetera, on the way up. The problem is then the music stops at some point and you get the same reflexivity on the way down.
00:06:19.958 - 00:07:02.254, Speaker A: And so that chart is from a real project. It's a pretty typical chart that you see as token launches, and then the hype dies down. And again the Defi circus moves to the next chinese new thing. The second iteration that's become more and more popular is the curve model of vote escrow tokens. The difference here is that you provide liquidity and the more governance tokens you stake, and the longer you stake them for, the more of a boost you get to your yield. Between one, the lock is between one and four years. It does solve the problem of longer term alignment.
00:07:02.254 - 00:07:46.114, Speaker A: You can lock your tokens for four years, you're aligned with curve. The problem with that is that unless you have permanent capital, you have a VC who has a very long life cycle. Four years is very stringent, especially in this environment. And defi being permissionless, it immediately incentivized convex finance to create synthetic derivatives that effectively give you the boost without having to stake. So it's better than the first model, but it creates synthetic derivatives, and convex ends up owning over 42% of the curve supply today, which is not great for the purpose of decentralization. So where can we innovate? There's really three main axes. The first one is tokenomics and designing liquidity, mining incentives in a better way.
00:07:46.114 - 00:08:39.614, Speaker A: The second one is moving away from inflationary yield in the form of real financial products that are being replicated on chain, be it options, exotic derivatives. We don't have a lot of interest rate products yet, but I expect that will come soon. And then capital efficiency, the quantity of assets that are locked in pools that have less than 5% utilization, is extremely high. And there's this elusive dream of achieving some amount of cross margining, which, interestingly enough, defi, being permissionless and composable, positions it probably better than crypto CFI to achieve that. So I'll cover three case studies, one for each of those points. The first one on the tokenomic side that I find interesting, is platypus. Similar to curve, you provide liquidity to a stable payer amm, you earn PDP rewards.
00:08:39.614 - 00:09:10.460, Speaker A: You can stake those PDP rewards, and the more you stake, the bigger boost you get on your yield. The key difference is that you're not locked up. There's a time component to it. So the longer you stake retroactively, the more boost you accumulate. But the moment you unstake a single PDP token, you lose all of your boost. So it does solve the problem of longer term alignment. As a liquidity provider, you're incentivized to deposit your tokens for as long as possible because you keep accumulating boost, but you're not locked up.
00:09:10.460 - 00:09:49.850, Speaker A: On the primitive case study, there are many, and I just picked one of them. Lira on optimism is a great case. Lira is an options amm, where you essentially have a pool of capital against which calls and puts are traded. The pool of capital, it's not done yet, but will eventually automatically delta hedge. And so as a liquidity provider or as an investor to the pool, you're generating yield. There is liquidity mining, but that won't last forever. But mostly you're generating yield by taking a short volatility position, which is more sustainable because it is an actual market risk driven yield.
00:09:49.850 - 00:11:00.366, Speaker A: Third case study on the capital efficiency point is gearbox. I think they're doing something really interesting with the notion of composable leverage. They've essentially created this system where you come up with your USDC or ETH or whatever token, and you create this concept of a credit account which enables you to lever up, but that is just an independent leverage module that then gets integrated with other protocols. So you come with your $10,000, you lever that up four times, and then you can go and deposit that into curve or yearn, that is then a lot more four times as capital efficient. And so if you combine the last three case studies that I've just mentioned, you can see where we can have the space evolve, where if you take lira that is generating, or any real financial product that is generating real yield, with PDP style tokenomics, where you're incentivized for the long term, you have long term inflation. So you can trust that this boost is going to last for a long time, and then you can lever up, or you can be a lot more capital efficient. That starts to be a lot more interesting.
00:11:00.366 - 00:11:35.420, Speaker A: And capital efficiency will be necessary to compete with any traditional financial system, which is what we're trying to do here. This is the point where I transition to the more boring pieces, but that are pretty necessary. We're seeing a lot of projects launch with only metamask support. This excludes a lot of custodians that rely on wallet connect integrations. We're still seeing way too much of the space that relies on ledger wallets to deploy millions and millions of dollars in Defi. And that's very scary. So if you're a project building DeFi out there, please integrate wallet connect.
00:11:35.420 - 00:12:12.870, Speaker A: And then these are two other points that I don't really have the answer to. But the way contracts are designed right now trigger a lot of taxable events. When you claim your tokens, that's a taxable event, you stake your tokens. So you stake sushi for x sushi. That's effectively a trade. And then when you unstake, you get x sushi back for sushi, and then you probably sell your sushi, that's for taxable events. And so it would be great to see some innovation in the space where you could, for example, directly stream your staking rewards into the staking contract and do everything in as few transactions as possible to limit the tax implications.
00:12:12.870 - 00:12:52.286, Speaker A: It also applies to the third point. Any institution that is involved in DeFi right now is having a nightmare explaining what they're doing to their fund admins. I record every single transaction that I do, and I don't think there's a single fund admin in the world that will go and read my ether scan transactions. So again, batching and building wrappers around certain strategies in one block would be extremely helpful. And then there's a lot of capital that is not yet comfortable with Defi. And these are some of the reasons why that's not the case. You go to a website and you see a yield that's very attractive.
00:12:52.286 - 00:13:45.406, Speaker A: You have very little transparency onto what the yield has been until now, and what is actually driving that yield, how governance changes might impact that yield. And then the aprs that you're seeing are not standardized at all. It's unclear whether it's averaged over the last 24 hours, the last seven days, the last 30 days, or if it's forward looking. And then you go to convex and you have a virtual APR. And so having some amount of standardization there would be extremely helpful. So how do we attract long term capital? Stable, transparent and predictable liquidity mining campaigns, reducing the cycle of boom and bust. That is exhausting for everyone, building products that generate sustainable yield, and by sustainable I mean non token inflation driven, and then integrating with more and more institutional grade tooling.
00:13:45.406 - 00:14:41.750, Speaker A: I realize that it's a work in progress and that it's not the immediate priority of the space, but it will make a lot of institutional capital more comfortable with the space. As a final shameless plug, we're incubating fractal protocol. The attempt here is to build a fixed yield protocol that will abstract all of the above everything I've described from the user today. We will allow you to deposit from any chain source a fixed yield. In the back end, we implement various yield generating strategies and sourcing the yield from across chains. The thesis here is that really two main points. If you believe that Defi yields are going to be an order of magnitude greater than anything else in traditional finance for the foreseeable future, there needs to be a simple onramp, and secondly, that chains eventually need to be a back end system that gets abstracted away from the user.
00:14:41.750 - 00:14:43.960, Speaker A: Thank you very much.
