00:00:00.250 - 00:00:47.434, Speaker A: You. Almost nine months ago we made a smart contract and web three course and it became the number one most watched solidity and smart contract developer course on the entire planet. And about a month ago we dropped a new one using Javascript. And for anybody who's looking to get into the blockchain space, or is already in the blockchain and smart contract developer and wants to learn more, this is the course that you got to watch. It's for everyone. Whether you're brand new to the space, you're brand new to coding, you're brand new to web development, or you're a senior in the space and you're looking to learn more, we're going to take you from zero to master and you can start anywhere in between. And this is a modular course so you can skip around if you want.
00:00:47.434 - 00:01:35.210, Speaker A: If you want to start exactly from the beginning, which I know a lot of you do, this course is perfect for you. But if there are some sections you don't care about, maybe you don't care about DeFi or nfts, you can skip those. It's completely modular. And we go end to end across the solidity programming language, the number one most used smart contract language in the blockchain space. We bring you from solidity fundamentals all the way down to low level security. And we teach you the exact same set of tools and the exact same skills that all the big massive billion dollar successful protocols use, like Aave, Synthetix and Uniswap. For DeFi protocols, we teach you tools in the NFT realm, like cryptopunks or board apes, daos like Makerdo, and more upgradable smart contracts, security, full stack, front end.
00:01:35.210 - 00:02:33.334, Speaker A: And speaking of full stack, if you want to build websites out of your smart contracts, we teach you that too. We teach you how to host it in a decentralized manner and work with the same exact front end tools that all these major protocols use. We've got a ton of fantastic guest appearances like Albert from Alchemy, Cammy from the graph, Steven from Chainlink Labs, Ali from protocol Labs, the man, Austin Griffith, Ivan on tech, Natter Dabbit and more. And for those of you who want that proof, that proof that you've solved and you finished and you went through this course and you have the skills, at the end of each major section, we've left a QR code up on screen for you to scan, which will bring you to a smart contract that has a riddle, it has a coding problem, and if you solve it, you will get that NFT signifying you've actually learned the contents of that course. Don't worry, we give you the knowledge to solve all of them. It's up to you to actually apply them. And yes, they get much harder, but they are completely optional.
00:02:33.334 - 00:03:27.050, Speaker A: You do not have to solve those challenges, but if you collect all five, you kind of prove that you're a smart contract master. This 32 hours long course is a culmination of everything I've learned over the years of being a smart contract developer myself, and it's a culmination of all of what we've learned and improved on from our 16 hours long course that we made nine months ago. This course was an absolute blast to go through and make, and in less than two months of us creating it, we've got tons of people talking about how fantastic it is and how it's the best, most thorough, most complete smart contract blockchain and solidity development course on the planet. Period. People are taking the skills from these courses and going on to do great things. 32 hours may sound daunting, but pace yourself and remember to have fun. And remember it is not a race if you get stuck or if you get discouraged or if you get frustrated.
00:03:27.050 - 00:04:20.666, Speaker A: We've got a community of amazing developers asking questions and answering questions, and you can jump into the GitHub discussions of this course and ask questions and help other developers as well. We've got tens of thousands of developers in this GitHub repo helping each other out, and additionally, every single piece of code that I write in the video is in this repo. So if you ever get lost, if you ever get stuck, you can come back to this URL which we'll leave in the description of this video. You can come back there and see if your code matches what we wrote. This is an absolutely monumentous journey and I am so excited for you to get into the space. So what are you waiting for? You can watch that video in all its glory, or take it step by step. This channel will be releasing the segments of that course in smaller bite sized videos for you to consume if that 32 hours video is a little overwhelming.
00:04:20.666 - 00:04:40.530, Speaker A: So buckle up, pace yourself, remember to celebrate the small wins and absolutely remember to have fun. Say hi to me on Twitter if you saw something that you're especially proud about. And let's get froggy. That's.
