00:00:00.200 - 00:00:47.286, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 18 January 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So kicking us off today is another thread from Terrence here talking about the latest EIP 4844 call and notes here in the usual Twitter thread that he does. So the highlight from this thread was basically that EIP 4844 Devnet for planning is happening right now. So Terrence says here Devnet four will be rebased on top of the Capella Dash Devnet three testnet, sorry, Devnet, which includes all the consensus spec engine, API and Shanghai EIP changes. The target launch date is next week, and there's a link here to point that out as well. But you know, it's funny because this is the 12th call.
00:00:47.286 - 00:01:46.802, Speaker A: I mean, they're having these calls very regularly and things are progressing really, really quickly. I think the entire, I guess, set of people working on 4844 really don't want to miss the next upgrade after Shanghai because obviously they I didn't have it done in time and it wasn't ready in time for Shanghai, but they really don't want to miss Cancun, which is the next update coming hopefully in Q three, Q four. And I don't blame them. I mean, 48 44 is an absolutely huge deal. There is a lot of vested interest in getting in seeing this get done both at the Ethereum core protocol layer, but also obviously for L2s because they'll be taking advantage of that. But if we can get it done this year, as I've said before, I think that's perfect because I don't expect there to be any kind of raging bull market this year or anything like that. But I'm definitely looking forward to seeing this go live so we're prepared for when that happens and that the L2s have these really cheap fees so users aren't forced to go and play around on these other Alt L1 s and these less secure Alt L1 s and going through the bridges and potentially losing money.
00:01:46.802 - 00:02:31.116, Speaker A: They can stay within the ethereum ecosystem, which obviously we all want to see happen there. But I'll link Terence's thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Now, speaking of, I guess demand for crypto for block space for Ethereum generally, I spoken about this here and there on the refuel lately, but I really wanted to have a focused discussion today about this because I came across this tweet thread or sorry I should say tweet from Hal press where he says, there is not a single one time thing on this list. Structural deflation is here. You love to see it. And the list that he's looking at is the burn leaderboard over the last seven days from the ultrasound money website. And you can see here that none of this is actually a Ponzi token or a scam or anything got to do with unsustainable demand.
00:02:31.116 - 00:03:25.804, Speaker A: This is literally just the top apps on Ethereum that are pretty much like always there. But they've, they've gotten to the point now where all of these apps, or I guess, like they count for the majority of the ETH burned, are what's causing ETH to go net deflationary. So we have sustainable deflationary pressure on ETH, rather than it being influenced by something like, you know, a scam token or a Ponzi token or a ridiculous NFT mint. And I've talked about this before, and I basically said that as long as we can go above that ultrasound barrier, which is around 16 gwei today, and do it in a sustainable manner, we get sustainable deflation, which is obviously really, really cool. Now, if we go to the actual ultrasound money website and check out this chart for ourselves, we can kind of sort by the different times here. So if we sort by the seven days, you can actually see, and you can scroll down even more from then what house screenshot shows. And you can see what, a bunch of tokens in here, a bunch of l two s, different defi apps, all that sort of stuff.
00:03:25.804 - 00:03:53.424, Speaker A: But the, the biggest burners by far are opensea Uniswap v three ETH transfers, tether and Uniswap V two. They're the top five ETH burners. And then there is a bunch underneath that that'll add up, obviously, to total amount of ETH burn. Now, this is the last seven days. If we go the last 30 days, it looks quite similar. But there's also two things in the top ten here which are not necessarily sustainable. So Zen torrent here, it's tagged as nfts.
00:03:53.424 - 00:04:21.660, Speaker A: I'm not even sure what that is, but I don't think that is something that was going to, that's going to lead to sustainable demand. Because if we go back to the seven days, you can see here that Zen torrent of the last seven days is only 211 ETH burned. But in the last 30 days it was 1400 ETH. So obviously it had a very short lived time where it did a lot of ETH burning. And now it's not really doing anything. If we saw it over the last day, I wonder if it even registers here. Yeah, I guess it registers here in two instances for about 40 ETH over the last day.
00:04:21.660 - 00:04:51.038, Speaker A: So compared to the 200 ETH that Opensea does has done over the last day. And then we go, the last 30 days. Sorry. And then we go since Genesis, or I guess like since EIP 1559 was activated. Sorry, not Genesis. And you can see it's all of the similar characters here. You have ETH transfers, opensea Uniswap, tether, but then you also have down here the other deed or the other side, mint, which is that big mint that happened as part of the board ape yacht club ecosystem that burned a crap ton of ETH.
00:04:51.038 - 00:05:16.282, Speaker A: But this was a one time event. This is not something that's going to be repeated for this project. Maybe it gets repeated by other projects, but that's not what we talk about when we're talking about sustainable burn. What we're talking about is the things that constantly rank in the top ten that aren't, you know, a Ponzi, a scam, or a one off. Right. The actual sustainable things that people get value out of. And the best way to look at that is to look at the trends over time, I think, and see what's actually remained in the top ten.
00:05:16.282 - 00:05:51.220, Speaker A: And as I said, if we go to seven days, you can see it's the same seven days, 30 days, and all time is very, very similar. There's always ETH transfers in there. There's always opensea Uniswap, ten tether metamask, you swap router and other stable coins as well, are in there. But we see that open C Uniswap definitely. And I guess tether. Tether and ETH transfers are definitely the most dominant thing here. Now, what is this going to look like over time? Like, how is this going to evolve? I get this question all the time from people who ask, you know, is, if all the activity moves to L2s, isn't it going to mean that L2s are going to be the ones burning the e? Right.
00:05:51.220 - 00:06:18.164, Speaker A: And the. I guess, like this, this activity on Opensea Uniswap just all moves to L2, and none of it happens on L2 one. So that won't burn ETH anymore. I don't think that's going to be true. And I've said this before, I don't think that layer one is going to become a ghost chain or a wasteland just because. Just because L2 has a lot of traction and has a lot of activity on it. I think that all that L2 is really doing at the core of it is giving us more etherium block space to play with.
00:06:18.164 - 00:07:04.138, Speaker A: That doesn't mean that people are going to migrate off of layer one to L2 and just stop using layer one altogether. There are plenty of reasons to use layer one, the biggest being that it is still the most secure way to interact with Ethereum by far. All the L2s, currently a very early stages, still have training rules on them, very centralized. So, you know, there's obviously a very, very different risk analysis there between layer one and L2, and depending on which L2 you use as well. But on top of that, the network effect of layer one is ginormous. It was built up since Genesis, right? It took, like, seven years worth of building it up before we actually had functional L2s live in a real capacity, people to use. And at the end of the day, as I've mentioned plenty of times before as well, the whales don't give a shit about paying higher fees.
00:07:04.138 - 00:07:28.906, Speaker A: They really, really don't. Right. The MEV bots don't care if they're making a profit from it, even if they're only inching out a small profit, they don't care. There are plenty of people that are still going to be using layer one into the future. But how far into the future am I talking out? Well, I can actually see layer one remaining very much used and above the ultrasound barrier for many years to come. I would even say for up to, like, decades to come. Is that to say that L2s aren't going to gain traction? Not at all.
00:07:28.906 - 00:07:45.186, Speaker A: Layer twos are going to gain an enormous amount of traction. They already are. They're going to be where the majority of activity happens. But that doesn't mean that layer one is going to lose the activity that it has today. It's actually, uh, it's still a bear market, right? The. We have a little bit of demand coming back, but not really. Um, all the tourists are still gone.
00:07:45.186 - 00:08:12.316, Speaker A: There's no retail investors, there's no massive Ponzi's going on, there's no crazy yields going on. And we are, because this have consistently been above the ultrasound barrier for a little while now. And as you can see from the deflation chart here, it never really gets very inflationary at all. And then it very quickly goes back into deflationary territory because of that demand. So what is this going to look like when more and more demand keeps coming back. Well, obviously it's going to keep going up and up. We have the L2s as well.
00:08:12.316 - 00:08:36.114, Speaker A: And the L2s are actually in this list. I mean, if I go the last seven days, you can actually see that optimism and arbitrary both here basically neck and neck. I don't know what position they are, but I think they're in the top 20 and that's going to keep happening. Post 4844. They're going to be having fees that are much cheaper because it's a separate fee market with the blob transactions. Then. Then it is with the current fear market that they use for call data.
00:08:36.114 - 00:08:57.586, Speaker A: But that doesn't mean that they're not going to burn ETH. And as they get more traction, as they use more gas, or as they use more blob space, they're going to be burning more ETH that way as well. So it's kind of hard to tell. But as I said, these are only in the top 20. They're not even in the top ten, and they don't even burn that much either. The last seven days combined, optimism and arbitram burned 260 ETH, whereas Opensea burned. Oh, sorry, I should say.
00:08:57.586 - 00:09:32.404, Speaker A: Opensea Uniswap burned 3008th. Right? Almost 3008th. So obviously, it's a pretty big order of magnitude difference there between the top two apps on Ethereum and the top two L2s on, you know, settling to Ethereum there. That's what they say, that L2s won't keep growing. I think they will even post 48 44, there'll be a kind of reset and then they'll keep growing from there. But what we're really caring about is that sustainable demand coming from things that aren't Ponzi's or scams or flash in the pan NFT mints. We want it to be those apps that are obviously driving a lot of value to people like Opensea and Uniswap.
00:09:32.404 - 00:10:07.936, Speaker A: So that's basically what I wanted to discuss in the context of this. I don't want to really get dive too much into, you know, is this bullish or bearish for ETH? I've done that plenty of times. You guys obviously know the TRDR is that I think this is incredibly bullish for ETH as an asset. But that's outside of the scope of what I wanted to talk about today, and I did talk about yesterday, how I thought that over indexing on a deflationary ETH is just a waste of time. Whether it's slightly inflationary or deflationary doesn't really matter at the end of the day, ETH is an incredibly scarce asset. We've already seen the effects of, of the merge play out on the ETH BTC ratio, where it's basically flat. And I've just, I've discussed that before on the refill, of course.
00:10:07.936 - 00:10:47.018, Speaker A: And I think we're going to see those effects continue to play out as demand trickles back in. And know even in the same context of that ETH staking, we haven't even scratched the surface of that. And not just ETH staking, but like the LSD's things like oval network, which I actually forgot to get the, the tweet up here, but oval network, I'll get this up actually later or segue into that, but things like oval network, DVD technology, more LSD's Eigen layer, obviously, for restaking. Yes. You know, different parts of this will add more risk, but they will also add more yield to compensate for that risk. And then I'll be up to people what they want to do there. But I think that the ETH staking industry is really just getting started.
00:10:47.018 - 00:11:27.256, Speaker A: It's going to grow very much, very big from here, I reckon. And not just with the amount of ETH staked, but obviously as the USD price of it goes up, so does the amount of, I guess, like dollar economic security that Ethereum has. And that's going to be very attractive on a number of different fronts, especially for things like restaking, in my mind. But yeah, very, very cool to see that ethereum has reached a point where we are sustainably above the ultrasound barrier, which I believe is an awesome kind of achievement. But in saying that as well, the ultrasound barrier is not a static target, it is a moving target. It goes up when there's more e staked. It goes down when there's less e staked.
00:11:27.256 - 00:11:52.918, Speaker A: So if we double the amount of ETH staked, I don't think it's one to one mapped here, but in terms of doubling. But if we double the amount of each stake, then that ultrasound barrier is going to be a lot higher than where it is today. As I said, it's around 16.3 Gwei today. And it goes up as more ETH is staked because of the fact that more ETH is being issued network wide, which means that we need more burn to offset that additional issuance. Right. And then the opposite is true when less ETH is staked there.
00:11:52.918 - 00:12:19.892, Speaker A: But anyway, thanks to help press for, I guess, prompting this discussion today, it was very important, I think, to cover that. Now, I did say I wanted to cover something got to do with oval network, which is right here. So they announced today that they have raised $12.5 million series a led by Pantera Capital and archetype, archetype VC here. Now, I've spoke, spoken about Oval a bunch of times on the refill before disclosure. I am a seed investor in Oval. A lot of you will know that already.
00:12:19.892 - 00:13:14.178, Speaker A: But I think, as I said before, Oval building DVT technology is going to lead to the next era of Ethereum staking. Not just them, obviously, but their technology is going to be, I think, used by a lot of the major staking providers out there. And even people like solo stakers might want to use it in order to better decentralize and distribute their staking operation, but also to, to allow it to scale more and allow it to be more secure because DVT or distributed validator technology is a really, really cool thing, which you can read about on Herbalabs's website. Of course, they've got explainers for all of that. And the reason why it's not live yet is because, as I've said before, I believe that it requires withdrawals to be enabled in order for it to. To go live, which isn't too far away now, you know, end of, end of kind of March, possibly early April, where we'll get withdrawals enabled and then things are really going to kick into high gear. Guys.
00:13:14.178 - 00:13:43.260, Speaker A: On the Ethereum staking side, I can't even begin to imagine how crazy it's going to get, but it's definitely going to get crazy, especially as demand comes back in. The yields for each staking go up because of the tips and Mev revenue going up. That's going to be crazy to see what that looks like. Well, and it basically acts as a very positive feedback mechanism where the higher the yield, the more ETH staked, right. The more it locked up the potentially higher ETH USD price goes. And then people will look at that and like, oh my God, you know, I got to buy ETH now. And the higher it goes and it's going to get crazy.
00:13:43.260 - 00:14:21.062, Speaker A: I reckon over the next few years, it's definitely going to get pretty crazy. But anyway, outside of that, just congrats to Obel on this race here. Great to see them continuing to be the pioneer of DVT technology. And I can't wait to play around with it on Mainnet when it comes comes to out. All right, so the Gitcoin program Alpha round is now live. It's a quadratic funding round that will support 200 grantees working on open source Ethereum infrastructure and climate solutions with a $1 million total matching pool. Now, I've discussed this round before, I believe a few days ago, and I said it was starting on January 17 and running to the 31st.
00:14:21.062 - 00:14:51.324, Speaker A: So if you are interested in donating, you can go here to the, the donation page. Sorry, you can visit this link here and see how to donate. There's, it's a bit different to what you're used to with getcoin grants rounds. There are links here. So there's a link to the climate solutions round, the open source, open source software round, and the Ethereum infrastructure round. All of this will obviously be linked in the YouTube description for you below to, to donate here. But once again, donating to public goods is something that I think that every ethereum should do at least once.
00:14:51.324 - 00:15:39.088, Speaker A: It is basically part of being in a theorem. It's the way I think about it is, you know, when you go to a certain country as, as a, as a tourist, and you want to, I guess, become more in sync with the culture there, you do something like you eat some of their cultural food, right, their native food, you go visit a monument that is very popular in that, in that country, or you go do something like visit. Not just visit a monument, but you go and do an activity that's. That you, you know, you have to do to get amongst the culture and you experience the cultural events. And I think the same is true for donating to public goods or participating in a git coin grants round here in Ethereum, because that is what it's like. Even if you're not a tourist, even if you consider yourself a citizen of Ethereum, doing this is donating to open source. Donating to public goods is a core part of the Ethereum culture in my mind.
00:15:39.088 - 00:16:28.844, Speaker A: But anyway, I'll link these in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so Aztec announced today that they have issued an aztec grant to mean finance to build a generalizable dollar cost averaging integration on Aztec Connect. Now, I've covered mean finance before. I believe they first deployed to optimism as a way to DCA into basically any asset that was supported on Uniswap, I believe, or amms generally, which I thought was really cool at the time, especially because it was deployed to optimism where they were getting cheaper fees there. But now, if you want to be able to DCA in using aztec connect, and obviously doing it privately on the aztec network, that's what the grant is. Meant to do. It's meant to be given to mean finance to build their, I guess, protocol builder infrastructure on top of aztec to enable people to privately DCA into their favorite assets.
00:16:28.844 - 00:16:51.992, Speaker A: Yeah. Which I think is really, really cool. You know, it's funny, when I'm buying ETH, I do it in multiple different ways. Sometimes I'll buy it on a centralized exchange. Sometimes I'll buy it on chain, whether that be on layer one or L2. It depends where I am at the time. Right? But the one thing that I think I do across all of those chains, regardless of where I'm buying, is that I do DCA in.
00:16:51.992 - 00:17:34.448, Speaker A: Now, it's not an automated thing. It's definitely a manual process for me. But I've always wanted to be able to do it in a more automated way and potentially in a more private way on chain. Like, I hate on chain when I buy things, if I make one mistake and leak one of my, you know, connect one of my addresses that I'm trying to keep private from another address that, that is linked to me, it just basically doxes that entire addresses history, which, which is kind of shitty, right? So, so being able to use aztec connect to do this and not have to worry about that would be very, very cool. And have it, having it automated through mean finance would also be very, very cool. So I'm going to be keeping on top of this, keeping tabs on this, seeing how this, this goes. But great to see Aztec giving a grant to main finance to deploy this on their network.
00:17:34.448 - 00:18:12.630, Speaker A: It's a good use of money, I believe. All right, so Andy Guzman here put out a blog post today and he tweeted saying the state of zero knowledge applications in Ethereum, part one introduction is now out. This series is a non technical walkthrough of ZK Dapp's projects and problem spaces in ZK Ethereum and contains some of my learnings after joining the privacy and scaling explorations team at the Ethereum foundation. So highly recommend giving this a read. It's not very long and it's a great little overview of the, I guess, like ZK Dapps and things like that. And as I said, it's only part one. So this is just a brief intro and what's going to be discussed in this blog post series, but it's coming from the horse's mouth, so to speak.
00:18:12.630 - 00:18:57.678, Speaker A: I mean, the privacy and scaling explorations team at the Ethereum foundation is producing a lot of amazing work. The researchers that they have there are working on the bleeding edge of privacy and scaling, which, as you guys know, are two of my basically key things that I'm paying attention, attention to in the Ethereum ecosystem. And keeping on top of this blog series is a must, that's for sure. And you can actually subscribe here on the top, right? So if you want to keep on top of that, and you can collect this blog post as an NFT because it's on the mirror platform. But yeah, I just wanted to highlight this for you guys. I'll link the blog post in the YouTube description below, especially because of the fact that zero knowledge stuff obviously is getting more traction as time goes on, and we'll continue to get more traction. I think at this point it's become a little bit saturated because there's been so much talk about ZK.
00:18:57.678 - 00:19:15.992, Speaker A: And I saw a meme the other day that if you talk about something just normally on Ethereum, people will be like, oh, yeah, that's cool, blah, blah, and act kind of, kind of semi interested. But as soon as you start talking about ZK stuff, everyone crowds around. You're like, oh my God, ZK. Did you say ZK app? What's going on here? ZK. ZK. Right. And that's what tends to happen with new and exciting technologies.
00:19:15.992 - 00:19:56.844, Speaker A: People will obviously get more excited about them and pay more attention to them because they're new and exciting. But eventually they will lose, I guess, like interest there and then move on to the next shiny thing, which is totally fine because that means that tech has relatively matured. It happened to defy, uh, very, quite. I mean, not, not that early on, but I think for the Ethereum community and the core ethereum ecosystem, really, the big parts of Defi started happening in late 2018 into 2019. And then obviously we had Defi summer in 2020. But then after that, Defi took a backseat to nfts, uh, the ulta ones, of course, but it only took a backseat in terms of interest. It still kept growing.
00:19:56.844 - 00:20:19.984, Speaker A: People kept using it, people kept getting value out of it. So don't think that just because some, you know, the narrative changes or people lose interest in something doesn't mean it. Doesn't mean it's necessarily dead. It just means that the newness has worn off. And obviously people love, I guess, especially people in crypto, love chasing new things. But, but, yeah, definitely not any indication that something has failed or anything like that. But yeah.
00:20:19.984 - 00:20:57.222, Speaker A: Anyway, on that note, as I said, this blog post will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, Harpy has a great tweet thread today about basically protecting your Ethereum transactions. So I've talked about Harpy before, how they are the on chain firewall for Ethereum being able to essentially protect you from malicious contracts. Well, they start off this tweet thread by saying what if the transaction that rugged your wallet never actually happened? Today they have launched something called Eagle, which is two factor authentication that plugs into your existing wallet. Now you can read this thread to know what this is all about. And I should say that this isn't live yet for everyone. It's in a closed beta.
00:20:57.222 - 00:22:20.160, Speaker A: But the way that they are achieving this and that, the way that they're going to be protecting you from basically submitting this transaction or submitting a malicious transactional signing something that's malicious is by changing your RPC to the Eagle RP or, sorry, I should say, to the Harpy RPC. And then Harpy's advanced detection algorithms will run a security scan of your transactions before they are sent on chain, which I think is a really cool feature. Now, of course, switching to the Harpy RPC also comes with potentially some downsides. Those downsides being harpy has full visibility over that mempool and can potentially manipulate it as they want for either MeV purposes or if they want to sense you, they could, but it's not that big of a deal because you could just change back to a different RPC if you notice that they were sensing you or something like that. But yeah, this is definitely for, I guess, probably the people that are more security conscious and definitely want to be as protected as possible. I think this is a great solution, therefore that, and I've spoken about Harpy plenty of times on the refuel before, but the launch of this thing called Eagle, I think is very, very smart and I think it's going to help a lot of people as long as people are educated about this. Because really, when you think about it, a lot of the time that people getting hacked and signing malicious transactions and stuff like that are the, the newbies, so to speak, and for them to change their RPC, it's not exactly something that they do.
00:22:20.160 - 00:22:54.226, Speaker A: So they can still get the normal protection from Harpy on, on, I guess, like using just whatever RPC they want. But if they want this advanced protection, then they'll change their RPC. But it needs education for them to do that. They're not just going to do that because, you know, they've come to their conclusion automatically. It's going to require education here, which I'm sure Harpy is going to be doing more of, and people will talk about this more and suggest this to people as time goes on. But generally, yeah, if it's targeted towards newer people, you definitely have to educate them here. And, you know, this is where I guess, services like centralized exchanges can help a lot.
00:22:54.226 - 00:23:47.636, Speaker A: I know it's not exactly in their best interest to encourage people to go on chain and go off, you know, withdraw their assets from the centralized exchange and go and use defi. I totally get that from an incentives point of view. But them suggesting to users that these, or at least telling users about these tools, tools and that they exist I think is worthwhile. And there should be a way for, I think, centralized exchanges to gauge how advanced their users are, so to speak. And they can do this because they have all the data on their users, so they can basically have a thing where they run an algorithm that says, okay, well, if this user falls into the advanced group, then don't suggest to them these tools because they're more likely not to get much value out of them. But if they fall into like the newbie group, then maybe suggest these tools to them. And this could apply to anything, not just harpy, it could basically apply to any on chain tool or any, I guess, like infrastructure or whatever it is, which I think is pretty important.
00:23:47.636 - 00:24:32.114, Speaker A: But as I said, there's not really much incentives there for the centralized exchanges to do this, but if they did, it would be very cool. And I actually think that Coinbase might be a good testing ground for this because they're very good at supporting the wider crypto ecosystem, especially the on chain industry. And because they've got things like Coinbase wallet and they're some of, and they're one of the exchanges that supports a L2 off boarding and onboarding, you know, directly to optimism and arbitrary and stuff like that. So yeah, this might be, might be something that they're interested in doing, but we'll have to see. Anyway, I'll link this thread from Harpy in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, finally here, I just wanted to give a quick notice that I'll be on a Twitter spaces with rhino finance tomorrow at 08:00 a.m. UTC, which is 07:00 p.m.
00:24:32.114 - 00:24:45.290, Speaker A: My time. My time being australian eastern daylight time. I don't know what time that is. And actually I think it's really late us time. I think it's 11:00 a.m. Potentially, or maybe 09:00 a.m. Europe time.
00:24:45.290 - 00:25:02.526, Speaker A: I mean, it depends where you are in Europe. Right. But yeah, it'll be morning for Europe, obviously evening for Australia and parts of Asia. And then I think really late night going into like 01:00 a.m. 02:00 a.m. For the US. But of course, it being a Twitter space means it's recorded and you'll be able to go back and listen to the recording.
00:25:02.526 - 00:25:35.518, Speaker A: And what I'll be talking about, I should have mentioned this before, but what I'll be talking about is what's next for DeFi in 2023? You know, Defi isn't something that gets spoken about too much anymore. As I was explaining before, it's no longer the new and flashy thing out there. But I've said plenty of times before that Defi is still chugging along really well. It's still going to, in my mind, replace the existing financial system, or at least greatly improve it to the point where it becomes indistinguishable. Right. It just basically becomes integrated with the existing system. So I'm excited to talk about this on the rhino finance space, which you can go and set a reminder for.
00:25:35.518 - 00:26:24.314, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, last few minutes here. One thing I wanted to talk about with regards to just something when I was talking about the sustainable demand in the Ethereum ecosystem before, I wanted to also compare this because this just kind of came to me just then. I wanted to quickly compare this to the other ecosystems in the, I guess, crypto, crypto economy, so to speak. When looking at sustainability of layer ones, I think the most important thing to look at is fear revenue, and is fear revenue from the apps on the layer one chain and where that, you know, fear revenue is actually coming from and what quality those apps are and how sustainable it has been over time. Now, obviously, a lot of these l one s aren't very old. A lot of them are only two to three years old.
00:26:24.314 - 00:27:18.090, Speaker A: So you're not going to get the same amount of data that you can get from Ethereum, but you really need to look at it and see how sustainable it has been, maybe against Ethereum since 2020, because I think 2020 is real. Where on chain stuff really took off with DeFi summer. So if you compare Ethereum, say, let's say the 1 January 2020 to today, and compare Ethereum to all the other layer ones, yes, Ethereum obviously had a big head start, and obviously Ethereum has L2s now. But if you're just comparing layer one to these other layer ones, you'll see very quickly that Ethereum really is the only sustainable layer, one that exists today. From a theory of a new perspective. The rest of them don't generate nearly any fees, basically, right? And some of them do burning, but it's not enough to make them deflationary because they pay out high amounts of inflation of their native token in order to secure their chain. So, and I've seen a lot of, I guess, like fight about this on Twitter lately, people saying, how can ETH be deflationary but also pay a yield to stakers.
00:27:18.090 - 00:27:58.830, Speaker A: Well, I mean, it's not very hard to explain that. I did explain yesterday about where the staking yield comes from and all that. All that is, is like all the place that the staking yield comes from, the protocol issuance, the tips, which is the unburned fee revenue, and the MEV, all of that is offset by the burn. That's as simple as that. It's offset by the amount of fees that are being burned each day. And on top of that, the protocol issuance, the reason why it's very different and the reason why it is quite high, as opposed to something like proof of work, is that the issuance is measured in how much is being paid to staked ETH. So right now, the 16 million ETH staked.
00:27:58.830 - 00:28:21.742, Speaker A: So that's the percentage that goes to the 16 million ethaked. And that's the one that's often quoted. But then there is the network issuance, right? The network issuance is very, very different. And this is not including the burn. So, like, just the vanilla network issuance, not including the burn, I believe, is 0.6% or something like that off the top of my head. And that's the total network issuance.
00:28:21.742 - 00:28:48.832, Speaker A: Whereas the issuance to stake is, as you can see down here on the ultrasound money website, in percentage terms, is 4.1%. So you have to look at it as 4.1% going to only the 16 million ETH that's staked. And then there is a 0.6% network wide inflation, which covers all existing ETH, right, the 120.5 million existing ETH. Then we simply adopt the issuance add up the tips, add up the MEV estimate.
00:28:48.832 - 00:29:11.564, Speaker A: We get to 7.5% yield here. But the own. But the only thing that we need to offset is the issuance, right? We don't need to offset the, the tips and the, the MEV, because the tips in the MEV are not newly issued ETH. They are existing ETH that's being used by users in the network. So we only need to offset the 4.1%. Uh, sorry, not the 4.1%.
00:29:11.564 - 00:29:24.620, Speaker A: I'm getting a little bit confused. They're getting ahead of myself. We only need to offset that 0.6%, which is the network wide issuance, because that is the true inflation rate of Ethereum. Right. Of the entire network. The 4.1%
00:29:24.620 - 00:29:38.908, Speaker A: is only what goes to stakers. The 0.6% is what goes to, to basically, uh, the whole network. What is the, the inflation rate of the whole network. So that's what the burn needs to, uh, offset. And that's what we're doing today. We're deflationary.
00:29:38.908 - 00:30:13.272, Speaker A: That means the burn is simply more than the protocol issuance across the entire network. Not that 4.1% number that's only going to stakers, but the 0.6% number of the entire network. And I think that's what trips a lot of people up, is that they think that Ethereum has a 7.5% inflation rate and that we have enough burn to offset that, when that's not the case at all, obviously, because as I said, the issuance rate listed here is the issuance rate to stakers only, not network wide. And then tips and Mev are not new issued ETH.
00:30:13.272 - 00:30:27.376, Speaker A: They are existing ETH, just changing hands, so to speak. Right. So yeah, that's the way to explain it to people when they, they ask you about that. But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:30:27.376 - 00:30:30.944, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
