00:00:00.200 - 00:00:41.422, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the Data Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the newest Sino tastes the 22 March 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So I'm sure some of you have already seen this, but the upgrades or I guess like the new versions of various clients for Ethereum have been coming out that support Shanghai. So you can see here on my screen that geth version 11.5 is now out which enables the Shanghai mainnet upgrade on April 12. Yeah, so you can go check this out obviously and download it if you're running nodes, or obviously if you're running nodes, you will. It is a required up the upgrade, especially if you're running validators.
00:00:41.422 - 00:01:26.142, Speaker A: And same on the consensus layer side of things. Now, not all of them are out right now, but there's a few out there I've seen that have been released, but obviously they'll all be out in time for Shanghai. So if you are running full nodes, archive nodes, validators, you know, consensus obviously consensus layer clients and execution layer clients, you will need to update. This is a required update in order to stay on the I guess like true Ethereum chain, right? Because if you don't update, you'll go and fork off onto another chain and your validators will suffer from an activity leak because you're technically be offline. So you don't want that to happen. Obviously if you're a solo staker or if you're a Rockapool staker as well. Now with Rockapool they usually update the smart node stack to enable these sorts of things, but you can actually manually update the clients yourselves.
00:01:26.142 - 00:02:03.806, Speaker A: If you want you can go change the flag in the, in the smart node GUI which there's rocket pool has documentation for this if you want to do that. But usually you can just wait until the update comes out, which obviously the next update is atlas which enables withdrawals on the rocker pool network as well with the mini pools. But yeah, anyway, definitely go update if you haven't yet. And if your client, if the client that you use hasn't got an update yet, be sure to just keep an eye out for that. On their twitter they usually announce it, but on GitHub obviously is where it's going to be published. So you can check it out on there for yourself. But yeah, just before I move on from the withdrawal stuff, it's finally here guys.
00:02:03.806 - 00:02:32.084, Speaker A: Like it's very very close now. It's March 22 today, April 12. I mean it's going to be here before we know it. And what I find funny about, about withdrawals generally is that it was something that obviously all of us in Ethereum knew was coming really soon. And I've been talking about it for a while as well and telling you guys it was coming, you know, late March, early April. And there was so much fud around it and there still is. I still see people commenting on Twitter about like, people staking their eats saying, haha, you staked your ETH, you can't get it out.
00:02:32.084 - 00:02:59.076, Speaker A: Which obviously is really stupid for a number of different reasons. But. But the fact that Shanghai is so close and people are saying this, like, it really is bizarre to me that people are still saying this. And you know, even though like even leading up to the merge, people were still saying that the merge would never happen. I don't know if these people are genuinely just unintelligent or genuinely stupid or if they're trolling. I'm sure there's a bit of both in there. But I don't understand how someone has, as a human, can be that stupid.
00:02:59.076 - 00:03:49.554, Speaker A: Right? Like, I don't get it. I've never got it. I've never gotten how someone can be so I guess, um, I guess buried their head in the sand so much that they miss exactly what's happening and they missed the reality of the situation. Now, of course, I'm very curious to see what these fighters pivot to after withdrawals are enabled, because they've also stopped fighting the censorship on Ethereum, the OFAC sanctioned stuff because of the fact that that's down to below 30% now of all blocks. So what's left really? I think they're going back to their old faithfuls. I've seen a lot recently of people saying, you know, Ethereum's monetary policy can change all the time, vitality, ethereum, blah, blah blah. So it seems like they've run out of things, I guess, of new things at least, which is just hilarious, right? But I'm sure there'll be new things that come up and I'll definitely be correcting them on the refuel as time goes on.
00:03:49.554 - 00:04:18.158, Speaker A: But yet they're, in a couple of weeks they won't be able to say anything about withdrawals not being enabled and about how Vitalik controls your ETH or whatever bullshit they come up with. It'll be enabled and everyone will be able to withdraw their stake. Now obviously in saying that light O's withdrawals aren't going to be enabled for a month until at least a month after Shanghai goes live. So maybe we'll see some fud around that. But I don't know. You don't need withdrawals live on Lido to withdraw. You can always sell into the secondary market if you want.
00:04:18.158 - 00:05:12.814, Speaker A: Yes, you may take a small hit based on liquidity if you're a big, if you're a big stake. But yeah, I think that doesn't apply to most people anyway. It's just obviously applies to the whales. But anyway, I'm going to move on from that to a tweet from Josh Stark, who tweeted out this picture from l two b, this activity, I guess, chart that shows l one and l two activity l one in blue and l two in red, where any caption by saying a blockchain's transaction capacity is equal to the capacity of its l one plus the capacity of all l two s under its security. Now, I very much agree with this, and I've talked about this concept of Ethereum block space before, where essentially L2s are just an extension of Ethereum's block space. And I'm talking true L2s, like roll ups, for example, the, the things that post their data and their proofs to layer one ethereum. So obviously arbitrary and optimism fit into that.
00:05:12.814 - 00:05:46.580, Speaker A: But essentially it's just more ethereum block space because at the end of the day, they're extending Ethereum's block space and just rolling up those transactions to make it more scalable. So it can and should be referred to as Ethereum block space. And that's what Josh is saying here, that the block, that Ethereum's transaction capacity is equal to its l one capacity as well as its l two capacity. But you can see here that l two's flipped l one in terms of TPS a little while ago, and it just keeps going up. That's obviously what we want to see. That is very healthy. That is the roll up centric roadmap on a theory I'm playing out.
00:05:46.580 - 00:06:33.680, Speaker A: But it shouldn't take away from the fact that Ethereum l one still obviously has been, has been flat because it's limited in obviously the TPS that it can do based on its gas limit. But as Josh says here, ethereum's total capacity is l one plus l two. Now, in saying that I don't think TPS is the best measure of activity, I've never thought that, honestly, I think economic activity, specifically fair venue is, is probably the best way to measure a blockchain's activity because there are other chains out there that boast, you know, thousands of TPS, but they're worth very little. The economic activity happening on that chain is very little. The value of that block space is, is very little compared to Ethereum. Ethereum l one block space is the most valuable block space in crypto by far. And that's why people pay for it, right? Even though the TPS is quite low.
00:06:33.680 - 00:07:50.934, Speaker A: I mean, ethereum's TPS really, you can see here, is around, what, not even 13 transactions per second, right? So when you look at it like that, it doesn't matter that these other chains boast thousands of TPS because it's not valuable, right? It's not valuable block space. And I've talked about this before with the analogy of, say, I spun up a database locally and my database can do 100,000 transactions per second and visa can only do 40,000 transactions per second. Does that make my database more valuable than visa? No, because at the end of the day, what's valuable is the state, right? The state of visa's database is a lot more valuable than, than my database on my machine because no one cares about mine, right? But everyone cares about visa because it's a massive global payments network. The same is true for Ethereum. Just because you spin up a new chain that can do such and such TPS doesn't mean that anyone's going to value that TPS, value that block space, value your database, so to speak, over Ethereum. And I'm not going to rehash all the analogy that I've used before here, but I think it's important to remember that when comparing things, especially when comparing Ethereum to other chains these days, because you have to, you have to take into account Ethereum and l two s for TPS, for active users, for economic activity, for fear of a new. That all I believe comes together and that forms Ethereum.
00:07:50.934 - 00:08:17.088, Speaker A: It's not just layer one anymore, it's L2s. And as time goes on, there's going to be more l two s that go live, there's going to be more activity that happens there, and then we're going to have to have better dashboards to monitor all of that. And l two beat, obviously, has been doing a lot of great work there, but so has Doon analytics. I've shown a bunch of dashboards before on Doon analytics that show this hill. Dobby is actually pretty good at creating these things. And I've highlighted a bunch of his dashboards before. But, yeah, that's the way I think about it.
00:08:17.088 - 00:08:53.640, Speaker A: That's the way I think about block space and the value of that block space. All right, so a great thread from Matt Cutler today. It's a 14 part thread where he starts off by saying a new mental model to help wrap your mind around 4337, aka account abstraction. And 4337 adds a new quote, unquote user intent layer upstream on top of the existing transaction flow. The big unlock, at least for Matt, is working backwards from the current Ethereum EOA or externally owned account model. So just an normal ethereum account model. So you can see here that he's put together an image showing this.
00:08:53.640 - 00:09:40.070, Speaker A: And I think my camera's covering a bit of the image here, but you can check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below, but it shows what it currently looks like at the top right, what the current externally earned account or EOA transaction flow looks like. A user has a non custodial wallet, which is an EOA and El way will sign a transaction, it will go to a mempool, then it will go to, obviously through the MeV boost lifecycle, go to a relay validator and then eventually end up on chain. Now with 4337, it changes this transaction flow. And as you can see here, user has a 4337 wallet and then 4337 intent. And then you can see on the bottom, it actually does a bunch of different things. It goes to an alt mempool, it goes to a searcher, it gets bundled up, the transaction gets signed, and then it all plays out.
00:09:40.070 - 00:10:38.682, Speaker A: And you can see here on the right hand side how on chain it actually plays out differently to how it would under an AOA. Now, I like the way he's actually visually displayed this because you can see here that the part where it actually happens, or where 4337 actually makes an improvement is that is the wallet interface there, not, I mean, obviously at the end it also makes an improvement on chain, but everything else pretty much remains the same. And you've got like an expansion here of the, of the wallet infrastructure, I guess like the wallet interface for the user. So that's that image there, which I said you can check out in the YouTube description below. But Matt actually breaks this down, breaks the whole image down for you in his thread. So I highly recommend giving it a read there if you haven't done so yet to understand this better. But I think getting your head around how 4337 works, why it's a big deal, why it's going to improve things for users, is definitely something that I think a lot of people should be doing these days.
00:10:38.682 - 00:11:22.524, Speaker A: Definitely something that I think all of you should be doing. And as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Now, this definitely talks to a lot of the stuff that I've been saying over the past few weeks where I feel like that wallets are finally going to get the upgrade that they've needed to get for quite a while now. It's finally a concerted effort and concerted push to adopt these standards and to make these things a reality. So it's great to see people like Matt breaking this down for everyone so that we can actually follow along and understand what's happening under the hood. But yeah, as I said, this will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so I talked the other day about how Arbitrum's airdrop isn't just to users, but is also to the various projects on the arbitrum network that have daos.
00:11:22.524 - 00:11:57.916, Speaker A: Now, the official list for this was released, I believe, yesterday, and it shows basically the allocations for each Dow arbitram app on on arbitrary here. So if I go to the actual list, it's here, it's on Google sheets. You can check it out for yourself, of course, but you can see here what each project will be getting in terms of Arb tokens. Now, treasure will be and GMX will be getting the most. They're getting 8 million Arb tokens each. Each. Now, if you obviously assume a $1 ARB price based on the fully diluted value of optimism, if Arbitrum is the same, it'll be around a dollar.
00:11:57.916 - 00:12:47.602, Speaker A: I think Treasurer and GMX are getting $8 million worth of ARB tokens to distribute to their users or to really do whatever they want with, right? It's going to the treasury of these daos. Now, you can see a bunch of other apps are also getting airdropped. A bunch of ARB tokens. Now one that I really wanted to highlight was protocol guild and actually put a tweet out here where I said the Arbitrum slash off chain Labs team Air dropping 3 million ARB tokens to protocol guild is so effing based. Love to see L2 supporting public goods. Now, as I just said, if the price of ARB is a dollar, right? If you assume the price of ARB is a dollar, then the protocol guild just got $3 million from from arbitrary, which is absolutely awesome to see. Obviously, you guys know I love the protocol guild, and it is an exception here in that it's not a, quote, unquote app on top of arbitrum.
00:12:47.602 - 00:13:34.134, Speaker A: But Arbitrum, or the off chain labs team wants to support public goods and Ethereum wants to support core protocol development. And that's exactly what they've done with airdropping these tokens to the protocol guild. Now, of course, Arbitrum isn't the only one to do this. Optimism has also done this with their retroactive public goods funding, and they're actually doing that through there. They're actually going through round two right now, where they're airdropping a bunch of op to various public goods within the Ethereum ecosystem. And I'm sure a lot of the other l two teams or L2 teams are going to follow here, especially when it comes to l two s that don't have a token yet, potentially airdropping a portion of that token to their, to the apps, obviously on, on their respective networks, but also to protocol guild and other public goods out there. And I just think it's awesome.
00:13:34.134 - 00:14:22.394, Speaker A: Like the whole point of the protocol guild is to get the projects that are building on top to donate a portion of their treasury in their OSC native token to the protocol guild. And it's been very successful at that, at that so far. It's been a year since they launched and they got $10 million in as part of their pilots, and their goal is obviously to get billions of dollars in eventually. Well, this is how we get there. You can imagine if they, you know, potentially hold on to the Arb tokens, or maybe they pay it out to their 130 core contributors and they hold onto those Arb tokens and they go up, you know, that's just great. It really does align incentives here, and I really think that it's a, it's a great way to ensure that the people building the core Ethereum infrastructure are awarded by the projects that are taking advantage of it. So very big kudos to off chain labs here for doing that.
00:14:22.394 - 00:14:54.394, Speaker A: But yeah, you can check out this full list for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I'm not sure exactly how each app will distribute these tokens. They'll probably do some kind of liquidity mining campaign, or maybe they'll airdrop it to their users based on a certain criteria, but I'm not totally sure here there is a bunch of tokens being given out to. I think it's like, it's a lot of projects, actually 137 different projects, but they all didn't get the same allocation. It seems to be the, I guess like top 30 gets the bulk of it. And then there's a bunch of other apps below that they get.
00:14:54.394 - 00:15:25.174, Speaker A: They get a bunch there, but you can check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And you can also read arbitram little thread about this as well, discussing the rationale and the reasoning behind this. All right, so a new piece of infrastructure has been revealed today, or unveiled today, called Turnkey, which is a simple, secure API for managing private keys. Now, I should disclose that I am an investor in Turnkey. I invested in them a little while ago. Now, their founders are from Coinbase.
00:15:25.174 - 00:15:39.488, Speaker A: They were actually building out a lot of Coinbase's private key infrastructure. They have. So they, for Coinbase custody. So they have a lot of experience here. So if you go to the turnkey website, you can actually learn more about them. Obviously you can learn about them in their blog post here. They raise a $7.5
00:15:39.488 - 00:16:17.056, Speaker A: million seed round, of which obviously I just said that I was a part of. And you can join their waitlist sign up here. But basically, managing private keys, especially for enterprises, is something of a hassle from a variety of different kind of perspectives. I think the number one perspective, or the number one reason is security. Obviously you want to manage your private keys in a way that keeps them as secure as possible. Now, Coinbase custody has, or Coinbase generally has been the gold standard for this. As far as I know, there has never been a hack or a leak or anything happened, happened to Coinbases.
00:16:17.056 - 00:17:11.978, Speaker A: Cold wallets and hot wallets, because they go through a very convoluted process, to be honest, of generating their private keys and keeping them secure. And they actually detail this process. They go as far as having kind of like these tents that they go into that block out all the other signals and everything, and they generate the private keys and they do this ceremony where they generate them and then they use them and they secure them in a way where obviously that aren't, they aren't detailing the way they secure this, but it's pretty sophisticated. Now, as I said, that the people working on Turnkey, a bunch of them, especially the founders, are ex Coinbase, they worked on this sort of stuff at Coinbase. So they definitely know what they're doing here. And you can see here that basically what the, what they've built is a simple and powerful API for developers to kind of plug into in order to manage private keys in a secure and simple way. So if that sounds like something that you are interested in, you can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:17:11.978 - 00:18:07.940, Speaker A: And you may be wondering why I'm bringing this up and what this has to do with Ethereum. I'm not just bringing this up because I'm an investor in them. What it has to do with Ethereum is that obviously Ethereum works like every other blockchain out there with public private key pairs, so making it easier for developers to build their wallets to generate things like this, to generate, especially for institutional clients, Ethereum wallets, and to secure Ethereum wallets in a better and more robust way, and for applications to do this as well is obviously critically important to Ethereum's future. So that's why I backed this team, obviously, because I think this is something that is definitely solely needed, and I think it's going to be a huge level up for obviously Ethereum infrastructure, but also crypto infrastructure more broadly. Now you can go check this out. As I said, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so a big announcement out of CCP games here.
00:18:07.940 - 00:18:55.754, Speaker A: Now this is an unfortunate name. This is not the chinese communist party games. This is the game developer behind Eve Online, which is a very popular, or traditionally being a very popular mmo. So you can see here that they've actually raised $40 million in financing, led by a 16 z, to create a new aaa game within the Eve universe utilizing blockchain technology. Now, Paul and I had the best, I think, take on this, where they started off this thread by saying this is the first project by a major game developer using blockchain tech that makes some sense to break down my interpretation of what's happening here. For the most part, it'll likely be a traditional mmo with an economic focus like Eve online. However, the problem with Eve online is there was never a conversion between in game currency and fiat to evade regulation.
00:18:55.754 - 00:19:38.042, Speaker A: Crypto will allow CCP to skirt regulations while also having an in game currency to natively have value. This will definitely not solve Eve's problems with inequality, unfair griefy economics, exploitive Ponzi's, but it'll make it easier and more transparent. The other enhancement is by having some systems on chain, though it remains to be seen exactly what this is. Hopefully it'll enable a novel gameplay. So I definitely agree with this take. I've been cautiously optimistic on blockchain games generally, but where I think they make a lot of sense is the games that want to have in game economies, and Eve Online is the poster child for that. Eve Online has the, as far as I know, the biggest in game economy of any game, and especially in terms of age and persistence, because it's an online game.
00:19:38.042 - 00:20:54.460, Speaker A: So I think that the CCP games, the creator of Eve Online, can definitely create a really cool game within the Eve universe, taking advantage of all the benefits that Polynya outlined here when it comes to transparency and basically being able to create an on chain economy that allows for going from in game to fiat and back again and stuff like that. So I am definitely cautiously optimistic about this. Now, they have a lot of money, obviously, with $40 million funding led by a 16 z here, to make this a reality and to build this out. I'm not sure exactly when this is going to go live or when it's going to be playable or anything like that, but I think if anyone can pull off a proper game or a full triple a game with proper crypto features, proper in game economies built on crypto technology, it would be the CCP games here. Now, I'm very curious to know what technology they're using to utilize this or what chain they're going to be using. I don't know if they've detailed it, I haven't looked at their docs yet. But who knows? Will they be using a new layer one chain? Will they be using a L2 and existing infrastructure? I think that they should obviously use a L2 for this and not, probably not a roll up, but like a validium like construction where they store the data off chain and they have the proofs on chain and they can scale really, really high.
00:20:54.460 - 00:21:17.472, Speaker A: They could probably tap immutable and polygon for this. I discussed their partnership yesterday about how Immuno's gonna be launching their own ZKVM. Who knows? Or maybe they'll make their own thing, you know, in house. Maybe they'll make their own technology in house to suit their needs. That might be more likely just because they probably have a lot of things that they want to have control over. Or maybe they'll fork the existing technology and make their own thing. We'll have to see.
00:21:17.472 - 00:22:11.918, Speaker A: And if you guys have any additional insight on this, be sure to let me know in the YouTube district, in the YouTube comments, or on discord. But yeah, very, very cool to see this. As I said, I'm cautiously optimistic about it, and I'll keep you guys updated on the progress here. All right, so another update on the Euler exploit. Now, this update is a bit of a funny one. So the Ronin Bridge exploit us. So the Ronin bridge was the bridge as part of the Axie Infinity ecosystem that was exploited by the Lazarus Lazarus group, which is north korean affiliated, they actually sent a message to the Euler finance exploiter saying decrypt with the private key of such and such on GitHub, which was apparently, I think, an attempted phishing attack in order to get the oil exploiter to sign something or do something that would allow the Ronin bridge exploit are to access the funds.
00:22:11.918 - 00:22:54.400, Speaker A: Now, the reason why this is this is funny is because is this psyops, like, is the Euler exploit, are the north the same as the Ronin Bridge exploiter and they're just doing this in order to, to fool people? Or did they do this because the oil exploiter sent a bit of funds to the Ronan Bridge exploit are. And there's basically being like, hey, you know, send the rest of the funds here, or are they doing this because they think that they can fool the oil exploiter into doing this? I don't know. It's weird. As I said, the oil exploit seems to be one of the weirdest ones that I've come across. And this just adds to the weirdness here. And Hudson Jameson has a thread here where he says the repo linked by the Ronin hacker has a vulnerability in the elliptic library. It's a trick so they can steal money from the oil exploiter.
00:22:54.400 - 00:23:20.954, Speaker A: So obviously don't interact with that library yourself either. But yeah, just another weird turn in the, in the kind of like events surrounding the Euler exploit. There's no additional news here on funds being returned or anything like that. But really all they have to do if they want to return the funds is send the funds back to the oiler con, the Euler finance team. That's all they have to do. Literally it. You don't have to download any fancy programs or do any fancy other stuff and message parsing.
00:23:20.954 - 00:23:35.510, Speaker A: Just send the funds back. That, that's all they have to do. So, you know, maybe that, maybe they listen to the refuel. That's all you have to do. Please do that. You know, be a good, be a good person, do that. And I think you'll make a lot of people happy if you do that.
00:23:35.510 - 00:24:16.024, Speaker A: But anyway, just wanted to give you guys an update there on that and highlight that because I thought it was just another weird piece of information or news, I guess, in this saga that is the Euler exploit. All right, so just a quick shout out here. I've talked about Farcaster before and about how it is an alternative to Twitter. It's basically a Twitter clone that's trying to do Twitter in a decentralized way. Well, now you can actually use it on the web so you don't have to use it on your mobile, on just your mobile anymore or on just Mac OS. You can use it on the web across any basically operating system or browser that you want to. So now using Warpcast@warpcast.com
00:24:16.024 - 00:24:38.594, Speaker A: comma, you can log in with a QR code. You will have access to your home feed and notifications, ability to cast like and recast. And this is obviously especially useful for Windows and Linux users. Now, I connected my, my account to this on desktop. It was a really, really straightforward procedure. It worked very well. And now I can send casts via the desktop app for Warpcast here.
00:24:38.594 - 00:25:13.432, Speaker A: Now the Farcaster has been actually a pretty active platform for a little while. I've gone on there a few times and seen a lot of people sending casts, a lot of people interacting on there. Some people will mirror their tweets to Farcaster to kind of have them published both on there. Traditionally, for me, I haven't really used it because I haven't been able to use it on desktop. I don't actually do much, I don't actually use my phone very often. I don't do much tweeting from my phone or anything like that. So having the ability to do these kind of things on desktop is obviously a big boon for me and probably, probably is for you guys as well.
00:25:13.432 - 00:25:56.132, Speaker A: Now, I think that in terms of the top two kind of front running decentralized social media applications right now, it would have to be lens and Farcaster. And they seem to be going after different segments of the market. I think Farcaster definitely wants to be a true alternative to Twitter, wants to keep most things the same in terms of interface, but integrate with web3, integrate with crypto related things, and make that whole experience more seamless, whereas lens, they definitely want to do that too, but they're creating their own kind of ecosystem. They're experimenting a lot more with things. They have their own things. Like, you know, you have a dot lens name, right, that you can, that you can attach to your, to your lens profile and things like that. And I like this, I like the experimentation that we're seeing here.
00:25:56.132 - 00:26:32.834, Speaker A: You guys know that I've said, I've kind of discussed before about all the issues with decentralized social media that I've seen and about how I think that the only thing that really needs to be decentralized is the social graph. And once that's decentralized, you can kind of have portability there and you can integrate with crypto features and all that good stuff there. Well, that's exactly what I think platforms like Farcaster and lens are trying to do. So you can go check out both of them for yourself. I believe Farcaster is still invite only. If it is, I do have invites, so I think I have like 70 invites. So if you do want to check out Farcaster and you don't have access to it yet, you can tag me in the Discord channel.
00:26:32.834 - 00:26:58.010, Speaker A: Maybe I'm going to regret saying this, but you can tag me in the Discord channel and I'll get to you. And if I miss you, you can tag me again and I'll send you an invite to farcaster to check out for yourself there. But only on Discord, not on YouTube comments or anything like that. And not on Twitter. DM's just on discord. If you, if you do have the ability to dm me on Discord, because you already have an open line of communication there, you can do that as well. I'm not going to dm you first because there's too many scammers.
00:26:58.010 - 00:27:21.076, Speaker A: But yeah, in the public Discord channel or through DM's, you can shoot me an ask there for a farcaster invite and I'll be sure to get to that when I can. Obviously, I might be slow, especially if I'm sleeping, but I'll get to it when I can. Then you can check out Farcaster for yourself. But on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:27:21.076 - 00:27:24.844, Speaker A: Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
