00:00:09.850 - 00:00:32.674, Speaker A: Morning, good afternoon. Good evening everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of Ethg Global. And welcome to the Ave Grant Dow Summit. So all of you are watching this thing on ETHGlobal TV. This is the live platform we're using for all of the talks today. Keep in mind that as we run the rest of the talks, if you have any questions for our panelists, you can ask all those questions directly on the chat.
00:00:32.674 - 00:00:58.462, Speaker A: And also, everybody who logs into the chat will get a POAP NFT token for your participation. So be sure to say hi and ask any questions. This event is organized by EIF Global. And for those of you who don't know what ETH Global is, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to get thousands of developers into the Web three ecosystem. And we primarily do this by running hackathons and Summits. So ETH Online is our biggest event of the year.
00:00:58.462 - 00:01:26.674, Speaker A: And so far in ETH Global's history, we have over 1150 hackers from 77 different countries participating in the hackathon from 19 different time zones. On top of that, we're doing an incredible set of Summits to talk about everything that's happening in our ecosystem. We had our first Summit last Friday, which was on NFTs and Creators. Today is the Ave Grant Style summit. Tomorrow will be our governance and Dow Summit. And next week is filled with or. The next few weeks are also filled with amazing Summits.
00:01:26.674 - 00:02:07.230, Speaker A: So we're going to cover the compound grants ecosystem on the 7th on October eigth, we're going to talk about everything that's happening in the world of DevTools. And October 15 is going to be the finale of our hackathon where we're going to talk about all the top projects as well as talk about the future of E Two. So let's get into the Ave Grants ecosystem. We have an amazing setup just set lined up today. We're going to kick us off with a couple of remarks from Stani from Ave. Then we're going to go into a panel around just the landscape around how grants are set up in the DeFi ecosystem. Then Trias is going to talk about the feature of Aave Grant style.
00:02:07.230 - 00:02:48.850, Speaker A: And then we're going to talk about what does it mean to successfully receive a grant from the Ave ecosystem. And we're going to have a showcase on some of the incredible projects that have been funded by the Ave Grants program. And they're going to talk about what they're working on and how you may get involved. And then lastly, we'll have shreyas give some closing remarks on how they are thinking about the future of Ave Grants. And there'll be a wrap. So before we kick off with our very first talk, I want to welcome Stani, who is the founder and CEO of Ave, to share some opening remarks on the future of the Aave ecosystem. So without further ado, let's welcome Stani.
00:02:50.070 - 00:04:13.774, Speaker B: Thank you, Karthik, for the great introduction. And it's amazing that we have been able to have this opportunity to organize the Grants Dow Summit. And I think it global has done a lot of good work in terms of expanding the developer ecosystem and culture around, not just in Ethereum, but in the web3 space in general. And the Avocrans Dow Summit is quite important, especially because the objective of Grants Dow is to propagate culture and especially the developer culture around the different ecosystems that we have in not just decentralized finance, but in web3 and especially the Ava Grants Dows mission is pretty much to propagate this culture within the Ava ecosystem. And grants can be anything, essentially. They can be small pull request into current infrastructure that there is in the protocol, the front end that is community governed at the moment, or any other kind of a tooling that relates into the ecosystem. Or it can be just something that benefits beyond what Ava is today.
00:04:13.774 - 00:05:55.886, Speaker B: And I would say kind of like the vision for everything is that these protocols and all the tools and everything that is created in open source fashion should be owned and governed by the community and should be something. That will help and inspire newcomers and other developers to build new things and also educate themselves and learn more about what is decentralization, why it's important, and why we need to nurture this culture. And decentralization is especially important because not for the perspective of being able to build things anywhere from any part of the world and contribute code, but also being able to participate and govern these protocols. Because if we don't actively govern the protocols, essentially we lose the power of decentralization, which means having a wider consensus on protocols that in the future will be maybe servicing hundreds of millions or even billions of users. So this is kind of a short introduction on the grant style Summit. And during this Summit, it's important that we are able to give you as much as context on what these grant styles are actually doing and what kind of grants you can apply for different kinds of projects that you're building, how to contribute and how to find also friends to help you to contribute into. And we will delve into multiple grant style programs and that's about it.
00:05:56.068 - 00:06:14.494, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, thank you so much for that intro, Stani. And I think this is a perfect segue for our very first panel. So for this, I'm going to introduce four amazing people. Stani from Ave, who's already here. We'll invite Robert Leschner from compound. Boris from the Uniswap grants ecosystem and moderating.
00:06:14.494 - 00:06:28.200, Speaker A: This chat will be Imran from DeFi Alliance, and we'll kind of COVID what the entire DeFi grant landscape looks like and some of the lessons learned. So without further ado, let's welcome all of our amazing panelists and let them kick this off.
00:06:30.170 - 00:06:30.582, Speaker B: Awesome.
00:06:30.636 - 00:06:54.050, Speaker C: Thank you so much. Kartik. And so I was a part of the Ave's grant staO and I've been interviewing many of the applicants there and what I've realized is that many people don't really know how to interact with grant. Maybe, you know, we'll start with could you talk a bit about the importance of establishing a grant staO and how has that been so far from a process perspective? And maybe we could start with you, Robert.
00:06:54.550 - 00:08:06.680, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think the importance is extremely high. It doesn't matter whether it's Aave, Compound, every new protocol being built by community members, once a protocol gets to a certain size, the number of contributors starts to scale far beyond an initial team that created the protocol or application. And so in order to organize this, at some point you have to have a different type of structure. One approach that some organizations have tried is having a central company or foundation organize grants. But I think for a crypto native protocol like Aave or Compound or MakerDAO, what I think will work best is actually having a decentralized process to award grants to the community. And there's a blurry set of lines between ongoing participants, contributors, RFP and bounty hunters. But at the end of the day, if you have a global and decentralized community of people contributing to a protocol, the easiest way to organize that is with a Dao type structure in which applications and participants can interact directly with Dao and there's not decentralized bottlenecks to its success.
00:08:10.670 - 00:08:13.580, Speaker C: And Boris or Stan, if you have anything else to add to that.
00:08:14.350 - 00:08:57.080, Speaker E: No, I totally agree. Just the other day I was talking to other Unisoft grant program committee members and we came to the conclusion that it's better to have more people trying and failing at things than to have five people executing flawlessly crypto. Right now it's all about innovation, different ideas, and yeah, you just need to include as many people as possible because if many people try enough times, there will be great ideas coming. And that's what these projects need, I think.
00:08:58.730 - 00:10:17.442, Speaker B: Yeah, I could add pretty much agree what Robert and Boris said. And I think the interesting part is especially the fact that the founding teams usually try to kind of like kickstart an idea, build a protocol. And usually protocols aren't actually monoliths, they're just something that inspires others to build new things on top or improve the protocol, create additional features, and essentially giving a birth to something that has ongoing development. And this is nothing new in terms of open source development. This is how Linux has developed until this date. I think what's interesting is that we're just living in a time where now essentially we can in an open source, open, kind of like in an open system and in a transparent way, actually contribute into financial protocols that actually bring a lot of efficiency, transparency into the financial system. And at the same time, now it's possible to anyone kind of any part of the world just to contribute and improve this financial system.
00:10:17.442 - 00:11:15.270, Speaker B: And I think what's especially important is that what the grant styles and all these programs are trying to achieve is that there's strong enough community to being able to take a community owned project and being able to do the operations that is involved and also continue building. And it's not an easy task because the space is very young, meaning that we don't have enough necessarily professionals and people that can help. And it takes a bit of time to get into a level where there's sufficient amount of community developers that are actually taking care of the code base. But it's a process, end of the day. And this is what the grant programs is all about. And also tooling. Because if you go a couple of years back, building DeFi or any kind of like a ethereum based application and smart contracts wasn't as simple and easy as it is today.
00:11:15.270 - 00:11:22.070, Speaker B: So definitely tooling is something we always can put more effort into and have more grants.
00:11:24.010 - 00:11:58.500, Speaker C: Boris, you mentioned something which was quite intriguing, which is getting as grants as to many people as possible that have a really good idea. Previously in the web Two world if people had an idea they actually had to go out and get venture funding for it. But now those ideas could come to life and bring in products much faster into the ecosystem. So I guess what were some learnings on that regard? You mentioned giving grants to a bunch of teams. How has that been, how has been the reaction to that and how has it helped Uniswap in this regard?
00:11:59.590 - 00:13:13.450, Speaker E: Yeah, it helped immensely. For example, the tooling was mentioned so Uniswap grant funded. For example, in first four months we funded two Python SDKs and you can see that some of the developers and builders prefer one while the others prefer the second depending on their needs or how they're used to code. The first one is much simpler, it doesn't offer as many possibilities so people use it for some quick projects or like a bot or something while the other one gives you full control and then if they want to go really serious with their project, they'll use this one. We kind of think that enthusiasm is more important than the actual thing that people are working on, because if you have enthusiasm, you might spread it around to people that have really good ideas. And we want to encourage that enthusiasm. And, yeah, at the end, it's important what you're working on.
00:13:13.450 - 00:13:54.470, Speaker E: But even if it's a small project, we welcome you to the Uniswap grant program. Family, you join our slack. You join the discussions. You can contribute to other projects. Yeah, we had a couple of members like that. One member was working on a really simple Twitter bot and then he joined all kinds of different discussions and projects opening pull requests, documenting stuff, and yeah, we just want to reward this enthusiasm and the correct ideas will come along eventually if you have enough people really working and thinking about the protocol.
00:13:57.470 - 00:14:25.540, Speaker C: Awesome, thank you. So there's another area that I learned from this conversation, which is accessibility. It's incredible that people all over the world can get access to this grant, whereas previously it was very hard to get funding. How has that shaped the ecosystem and developer ecosystem for all the protocols? And what have you seen that work really well? And maybe, Stani, I could start with you.
00:14:27.270 - 00:15:32.466, Speaker B: Well, I think grants program, they aren't that super new. I mean, Ethereum Foundation had their grants program and what I see it's interesting is kind of like it definitely sparked some innovation and gave some incentives to create and contribute. So definitely it's a way to kind of kick start the ecosystem. And before the community grants program, ava had its own internal grants program and I think we funded over 50 different grants. So I think over a period of time, this decentralized Dow based grants program will just expand. But also it might speed up a lot of the development and actually maybe projects that normally you wouldn't necessarily want to do from kind of like economical perspective. For example, it might be tooling or something that is very valuable for the ecosystem, but maybe it doesn't have some sort of like a protocol perspective or a product perspective, but it's just very valuable.
00:15:32.466 - 00:15:38.310, Speaker B: So definitely in those cases, they are very helpful programs.
00:15:41.280 - 00:15:43.760, Speaker C: Robert or Boris, do you have anything to add to that?
00:15:43.910 - 00:16:37.836, Speaker D: Yeah, I think the thing that's magical about it is that you can have people participate that otherwise would not be working in DeFi. You can have people participate with part of their time. You can have people participate in ways that they didn't think were possible before. And I think an open program has the opportunity to grow the sort of ecosystem of DeFi contributors in ways that weren't imaginable even a couple of years ago. And I think that's really cool. One of the things that you see in these grants ecosystems are contributors that are also learning new skills in order to be able to contribute. And I think in a way, this is kind of like the new aged business school or coding boot camp in that you're having people growing their, in some ways, professional careers with protocols.
00:16:37.836 - 00:17:20.990, Speaker D: And this is entirely new. What I find really exciting about that is that you can have people who are anonymous or known and reputable entities and everything in between contributing and it just leads to such a different format of participation than anything we've seen in traditional software, traditional finance, and traditional markets. This is entirely new and the way that you contribute is entirely new and that's really cool. And I think it's going to evolve. I think there's going to be best practices that emerge and things that change and I think five years from now the way a grants organization works might be a little bit different but the core of it is just so novel that I think this is the future.
00:17:23.280 - 00:17:24.652, Speaker C: Yeah, good burst.
00:17:24.796 - 00:18:37.960, Speaker E: Yeah, I just wanted to add one thing. So grant program are always, doors are always open but when giving out grants we are really careful to not do any kind of king making for example. So one good example with Uniswap was when V Three was launched, then you had an opportunity to move your liquidity around to maximize the profits. And we had a lot of projects sending application for a grant, and we thought that there's already such a big financial incentive that we shouldn't really do something in this space this early. Maybe later if there will be some contract audit, something like that then that's okay. But you don't want to get involved in things like that to skew the open sourceness and promote somebody who maybe is just lucky that you chose him because he was early. So yeah, the grants doors are always open for contribution but when giving out grants you need to be a bit careful with what you're saying with that grant that you're giving out.
00:18:37.960 - 00:19:10.384, Speaker E: So it takes a lot of thinking and yeah, the projects that follow the ethos of your core project is really important. So decentralization and open source. So it's not so simple with giving out grants. Maybe there are some great projects that you think will do great but they are not good candidates for a grant. So that's just a detail that I wanted to point out, I guess.
00:19:10.422 - 00:19:26.090, Speaker C: On that note, what are some of the challenges that each of the Dows are going through and how are you thinking about either finding next possible solution or is this just learning challenges? We just love to learn a little bit more about that.
00:19:27.660 - 00:20:40.124, Speaker D: I'll start just because I have a very visible example. So yesterday there was a new proposal that was launched in the compound community that actually had a bug in it and it led to a lot of comp being distributed to users that weren't expecting it and didn't deserve it. Or it was basically a bug that sent lots of this stockpile of comp meant for user distribution to random users. And this actually was a proposal that was created specifically to solve an RFP that was put up by the Compound Grants community. And I think this highlights the fact that you have a much wider surface area of development and contributors and errors can occur, they can be deliberate. We saw in Sushi Swap a few weeks ago, a contributor was malicious and deliberately tried to undermine the protocol and you can have accidents and the larger the surface area of public contribution the more risk that you add to the process just from things that can go wrong perspective. And I don't think this is a bad thing.
00:20:40.124 - 00:21:38.960, Speaker D: I think long term, the more contributors you have, the faster you can move and the larger you can grow. But I do think it highlights the fact that as you start to include sensitive work into a grant process, that the seriousness of additional layers of security also have to increase as well. And so I just think this highlights the sort of like technical risks of a grants process for changes to a core protocol or critical system. Whether it's a front end or protocol systems built entirely on top compartmentalize the risk much better. If you're incentivizing, hey, build this module that sits purely on top of the protocol, that can't add any risk to the underlying system, that's different. But when you start to touch the core systems and enable the community to touch the core systems, it changes the sort of threshold of risk.
00:21:44.280 - 00:22:46.600, Speaker B: I can maybe add that. I definitely agree. That's also something that scares me a lot in the sense how the grants that are kind of like core contributions into the core code or anything close or let's say into the user interface that kind of affect the whole process. And either the application the smart contract, like how it will be secure blockchain practically kills confidence in the sense that even if you review things multiple times there might be something there that the contributor didn't see or reviewers didn't see. And it happens because it's pretty much humans are coding. And that's one of the things. And what amazes me still and what I think is a big challenge is that there is a lot of funding available for pretty much any kind of like a code contribution and improvement.
00:22:46.600 - 00:23:27.510, Speaker B: But I think the market isn't yet there where there's enough people coming in with expertise, enough diligent, and there's processes in place where there is multiple audits and these kind of procedures to contribute very safely the code. And I think the mishmash is between having the funding is there but then there isn't enough actual contributors and processes in place and how to get these two parts closer together. And I think that's kind of like a challenge that we see a bit everywhere now.
00:23:29.800 - 00:24:24.150, Speaker C: Yeah, it's almost like you have this incredible, diverse group of developers that are actively supporting your protocol in so many different aspects and it's just putting a little bit more process structure, just making a better understanding of how the milestones are hit and supporting their protocols moving forward. And there's just going to be a lot of learnings behind that as well. So Robert, thank you for sharing that. So I guess from this perspective, from now till like a year from now to two years from now, let's say, what are some of the areas that you'd like to provide grants for? Obviously there's people that are building know protocols that can help connect with or hook know, ave, compound or uniswap, but ultimately a year or two years from now. What are some success stories that you'd like to hear based on the grants you give today? Boris, you could go first.
00:24:25.740 - 00:26:00.470, Speaker E: Yeah, well, for me personally, I do a lot of community and people engagement stuff, and my goal is to lower the barrier of entry, to participate with some kind of a crypto project as low as possible. So you don't need to have advanced solidity skills to be able to feel like you're contributing to a project and to feel part of the project. So, yeah, that's my main goal, that anybody who decides two years from now, this uniswap thing looks interesting, I have this set of skills, can I somehow contribute to it and get rewarded for it? That answer is mostly yes. And that's one of my personal goals, to be honest. Other than that, it's just to make the if there will be a grant program in two years that it gets within itself more decentralized. Because right now you have a committee of maybe five to six people that yeah, everybody is really careful with reviewing applications, thinking about them, weighing all the options, but maybe make it more open. So people from the outside can also do some kind of reviews and things like that just to come up with this process of how the Cryptocurrency grant program should look like in the open source world.
00:26:00.470 - 00:26:12.250, Speaker E: But it's so early that we are still trying to find the right approach and right now it's not perfect. It obviously is. Yeah.
00:26:16.470 - 00:26:28.422, Speaker C: Stani, if you want to go next and I'll caveat by saying I saw a really cool submission the other day where someone wanted to build out a mobile app for Aave, which I thought was quite interesting, but go ahead.
00:26:28.476 - 00:27:55.566, Speaker B: Oh, yeah, I mean, that was one of the coolest ones because it showcases what Robert said, that you don't need necessarily to be a smart contract developer and contribute, but you can just start what you actually know and go from there and learn. And something like a mobile wallet is a very good example where you can contribute from kind of like web two perspective and just connect the web3 components. And that is why I've seen in the future, the more there is long hanging fruits, the more we get developers in because it's easier to make contributions into something that is less complex. Also because many of the newcomers might contribute on their spare time and they might be working in a tech company as full time. I think in terms of what could be a successful idea is that we have actually people, developers might be community members that are working for DAOs directly, but also working in a way, in an inclusive way where they're contributing to different kinds of DAOs. So let's say we have a developer that is making code contributions into the compound ecosystem, makes the same way into the Aave ecosystem. Maker ecosystem and uniswap ecosystem.
00:27:55.566 - 00:28:20.730, Speaker B: And we have this kind of like a inclusive way of building these protocols together that will be very successful path in terms of how you could participate in the future as a community member. And I think that's the way to learn more and kind of not just learn more technology, but learn also ecosystems and culture.
00:28:23.470 - 00:28:47.140, Speaker C: Yeah, that's actually an interesting point because I've seen many applicants that come in that actually bring in create dashboards for abbit, but they also do that for Compound and others as well. So it could be really cool to see something where we'll see a contributor that's actively supporting many protocols and there could be some sort of shared incentives of supporting this from a grants perspective. But Robert, feel free to add.
00:28:49.450 - 00:28:51.334, Speaker D: Yeah, I just want to echo what everybody.
00:28:51.372 - 00:29:48.520, Speaker C: Else said, strong points. If let's talk about today and we're seeing a lot of excitement around grants and a lot of cool tooling and things like that. What would you like to see if you had to divvy up all the kind of sectors that we could support, whether it's tooling, whether it's DeFi or just protocols, they're hooking into the protocols and other miscellaneous services. What area is most important for each protocol if you have to give it your six months? I know I've seen compounds RPS and I think that's a really good way to signal to the community of exactly what you want built. But if you had to give your six month goal of what would you like done that hasn't been done yet, what would that be? Ultimately, we're in front of hundreds of developers today and so this could be a good way for them to think about what they should be building next.
00:29:51.450 - 00:30:49.020, Speaker D: I'll start just because I think it's relatively different from other protocols. And I think at the end of the day, every protocol has its own goals, its own purposes. Like a great example is Uniswap is really looking for an ecosystem around Uniswap. At Compound, we've really spent a lot of time starting to push the community forward in developing the core protocol itself. What I'd like to see in six months is a whole decentralized team of developers that are able to make improvements to the core compound protocol, add new functionality and really upgrade this system that has been operating for a really long time. And it's very focused on the core and not peripheral systems built on top or alongside of it. We've dabbled as a community and other approaches, but I think what Compound is focused on is really core development and decentralizing that.
00:30:55.750 - 00:31:57.540, Speaker E: Yeah, so maybe I can continue. So Robert is right, uniswap is not looking for core contribution, it's more looking for everything on the outside and the weakest point of the whole Uniswap project, it's the Uniswap app which is only centralized part of the uniswap and people there were some bad experiences where there were scammy deployments of an app. And I would just like for the core uniswap developed interface for uniswap to be less dominant and that there are suitable alternatives so we get decentralized at this part as well. Smart contracts, they can't be changed, anybody can deploy a new pool or make a swap. But this one core piece is still somewhat centralized and I would like to see that changed in the future.
00:32:02.060 - 00:33:41.912, Speaker B: Yeah, I would say that now in the I mean, it's pretty much up to the Ava community to decide how the whole community developers will structure themselves. There is code contributions all the time, but kind of like what path to take. I personally would love to see maybe also more core contributions but also building some of the parts on top that is part of the core core but expansion, but also the ability to improve the whole system in general. Is something very interesting because essentially what's interesting about, let's say, Ave and Compound is that they are systems that are running completely autonomously and at the same time there is so called like a collateral element there. These are very much protocols that require a lot of expertise and a very strong community to uphold. And I think this is something we're looking as well, like how we can make it possible that we get core contributions and how to establish especially how to establish a process where these contributions can be some diligent way reviewed and mitigated from risk perspective. So this is something that I'm personally looking into.
00:33:41.912 - 00:33:49.050, Speaker B: And of course tooling, I think Tooling is important, especially if it helps all of the projects across web3.
00:33:52.220 - 00:34:33.130, Speaker C: Now in the process of giving a grant today, the way it works usually is that someone applies for a grant, they get interviewed and then they'll know whether or not they'll get a grant. Some may get payments upfront, some they have like a DyCO model where they'll get payments based on milestones. What has worked and what hasn't worked and what would you like to see moving forward from that side? And just to explain like Daiko model is a model that was proposed by Vitalik which is more or less kind of like milestone based incentives. And so yeah, what are some models that you think may work for this? And I've seen pros and cons for both.
00:34:38.540 - 00:35:47.708, Speaker B: Well, I can quickly jump in. So there is definitely like Daiko model is interesting because I think the issue why Daiquos hasn't picked up maybe is because of the name and association to ICOs a bit. But I've seen for example in the Avagochi ecosystem they have a Dai coin. It's interesting, like how kind of like there is like a tap where there is monthly payment for the Genesis team there to develop the metaverse, but at the same time nothing stops to create another kind of like a tap to develop some other part of the ecosystem. So. I definitely agree that the milestones are a good way to compensate, but also, I mean, if there is trust involved and contributors are committing into the ecosystem, what can be done is just like a lump sum payments. I also like the ability to stream payments and I think we've been looking into Superfluid and I don't know, Robert probably can explain more, but I think Compound has this streaming as well going on.
00:35:47.874 - 00:36:15.930, Speaker D: Yeah, we have a system internal to the Compound protocol which looks very similar to that which does streaming, where you can have basically a streaming comp grant. And there's obviously external tools which might be long term an easier approach because it doesn't have to become part of the core protocol. But Compound's comp governance system can stream comp to contributors and there's, I believe, two active streaming grants to contributors currently.
00:36:21.740 - 00:37:18.360, Speaker E: Yeah, for Uniswap, the different models work differently and there's not the right approach. I think it all depends on the situation and what the project is. But just today we had like a wave five announced of the Uniswap grants and you'll see like four or five continuations of a project. So we agreed on the feature set for the initial grant and then that grant went great and a lot of success around it, so we continued support of it. So it's somewhat like a Daiko model with milestones, but not exactly. And yeah, to be honest, in the Uniswap grant program, the money was never the most important part. We have a lot of part time contributors.
00:37:18.360 - 00:37:52.600, Speaker E: I think most of them know just integrating Uniswap into already existing products, so we support that partly. So not many people's lives and food on the table depends on the Uniswap grant program. The funding part was never really an issue. It was more about choosing the right grants and giving the opportunities to the right people and involving the right people in the Uniswap grants.
00:37:56.910 - 00:38:06.134, Speaker C: Great, thank you so much. I'm going to pass it over to Kartik. He has maybe one or two questions that he likes to ask audience. So I'll pass over to Kartik.
00:38:06.262 - 00:38:56.858, Speaker A: Awesome. That was an amazing discussion. I think there's been a handful of questions and some kind of very common themes that have kind of brought up on the chat. So I'll just kind of condense all that into a two part question. The first one is just overall, how do people find out about each of your grant programs and what can you tell about that just as a quick pitch and how people can learn more? The second part of that question is when people hear about ecosystem grants, they mostly assume that they have to kind of contribute to the technical piece of it. Is that true for each of your grant programs or what are some other ways people can get involved? Or do they always have to kind of work on something smart, contract related? So could you just clarify or maybe expand into how the program is set up. Is it based on a list of things that you want people to do or people can pick what they want to do or all that stuff around it.
00:38:56.858 - 00:39:04.800, Speaker A: So just a quick but also slightly detailed pitch on each of your programs. And maybe we can start off with.
00:39:08.690 - 00:39:48.974, Speaker B: Of I would start by following the Ave Grants Twitter handle and just look into updates and what's going on in the space. And also maybe join the Telegram group where there's other peers looking into building various different kinds of things and discord as well. But essentially you always need to build. Specifically anything technical grants can be also like educational, it can be anything else. I personally am not involved in the grant style or the grants itself, but.
00:39:49.012 - 00:39:51.102, Speaker E: This is how the process works from.
00:39:51.156 - 00:40:32.380, Speaker B: What I have seen. And yeah, I think what's important is that not taking any stress of these grants. Of course, if you propose something, propose in a way that you commit in building it and being as kind of like realistic as possible in describing on the time and what it takes to build. And also you can post it in a way that if you need more people but you're alone, maybe there's a way to find friends to help build from the community. So this is actually a very cool way to make friends as well. So I would suggest that as a road.
00:40:33.470 - 00:40:34.086, Speaker E: Awesome.
00:40:34.208 - 00:40:37.134, Speaker A: Maybe Boris can comment next.
00:40:37.332 - 00:41:36.830, Speaker E: Yeah, during this panel, I already mentioned that I personally try to keep the barrier of entrance the lowest possible. So one of the lowest barrier of entrance is every two weeks we have a community call and we're always looking for pop designs. So, yeah, design a pop for us. We're not really strict. We let you do your own thing, your own style, and you get to be the part of the Uniswap Dao. Of course there's like more complex stuff, building smart contracts, I don't know, the testing infrastructure, all those good things. But for example, if you see something cool that maybe other DeFi project has and you notice that Uniswap doesn't have it, you can just know, send an application, say, this looked really cool for Aave or Compound.
00:41:36.830 - 00:42:08.620, Speaker E: So I can create you this thing for Uniswap. So you can steal ideas, for example, a little bit. And yeah, there is no rule to it. If we think that the greater community will benefit from this, we will support it. You don't need to be only solidity developer and know the Web Three. So that's my answer to it.
00:42:09.390 - 00:42:12.730, Speaker A: Amazing. And I guess we'll close this out with Robert.
00:42:13.230 - 00:42:13.594, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:42:13.632 - 00:43:09.534, Speaker D: So anyone can get involved in compound grants. A lot of the outlined work right now is technical in nature, but there's always a lot of opportunity for those who are not technical to participate, whether it's in analyzing markets or interest rate models or playing on the economic side, creativity is welcomed. You can see a list of RFPs and opportunities that are available on Compoundgrants.org and there's also an active discord channel devoted specifically to grants in the and you know, fundamentally if you're interested in know, DeFi is an incredibly welcoming place. There's no right and wrong approach. I think we're all figuring this out as a community and as a society and as a series of DeFi protocols together. So if you're excited, check out Compound, check out Aave, check out Uniswap, check out all the other programs that are out there.
00:43:09.534 - 00:43:15.710, Speaker D: You'll find something exciting and hopefully a really good opportunity to participate and contribute.
00:43:16.610 - 00:43:40.180, Speaker A: That's an amazing note to end on. And yeah, I think the important thing is that everybody's figuring this out live and that just requires a lot of experimentation. So I think just getting involved helps you figure out what the right model is. So that's kind of where we're at. So thank you so much for that amazing discussion and thank you so much Emron, for facilitating. And with that we are ready to move on to our next talk.
