00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.670, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Dayguay refuel, where you cup the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is Dino 6 April 2024 alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing the last two days worth of episodes, everyone. Just unfortunate timing. I didn't have enough time to complete the, the refuels, so I kind of just skipped those days there. But you guys get a special SATA Gwei episode as it is there, and hopefully this episode will be a bit longer than usual to make up for the last two days of no episodes.
00:00:28.670 - 00:01:14.270, Speaker A: And I will also say that at the end of the episode, I'm going to be doing a nice that's bullish rant. I feel like we're in need of a bullish rant, given the, I don't know, perceived bearishness, I'm going to call it, of crypto, Twitter and other places around ETH lately. But without further ado, let's kick it off with the news from the last couple of days. So we had some ETF related news. Now, I really want to clarify some things around this because I saw some people get excited about this and I want to clarify things because I don't think it's stuff to be necessarily excited about. So the first bit of news was that the SEC has asked for public comment for grayscale Bitwise and Fidelity's spot ETH ETF's. Now, the reason why I say this is not something to get too excited about is it's because it's not really the back and forth that we expect to see from the SEC and the issuers, because this is something that the SEC is legally bound to do.
00:01:14.270 - 00:01:40.630, Speaker A: They have to ask for public comment from anyone, not just from the issuers on these ETF's. It's part of the entire, basically, you know, entire process as part of the legal process. And it has to happen. You know, if the ACC had already denied the ETF's and obviously it wouldn't have to happen, but it has to happen while the ETF's are still in flux here. So not necessarily anything really positive to point to. It's just kind of part of the motions, part of that paperwork was talking about. But, you know, I think people looked at this and they kind of got the wrong idea.
00:01:40.630 - 00:02:06.886, Speaker A: So that's why I wanted to kind of put that out there. And there was a second bit of ETF news here from, from Nate, where essentially there, this was basically JP Morgan saying that if there is no spot ETH ETF approval in May. Then we assume there is going to be a litigation process after Maze. And that was directly from one of JP Morgan's managing directors and global market strategists, Nicolais. I don't know how to say the surname here. You can see it on my screen. It's a long surname.
00:02:06.886 - 00:02:56.274, Speaker A: I'm not going to try and pronounce that. You guys know I'm terrible with that, but I mean, this is just confirming what we already know, right? Like, if the ETF's are denied in May, we're going to see grayscale sue, we're going to see probably other, other kind of issuers sue here. But we don't know what reason the SEC is going to use to deny the ETF's there. The two top reasons they can use in the two, I guess, reasons that people are speculating that they're going to use the first one is that the futures and spot correlation is weak. So the SEC will basically say it's too weak to approve an ETH ETF because there's possible manipulation and fraud going on in the ETH markets. And we know that's bullshit because we've seen two independent analysis done by bitwise and Coinbase showing that ETH ETH, its correlation between spot and futures is just as strong as btcs, if not stronger, on some timeframes. And we also saw the SEC's analysis, which no one has really been able to recreate, which showed it was weaker.
00:02:56.274 - 00:03:39.290, Speaker A: So if we've got two that have published their methodology and that aren't the SEC showing that it's strong, then I don't think that we should be listening to the SEC on that front. But, yeah, that's. That's the kind of first reason there. And the second reason people believe they're going to use is that they're going to say that ETH is an unregistered security and they cannot approve an ETF for an unregistered security. Now, I think that out of those two reasons, if they're going to use anyone, it would be the correlation. One, because using the security one, as I've mentioned before, just opens up these massive Pandora's box that, like, isn't just got to do with the ETF's now, it's got to do with, basically ETH as an asset, and it has much wider complicate complications and implications for crypto as a whole. So I don't think they're going to go down that road because it's just like the worst possible path.
00:03:39.290 - 00:04:26.998, Speaker A: Like it's, it's more than scorched earth. It's basically like, like a nuke essentially, into basically everything that we've having to deal with with regards to the regulatory kind of stuff going on in the US here. And the last thing I'll say on this, I don't want to spend too long on the ETF stuff today, but the last thing I'll say on this as well is that, you know, I think that we're getting closer and closer to May 23 here. I know I've said before that by mid April, you know, maybe even like into more late ish April, if we don't see anything between the SEC and the issuers, then I think it's pretty safe to say that the ETF's are not getting approved on May 23 there. But I think the general consensus is, is that everyone knows that the ETF's are going to get approved eventually anyway. So whether that happens on May 23 or otherwise, the general consensus is that these things are going to get approved. I, at this point in time, still believe that there is a chance they're going to get approved on May 23.
00:04:26.998 - 00:04:46.502, Speaker A: I'm pretty confident still, but that confident can change. Confidence can change rapidly. And, you know, you guys know my little meme. I do. On Twitter where I say study May 23. You know, I think people may have got the wrong idea about that because of my bullishness towards the ETF's getting approved. People took me saying study May 23 to be like, you know, study May 23 because that's going to be the date the ETF's are going to be approved.
00:04:46.502 - 00:05:16.976, Speaker A: But it's actually broader than that. And I, maybe I haven't done a really good job of explaining this before, but the reason why that date is so important is because whether there's a denial or an approval, there are so many broad implications of either of those decisions. If there is an approval, it basically means that the SEC can never, ever go after ETH as a security. Like, I mean, if they did that, they would be going against, not over the fact that they'll be going against themselves, essentially, and they already would because they already approved e futures. ETF's right. But they will be going against themselves even more. And I wouldn't say they can never go after ETH as a security.
00:05:16.976 - 00:05:54.456, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that, like, they would never be able to build a strong case because of the fact that they've already done these multiple things where they've shown that they don't believe that ETH is a security from like an agency perspective here. And two, it also opens up other crypto assets to basically not, maybe not be classified as like, you know, securities or not, but opens up the discussion there even further. Like the approval, I mean the approval is the best case. Obviously it's the positive case. But if there was a denial based on any reasons, I think there is obviously implications of that because then we start the circus of the SEC getting sued. What are the courts going to say? Are they just going to repeat what they say with the BTC ETF? Also I should say the grayscale BTC ETF case from back in October. Then there's a whole kind of thing there.
00:05:54.456 - 00:06:14.196, Speaker A: So May 23 isn't just an important date if the ETF's are approved. It's obviously going to be an important date if they're denied as well because it has broad implications for the ecosystem there. But anyway, enough on the ETF stuff. Don't want to spend too long on that. I think I'm going to talk more about the ETF stuff at the end when I do my bullish rant. Obviously the ETF's, you know, if approved, will be bullish. So I'm going to talk a lot about that.
00:06:14.196 - 00:06:43.524, Speaker A: But moving on from that stuff, just an update here on the Alexa, Pertsev and Roman storm trials. These guys are the Netacash developers for those of you who don't know. And there is a tweet thread here from the free Pertsev and Storm Twitter account which you can go read about all about the trial and everything. And it's basically summarizing everything that's been happening so far. So I won't read this out for you guys. I just wanted to highlight it for you guys to go check it out. And this is the account that you can follow for more updates on all of that there.
00:06:43.524 - 00:07:24.092, Speaker A: All right, moving on to some all core dev recap updates here. So there is a lot of talk obviously about Petra right now and everything kind of going into Petra. You know, we know that Max EB is probably going to be the headline aip of Petra, but there's a bunch of others that the core devs are discussing right now. So Andrew here put on Twitter basically a screenshot of Alex Stokes, his recap of the core devs course, you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. From what I saw, there was a lot of talk around Max eBay and around essentially like any edge cases that could happen. And I think one of the edge cases was that they need to be able to essentially do it so that there can't be any kind of funky stuff going in with the accounting of validators.
00:07:24.092 - 00:08:13.202, Speaker A: So I read on Twitter and I don't have the tweet in front of me, but essentially one of the issues that I believe has been fixed, there was a proposed fix put forward. And I think the core devs accepted that fixed. But one of the issues would be that there'd be an accounting error where essentially, if you were to like, consolidate validators, um, there could be, I don't know if I'd call it an attack, but there could be a, I guess, like a consequence where essentially the validators are consolidated, were able to get more rewards than they're otherwise allowed to get because of the fact that the, the chain, or I guess like the, the consensus layer, didn't handle the consolidation properly and there is a fix being put in place for that. Uh, I don't, as I said, I don't have the twin in front of me and I don't know, off the top of my head, but those are the kind of edge cases that need to be discussed. They need to be figured out. Those are the kind of things that you absolutely need to figure out before you put these things live on the network. And these are the kind of things that can be show stoppers for eips at times.
00:08:13.202 - 00:08:53.679, Speaker A: Right? Like if you say we get to like really late into the process of, of, of developing and designing Petra, and then essentially what happens is that someone finds a possible bug or some possible edge case that wasn't considered before that can lead to ERP is being dropped from upgrades. Uh, just because, because the core devs are very conservative, they wouldn't want to put something in where they have, you know, they've been working on it for months and months, and then suddenly there's this new edge case. But in saying that not edge case is, you know, created equal, not kind of every bug is created equal. So if it's a minor thing, it probably won't result in the ERP being removed, but it's more if it's like a major thing here. But I don't think that this is a showstopper for Max EB. It seems like we're just working through the motions here. But yeah, as I said, you can go check out the tweet.
00:08:53.679 - 00:09:17.704, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. It's got all of the relevant information from the latest all core devs call here. All right, moving on. So Tony has tweeted out about EIP 7623, which is aiming to reduce the maximal possible, a maximum possible El payload size from 2.8 megabytes to 1.2 megabytes. This adjustment sets the stage for increasing the number of blobs and or the block gas limit in the future.
00:09:17.704 - 00:10:12.162, Speaker A: So essentially, this is basically swapping out one part of, I guess, like Ethereum for another part in terms of like what we can use and what, I guess, like we can utilize on chain. And you can go give this a read. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. And, but this is basically about basically reducing, I think, reducing the, the capacity that coredata has or increasing the cost of coredata in order to essentially eliminate that state growth part of coredata and basically give that state growth part to blobs, for example. So essentially it enables us, as Tony said, to increase the capacity of blobs, you know, increase the number of blobs and or the block gas limit in the future, giving us overall more scalability. So you can think of it basically as like more bang for your buck, so to speak, without altering the, you know, the overall size of the chain, altering the overall size of the state so that we don't make it harder to store the chain. We don't make it harder to kind of keep up with the chain, you know, sync the chain and all that sort of stuff.
00:10:12.162 - 00:10:49.774, Speaker A: So these are the kind of things that are going to be done, you know, going forward in order to make the overall chain more efficient. Now that basically call data is, I mean, it's not useless, but it is not being used at all by the L2s anymore. Well, I shouldn't say at all. There are still some L2s or some roll ups that are using call data, but we expect, you know, going forward that they're not going to be using coredata. And we actually want to prevent them from using coredata because essentially what can happen is that blobs can get more expensive than core data to use because the blob gas price can be higher than the normal Ethereum L1 gas price, and then the l two s or the roll ups could be configured to go and use core data. And that isn't what we want. That isn't expected behavior.
00:10:49.774 - 00:11:25.924, Speaker A: That's not like the behavior that we want to encourage on the network. So that's why there is this AIP, in order to increase the cost of coredata so that that doesn't really become a thing that happens there and that roll ups are just using blobs here. But you can go give this research post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so another chart that Tony kind of posted here was one with regards to what the blob usage looks like. So I think that blobs over the past couple of days stopped being consumed by inscriptions and are now just basically consumed all by roll up. So I think if I bring up Hill Dobby's blob dashboard here, you can actually see what this looks like.
00:11:25.924 - 00:11:49.328, Speaker A: And I remember I covered this, I think, last week. But essentially, you can see here, if you go to blobs, you can see the purple was inscriptions or blobscriptions as they've come to be known, and they've just died off completely now. But, you know, the activity is basically all roll ups right now. All the roll ups that are using blobs right now. Now, we can expect basically this to continue up over time, this to trend up over time. Given that we expect more roll ups to come online. They're going to want to use blobs.
00:11:49.328 - 00:12:15.644, Speaker A: We expect the existing roll ups to increase their own capacity, which means they're going to increase their on chain footprint because they're going to have more data to post. So, you know, it's not going to go down or anything. Like, I don't believe, like, if you take away the purple here, I mean, I think I can take away the purple. Yeah, you can see it's pretty steady with all of the other colors, which are basically all the roll ups here. And as I said, like, that is going to be both steady and growing over time as roll ups get bigger and bigger. Now, we don't know if people are going to do inscriptions again within blobs. They might.
00:12:15.644 - 00:12:40.920, Speaker A: But as I've described before, as I've discussed before, it's totally pointless to do inscriptions on blobs because they expire. Right. There is absolutely no point to do them. Inscriptions, the whole point of inscriptions and the whole value prop of them originally, because they started on bitcoin, it was essentially that you could store it on chain forever. It wouldn't get, you know, expired from the chain. And you could basically store, like, all of the Nft essentially on chain. So that it is a fully on chain NFT.
00:12:40.920 - 00:13:00.616, Speaker A: I mean, that's from my understanding of it. Now, obviously, that doesn't fit in with blobs at all because blobs expire. So it was more of a. I guess, like what I've discussed previously. It was more someone trying to start some speculative mania around it, but that seems to have fizzled out. Now, it might come back, as I said, but as of now, I don't think we have any blob blobscriptions at all. Like you can see here.
00:13:00.616 - 00:13:26.516, Speaker A: I don't think there's any purple right now at all currently. So, yeah, you can go check out the dashboard and Tony's screenshot there, or Tony's little chart here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so in case you all didn't notice, lighto's market share of staked ETH is now below 30%. And it's still with puffers. Massive $1 billion, or more than $1 billion. Vampire attack is still to come.
00:13:26.516 - 00:14:04.874, Speaker A: Uh, this is great to see because it's basically validating the thesis that I've been going on about for a very long time now about the fact that more competition in the Ethereum staking space will kill Lido's dominance. And it hasn't killed its dominance yet, but it has reduced it and has stopped lido from growing. And as I've shown plenty of times before, you know, Hill Dobby's dashboard here of the ETH two staking landscape, you can actually see this if you scroll down to each of the kind of tables and charts that he has. Like, I love this chart down the bottom here, which basically shows the estate by entity. Now, the big blue part at the bottom, or I guess light blue part of the bottom, is Lido. And you can see that Lido has been, you know, relatively flat for. For quite a while now.
00:14:04.874 - 00:14:25.238, Speaker A: I mean, it's kind of gone between, like, 30 and 30, almost 33%. Sometimes it's dip below it, under 30%. Like, the last time it was under 30% was in December, sorry, February of 2023. So about a year ago now or something like that. And now we're at, like, 29.7% or something. And we're in, obviously, April of 2024.
00:14:25.238 - 00:14:53.036, Speaker A: So it's over a year. And that is, obviously, since Chappelle went live as well. It seems to have been kind of down, only because there's a lot more stake coming in. We have the advent of restaking, of course, there's a lot more staking services online now, as you can see with the other colors kind of popping up here. And they have taken stake away from Lido, and they've also prevented more stake from going into Lido. So if we look at the past six months, what the inflow of stake looks like. You can see Lido still has a very healthy 724,000 fresh ethanol went into Lido.
00:14:53.036 - 00:15:22.590, Speaker A: But you can see that they're actually not number one. Ethyle was number one with 916,000 ETH going into their service. And then you have all these other ETH going in with these other services, you know, mantle at 500,000, renzo at 500,000, kiln at 400,000. So you add all those other ones up and they just absolutely dwarf Lido. And that's why Lido's market share has gone down by negative 2.7%. And keep in mind, this isn't even looking at puffer right now because of the fact that puffer has just taken in St. They haven't actually staked it on their own service.
00:15:22.590 - 00:15:48.040, Speaker A: And I'll talk about puffer in a sec. But essentially, yeah, they have over a billion dollars worth of ST to take out of Lido, which is, you know, obviously crazy. And that's still to come. Now, if you look at the last kind of month here, this is where it looks really kind of crazy for Lido. So if you look at the top, you know, the top kind of stake is here. If you scroll down, you can see that Lido is like number 54. So it's ranked 54, but it hasn't had inflows over the last month.
00:15:48.040 - 00:16:22.894, Speaker A: It's had outflows of 300,000 ETH, which is massive, obviously. And there's been outflows of figment, outflows of OKX, outflows of binance and p two p.org. And then all the inflows have gone into, of course, the liquid staking and restaking platforms here, which obviously makes sense because at the end of the day, people want to be able to one farm the points of these pro. Of these services. So obviously farm the potential airdrops, the tokens, or eigens token and eat the fires and swells and puffers and so on and so forth. And they also want to get liquidity for their stake as well. So we all know that LST and LRT is incredibly popular.
00:16:22.894 - 00:16:43.904, Speaker A: But yeah, the LRT's is what's really changed the game, because they're restaking. Now, Lido doesn't have native restaking, so essentially what happens is that people will go into, you know, hold an STE, then they'll deposit it into Eigen layer. But that's not a native restaking token. For Lido, you have to take it and deposit it in. And there's caps on that as well. And oh, Lido already has its token out there. There's no token incentives there.
00:16:43.904 - 00:17:15.835, Speaker A: So essentially all these other protocols are basically doing an ongoing vampire attack on Lido, even without directly doing it, because they're essentially being like, hey, you know, come over to our new park over here, our new attraction over here. We'll give you tokens, we'll give you incentives, and you know, you'll make more money with us and we'll give you a liquid restaking token instead of an LS T. And you'll farm Eigen layer points. So there's always incentives going on. That has really changed the look of the Ethereum staking makeup over the last, you know, last year at least. I mean, the last six months especially. And you can actually see here what the ranking looks like as well on Hill Dobby's dashboard.
00:17:15.835 - 00:17:46.560, Speaker A: So if you go down, I think the ranking is where is it in terms of like market share? Yeah, so it's up the top here. So eat stakers sorted by market share. You can see that ether five, for example, one of the newer liquid restaking protocols. Over the last kind of six months, their market share has grown to 2.9%. They are the number five now. So they are top five staking protocol where. And they've, you know, they've even overtaken something like rocket pool because Rocketpool isn't a native liquid restaking platform either.
00:17:46.560 - 00:17:58.416, Speaker A: Right, it's a liquid staking platform. But they have a lot of upgrades coming as well. They've just been heads down building. But again, they've already done their token. Right. There's no really token incentives there. There is a little bit of extra on top if you kind of are a node operator.
00:17:58.416 - 00:18:23.720, Speaker A: But there's no incentives for, if you were to kind of like just buy the Reth token, right. Whereas with these other things, with ether fine and these other programs out there, they're giving tokens right now. So that's why you've seen a lot of the growth there. And they're also offering different kind of products too, of course, like eat the fire is a bunch of other products that they're offering there. But you can see that that's just a crazy kind of difference, you know, in just the last six to twelve months especially. I mean, the last six months really for either fight. You can see their growth here is just ridiculous.
00:18:23.720 - 00:19:06.608, Speaker A: But then you kind of scroll down and yeah, the whole staking ecosystem is just looking a lot more diverse and distributed right now. And I think that's just a huge win for everyone. I think it's a huge win for Ethereum and I think it's great to see that Lido is actually below 30% here. Now. Of course, we'll see what this looks like in another year from now when all these token incentives have been exhausted, when Lido possibly, you know, implements a native liquid restaking module as part of their, their whole setup here. But it's great to see that we have a more diverse, I guess, like beacon chain right now. And as I said, it's really great for me to see my thesis validated that, you know, we would see a great reshuffling of stake because of the fact that we know Chappelle went live and the de risk taking, and then we have the advent of all these new kind of competition coming online.
00:19:06.608 - 00:19:59.864, Speaker A: So yeah, it's just great to see that finally play out there. Now, staying on the topic of staking, just wanted to quickly mention that puffer's public testnet is now live. So for those of you who don't know, puffer is not live yet in terms of like their infrastructure, the node infrastructure, essentially what you can do right now is just deposit Ste with puffer and you can farm their, you know, their points and you get like puff ETH in return. But the puff ETH is just a representation of Ste. It's not actual kind of staked puffer ETH, for example. But whereas with this public testnet now launching, they're inching closer to their main net where essentially with their main net, they're going to be staking this as part of like with their node operators essentially creating real kind of puff ETH and not just backed by SD eight. And as I said, that Steve is getting directly withdrawn from Lido and that ETH is just then going to be staked with, with puffers own infrastructure becoming essentially Puff ETH, you know, actual puffy, not like Puffy back based ETH.
00:19:59.864 - 00:20:20.680, Speaker A: Right. And that's huge. I think there's, if it's a billion dollars, I think it's more than a billion dollars, it's like $1.2 billion worth or $1.3 billion worth of Steth. So it's like what, 370,000 st or something like that. That's going to basically be vampired, you know, in a very short period of time, taken out of Lido and directly into puffer here, which should rocket puffer up to at least the top ten.
00:20:20.680 - 00:20:47.020, Speaker A: I think staking protocols there with like a 1.5% to 2% market share overall. So great to see that kind of playing out there. But if you want to get involved in puffers public testnet, you can. I'll link the tweet in the YouTube description below for you to go check out there. All right, so I just wanted to share this little video here from Cairo on Twitter. So essentially what they've built here is an implementation of a based pre conformation protocol, leveraging, restaking.
00:20:47.020 - 00:21:12.260, Speaker A: So this is a proof of concept for sub second transaction confirmations on ethereum. And you can find out more about how this works in this Twitter thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this is great to see. I mean, based preconfirmations is something that Justin Drake has been talking about a lot lately. It's essentially this concept of having a, I guess, like so, so, I mean, I don't want to butcher the explanation here because like, I'm still learning about this stuff. This stuff's pretty cool. But I've, there's so much other stuff to learn about.
00:21:12.260 - 00:21:52.056, Speaker A: I just haven't had the time to learn about it too much. But from my understanding, essentially what you get is a crypto economic guarantee that your confirmation, your transaction is confirmed, but it isn't kind of like on chain yet. So essentially you get like what's called a pre confirmation. And it's crypto. Crypto, not cryptographically, crypto economically secured as part of an Eigen layer, kind of a service here, like an Eigen layer, AV's service, for example, where essentially if someone was to not post that transaction on chain, they would, they would get penalized, right? If someone's trying to do something funky with that transaction, that would get penalized. At least that's my understanding of how this works here. Now, you can see in this video, the reason why you want to do this is because with a base pre conformation, you can have a pre conformation within 0.1
00:21:52.056 - 00:22:19.392, Speaker A: second, essentially. So within a 10th of a second here, which is 100 milliseconds, really. I mean, this is 90 milliseconds in the screenshot in the video here. Whereas if you want to have like finalization of your transaction on chain, obviously on Ethereum, that's going to take up to 12 seconds because Ethereum blocks are 12 seconds or a three slots are 12 seconds. So you can't actually have it added to the chain until that 12 seconds happens here. But to have true finality, you have to actually wait for two epochs, which is like 13 and a half minutes. But we're working on single slot finality and all of that as well.
00:22:19.392 - 00:22:59.894, Speaker A: But this is all about, you know, confirming your transaction on chain, not about finality of your, of your kind of like transaction or at least like the economic finality that Ethereum gives you rather than, you know, the L2 gives you here. And as I forgot to mention just before, this is all about, I guess like L2s, right? This is all about getting pre conformations on L2s using the layer one. But also you can do potentially do this on layer one as well. But really it's targeting L2s because essentially on layer one we expect it to be high value transactions, not the lower value transactions, just by virtue of layer one being more expensive. So we want to focus on the L2s here for the end user users there. But yeah, you can go check out this video for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:22:59.894 - 00:23:38.344, Speaker A: All right, so to round out today's special Saturday episode, I have a bullish rant for you guys. I'm going to start off by saying I know it's tough out there right now. I know there is a lot of fud about Ethereum and ETH, and I don't necessarily know why, to be honest. I think that it's the same old fud that we've been seeing for like years now. Basically, it really feels like for some reason people are just hating on Ethereum, like for no reason essentially, where essentially they're bringing up all these things that aren't even true at all. Like there are things to criticize Ethereum about, like a lot of things actually, and that's totally fair. But for some reason, the fud just loves to focus on the things that aren't even true.
00:23:38.344 - 00:24:00.538, Speaker A: A lot of the times. And I put out this tweet where I said that ETH is a deep value bet at these levels. The fight around Ethereum and the l two s and ETH as an asset is just too damn high. And almost all of it doesn't even make any sense. The ethereum ecosystem is the strongest it has ever been. This is an objective truth, long Ethereum and long ETH. And I mean it is an objective truth that the ethereum ecosystem is the strongest it has ever been.
00:24:00.538 - 00:24:35.662, Speaker A: And there are multiple reasons for this, right? But I think that if you just to look at the on chain ecosystem alone, there is more usage of Ethereum right now with the l two s because the l two s are ethereum than there has ever been in Ethereum's history. So it boggles the mind that people can be bearish on Ethereum when we literally just reduced fees with 4844. That led to a massive surge in the ethereum economy. And it's just the beginning. So really, as I said, like none of this fud makes sense here. But what I want to do is I want to break down each of the things that I am really bullish on for the next, like, many years in the future. But let's keep it.
00:24:35.662 - 00:25:00.466, Speaker A: Let's keep it relatively, you know, medium term, let's say, the next twelve to 24 months. These are the things that I am most bullish on in Ethereum, and these are the things that I don't even think you have to kind of make many assumptions about to be bullish on. These are things that are already true today. I'm just assuming that they're going to keep growing from here. So the first thing I think this is probably the most obvious thing is the continued institutional adoption of Ethereum as an ecosystem. And I'm not just talking about the ETF's. Guys like the ETF's to me are a given.
00:25:00.466 - 00:25:15.034, Speaker A: Whether they happen on May 23 or not, it doesn't matter. The ETF's for ETH are coming. It's a given. It's just a matter of when, not a matter of if. But if we look at the broader institutional adoption of Ethereum. Let's start with Blackrock here. Blackrock has a tokenized fund on Ethereum.
00:25:15.034 - 00:25:49.554, Speaker A: $250 million is in there right now on Ethereum l one, like, not on a testnet, not on a private network, not on, on some testnet l two. That they're building on Ethereum l one. The Ethereum l one we all know and love that we all use, you know, whether that be at, directly at l one or l two. Blackrock, the largest asset manager in the world, is already doing tokenization on there. Now, of course, Larry Fink has gone on all, you know, the different media platforms and said that he is really bullish on tokenization, that BlackRock is really bullish on tokenization. And it's not just lip service, it's not just him saying it. They're actually putting their money literally where their mouth is.
00:25:49.554 - 00:26:27.184, Speaker A: Right. So that is just one example. And you think that's, you know, you really think that's going to be the, the only example? The heck no. It's going to keep growing from here. And this is part of the broader real world asset trend that has been happening for, you know, quite a while now, at least twelve months now. And I actually remember one of my predictions from even longer than twelve months ago was that real world assets would continue growing and would become a main theme for Ethereum for the many years to come. Because it doesn't make any sense to me that these larger institutions aren't going to want to come onto Ethereum at whether that be at l one or l two and get all of the absolutely amazing benefits of an on chain tokenization platform, essentially.
00:26:27.184 - 00:26:48.930, Speaker A: I mean, Ethereum is more than that, but that's what they're kind of treating it as here. You know, you have the cheaper costs. Yes, Ethereum l one, gas fees are high, but hey, like in return for those higher gas fees, you get the world's strongest and most secure sediment layer. And that plugs into basically everything. Like it even. I mean, it already has infrastructure with both centralized players and decentralized players. It plugs directly into Coinbase, obviously.
00:26:48.930 - 00:27:15.682, Speaker A: And BlackRock obviously uses Coinbase as well and has partnerships with Coinbase too and have relationships there. So for them, it's like a no brainer for them for them to do this. So the costs overall are way lower for them. The speed, the efficiency is way higher. I mean, even ethereum l one at a twelve second block times is so, so much faster than anything in the tradfi world. It is global, it is permissionless, it is seamless, guys. Like it is, it is only getting better over time.
00:27:15.682 - 00:27:55.990, Speaker A: Whereas the Tradfi ecosystem is band aids on band aids on band aids, it's pretty ux on just like really shitty backend. And I think if you were to use kind of an analogy here or I guess like a mental image here, I don't know if you guys have ever seen that image of Homer from the symptoms when he's got clips behind his back, you know, clipping all his back, all his fat to his back and then like he's looks skinny from the front. That's what tradfi is. You've got like this nice looking thing at the front and then on the back end it's just out of shit basically, right? Whereas with Ethereum, okay, it's not perfect with, you know, ethereum l one and l two s, they're not perfect. They're not looking like this pristine thing. And. But it's the opposite thing where the backend is actually so much more amazing than anything we have in the tradfi ecosystem.
00:27:55.990 - 00:28:10.118, Speaker A: It is built from the ground up. To be like that. And then the front ends are getting better and better over time. And the front ends aren't just going to be pretty with a, you know, with a disgusting backend. They're both going to be pretty essentially. So that is critically important here. I mean, I think that's one of the most important things here.
00:28:10.118 - 00:28:41.260, Speaker A: And that is one of my main bull cases for Ethereum as an ecosystem is that these institutions are going to keep using it as a platform. And then the fact that BlackRock is already using it and they're the largest asset manager in the world, this sets a standard, guys, this sets a basically a shelling point for other institutions. This is Blackrock sending a signal out to the world saying that we think a theorem, l one is worth tokenizing on, is worth putting money on. What do you think all these other asset managers and all these other tradfi institutions are going to do? What do you think they're going to use? They're going to use a theorem. Whether that be at l one or l two doesn't matter. It's all the same. They're going to use ethereum.
00:28:41.260 - 00:29:09.046, Speaker A: Ethereum is going to be the thing that institutions use at scale here. And it's going to be a slow process. It's not going to happen overnight, but it's going to keep happening. You know, this is probably, as I said, I wanted to try and keep it medium term, but you know, this is a decades long play, but during those decades, it's all going to be keep happening. You keep hearing more and more stories until it becomes normalized, until it starts becoming exciting. Like that's going to happen, I think, relatively soon, but definitely going to happen there. And then, of course, as I mentioned, the ETF stuff, like, as I said, that's a given.
00:29:09.046 - 00:29:47.818, Speaker A: And the ETF's are obviously bullish because it brings more new money in. But yeah, we're all basically in a holding pattern right now, waiting to see if they get approved on May 23 or not. And I mean, I'll talk more about that as kind of time goes on, obviously, and as we get more updates. But for now, there's not much more to talk about there. Now, the second major bull case that I assume and I think is going to continue to being a bull case is staking around ethereum like not just native staking, not just liquid, liquid staking, not just liquid restaking, but everything that entails. And you know, I've talked about Eigen layer a lot on the, on the, on the refuel. And I've talked about restaking as a primitive a lot, but I don't think I've ever put it in so many words.
00:29:47.818 - 00:30:23.422, Speaker A: And I'm going to put it, I've been thinking about this a lot lately. Like the last couple of weeks, I've been thinking about restaking just so much. Like doing so much more research on it, kind of talking to projects, building within the restaking ecosystem or building within the eigen layer ecosystem, building abs's and everything. And I just like keep getting these goosebumps, these feelings that I need to kind of illustrate here. So the reason why restaking to me is, is one of the most exciting primitives is because it enables something that has not been, I guess, like possible before. And the same feeling I got when I first discovered Ethereum in 2017, I get when it comes to restaking. And I say restaking as a primitive.
00:30:23.422 - 00:30:37.530, Speaker A: I don't want to just like, you know, shield Eigen layer. Eigen layer is obviously the poster child for restaking right now, but there are going to be other projects here. So I'm talking about restaking the primitive. Obviously, I'm really bullish on Eigen layer. You guys know I'm an investor there. But yeah, restaking the primitive here. And the reason why.
00:30:37.530 - 00:31:21.076, Speaker A: The reason why, the number one reason why it is so exciting and the number one thing that it enables is scaling of trust, scaling of security, basically making it so that you can spin up something that requires a distributed set of validators of node operators that you need to be able to trust, you know, will do the right thing, that you need to be able to trust, will be able to secure your network that you can quickly bootstrap. That's essentially what Eigen layer does. It gives you a network of these node operators to choose from, and it gives you the economic security to back that up using the best asset in crypto, which is ETH. And yes, I know some people are going to take issue with that because people think that BTC is the best asset in crypto. No, it's definitely ETH. I'm like, I'm going to die on that hill. ETH is so much better than BTC for a number of different reasons.
00:31:21.076 - 00:31:52.974, Speaker A: Maybe I'll get into them a little bit later. Yeah, this is going to be a long bullish rant, by the way. But yeah, restaking just enables something that we haven't had before, which is the scaling of security and trust, which enables so many different things. Guys like I, we're really only scratching the surface when you think about things like eigen da, for example, like the data availability. You think about oracle networks, you think about shared sequencing, you think about, you know, L2s. You think about there's, there's so many other things like I can't remember all of them off the top of my head. But like, as I said, I've been thinking about this a lot, this about this a lot lately.
00:31:52.974 - 00:32:16.790, Speaker A: And even just like a handful of those use cases just absolutely changes the game because you no longer need to bootstrap your own node operator set. You no longer need to rely on some esoteric token to accrue value. You rely on ETH. You rely on ETH as a store of value, as a money. You rely on the node operators are that are running Ethereum. You rely on them and you trust them and you work within the restaking ecosystem to get these benefits from restaking. So that's huge part.
00:32:16.790 - 00:32:55.632, Speaker A: But then staking in general, you know, even outside of restaking, staking in general is huge because it offers a yield. And of course we're going to have staked ETF's eventually. It offers a passive yield on top of the fee burn, which is basically like a stock buyback. I mean not exactly one to one, but you know, basically is essentially where, where ETH is net deflationary over the year. If you take the kind of longer term trend here and then from there you, you know, you kind of like have that thing where essentially the ETF buyers who are maybe the older generations who love their yield, they start putting money in because of that and it just kind of scales up from there. So that's staking, restaking, obviously hyper bullish, obviously going to keep growing from here. Now we come to L2s.
00:32:55.632 - 00:33:38.068, Speaker A: I don't even know why I have to kind of go on about this, but I will. Like, I think I'm preaching to the choir about this, but like if people look at the state of L2s today and they think that the L2s aren't going to keep growing exponentially from here, then they are simply either not paying attention or they simply got their head in the sand. Like that's the only two possibilities here. We just put the, I guess like most basic upgrade live or I guess like the start of the, you know, the whole kind of like scalability roadmap live with 48, 44. And we've already seen an absolutely massive amount of demand go into these L2s because of that, because of the fees got, got cheaper. Basically we had all this demand that was latent it came in as soon as we reduced fees. And we're going to keep doing that.
00:33:38.068 - 00:34:11.734, Speaker A: We're going to keep doing that via blobs. We're going to keep doing that with things like data availability sampling and data availability, data sharding as well. We're going to keep doing it at the l two s themselves. There's going to be new execution environments coming online that aren't just EVM, but the EVM ones are going to keep scaling up like we saw with base. And speaking of base, I mean, come on. Coinbase has said that they're going to essentially enable all of their 100 million customers to have their balance in their wallets, on their Coinbase wallet available to them on base without bridging. That is, that is the one to two click solution that I've talked about in terms of like, having a great Ui Ux for end users.
00:34:11.734 - 00:34:41.323, Speaker A: That is the holy Grail. That is what I've talked about for years now. We're getting that very, very soon. And then all these people are going to come in and they're going to see this on their Coinbase wallet because they're obviously going to use Coinbase wallet a lot of the time. If they're using Coinbase because it's a trusted brand, they're going to see this and then they'd be like, oh, what can I do with this? Oh, I can go do this, or I can go use uniswap, or I can go trade for this. You know, people are obviously going to buy meme coins, but hey, like, I want to invest in this token or it's not on Coinbase, I'll go do this. And it's in Coinbase's best interest to push people to this because it's better from a regulatory perspective, it's better for.
00:34:41.323 - 00:35:07.832, Speaker A: For them to just get on chain. It's the dream for them to get on chain. I mean, Brian Armstrong's original vision was to bring people on chain like he was a die hard bitcoin as still is. And he gets the Ethereum vision, he gets the l two vision, and Jesse Pollack, the lead of base, gets it more than anyone, I think. I mean, I listen to him on podcasts and I'm just like, holy shit, this guy gets it. Like, how the hell, like, where did he come from? Basically because he, he's only been, you know, active over the last maybe twelve to 18 months from what I've seen. But he truly gets it.
00:35:07.832 - 00:35:27.096, Speaker A: He understands what makes this stuff valuable. So you have the biggest crypto company in the world bringing their users on chain via base. They're not going to push them elsewhere, guys. They're going to push them to base. They're going to push them to infrastructure that they've built, to kind of stuff that they've built. And that is a L2 on top of Ethereum, and that's only going to get stronger over time. But that's just one l two.
00:35:27.096 - 00:35:51.030, Speaker A: We have so many, and not all of them are going to be successful. But that is the whole point. We have a marketplace of ideas happening here. We have a marketplace of competition happening here between all the l two s. Some will be super successful, some will be a little bit successful, and some will fail completely. But that is the nature of these things, and that will be net bullish for Ethereum overall. Now, of course, like, I could keep going on about each and every other thing that's, you know, within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:35:51.030 - 00:36:41.186, Speaker A: Obviously, I haven't even touched on the social side of things like far Caster, for example, haven't touched on NFT, and I haven't touched on, you know, just social kind of in general, not just far Caster, but lens and other protocols like that. But I think that, you know, those things are earlier right now. I do think that they're bullish. I think farcast has just been a huge boon for Ethereum because it's basically entirely integrated with base, which is obviously an l two. So that's net beneficial for Ethereum there. But then, you know, the ultimate question becomes, how does this all flow back to ETH? You know, how does all this value flow back to Ethan asset? Why should I buy ETH? Or why should I hold ETH? Or why is ETH going to go up over the long term? Why is ETH going to be a good asset to hold when, you know, for the last six months or so, it has been an underperformer. ETH BTC has bled, you know, you know, these other l one tokens have outperformed it, all these other meme coins have outperformed that, so on and so forth.
00:36:41.186 - 00:37:17.182, Speaker A: You know, why would I hold ETH? Okay, this is where we get to the portion of like, I don't know how long I'm going to go here, because when I talk about ETH, it gets a bit feisty. But first thing I'll say here is that if people are looking at the last six months and then extrapolating that out to, like, a multi year thesis on ETH as an asset, then they're batshit stupid in my eyes. Like, they're just absolutely dumb. This is not a way to analyze assets here. Also, the people comparing ETH to meme coins are dumb because meme coins start off at basically zero. And of course they're going to outperform a $400 billion asset if they go up, because the only way they can go is up if they start at zero. And then they go to $100 million market cap.
00:37:17.182 - 00:37:45.060, Speaker A: Well, okay, let's say they started a million market cap and they go to $100 million market cap. That's 100 x, right? Like, but that is like 0.1% of its less than 0.1% of its kind of like total market cap. So comparing them is just completely nonsensical here. And they also are not going to outperform over the long term. Almost all of them will be underperform ETH, and I say almost all of them because there's always exceptions here, but almost all of them will underperform ETH over the long term here.
00:37:45.060 - 00:38:12.590, Speaker A: And it depends on what timeframe you kind of look at as well. But yeah, comparing them to ETH is silly here. Now, when it comes to the other l one s, they have their own narratives going for them, guys. And this is a kind of thing that happens in bull markets. And I've discussed it before. There are narratives that get pushed by people there are narratives that get pushed by people that are holding, you know, these l one tokens. And it's really good for them to punch up at Ethereum because it essentially means that the Ethereum people are like, oh, who are these guys? And they start giving them free marketing.
00:38:12.590 - 00:38:51.930, Speaker A: You know, I think that the Ethereum ecosystem, this is one thing I have an issue with when it comes to the Ethereum community, is that they fall into this trap a lot. And it's not just the Ethereum community. Every community falls into this trap of essentially, like, talking about these things and giving them free marketing. This is exactly what the bitcoin maximalist did to Ethereum last cycle, or I guess the previous cycle, where essentially they would non stop talk about Ethereum, like all the time. And even when ETH BTC was like absolutely crushed at like 90% down, they kept talking about Ethereum. It's like, guys, like, if Ethereum is so irrelevant, if ETH is so irrelevant, then why are you talking about it? Like, just stop talking about it. But their hate was stronger than their, you know, than anything else.
00:38:51.930 - 00:39:14.572, Speaker A: So essentially, that's what drove them. That's what drove them to keep talking about it. And of course it just gave Ethereum all this free marketing. And I think the Ethereum community is making the same mistake or has made the same mistake with these other ecosystems. Now, in saying that, it doesn't mean you can't like, point out the, the, you know, the issues, issues with other ecosystems or point out why you think things aren't going to work. I do it all the time. You guys know, I have big issues with the monolithic roadmap for, for these different l ones.
00:39:14.572 - 00:39:43.454, Speaker A: I have big issues with the monolithic design, but that's based on like the tech. I'm not kind of out here on Twitter talking about them all the time or coping about them, whatever I like, I don't care. Like to me, you know, they can do what they want to do, they can build their own ecosystems, but to me, they're not even building anything like what Ethereum is building. Like, the Ethereum vision is what I want to see come to life. The Ethereum vision is so unique in what it's trying to do that that's why I focus on it. So I'm not focused on these other things. But of course other people do and then of course plays out in the markets because traders love narratives.
00:39:43.454 - 00:40:10.054, Speaker A: So they bid up these things. So that's the reason why that has kind of happened there. But if we take like a longer term view here, longer than six months term view, because taking just a six month view on ETH is beyond stupid. If we take a longer term view here, how does ETH accrue all this value? Well, okay, you guys know my kind of rankings here. First and foremost, I believe that ETH is a money, more specifically a commodity money, and a store of value. That is where its value comes from. Primarily, it does not come from its uses.
00:40:10.054 - 00:40:52.870, Speaker A: Fee, that, you know, as a fee token, doesn't come from its fear revenue. It doesn't come from the burn, doesn't come from its uses of staking, you know, it doesn't come from its uses. Collateral. I mean, it does, but, like, not nearly as much as its use as a commodity money and as a store of value, that is by far the biggest value driver to eat. Okay, but what actually gives that value? Like, why would people hold it as a store of value? Why is it a commodity money? Well, that's all about network effect. The more people that hold ETH, the more people that buy ETH, the more people that store their value in ETH, the more store of valueness it gets, the more money ness it gets I know it seems a little bit circular, but when it comes to store of values and money, it's a belief system. At the end of the day, it doesn't matter if it's fear, it doesn't matter if it's crypto currencies, doesn't matter.
00:40:52.870 - 00:41:19.566, Speaker A: Whatever it is, it's a belief system. You know, you could start up a your own community of like a hundred people, and amongst you, you could use whatever you wanted as money. As long as you all believed that it was money, as long as you all agreed that it was money, it would become money. And obviously, it won't be the most valuable money because it's only a group of like 100 of you that are actually using it. No one else cares about it. So really, you're not going to be able to trade it for much, but it is money within that ecosystem. So with ETH, it is money within the ethereum ecosystem.
00:41:19.566 - 00:41:49.716, Speaker A: It is a store of value within the ethereum ecosystem. And that is first and foremost what gives it the most value. And that is basically something that all the other value drivers feed up into. ETH uses collateral, it uses staking its users fees, its uses on the altus to do whatever you want on there. Eats kind of uses an investment vehicle, all that sorts of stuff. That all feeds up into ETH being a store of value and money, because it increases the network effect of ETH. It increases the amount of people owning it, increases the ownership share of ETH overall.
00:41:49.716 - 00:42:16.000, Speaker A: That is the bull case there, guys. That's as simple as I can put it. There are so many rabbit holes you can go down into that, but that is the simple bull case. Okay, so what is the biggest value driver of its network effect here? Well, what is the. I guess, I guess, like, what's the biggest way to get its network effect up? It's the scale ethereum. It's the scale of the availability of Ethereum block space. How do we do that with l two s? Okay, well, what's happening right now and what's going to be happening into many years into the future? Well, the l two s are going to keep growing exponentially.
00:42:16.000 - 00:42:45.838, Speaker A: So, okay. In that world, how can you be bearish on ETH when more and more people are going to be exposed to Ethan, by ethan eat? They need to have ETH in order to be part of this on chain economy, and that's going to feed into it. So, like, when people are bearish on ethan, like, this doesn't make any sense. ETH is accruing all this value and yes, okay, maybe it's not performed that great over the short term, but if you think that's going to last based on the fact that everything else is growing, and Ethan, as its value is not growing, that's just dumb. Because we have direct value drivers to eat. We can point to them. We can see them.
00:42:45.838 - 00:43:24.804, Speaker A: So that's how I kind of look at it there. And the final thing I will say on this, when it comes to, I guess, like, ethanol, is that I know a lot of people look at the ETH BTC chart. They look at ETH underperforming BTC, and they're like, oh, should I help BTC instead? Oh, oh, wait. Oh, maybe I'm wrong about ETH, or maybe the bitcoin maxes were right, blah, blah, blah, so on and so forth. But if you actually look at ETH BTC, a lot of its underperformance, or at least most of it, is because of the fact that we had the BTC ETF narrative from basically June to, like, January. And then after that, you saw ETH BTC spike up really, really quickly. Like, it went up like 20% or something, because obviously people just pivoted into ETH.
00:43:24.804 - 00:43:52.552, Speaker A: But then, since then, over the preceding months till today, people have lost confidence in ETH getting its ETF. So because of that, it basically became a counter trade where people are like, okay, well, I'm not going to hold ETH because, like, I expected to be denied. The market expects it to be denied. Maybe I'll buy ETH after that. Is that kind of, like, overhang is gone. That's exactly what's happened here. Like, I am very, very confident that the vast, you know, I guess, like, majority of the reasons why ETH BTC is the way it is, is because of the ETF's.
00:43:52.552 - 00:44:26.472, Speaker A: BTC has constant ETF flows. ETH has none of that. And on top of that, ETH has the, I guess, belief from the market that it is not getting an ETF. And that's why I've said before that I believe either a denial and approval of an ETH ETF is going to be bullish, a denial, because by the time we actually get to the point where it gets denied, everyone who wanted to sell based on that narrative has already sold. ETH would have been, like, a deep value at that point. It would have be, like, very deeply discounted at that point. And then I think from then on, it'd be, the narrative would switch to, okay, well, it got denied now, but we know it's going to get an ETF anyway, and it's like really beaten down.
00:44:26.472 - 00:44:50.248, Speaker A: So I'm going to go buy ETH, essentially. And I think you may say that starting before May 23, the market tends to front run these things. But, yeah, I mean, I think a lot of the, I guess FUD is, stemmed from that. And I feel like that's the simple explanation, is that the BTC. BTC has those ETF inflows. It's very hard for ETH to compete in that environment because it doesn't have access to that pool of money. And then, as you guys know, I've said before, I don't actually think there's any net new money coming in from retail investors right now.
00:44:50.248 - 00:45:07.120, Speaker A: It's really just the same crypto native money rotating around. And they're not going into ETH guys. Like, they're going into meme coins. They're not even going into BTC. Like, they went into BTC for the. For the ETF narrative. But now that that's over and it's just like the constant flows, they're like, oh, well, you know, BTC will be fine because it's got the constant flows to offset, you know, any dumps that it has.
00:45:07.120 - 00:45:23.846, Speaker A: I'm going to go speculate on these other things. So, I mean, I've talked about that before, but I think that's probably the good way to end today's episode there. I've gone for about 45 minutes here, so, yeah, I think that's it for today. I hope you guys enjoy, enjoyed the bullish rant. But, yeah, that's it. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:45:23.846 - 00:45:30.374, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all Monday. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
