00:00:01.040 - 00:00:57.470, Speaker A: Okay, so let's start. Okay, so, hello everyone. I'm so this course will be about some problems related to singular foliations and mostly singular foliation by curves. But I decided to make a, let's say a rather long introduction, because perhaps this is not a topic which is familiar to everyone which is following this course. So sorry if it's a little bit annoying for some of you which already know this topics very well. So, okay, so let me just define a single foliation in a very general setting, but then I will particularize to the setting that is. So we consider a manifold M.
00:00:57.470 - 00:02:16.763, Speaker A: So in very generally, an analytic distribution d on M is a coherent subshif of the sheath of sections of the, of the tangent bundle. So, okay, so concretely, if you take a point, this talk of this distribution and a point is just generated by a finite set of germs of vector fields x one to xk. But in general, we should ask something more to recover geometric objects. So we say that this distribution is a singular foliation if it's involative. So by this I mean that for each two elements of this talk, let's say x and y, germs of vector fields on a point, we ask that the lead bracket of these two also lies in the module generated in this stalk. So the important thing is that the rank of the subspace generated by these vector flows can degenerate at some points. So let's call tp the subspace of the tangent space generated on point p by this vector fields x one x k.
00:02:16.763 - 00:03:36.364, Speaker A: And we notice that due to this coherence hypothesis, the function which assigns to p the dimension of t p of f is upper semicontinuous, meaning that in a neighborhood of a point, let's say that the dimension can only be larger or equal than the dimension on this point. So we call the dimension of the foliation the generic dimension of this subspace tp and the leaf of the foliation. So assuming, as I said, that this dimension can decrease on some points, the leaf is in general some connected immerses some manifold l of m. So here we cannot ask it to be. We'll see some examples in a moment. So we cannot ask in general, it should be an embedded manifold because it can have some self accumulation phenomena here. So we just ask this to be an immersive submanifold in such a way that on each point of this manifold the tangent space coincides, which, let's say the tangent space prescribed by the leaf by defoliation on this point, right.
00:03:36.364 - 00:04:50.784, Speaker A: So there's this celebrated Sussmann theorem which says that under this involutiveness condition, you always have a leaf through each point of the manifold. Well, in the particular case where, let's say that the dimension is locally constant, you can apply this, this, well, this particular classical forbidden theorem which says that if, let's say, near a point p, the foliation defines a sub bundle of the tangent bundle, meaning that the dimension of the tangent space to the foliation is locally is constant. There are coordinates such that you can locally present your foliation, the leaves of the foliation, as the level sets of the last, let's say last d coordinates. Right? So let's say the local pictures like this. Well, of course, we are most more interested in this course in the case where the rank degenerates. So let me just give an example here. Let's say consider the foliation generated by x, d over dx plus y, d over dy and d over dz.
00:04:50.784 - 00:06:45.792, Speaker A: So in this case you have just sort of open book foliation like this, where let's say most of the leaves are two dimensional, but you have this red line here, which is a one dimensional leaf of the foliation, right? So if you fire along the z axis, the rank of the tangent space is one dimension. Okay, so, well, so just to reassure you, we are not going to consider the general case because it's too difficult, at least for me, and we are mostly interested in the case of foliation by curves. So in this case, I make some simplifying hypotheses, which can always be achieved by some easy manipulation, is that this subshit d is locked, generated by a single vector field. And so we can present a singular foliation by curves in, let's say more in an alternative way, as something defined by a finite collection of pairs, ui and delta I, where ui is an open covering of the manifold m, and on each set subset of this open cover have some analytic vector field delta I. Right. And with the following compatibility condition that, well, in the intersection of these two open sets, you ask this, sorry, this is delta here, x, you ask these vector fields to glue together. So by this I mean that you have them, some, some unit, some non zero analytic function defined on the intersection non vanishing, sorry, phi g, such that you have this compatibility condition between the vector fields.
00:06:45.792 - 00:08:55.254, Speaker A: So this should be delta I, right? So each delta I will be called a local generator of the foliation. And more generally, we can some sort, we will maximize this choice by saying that each vector field with domain some open set of the manifold is a local generator if it agrees with one of the elements of this collection up to multiplication by a unit, right? So, okay, so geometrically, okay, so in general, as we're going to see in some examples, we cannot expect to have a single global generator for, in the sense that it's necessary to allow this freedom on the choice of this local covering because in fact in some manifolds you cannot have global vector fields. That's simple fact. For instance, in the projective plane, so geometrically, so foliation is given by, let's say you can think of this as in this, this way you have this, let's say two open sets here and we say that the, the solution curves of, in one open set glue with the solution curves on the other. On the second open set up to reparameterization of time, right? So in fact the multiplication by, by this unit here can be interpreted as saying that you have the freedom to re parameterize the solution curves by changing the time, right? Well, in the real analytic settings, so these things that I'm saying to you work both on the complex and the real analytic setting. But in the real analytic setting we usually ask something more. We ask these reparametizations to preserve the orientation, right? So by this I mean that if you have, so in this real sense, let's say that these curves are parameterized by time t increasing.
00:08:55.254 - 00:10:14.686, Speaker A: I note this by these arrows here. And by asking this unit to be strictly positive, you just ask to have the same sense of, let's say from, let's say here from the left to the right on both open sets. So you preserve the orientation of this one dimensional curves. Well, so let's just recall that a vector field in local coordinates. So if you fix local coordinates, germ, a vector field, a local generator can be written in this way where a one an are analytic functions. And we're going to define a singular set of affoliation as the set where both, all these functions, a one a n vanish, right? So the singular set is the vanishing locus of the ideal generated by a one an. So notice that by my definition this doesn't depend on the choice of the local generator, because if you choose another generator, these functions, let's say this germs a one an get multiplied by a unit.
00:10:14.686 - 00:10:53.666, Speaker A: So this doesn't change, let's say the singular, the singular locus. And. Well, let me just give some simple examples. Very very simple, but which I think it's are more or less related to other subjects which are going to be covered in this, in this semester. So, okay, the simplest example is the one dimensional vector field. So here you have this vector field on the line, and the zero set are just the zeros of the singular set are just the zeros of this function f. You see here that I have several leaves.
00:10:53.666 - 00:12:04.374, Speaker A: You have this one dimensional leaves. And let's say the singular set corresponds to zero dimensional leaves, which are singular points. Well, now a simple two dimensional example, uh, where I take the, let's say, this radial vector field and multiply by, by a function f, which has a radial symmetry. So, well, I've written this example to show to you that we are going to consider also the case where the, the singular set has codimension one, right? So in this case, you can, you can see that whenever f vanishes, you have this circle, which is entirely formed by singular points. And outside, let's say outside the singular points, you have a sort of a very simple local behavior because you have this flow box theorem. We're going to see it a moment, but essentially is the Frobenius theorem in the case where the foliage of dimension one, which says that locally you can just say that the foliage is given by a set of parallel lines. Right.
00:12:04.374 - 00:13:17.486, Speaker A: Well, so, as I said, we are going to not going to exclude the case where the similar set has codimention one. But in some references, people likes to work with the so called saturated foliation, where you can prevent this, the appearance of this codimension one analytics subset components in the singular set by just dividing out. Right? So if you assume that all the coefficients of your vector field have a common factor, in this case, f, you can divide out and consider the, let's say a foliation which has a singular set of codimensional, greater or equal than two, just by factoring out this common factor. Okay, but we're going to see in a moment that it's important for us to consider also non saturated foliations. Okay? So in this case, you see that by considering the saturated foliation, you're just going to connect these leaves, which in principle are disconnected by the similar set. Yes. Daniel, may I ask a question? Yeah, yeah.
00:13:17.486 - 00:13:34.358, Speaker A: So in your example, f is an analytic function, right? Yeah. So it's zero. Set does not accumulate to zero. Yeah. So if you work on germs, you could consider f does not vanish at all. Anyway. Yeah, yeah.
00:13:34.358 - 00:13:53.114, Speaker A: So, yeah, here I'm just giving a sort of global example. Okay? Yeah, you're right. In this case. But of course, if you put yourself in this, in the neighborhood of this point, for instance. Right, right. Then you have a non zero, a non zero, a singular set of codimension one. Yeah, okay.
00:13:53.114 - 00:15:18.024, Speaker A: Right. Okay. So in the example three, I'm going to, I think it's interesting because I'm going to take the previous example and add this red term, which is, let's say, a perturbation which adds a rotational component in the vector field. So here, by adding this rotation component, in some sense, you change completely the dynamics, because now the leaps are no longer closed, right? Except the ones which are given by, let's say, the circle, the sets f equals to zero. But outside the sets, you see that the foliation, the red ones, they spiral around the origin and approach asymptotically each one of these circles, right? So we're going to, I think we're going to see more about this on the course of Patrick. These are typically what you call the limit cycles, right? So these are leaves which are closed, but which are approached by non closed leaves, right? So this, these are these red leaves here. In fact, you see that there's some, this is one important thing is that the two previous examples are, let's say, quite different in terms of the topology of the leaves.
00:15:18.024 - 00:16:46.484, Speaker A: But in fact, you can obtain one of these as a limit behavior of the other ones. Let's say if you take the previous example and you add a small parameter epsilon here, right? So now I'm going to interpret this as a vector field in dimension three with variables x, y and epsilon. And what you get here is a typical singular perturbation problem, right? So you see that when, so epsilon here is this transversal axis, red axis. So when epsilon equals to zero, we recover the example two with this invert, let's say this, similar sets of dimension one. But when epsilon is positive, you have these cylinders which are entirely formed by limit cycles, by periodic orbits which accumulate on the, on these singular sets as epsilon goes to zero, right? So in this case, as I said, you have some family structure, because epsilon should be considered as a parameter here. And this vector field, this foliage effect, each one of its leaves preserves what you call an invariant vibration given by parameter equals two constant. So each leaf lies inside one of these planes given by epsilon crystal constant.
00:16:46.484 - 00:18:12.476, Speaker A: Okay, so what do you want to do with this foliage? I've listed very roughly the, say, the goals that you can try to achieve in decreasing degrees of ambition, let's say. So, for instance, we can try to classify foliations analytically, right? By means that you'd like to look, given two different manifolds, let's say m and n, equipped with foliage by curves f and g. You'd like to define a different morphism between m and n, which maps f to g in a, let's say a sort of trivial way. But of course, this is easy to see that it's a extremely difficult problem, and I think, more or less hopeless if you, in this degree of generality. Now, you can also, let's say, decrease the degree of differentiability and ask for a classification up to ck or topological equivalence, right? So this is also a very much studied problem, another problem, which, let's say, related to, let's say to the. To what people looks at when, let's say they, they can try to understand the leaves individually. So we take a leaf of her foliation and just, just try to understand what.
00:18:12.476 - 00:19:47.154, Speaker A: It's a synthetic behavior, let's say, when you, when you approach some limit, right? So, for instance, there is an object, there's a concept which is called an omega limit of a leaf, which is all, the set of all accumulation points, which can be obtained by taking the closure of this leaf, let's say, in the bowder, right? So, and even less smaller degree of ambition, it can also try to obtain some statistical information, like regarding theory, measures, etcetera. Okay, but let's say in this course, I'm not going to look too much in this difficult global problems, but mostly on the problems of local description, right? So, as I said to you, the foliation is somehow locally trivial outside its singular set, because of this flow box theorem. But we'd like to understand what happens in the vicinity, in the neighborhood of these similar points. And why this? Because. Well, I like this sentence of Tom. Rene Toms said that the singularities are the organizing centers of the dynamics, right? So, in some sense, his philosophy is that the complicated things should understand, firstly, the dynamics near the similarities, and then try to. To expand this to the whole manifold.
00:19:47.154 - 00:21:11.118, Speaker A: Well, I think it's perhaps a little bit ambitious as a statement, but. So, as a first step, what do we mean by understanding the dynamics of a foliation? Right? So, well, the affoliation is this set of leaves, right? So this one dimensional manifolds. And what's the dynamic that we. That you can attach to these objects? So there is a very nice object which we can attach to a foliation, and which in some sense, it describes dynamics, which the so called olanomi groupoid, right? So the lonely groupoid, in some sense, it gives information about the transverse behavior of a leaf. So what is this? Well, I'm not going to define it precisely, but I think it's quite clear by my simple drawing. So you consider a leaf of revolution, that's called l, right? And fix two transverse sections, let's say sigma and omega, through two points, p and q. So, right, so these are just, let's say, small germs of analytic manifolds whose dimension is complementary to the dimension of L.
00:21:11.118 - 00:22:14.638, Speaker A: And going through two points, p and three, not necessarily the same, right, so now, inside the leaf. So, lava, we can think of this as a one dimensional situation, but the leaf in general can be a multi dimensional object. So now we fix, inside the leaf, a path going from p to q, right? So you have a path. Imagine, for instance, that the l could be a torus. So in a torus, you can have several ways to go from one point to the other. So we fix one of these paths. And the idea is that you can leave this path from p two q to all nearby leaves, right? So this is simply because if this path is, let's say it's compact, right? So you can cover it by some finite set of open sets and such that on each open set you can apply the Frobenius theorem, right? So this foliation has a trivial locker description in one of these sets.
00:22:14.638 - 00:23:21.874, Speaker A: And then by gluing out, you can lift any path from p to all nearby leaves. So here I've just drawn a nearby leaf by Edison. Dashed line, right? And the idea is that when you lift this path to the nearby leaves, you have a different morphism, which called the olonomy map, which goes from the germ. So the lonomy germ, or more precisely, which goes from the dissection, the transverse section sigma, to the transverse section omega, germified on the point pull. And of course, in this context, since it's given by the grooming of these local charts, which are perfect, of course, they allow the same differentiability class of the foliation. You have just a germ of analytic map from the section sigma to omega. So now imagine that you have this, you can cover your foliation by many, many transverse sections like this.
00:23:21.874 - 00:25:00.964, Speaker A: And for each one of these transistions, you can, for each one of these pairs of transactions, and for each one of these paths that I can choose, I can define this object. Holonomy, right? And then the word groupoid, which I used here. Sorry, the word groupoid that I used here is because in fact, you have a sort of partial composition property, because suppose that you, you arrive from a point p to the point q, and then you have another path from the point q to the point r. Then you can compose these two anomies to have an anonymous from the point p to the point r, right? So a groupoid in some sense is as a group, but with a partial composition, a partial composition operator. So in this sense, you see that these holomorphisms, this holonomy maps, they codify the behavior of the nearby leaves. So if you want to understand what happens to the nearby leaves, you just compute this. But what happens now if you put a singularity in the middle? So the problem is that now if you try to attach the solonomy groupoid to singular foliations, you also need to understand what happens near the singularities, right? So suppose that instead of having, let's say, a nice path on the leaf from a point p to a point r, you have a path which goes near a singularity, as I illustrated here.
00:25:00.964 - 00:27:10.852, Speaker A: Right? Well, so, well, in this case, I've just made a real drawing, which some sense shows that you can still go from one section to the other on the nearby leaves. Well, in the complex setting, a little bit more complicated, because you don't have this property of lifting precisely because there are problems near the single point, right? So in particular, you cannot expect this holonomy map to be analytic in the neighborhood of, let's say, when the path goes and approaches a singularity. So this is one of the problems, in fact. Well, I think you're going to see a little bit of this problem in the course of Patrick, because there's an intrinsic multival witness for this map which prevents it from really analytic. And this is a very well studied problem for foliations in surfaces. And let's say that one of the delicate points in the current strategies to track with the Hilbert 16 problem, you see that what I'm saying here is that near the similarities, you have this very degeneracy, let's say the transverse behavior of the foliation goes through very complicated and let's say rich phenomenon. Okay, so now that I've perhaps convinced you that it's interesting to understand that happens near the singularities, let me just separate the set of singularities into two classes by defining what we call an elementary germ, right? So let's see, it's a little bit algebraic here, but I think it's better to put in this language because things get clear in this way.
00:27:10.852 - 00:28:38.654, Speaker A: So for me, I'm going to interpret a germ of vector field and a point p on a manifold as a derivation in the local ring. So take the ring, the ring of germs of analytic functions on a point p and the maximal ideal generated on this local ring. So you can define, think of a vector field as a derivation in this local ring. What does that mean? So if you fix local coordinates x one, x n on this point, let's say center on this point. So as I said, the vector field can be written as a sum. So this a 1d over dx one plus, et cetera, plus a n d over dxn. And, well, you can think of this as a differential operator which acts on a function f just by taking the partial derivatives of f with respect to x one and x n and forming this sum, right? So of course this is a differential operator, and of course this defines also more generally a linear endomorphism on the sloker ring because it's linear, let's say linear with c linear linear map, but it's a derivation because it satisfies the leibniz.
00:28:38.654 - 00:29:45.050, Speaker A: Right? So if you compute the derivative this endometris applied on the product of f by g, you have the usual labyrinth rule. I'm going to the, so now I'm going to identify the derivations of this local ring with these vector fields. And, well, this, let's say just another way of seeing a vector field, which will be a little bit convenient to us. So a germ, as I said, a germ of vector field is singular. Now I'm fixing a point p if a one an lies, lie all on the maximal idea, right? So this simply means that a one an vanish on the point b. But now, as looking at the, the associated linear operator given by delta, this also can be interpreted as saying that the, the derivation stabilizes the maximal idea. It's completely equivalent to this.
00:29:45.050 - 00:30:44.814, Speaker A: Okay, so a germ of vector field is singular if it stabilizes the maximal ideal. So the ideal generated by exon. Okay, so as I said, well, a very, very short discussion about the case where the germ is non singular. So you can, as I said, this approach with the derivations can give you a very, let's say, economic proof of the floorbox theorem. So assume, let's assume that the germ delta is non singular, right? So let's assume that it doesn't preserve the maximal ideal. And I claim that in this case you can find local coordinates f g one gn minus one, such that the derivation applied to f equals to one. And the derivation applied to g one and gn minus one equals to zero.
00:30:44.814 - 00:31:16.984, Speaker A: So in our language, this equivalent to say that delta in this case is just a derivation with respect to f. Okay, it's very simple to prove this. So there's the flow box theorem. So just choose a local coordinate f on the maximal ideal such that delta f is not in the maximal ideal. So it's a unit u. Right. So now I'm going to make a small simplification, but you can fix this.
00:31:16.984 - 00:32:47.594, Speaker A: We can consider this general case quite easily. But I'm going to simplify the discussion by supposing that this unit is just one, right? So now we complete this coordinate f to an arbitrary local system of coordinates. Let's say by taking g one, g n minus one. Really, that's a misspring. And we consider the linear operator given by which maps the local ring into itself, right. Preserves the maximum effect given by the sum, right? So, well, in fact, if you look at this, it's just the exponential of the, it's just the exponential map, formal exponential map associated to f two delta, when you replace the time by f, right? So it's a, it's not very hard to see that it's, it's a linear operate which maps the, the local ring into itself. But of course, what, why do you take this sum? Because if you apply this to any element of the local ring, and then you take the derivation, you get a, an element which lies on the kernel of the, of delta, just because you have just a sort of telescopic sum here.
00:32:47.594 - 00:33:43.534, Speaker A: Okay. So now it just, if you modify your, your initial system of coordinates by taking f and phi of g, one phi of gn, you have the system of coordinates satisfying its conditions on the, on the sheet. So Daniel, you claim that the sum which defines phi is convergence in some sense, right? Yes, okay. Yes, because, well, it just, it's just the flow of the vector field. Written algebraically, it's just the flow of the vector field, the delta, when you replace the time by, by f. Okay, okay. It's just, so for, well, yeah, just, you can, you can show by simple, let's say by simple estimates that it presents zero radius of convergence, okay? Because the flow is analytic if the vector field is analytic.
00:33:43.534 - 00:34:43.222, Speaker A: Okay, so in this case, you get a local analytic normal formula, let's say, because in some sense it says that if you're outside the singular set, your vector field is quite simple. Just imagine. Okay, so of course, now the interesting is in the case where delta preserve the maximal ideal. So this is of course the complicated case. And now I'm going to use an approach that appears in the bourbaki expose the martine, where he it's a very elegant way to define normal forms in this case. So first of all, by Labin's rule, you can prove that in fact all powers of the maximal ideal are preserved. In some sense, delta preserves the filtration of the local ring given by the powers of the maximal ideal.
00:34:43.222 - 00:35:56.504, Speaker A: So this is just a consequence of the Leibitz rule for each k natural number. So this means that if you take this jet spaces given by the quotient, by the success quotient of the local ring, by these powers of the maximal ideal, so these are just finite dimensional c vector spaces. And delta by restriction induces an endomorphism on each one of these jet spaces. And moreover, this, let's say, let's call delta k each one of these endomorphisms. And moreover, of course, this always compatible with the projections. So if you project from the jet space gk to the jet space gl, then you can make, let's say a commutative diagram which says that the action commutes with the projections. Okay, so now, since now we reduce the problem looking at this endomorphism, Delta k, which are endomorphisms on finite dimensional vector spaces.
00:35:56.504 - 00:37:28.364, Speaker A: So you can apply the classical Jordan decomposition. So each one of this delta k has a Jordan decomposition into semi simple and important parts. But due to this compatibility with the projections, in fact, you can take the inverse limit of the compositions. By this I mean the following, that for each, let's say for each jet space k, we have the composition of delta k on delta k semi simple plus delta k near potent. But this decomposition is also compatible with the projections because, well, the, because the Jordan decomposition is invariant with respect to two morphisms. By taking the inverse limit of these decompositions, you have the composition of the derivation itself into a sum of a semi simple part and an important part, where each one of these parts in fact comes from the limit of the decomposition on each jet space, right? So, well, the important thing is that you also have these two derivations. They commute in the sense that if you take the lead bracket of them equals to zero.
00:37:28.364 - 00:39:25.894, Speaker A: So delta s is semi simple. So it means that its restriction to each one of these jet spaces is diagonalizable, okay, over c, at least over the complex, and the restriction of each one of these nippotent parts, the important derivation to each one of these jet spaces is nil potent, meaning that a sufficient high power of this, of this endomar field vanishes restricted to each jet space. But the degree of depends, of course, on the jet space that you consider. Well, now it's perhaps a little exercise to prove that delta s and delta n are also derivations, because it's not automatic by the Jordan decomposition, but they are derivations. But now there's a delicate point here, because, as I said, this magic word, here's the, the crude composition, by which I mean that when you take this decomposition, you have to take an inverse limit of the composition on each jet space. And this does not guarantee at all that these two objects here are analytic, right? So you have, let's say what you lose in this, and this decomposition is the control of the radius of convergence. So, it's quite easy to give examples where your initial vector field is analytic, let's say convergent with positive ranges or convergence, but here you get non convergent objects in this sum, right? So this is one of the dedicated points of this problem, but in some sense it's unavoidable here, it's intrinsic to the problem.
00:39:25.894 - 00:40:47.824, Speaker A: So, if you want more details here, I have been a little bit fast, perhaps, but you can consult this Jean Martinier Semire Bobaqui, an excellent text, where he explains much more than what I'm talking about here. Okay, so how do you use this decomposition here, because, well, now, as I said, by the semi simplicity, each jet space has a direct sum decomposition in graduated parts, where each graduated part is given by the functions, let's say the jets f, such that delta f equals to alpha f. So this is just the eigenvectors associated to the eigenspace alpha. And moreover, you have this compatibility condition which says that the projection of the alpha eigenspace is, with respect to Gk, is the alpha eigenspace of Gl. So, we have this, this commutative diagram here. You want to see it a moment. But now, so after this, let's say, algebraic discussion, I want to define what they call elementary germ.
00:40:47.824 - 00:41:40.854, Speaker A: So, a germ of vector field is elementary. If one of these two conditions, the following two conditions holds. Either it's non singular, so inappropriate coordinates, as I said, it doesn't preserve the maximal idea. And as I showed to you, in some appropriate local coordinates, you just can think of this as d over dx. So the leaves are just parallel lines, or in the case that you, you have invariance of the local of the maximal ideal, I assume I require that the semi simple part is non zero. Okay, so elementary means either that the maximality is not preserved or that maximal d is preserved. But in the Jordan decomposition, the semisubo part is nonzero.
00:41:40.854 - 00:43:33.950, Speaker A: Okay, so how do we use the second property here? So in some sense, it allows us to simplify the expression of the vector field by the so called Pancare normalization theorem. So what does it say? It says that if you have, it's a general thing that you can always find formal coordinate systems such that the semi simple part is diagonal. Right? So it means that up to a formal change of coordinates, you can always suppose that the semi simple component of your derivation is diagonal. Right? So, well, this is, let's say, more or less expected, because, you know, what does it mean to be a semi simple endomorphism? But the interesting thing here is that you define this diagonalization by, let's say by, in a jet, by jet, by an iterative procedure like say, let's say you diagonalize delta s initially on the, let's say on the jets, on the one jet space g one, and then you extend this diagonalization by correcting the error when you go to g two and then to g three and so on. So this is an iterative procedure. Well, perhaps I can give you an idea if you're interested, but in fact, if you truncate this on each, on a finite level, you have a perfect analytic object. But the problem is that when you go to pass to the limit, you cannot guarantee that this procedure converges.
00:43:33.950 - 00:44:22.424, Speaker A: Right? So we just have formal coordinates. And what appears that in this coordinates, while delta s is diagonal, you can very easily describe this direct sum decomposition. So I recall that you have, let me just go back a moment. So I recall that you have this direct sum decomposition of gk in weight components for the semi simple part. So the eigenspaces and this pass to the limit, of course. And in the particular case where you find coordinates where the semi simple part is diagonal. So it's very easy to describe this eigenspace because they are simply generated by the monomials.
00:44:22.424 - 00:46:22.678, Speaker A: So let's say the weight alpha eigenspace is simply generated by the over over c by the monomials of the form x one to the power k one x n to the power kn, such that, let's say this, the inner product here of k with lambda is equal to alpha, right? So, so, uh, okay, so what, why we call this normalization? Because once you have this semi simple part written in diagonal terms, then the, the, sorry, the, you have this weight decomposition, which is quite simple because it's given by, generated by monomials. And the important part at the same time get quite simple because what happens, let's say you can, you can, you're going just, I'm just going to write the equation which says that the semi simple and an important part should commute, right? But in a, let's say in a nice way. So delta n should commute delta s, right? Because semi simple and important parts should, should commit. So how do we expand this? Well, I'm going to choose what I call them, the v algebra of diagonal vector fields. So you take the set of vector fields which can be written in the, in this way, right? So sum of mu I xi d over d y x I. So this forms a c at least ciso Bell algebra of the algebra vector fields, which is a billion, right. So we have each two elements commuted between them and this, well, I'm going to use it later on on the course.
00:46:22.678 - 00:47:24.504, Speaker A: So I'm going to just give a name. So this is what they call a maximal torus algebra of the derivations. It's a toro because it's a Dele algebra of a maximal torus. It's a max Voltaurus on the set of automobile films. And now using this lie algebra, it's quite easy to give an expression, an expansion for the nil potent part, because if I assume, as I made in the theorem of Poincare, that the semi simple part is already an element of this Lie algebra, then the commutative relation implies that the important part can be expanded. Let's say, now I'm going to make a sum. So this is a multi index sum on the exponents, and for each exponent k I choose, let's say an element of this thorough algebra.
00:47:24.504 - 00:48:35.296, Speaker A: And the condition, well, I read this, and the condition of commutative simply means that the monomial x to the power k should lie on the kernel of the delta S. So it simply means that the x that lambda inner product with k equals to zero, or which we usually say that this x to the power k are resonant monomials of the, of the vector field. So this is an expansion. Well, there's a little cost when you force this writing here. We eventually have to, can have some negative exponents here, because you see that in this thorough algebra I'm forcing the appearance of x I d over dy. And so in some sense we can have some negative exponents here. But, well, this is, let's say they appear in a well controlled way, because at the end, the important part should be a derivation in the local ring.
00:48:35.296 - 00:49:36.504, Speaker A: So it means that it's not meromorphic, just it's a form of, it preserves the completion of the local ring. Okay, so just to be concrete, I'm going to give an example to show how we can use this to understand the, the transverse behavior of a foliation. Right? So the goal is to understand the, as I said, the transverse behavior of foliation, now using the normal forms. Right, so let me just give the example in this classical case of a saddle. So what we call a one one saddle is a derivation in dimension two, which starts with, let's say, a term like this. And what's important to us is to recover the spectrum of the restriction of delta to the one jet. So the spectrum is given by the eigenvalues one and minus one.
00:49:36.504 - 00:50:36.964, Speaker A: And so we see that the resonant monomials that you can expect in the expansion in the normal form of Poincare monomials on xy. Right, so to the power k. So I'm going to give, well, I'm going to give the normal form given by Poincare. So you have the semi simple part which is given by this diagonal term, and then you have the nil potent part, which, as I said, it's a sum of, let's say diagonal vector fields multiplied by resonant monomials. Okay, so in this case, let's say that the resonant monomials, they form a ring, a sub ring of the ring of the local ring. So it's the sub ring of elements which vanish on the as, which are, let's say first integrals of the semi simple part. So they vanish when we apply the derivation delta s to them.
00:50:36.964 - 00:51:46.306, Speaker A: And in this case, this subring is just the ring generated by the resident monomer. Right, well, so it's already in the paper of Dulac, a further reduction, once we get to this reduction here, to the expression. In fact, you can reduce a little bit more by working out the nonlinear part here. Right, so there is, because in fact, what Poincare Dulac called the normal form is not really a normal form, because you can have several different expressions of this type which lie on the same class of conjugation. So you can have two different forms of disc, which are equivalent by changes of coordinates. And if you look for a single representative, you can further reduce this and have this, let's say true normal forms, which are of one of these two types here. So this, so this, there's one plus one plus f here, which is a unit where f is a function on the resonant polynomial.
00:51:46.306 - 00:52:49.394, Speaker A: And then there's this inner part here we can, well, I'm going to not go too much on the details, but you can consult, there is a lot of literature on this normal forms on this study, notably the paper of Martinier amiss. Okay, so I'm going to show how these normal forms allows us to find the transverse behavior of the foliation. Right, so the second one is more simple, because in this case, you don't have this nonlinear term. Yeah, so let's see an application. You start with this derivation, which I already suppose that it is in the normal form. So, as I said, since I'm going to consider only the foliation, not the vector field itself, I can reparametrize the time by dividing out by one by this unit. So you get another generator where f equals to zero just by dividing out by this unit.
00:52:49.394 - 00:54:47.224, Speaker A: And now I'm going to make, let's say, a similar change of coordinates by considering this new two xy, which is the resonance monomial u, and another independent monomial, which is x over y. Right? So if you apply the derivation delta to u, you get this expression here, and if you apply the derivation to v, you get two v. Okay? So now it's very nice because you have two, let's say, completely independent equation, because the component on u depends only on u and the component on v depends only on v, right? So you can integrate this by, let's say a simple, it's by separation of variables, right? So you consider the corresponding differential system, which we obtain, roughly speaking, by eliminating the time here, which gives you this equation here. Right, and, well, as I said, the two sides can be integrated separately. So by taking the primitives on both sides, you have this function I here, which is exactly a first integral of your vector field, right? So if you take the derivation and apply to I, you get zero, right? So what I mean is that, what I get is that since I got a non zero first integral, the leaves of refoliation are given by the level sets of this function I. Right, so, in fact, well, it's a multivalued function, of course. But in some sense, you reduce your problem of understanding the foundation to the problem of understanding the level sets of a function.
00:54:47.224 - 00:56:26.988, Speaker A: And this is, let's say, we can also remark that this function is in this, at least in the real setting, this is something which isn't a well known omnibus structure, but of course, the problem is that, and this, the hard problem is that, in general, the change of coordinates, which reduces the vector field to this form here, is non convergent. As I, as I recall to you, this decomposition, already there is an obstacle in the first step where you decompose your vector field in semi simple and important parts. It's not guaranteed at all that these two components will be convergent. But one of the features of the Poincare normal form is that if you are able to show that there is an analytic change of coordinates which reduces you to this normal form, then automatically you have a first integral, which lies on a nice, let's say, quasi analytic class. Well, another example, if you have a marginal lambda mu saddle, then the spectrum is given by this, of course. Now, if you allow the freedom of choosing lambda and mu, you can have situations where there is no resonant monomial at all. So here I've drawn the plane of monomials, lambda kl, sorry, this line given by lambda k plus mu l.
00:56:26.988 - 00:57:42.294, Speaker A: So of course, the resonant monomials x to the power k, y to the power l corresponds to the point, to the integral points of the line on this line. Right? So if this line has an irrational slope, so there is no reason of monomials. So if lambda over q over mu is not rational, the normal for the polycharanomal form is simply given by the semi simple part. Right? So this is what we call a formally linearizable vector field. And the first, well, say, assuming that, let's say, the very favorable nice case where you can obtain this by an analytic change of coordinates, then the first integral is simply given by this multivalued function. Okay? So if you have two saddles with the different eigenvalues, lambda mu and lambda prime, mu prime, you cannot differentiate their face portrait over r two. They are more or less all the same one like this.
00:57:42.294 - 00:59:12.898, Speaker A: Right? But over c. Now, I've not talk too much about foliation on c two, but on c two, you have to think of foliation where the leaves are one dimensional complex submanifolds, right? So they are Riemann surfaces. So over c you should have over c two, sorry, your foliation should be something like this, where you have, let's say one of the leaves is given by y equals to zero. The other leaves are sort of chimneys like this, which spirals out over this center. Of course, this very approximate picture, because you should draw this in four dimensions, four real dimensions, but in some sense, there's an accumulation phenomena here, which, in fact, it allows us to differentiate, um, even topologically, the case where lambda over mu is different from lambda prime over mu prime, and well, over c for over c two, for instance, I have this several rigidity phenomena, which shows, for instance, that topological equivalence implies linearizability and so on. Okay, not going to end too much in this, um, in this topic, but sorry if I'm. Yeah, I think today we're only going to make some general remarks.
00:59:12.898 - 00:59:58.654, Speaker A: So, as I said, if you want to understand the traverse behavior of a foliation in the, in the neighborhood of acetone, there are two. Recall that I told you about this. Polonium groupoids, right? So they're there. These are transition maps between two transverse sections. So in some sense, we have two types of olonomy maps, which you can consider. In a saddle point, you have this corner transition map where you fix two transverse sections through the y axis and through the x axis. And you consider this map here, which is usually called the coordinatorization map or the dulc map.
00:59:58.654 - 01:00:57.774, Speaker A: And in the complex setting, you have another map which is given by a transition on the same transversal. Right? So you fix a complex transversal here. So I recall that the leaves now are surface. So in particular, then the x axis is locally given by a punctured disk. So a disk with the origin removed, because the origin is the singularity. And now you can take a path on this base leaf, which gives a full turn around the singularity, the local generator of the fundamental group of the leaf. And then you can lift this path to the nearby leaves, and you have a first return map to a transverse section.
01:00:57.774 - 01:01:51.744, Speaker A: So this is so called the olonomy map of the, of the, the saddle. And. Well, one of the features is that both of these maps can be used to classify the foliation, right? So, if you have, let's say if you understand either the durek map or the lonomie map, you can in some sense completely describe the so called orbital analytic class of the saddle. In some sense. What I mean is that the transverse behavior completely characterizes the foliation. On this case, let me just give you a precise definition of the analytic class of vector field. I see that two germs of vector fields are analytic conjugated.
01:01:51.744 - 01:02:55.336, Speaker A: If there is an atomorphism. So what's an automorphism is just a change of coordinates, right? So it's, you can see in my algebraic languages as a c and all morphism of the local ring, which satisfies the, let's say this is the thormorphism property, right? So the phi applied to the product of f by g is phi of f times v of g in this automobile. And I'm requiring that the conjugacy relations means that this automorphism should conjugate f to delta to delta to delta Tilde, right. So you can see easily verify that this, both sides here are derivation. So I'm just claiming that it should be equal. And now a more general, let's say more weak type of equivalence, is when we say the two germs of vector fields are orbitally unlt equivalent. And in this case we allow the multiplication by a unit, as I have made in some moments ago.
01:02:55.336 - 01:04:52.984, Speaker A: So I say that if there is a unit u on the rocker rings, that delta is an entity conjugated to u times delta tilde, right? So this is a, it's precisely in this, so this is precisely the sense in which, sorry, the transverse, these transverse maps characterize the foliation, because when you use these maps, you lose information about the travel time, the time, right. So in some sense you just recover, you just keep the information about the defoliation, not about its conjugacy class. Okay, so there, well, I'm going to, just going to give you this small drawing. Say that the dysautonomy map, so the second one that I've, that I've written here, in fact, it can encode very, very complex phenomena, since it can be, it can show that any d theomorphism, any germ of different, of c preserving the origin can be realized as the lonely map of complex saddle. So in fact, you have, let's say, topologically, you have several different type of phenomena, and even this very complicated berries Markov Hedgehog, which is if you have heard something about this local dynamics of different, on the complex line, you see that this very nice phenomena and very complicated phenomena related to the case where we have small denominators. Okay, not going to enter too much on this. So, okay, so the problem of classification, the problem of describing the orbits of the action of this optomorphism on the derivations, right? So let me call this the modeling problem.
01:04:52.984 - 01:06:31.448, Speaker A: So you have this, the action of the automobiles and the derivations and, well, this is a schematic drawing here where I'm just drawing, let's see, I have a derivation, I have a sort of orbit of this derivation by the action of the atomorphisms and an environment is simply something which associates to each orbit some fixed element in such a way that you can characterize the orbit just by looking at invariant. So this is one of the central problems in this topic of local classification. And, well, there are a lot of things which have been done in this direction by Ekal Eliashenko. I'm not going to enter too much on this, but just to give you a panorama, there is a lot of very nice developments on this subject, but mainly in dimension two. So to find invariants for the analytic classification, there's much less understood for vector fields in a high dimension. Okay, so now I'm going to enter a little bit on the topic of the course, because of course, you have this, let's say this theory, which is quite developed for elementary singularities, as I mentioned to you. I give you an example of a saddle, but you can in some sense classify, at least in the case of the plane, all types of elementary similarities can appear.
01:06:31.448 - 01:07:32.314, Speaker A: And for each one of them there is a sort of normal form theory which allows you to, to understand the relation between our forms and the transverse behavior and so on. But what happens in the, in the case of non elementary singularities? Right. So I give you an example which very, I think it's very representative of the problem, which is the case of the cusp with a singularity. So I think I've made already a drawing of this and the talk that I've given some weeks ago. So you consider the vector field given by this initial part plus some perturbation, which I'm going to detail in a moment. But let's just concentrate on this initial part for the moment. So if, suppose that delta is equal to zero, you have an almost first integral given by y to the square minus x to the cube, right? So this is just the part which vanishes, this initial term here.
01:07:32.314 - 01:08:53.058, Speaker A: And notice that if you suppose, let's say that this delta starts with quadratic terms, then the spectrum of delta is zero, because the linear part is just a nipple. This is non elementary, to be precise to the discussion that I'm going to make. I am going to suppose that this perturbation here can be arbitrary with this condition, right? So I suppose that this, it has a two three quasi order greater or equal than two. Okay. Well, it means that if you give weight two to the variable x and weight three to the variable y, then this vector field delta which appear here should have a quasimogeneous degree of order greater or equal than two. Well, I'm going to detail this a little bit, perhaps next time. But anyway, it's a sufficient large perturbation, right? So there's a theorem on this paper which shows that in this case, you can in fact, reduce this vector field to this form here analytically.
01:08:53.058 - 01:10:04.154, Speaker A: Right? So what's the interest? So you keep the initial term, but the nonlinear term gets, the perturbation term delta gets of this form here. Okay, so what's this form? It's in fact, if you look at the vector field which appears inside the parentheses, this is a radial vector field. And it says, essentially, that when you apply now, this derivation to the function y squared minus x to the power three, you get an invariant curve, right? So the cusp given by xy to the equals to the x parallel y squared equals to x to the power three is an invariant curve. So essentially, your foliation is given, let's say, in a real drawing, by something like this. Right? So the problem, of course, the problematic point is this, the cusp which appear here because it's another elemental similarity. But this is a really, the classical, of course. So gamma is an invariant curve, but the problem is that the nearby leaves can be extremely complicated here, drawing this as a level sets.
01:10:04.154 - 01:11:15.420, Speaker A: But this foliation can be, you can have, for instance, you can have leaves which accumulate densely on this, on this cusp, and very complicated phenomena, which I'm going to explain to you in a moment, where you can understand it by the transverse behavior. But of course, one of the things that you can do is to look for this transition maps. So, as I've made, in the case of saddles, you have two transition maps, the inner one, let's say, the inner dulag, Mac, and the outer dulag map. And suppose, for instance, that we'd like to understand, at least to give an asymptotic expansion of these maps here, right, as we have done in the case of the cusp, in the case of the saddle, sorry. So it turns out that these maps are not, for instance, they don't have the same asymptotic expansion. Okay, I'm going to show you why, perhaps if I have time, but it turns out that they're completely different. And this, it's quite surprising, because it seems that they should have some kind of compatibility in this point.
01:11:15.420 - 01:12:18.864, Speaker A: But I think if you take the syntactic expansion to the order five or six, or five or six, you're right, fine. That they're not compatible in this, in this point. Okay, so one of the questions of Rene Tom was to understand the, let's say, now you can fix a transverse section, sigma here, omega, sorry, through the cusp, think of the complex drawing, and you can find, let's say you take a path on the complex domain, which makes, so the leaf, the cusp, is locally diffomorphic to the puncture disk. So you can take a turn around the origin here and you can lift it to the nearby leaves. And you have this all on the map here. But contrary to the case of the saddle, this does not classify the singularity. Okay, so this one, so this is one of the conjectures of Tom, which has been disproved by Moss and servo in their paper.
01:12:18.864 - 01:13:16.502, Speaker A: So how do we study this case? So the idea, just to enter a little bit in the subject of the course, is to make the, the resolution of the cuspida foliation. So this will be the first example of a resolution of similarities for foliations. I'm going to make it quite, let's say, I'm not going to discuss for the moment the computation, but it's quite easy to understand. That happens if you take just the case where you ignore the perturbation delta. You take the dual form. So this is the form which is vanished by the derivation, the unperturbed derivation was given by simply the exterior derivative of y squared minus x three. And now what we do is that we're going to blow up the singularity, right? So I just make this blow up here.
01:13:16.502 - 01:13:58.014, Speaker A: X goes to the x and y goes to the x and y. So I'm looking at the blow up in the horizontal direction, and at each time I'm going to represent as a circle the exceptional divisor which appears by blowing up. So in the first step, you get this expression here. So just factor alt x to the power y. And now you see that the cusp becomes a parabola here, right? So if you made the computation, you still see that this point is still non elementary. You make a second blow up on the intersection, this intersection point. And now you have a new divisor which appears, which is this green one.
01:13:58.014 - 01:15:17.644, Speaker A: And the cusp now becomes a line given by x minus y minus x equals to zero. And now you see that there is this monomial which accumulates outside the parentheses. And let's say the differential form, this is the dual of the differential forms, which we find the foliation here. Now it is still not elementary, so you make it a third and last blow up. And now what you observe is that you have, so you have created these three exceptional divisors, each one of these given by one of the blow ups. And now what you get is that in this new coordinates here, you, so the, you have three singular points which appear, so of course, this drawing can be a little misleading because you have, you see several points of intersection, but in fact, the topologically, let's say these divisors, they intersect only on two points here, which I denote by three one and one two, because these are two saddle points. And this is the radio of the eigenvalues on these points.
01:15:17.644 - 01:16:01.194, Speaker A: Okay? And finally, this cusp also gives you a third saddle point here, whose radius of eigenvalues is one over six. So now you have transformed your problem and the problem of having three singular points, but each one of them is elementary. It's a saddle point. So now go back to the problem. Now to study these transition maps, right? So you have this DLC map, the inner map and the outer map. But when you do the blow up, of course, you don't touch this transverse section because they are far from the similarity. But in this imagine drawing, they are.
01:16:01.194 - 01:17:03.124, Speaker A: So they are still cutting the blue line transversely. But now you have this transition here, right? So this is the outer section, this inner section. But you have to remember that when you do the blow up, in fact, at least in the real setting, you can interpret this as adding a Mobius band, right? So you can just show me how can you transit from the, this outer section to the inner section. So in fact, you. Well, in this case, you have this, this way of going up. Okay? So this is one of the paths that give you the transition. And now make a more schematic drawing where you have to see that each one of this, the neighborhood of each one of these divisors here is a sort of, of wave is banned, right? So I'm going to draw, don't have to understand completely this drawing, but these are the paths that appear.
01:17:03.124 - 01:17:52.304, Speaker A: Right? So you see, you have a transition between right and left. So this is from a paper that I have written with Rosari and. Okay, so the idea that you can recover the module of classification also by a transverse holonomy map. But now there are two, in fact, there are two transitions that will appear here. So in this left I have draw the divisor, the orange divisor. And you see that there is three singularities here. So the saddle, which comes from the cusp and the two saddles which comes from the intersection of the exceptional divisors.
01:17:52.304 - 01:18:50.924, Speaker A: Now you fix any point which is outside these three singularities on the complex domain. Each one of these divisor is given by a copy of the projective line. So it's a sphere, but the leaf itself is a sphere with three points removed because the points which corresponds to the singularities are not points of the leaf. You have these three points removed. And now the paths that you can consider. So the paths, the paths on the leaf are generated by at least their fundamental group, is generated by two paths which make a turn around the singularities, as I illustrated here. Right? So the other path which make a turn around the third singularity, is generated by this two, by a simple, let's say, fundamental group argument.
01:18:50.924 - 01:20:29.838, Speaker A: And in fact, what they've proven is that the allonomy of this leaf, right? So now we have just two generators here, is given by two germs of different morphism which satisfy this relation here. So it's a well known group. And in fact, in this case they classify completely the germ of the singularity in the sense that I've explained it to you. So two germs of cuspidal singularities are orbitally equivalent if and only if the group of vanishing holonomy, which is defined as this, is conjugated by an analytical determinism. So, okay, so just to summarize, the idea is that, you see, we start with a non elementary singularity and by blowing up, we obtain this configuration where all singularities are elementary. And now we can recover the transverse behavior by studying, let's say, the foliation and how it's organized in the neighborhood of this configuration here. Right? So, well, of course, one of the message that I want to stress is that contrary to the case of, let's say the classical case of resolution of singularities, once you achieve the situation where the similarities are elementary, you're not finished at all.
01:20:29.838 - 01:22:27.352, Speaker A: I mean, the problem is, it's another problem which starts because there is very, very complicated and rich phenomena which can appear even when you achieve this elementary similarities, right? So my claim is that this is the, the best that we can hope for. I mean, so let's say, what's the problem of resolution of singularities for foliation by curves, right? So I'm going to perhaps finish by initiating these things. So we cannot talk about resolution of singularities because in fact, I'm going to show to you that you cannot expect to eliminate all singularities of affoliation. But I prefer to talk about elimination of the potent locus, right? So what do you mean by that? So we consider again, foliation by curves on a manifold f m. So we call the nipotent locks of this foliation the set of points where the germ of the foliation is generated by a germ which non elementary, right? So my claim is that this is an analytical, depending on the setting, it's analytical on an algebraic subset. Why? Because, well, you can characterize the set of new potent germs by, by saying that there are points where there are points which, such that the germ of a local generator preserves the maximal ideal. And moreover, if you consider the action on the first jet, you have, this endomorphism here is near potent.
01:22:27.352 - 01:23:40.008, Speaker A: Of course, being potent is an algebraic condition which it's given just by saying that all coefficients on the correct polynomial vanish. Right. So these are perfectly analytic conditions which characterizes the nipotent locus of foliation. Okay, so another way to characterize the potent locus of the foliation is the set of points p such that when you look at such that the derivation preserves the maximal ideal, and moreover, it's nil potent when restricted to it jet space. Right? So the derivation restricted to the k jet space is nilipotent in the sense that there exists an n such that delta k to the power n vanishes. So it's another way to characterize algebraically, analytically, these important locks. Okay, so just to formulate what we hope to obtain, I'm going to add another structure to this setting.
01:23:40.008 - 01:24:47.604, Speaker A: So we have a pair m f. And now I suppose also that this manifold is equipped with a normal crossing divisor, e. Right? So we are going to say that the foliation is adapted to e if each reducible component of the normal crossing divisor is invalid by the foliation. What I mean by that, I mean that let's say locally we fix a point p on a manifold. Let's say delta is a local generator of the Fourier and f is an equation of an irreducible component of e. So by invariance, I just mean that for each integral positive integer, I, I want delta applied to the a power of f to preserve the a power of f. Okay, so this precisely means that f preserves the filtration of the local ring given by the powers of the equation of this irreducible component.
01:24:47.604 - 01:25:50.310, Speaker A: Okay, so by Leibniz rule, this is the same thing as saying that delta of f is contained in the ideal generated by f. Yeah. Okay, but now I'm going to enter a little bit on this discussion of co dimension one. Remember that I told you that I don't want you to consider saturated foliation because it's important for me to have foliations which can allow codimension one components on the singular set. Okay, this will appear here because I want I always want you to keep this condition of adaptiveness, which appears. So I further say that f is tightly adapted, sorry, it's e here to the divisor. So it preserves this filtration, but it doesn't preserve it too much in the sense that I don't want it to maps f.
01:25:50.310 - 01:26:23.878, Speaker A: So there's, there exists an index I such that delta applied to f I is not contained in f I plus one. I'm going to give an example in a moment, but it means that it's not, it's tangent to the foliage, to the. So delta foliage is tangent to the divisor, but not too much tangent. Okay, so suppose, for instance, that you have this divisor given by x. One times xk equals x, k equals to zero. So let's just keep it. Okay, now.
01:26:23.878 - 01:27:31.014, Speaker A: Okay, so in this case, my vector field, the invariance condition, means that the vector field should have a sort of a logarithmic expansion like this, right? But to say that it's tightly adapted mean that a one, an should not be divisible by xi. For each I equals to one to the power up to n. Once you have this expansion here, I don't want to have a common factor for, let's say, of the formula x one or x k two. Each one of these, they should not be divisible a one. This AI here should not be divisible by Xi. So for instance, if you, let's say, very simple situation, if you take in dimension two, the divisor given by x equals to zero. So in this case, an adapted derivation should have a local generate like this, where a and b are analytic functions.
01:27:31.014 - 01:28:30.222, Speaker A: And moreover, it's tightly adapted if a and b are not divisible by x. Okay, so for instance, if b is non zero, it means that the divisor given by x equals to zero is non singular on the generic point, right? So there is some isolated singularities which appear when b vanishes. But let's say b restricted to x equals zero, vanish. But this is an invariant line which is formed by, let's say, a union of isolated points. But then this is also an allowable situation where b equals to zero. And then the generic point on the divisor is an elementary singularity. So I mean that, of course, in this case, in this case, since it's tightly adapted, if b vanishes, then a is not identically zero, right, restricted to the divisor.
01:28:30.222 - 01:29:39.780, Speaker A: So in the generic point, you have a non zero eigenvalue in the transverse direction. So it is some elemental similarity because you have a non zero eigenvalue. But at some isolated points you can have, let's say, when a vanishes, you have some more degenerate point. But this is just to explain to you that if you require the foliation to be tangent or adapted to a divisor, you should allow the existence of co dimension one components on the singular set. So you cannot, let's say, make this operation of saturation that I've explained. Because if you saturate this, if you saturate this foliation here, it should correspond to divide by x, right? So the foliation should become generically transverse to this, to, to the line, to the vertical line. Okay, so there's an equivalent, let's say characterization.
01:29:39.780 - 01:30:43.974, Speaker A: So f affiliation is tightly adapted to e. If and only if, no irreducible component of the divisor lies on the nil potent set. Okay, so this is equivalent. So you see that if a and b are divisible by x, then all points on this line would lie on the nippotent locus and the receiver. Okay, so now we can formulate the problem. So there's a general problem which has been solved, let's say, for low dimensional cases. So for me, let's call a singularly foliated manifold is a triple formed by a manifold, a normal crossing divisor, and a foliation such that, so this is a requirement that I'm going to make from the start, is that the set of nil potent points, the nippotent blocks, has coordination greater or equal than two.
01:30:43.974 - 01:32:05.514, Speaker A: Okay, so I recall that the set of the singular set itself has, can have components of dimension of co dimension one. But the near potent locks, which is of course contained in the singular set, the nippot locus, has code dimension greater or equivalent to. So this is not a very big restriction, because, as I said to you, this can be achieved by, by a procedure of local division. But even if you don't assume this condition, we can obtain a resolution of similarity by just in some sense taking care separately of the case where this important locks Hesco dimension by using the usual hiranaka's theory. But anyway, I'm going to assume this, which can always be achieved by, let's say by local division, by saturation. And the problem is to show that for each relativity, this is a classical formulation. Let's say for each relatively compact subset MoF, there exists a finite sequence of blow ups such that first requirement, it's the center of each blow up, should have normal crossing with the divisor and should be contained in an important locus.
01:32:05.514 - 01:33:34.926, Speaker A: Okay, so this is, let's say for us, it's important requirement, because I don't want to touch the points where, let's say, where the foliation is already simple, elementary, and in such a way that the important locus of this last triple here is empty. Right? So this is a, should be the perfect goal, let's say, for them, for the resolution of similarities. Okay, so just, yeah, two, three minutes, perhaps. I want you just to make some, give some expression. So let's see, when you make a blow up, the first thing is, how can we compute the strict transform of affoliation by blowback? In fact, we look for the local generators and should understand how a local generator, how a vector field transforms under a blog gap. So in fact, to make these computations, it's very useful to work in the logarithmic basis. You take the basis which is given by x 1d over x 1d xn d x n, and I'll suppose that you make this substitution here which corresponds to a blow up in the x one direction.
01:33:34.926 - 01:34:16.980, Speaker A: So the idea is that with this, this expression transforms in a very nice way, contrary to the case where we consider just the basis d over dxn. So it's interesting to consider this, because in fact, this is the case where you have this logarithmic basis. It transforms in a linear way. Okay, so for instance, the first component becomes x one b over dx, one minus x two directly. So x and d were max n, and all other components are preserved. So this is perhaps an exercise to make this computation here. It can also be done in terms of the dual basis.
01:34:16.980 - 01:35:15.514, Speaker A: So if you consider this dual forms here, which are the forms which, they're the forms which are dual to this logarithmic vector fields. And you can take the pullbacks of these forms under these maps, and you have the dual forms of these vector fields here, and you can show that it's, they have this form, you can make the computations also using this. Yeah, so, yeah, so for instance, in this very simple case of a linear saddle, let's show that you cannot eliminate the singularity at all by blowing up. So take this saddle here. So, lambda arbitrary saddle, lambda mu positive, and let's make this blow up in the y direction. And what happens is that, as I said, it's already in the log written in the basis. So this d over dx becomes d over dx minus y dy.
01:35:15.514 - 01:36:15.774, Speaker A: And the second term here, it's preserved. Right? So you see that by regrouping the terms, you get another saddle whose eigenvalues are simply lambda and lambda plus mu. And if you do the same blow up in the other direction, let's say in the y direction, you get this new saddle with this. So of course, this is the drawing that we would like to do here. Let's say if you write things in schematically, right? So you have this saddle, the initial saddle, and by blow up, you get two new saddles, okay? But of course, if you can iterate this procedure as much as you want, and you're always going to get settles by blowing up. So this is an elementary singularity which cannot be destroyed by blowups. Let's consider the case of a node.
01:36:15.774 - 01:36:54.694, Speaker A: So this is the case, let's say, where you have two, again values of the same sign here. Suppose that hole is positive. Yeah. So now there are two situations here. Assume that Rho is greater than one, Rho smaller than one, and rho equals to one, right? So in the first situation, you get a node on the x direction and a saddle in the y direction. In the second situation, we have both. In the third situation, where the hole is equals to one.
01:36:54.694 - 01:37:56.944, Speaker A: Then we get what we call so called the critical situation. Because you see that in this case, in fact, the solution curves, the leaves of this foliation are just lines through the origin. And these lines become transverse to the exceptional divisor by this blow up. And of course, in this case, you create an exceptional divisor which is entirely composed of similar points. So again, in this case, you see that you cannot eliminate the singularity, that all if Rho is irrational, let's say, because in fact, when you do this map here and you always follow the node, in fact, you're just following the continuous fraction expansion of Ho. So it is infinite if Ho is not rational. Okay, I think I'm going to finish with the example.
01:37:56.944 - 01:38:37.636, Speaker A: So, in the case of saddle nodes, just to give an example also, so you take the blow up, and let's say you take m directional blow ups in the x direction. So by iterating the procedure that I've explained to you. So this x d over dx after m blow ups becomes x d over x minus my d over dynamic. In the second terms, it's preserved. And there's this monomial here, which is the same. So you realize that you can make as much blow ups as you, as you want. And this is a completely stable model.
01:38:37.636 - 01:39:49.444, Speaker A: So in this case, you see that you have a single non zero eigenvalue is given by the vertical direction. But in some sense, you cannot hope to improve this any better. For instance, asking for two to get two non zero eigenvalues. So this is by this stability, you see that this is a completely funny model, and it's completely understandable if you try to draw the phase, let's say the solution curves, because you see that you have a phase portrait looks like this. So this is the phase portrait of this saddle node here, right? So you see that there are solution, there are curves which have a flat contact with the horizontal line here, given by this explanation here, right? And so, of course, this is a completely transcendental phenomenon and you can make as much blow ups as you want. You are never going to separate these branches here, right? So this is, let's say, a geometric way to see that. I said all node cannot be.
01:39:49.444 - 01:40:11.264, Speaker A: It's a completely stable configuration with respect to blob apps. Okay, I think I'm going to stop here today. So next day I promise that I'm going to talk more about resolution similarities. Thank you. Thank you very much. Stop the recording. Thank you.
