00:00:00.170 - 00:00:03.440, Speaker A: If your dao isn't moving atoms in the real world, it's not doing anything.
00:00:06.050 - 00:00:33.426, Speaker B: Welcome to Layer Zero. Layer Zero is a podcast of unscripted conversations with the people that make up the Ethereum community. Crypto is built by code, but it's composed by people. And each individual member of the crypto community has their own story to tell. Cypherpunks understood that the code they write impacts the people that use it. And layer Zero focuses on the people behind the code, because Ethereum is people all the way down, and it always has been. Today on Layer Zero, I'm talking with Metadreamer out of the metafactory dao.
00:00:33.426 - 00:01:24.946, Speaker B: But Metadreamer, he's a dower. So he's a part of many different parts of the Ethereum ecosystem. And every time I talk to Metadreamer, either through zoom or on discord, or in real life, the conversations just get really cerebral, really, really cosmic. And he's one of the guys out there that I think really embodies the core values of what makes this crypto space tick. The leaning into collaboration over competition and like this. Yes, and mentality. And how do we create an abundance mentality rather than a scarcity mentality and really focuses on what I really try and get out of these layer zero podcasts is ultimately the code that we write will ultimately come to impact society for the better if we design these systems correctly.
00:01:24.946 - 00:01:58.606, Speaker B: And so he's very tapped into the whole point about crypto is to change culture. The whole point about this whole revolution in digital money and digital finance is to have a better society. And I think a lot of people, when they come into the crypto space, they feel that. But there, in my mind, is not enough conversations explicitly talking in that direction. And so that is what bankless nation you are about to listen to right after we get to some of these fantastic sponsors that make this show possible. Living a bankless life requires taking control over your own private keys. And that's why so many in the bankless nation already have their ledger hardware wallet.
00:01:58.606 - 00:02:30.970, Speaker B: And brand new to the ledger lineup of hardware wallets is the Ledger Nanos Plus, a huge upgrade to the world's most popular hardware wallet. With more memory and a larger screen, the Nanos plus makes it easy to navigate and verify your transactions. And the paired Ledger live desktop app gives you increased transparency as to what is about to happen with your NFT. What you see is what you sign. The Nanos plus gives you the smoothest possible user experience while you're doing all of your crypto things. So go to the Ledger website to check out the features of the new Ledger Nanos plus and join the waitlist to get yours. And don't forget about the crypto life card.
00:02:30.970 - 00:03:28.810, Speaker B: Also powered by Ledger, the CL card is a crypto debit card that hooks right into the ledger live app, right next to all the defi apps and services that you're already used to doing, like swapping tokens and staking. So if you don't have a ledger hardware wallet, go to ledger.com, grab a ledger and take control over your crypto. So you've got some money, but how are you going to use it? You want to spend you me shopping now, bro, when you know you should be saving? You'll never buy a house at this rate, but what if you could spend and save at the same time for the enlightened kind? With inquiring minds, a new world awaits. Set yourself free with completely flexible self repaying loan technology supported on desktop and mobile. Seize the power of Alchemyx, allowing you to spend and save at the same time. Leverage your wealth without risk of liquidation.
00:03:28.810 - 00:04:09.494, Speaker B: Take out a loan that repays itself by using yield from your deposit to pay off your balance. Your only debt is time. What was once inconceivable is now within your grasp. Polygon is Ethereum's largest and most vibrant scaling solution to date. With millions of monthly users and all of the biggest defi apps, the polygon ecosystem has turned into a blossoming metropolis of defi activity. Transactions on Polygon are quick and cheap, allowing users the freedom to achieve their defi goals, all while being economically anchored to Ethereum. But Polygon isn't just the proof of stake sidechain.
00:04:09.494 - 00:04:38.498, Speaker B: The Polygon team is building a suite of scaling solutions, including Polygon, Hermes, maiden, nightfall, and Xero, all with different design choices in order to be optimized for all possible crypto use cases. If you're a developer who wants to build on the polygon ecosystem, go to the link in the show notes to check out their fantastic documentation. And if you're a user who just wants to experience fast and cheap defi, you can bridge over your ETH or other tokens and start playing around with any of the thousands of applications that are available on Polygon. Hey Metadreamer, how's it going?
00:04:38.664 - 00:04:40.174, Speaker A: Pretty good, man. How are you, David?
00:04:40.222 - 00:04:43.830, Speaker B: Pretty good, pretty good. I think for the rest of this podcast I'll just call you meta. How about that?
00:04:43.900 - 00:04:44.182, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:04:44.236 - 00:04:45.122, Speaker B: Or maybe dreamer.
00:04:45.186 - 00:04:47.634, Speaker A: Dreamer, probably dreamer. I don't want to be referred to as meta.
00:04:47.682 - 00:04:55.980, Speaker B: Yeah, right. Okay. As soon as I said that, I was like, wait a second, it's probably going to be the other one. So, Dreamer, who are you? Tell me about yourself.
00:04:56.670 - 00:05:21.700, Speaker A: Yeah, I go by Metadreamer. I'm a software engineer and designer. I've been working in the DaO space for just over two years now. Founder of Metafactory and work on a bunch of projects like Metagame and sourcecred and coordinate and part of Metacartel Ventures and. Yeah, just someone helping to figure out where we're all going.
00:05:22.790 - 00:05:51.642, Speaker B: Where are we going? Wow. If we could only answer that question, Dreamer. I think one of the reasons why I wanted to pull you on layer zero is because every time you and I have had conversations, either through Zoom or in real life, in person, they always seem very cosmic. And these are my types of conversations. And so that's where I hope this conversation goes. I hope it ends up being very cosmic. I'm going to have to figure out how to get there.
00:05:51.642 - 00:06:03.700, Speaker B: And I think the first question that I want to ask to figure out how to get there is, what do you really care about both inside of crypto and outside of crypto? What really just stands out as important to you? What do you fixate on?
00:06:04.230 - 00:07:06.450, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think it's kind of like from my name itself, I guess it's not trying to fixate on the surface level things, but really trying to understand the underlying causes or sort of what's the root cause of this. So that meta level, whether it's within crypto and figuring out what type of things to build or even just philosophically or on a sociopolitical level, kind of breaking down what's really going on and going deeper than just narratives that people hear or things that we, I think a lot of people, it's just more so about taking the things they hear from other people and sort of like recycling it or regurgitating it. But for me, it's like trying to break sort of what's like the underground mycelial network, not necessarily the forest. It's like the whole thing of like, you missed a forest for a tree. It's like people missed the mycelial network underground for the forest.
00:07:08.730 - 00:07:13.970, Speaker B: There's always one more stage of meta that we can get. And you're always trying to chase the meta.
00:07:14.050 - 00:08:30.990, Speaker A: Yeah, and I guess the purpose of it is sort of, I do think that if you solve things at the primitive level, then you can solve those problems downstream, and that's how you also solve the most problems possible. Is like, you know, find the, the. I said this once, find the lowest common shelling point of something, and if you make a 1% improvement there, it could end up being, like, thousands of percent improvements in many areas just because it's downstream of a lot of these other things. So I think that's sort of important to me is it's an engineering mindset, which I went into school for, computer engineering. But it's like you're always min maxing, right? What's the lowest budget we need for this project? So it gets built to spec, et cetera, et cetera. But really, in a more philosophical way, of, what's the lowest hanging fruit, lowest hanging shelling points that we can address to make the most impact? Because I don't think there's any end destination or some sort of happy state that we're working towards. It's, like, all about the journey.
00:08:32.850 - 00:09:16.314, Speaker B: I definitely resonate with that. I think a lot of people in the crypto industry resonate with that journey of trying to find the most bang for your buck when it comes to changing the world. Post college, I was always focused on how do I help people feel better the most? And so that led to a degree in psychology. But then I realized, like, oh, well, nutrition also is really important to helping people feel good. So I layered on nutrition, and all of a sudden, I was super fascinated with the way that the food that you eat impacts your psyche. But then I realized you have to layer on physical movement on top of that. It's like, all right, so then now I'm interested in a career path that was one part psychology, one part nutrition, one part physical movement.
00:09:16.314 - 00:09:59.814, Speaker B: And I was trying to figure out, how do I make a holistic career out of all these things? And I saw just a bunch of bureaucracy. But then I found crypto, and I was, like, learning about money and finance. I was like, oh, well, I mean, if I'm really focused on trying to make the most amount of people feel the best, I would probably try and rework the money and the finance system. And so as soon as I kind of realized that about crypto, that crypto is going to exactly what you said be, like the lowest common shelling point, it's like, oh, well, I was immediately just captivated by crypto because you can just have so much influence on the rest of everything about the way humanity works. Would you say that that was kind of a similar path that you found when going into crypto?
00:09:59.942 - 00:10:34.710, Speaker A: Yeah, I would definitely say so. It's interesting, too, because my wife's a dietitian. So we get that crypto diet combo. But yeah, I think even if you're like the bureaucracy thing is, that's everywhere. It's omnipresent, right? People get convinced into thinking we're in a war of left versus right, or blue versus red, or this team versus that team. But the real sort of the split is like the elites versus the masses. And that's apparent in every industry, across every domain.
00:10:34.710 - 00:11:47.182, Speaker A: And I think going back to the thing of solving things at the root level, money, at the end of the day, for better or for worse, powers like everything in the world, right? So if you can make improvements on how money is distributed and the access people have to it, and not even going beyond money, but even the concept of value itself and how we engage with that as a society, you make improvements there, then it applies across the board. And I think for any smart person who wants to make a change in the world, I really think crypto is the place to do it. And whether it's like, I think crypto space needs to also evolve a bit, too, where we need to get past some of the technical stuff to actually application. It's no longer about who has the best l two s, but who can use l two s to make the best, most real world impact. Right? I think you said it once before of if your dow isn't moving atoms in the real world, it's not doing anything. So I think we're in that phase now where the tech is pretty much like a solved problem. It's a matter of time, I think, until certain things get implemented, but it's really time to start walking that walk.
00:11:47.182 - 00:12:06.082, Speaker A: And I think you can apply crypto principles to pretty much every industry with, matter of fact, you were doing it to fashion, but it goes beyond that too. So I think people getting involved in crypto now is just like getting involved with Internet stuff back in the 90s. Whatever you're doing, the Internet is going to boost your ability to do it.
00:12:06.216 - 00:12:20.390, Speaker B: Would you say the value is a lower common denominator? What was the phrase you used? Lower lowest common selling point. Would you say value is a lower common shelling point than money? As in like value is below money?
00:12:20.540 - 00:13:12.490, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say so. If you think about so money itself, if you think about how money was created, it was created as a means to convert one form of value to another, right? Like, if I had a tomato and I wanted to get a haircut, I would have to either barter that, which is harder to do, but if I can sell the tomato and then use that money to buy a haircut, then I can sort of achieve what I want. So money is a means, not the end itself, right? But the problem happened is money became the only thing that's objectively quantifiable and measurable. And it's the whole saying of, like, you optimize what you measure. So when money became quantifiable and measurable, it became the measuring stick in how we organized everything. The whole game turned to let's maximize GDP. And we all sort of convinced ourselves that that's really what we're trying to go for, or that's the measure of success.
00:13:12.490 - 00:14:06.794, Speaker A: Or value is like money itself, but value is actually everything outside of money. Money is just a way to convert from one form value to another. So if you can create things that are not money, but serve the purpose of converting one form of value to another, then you get to move into this post money society where people can actually communicate and coordinate around value itself in its more pure form, instead of only having to go through money, because money becomes a bottleneck in a way, where you look at the Great Depression, all the factories were there, all the people were there to still work on those factories. The whole thing came crashing down because of the money broke. So I think money is still going to serve the system, it's still going to exist, it's not going to go away, but it becomes a means to an end. And instead of optimizing for money, we actually make value itself more objectively quantifiable. And we can use cryptography for that as well.
00:14:06.794 - 00:14:49.874, Speaker A: So we've used it for money because money is what we've known all our lives. But in the same way you can record a number in a contract that represents some token balance. You can also record verifiable statements or attestations or all these things, which I can then quantify my values or what I think is valuable. Then if you have a bunch of people quantifying what they think is valuable, you can run algorithms on that and then figure out as a group, what do these people think are valuable by summing it all together. And then what that gives you is a real time map of what's valuable or not in a bottom up way. And we're not sort of agreeing or trying to come to consensus on what's valuable, because that's impossible. It's all subjective.
00:14:49.874 - 00:15:17.634, Speaker A: But we can get some sort of common ground by summing together our individual perspectives to get the inter subjective sum. And then that is a map of what's valuable. And once we have a map of what's valuable, we just sprinkle money on it, because then you just like, money is the sort of water, and that water gets distributed to what people have attested to being valuable, and then that acts as, again, a part of the system. But instead of optimizing for the water itself, we're optimizing for the fruit that we're growing with the water.
00:15:17.832 - 00:15:52.380, Speaker B: Okay, I didn't expect this to get so cosmic already ten minutes into it. This is beautiful. Let me try and reiterate what you said just to make sure I'm following along. So we have all of these pockets of value around the world, right? Got the shoemaker, the tomato grower, the pencil maker, but all of these are valuable. Pencils and tomatoes and shoes are valuable for their own particular reasons. But we use money as like, this inter subjective layer to instantiate the value that we have everywhere in the world. And that's like a communication between all of these very non fungible forms of value.
00:15:52.380 - 00:16:38.602, Speaker B: While many, many tomatoes can all be alike to each other, they're still very different from many, many apples and pencils and houses and cars. And so money is currency is like this fungible value tool to connect all of these other distinct pockets of value separately and allow us to communicate value. But then you said, like, oh, then it kind of leads us to optimize for the wrong things, right? Like, we optimize for GDP. And Andrew Yang talks about this a lot, where if we keep on optimizing for GDP, we're just going to drive ourselves off of a cliff. We're going to optimize for GDP out of a cliff. And it was what you said when all the factories broke down. If the money breaks, well, there's still tomatoes to grow and there's still pencils to make, and there's still shoes to wear in fashion and stuff.
00:16:38.602 - 00:17:38.174, Speaker B: But we've lost our ability to communicate the value between all of these things. And so I think that gets really interesting when we put all of these expressions of value on chain, where dows have their own native tokens, which are imbued with some sort of sets of value, and they can be right next to another dow with another token, with another set of values. And sure, we have the stable coins and the ether, but we also have the native dow tokens. And since it's all on the same substrate, we're all able to communicate value a little bit more efficiently, a little bit more directly, without perhaps having to go through an intermoney layer. And where does it go from here? First off, is that a good summary or would you change anything to that? And where does it go from here? Because there's always the idea that, oh, we'll go back to a barter society because we'll have ten bajillion tokens. But I think a lot of economists would say, like, well, no, because you still need the money.
00:17:38.292 - 00:18:31.322, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. No, I think that's a great summary. I think where it's going from here is more than anything, it's like a real mentality shift. I think it's more about unlearning these things than it is about learning new things. And the mentality shift is like the way we value something. So right now there's this disconnect between value that's created in society and where money goes, right? So a teacher, for example, arguably generates an incredible amount of value for society because they literally educate the people that then go on to do all these things, right? So they're upstream of a lot of value that's created, but they don't really get any sort of upside on that value. Or they don't sort of realize the teachers are underpaid overall in society because the value they create is disjointed from the value they receive.
00:18:31.322 - 00:19:41.362, Speaker A: The value they're receiving is in a school board here. It's not along the same pipelines as the value they created. And then if you look at an investment banker, for example, arguably they generate much less value for society. They're mostly just acting as analogs between other people's value creation. But because they sit at the intersection where money flows, they essentially get much more of that upside, not because they're generating more value, but because they're closer to proximity to where financial transactions are happening. So in society right now, the closer you are to where financial transactions are happening, that's what indicates how successful you'll be. If we change that, where money can actually track value more directly, then it changes the game, where instead of the narcissists or the psychopaths who can become these CEOs and do these crazy things, instead of them making the most money, the people that make the most money in society would be the ones that are generating the most value, as attested to by the sum of everyone's individual opinion on what's valuable.
00:19:41.362 - 00:21:26.214, Speaker A: So if you think about democracy, it's a very lossy form of governance, because we're essentially trying to take all these nuanced opinions of 300 million people in the states at least, and then condense it down to a binary decision of this party or that party, and it's really never about left or right or any of that. And Andrew Yang says this, too is like certain problems need left thinking, and certain problems need right thinking in different amounts in different places at different times. So to condense that, all, it's just like, all that does is actually make sure these problems never get solved so that the elite can stay elite, and then the people can just sort of continue to play that game and think that they're solving something or sort of making an impact. So once you can, what this does is if everyone's making attestations on what they find is valuable at all times, then we get a real time, intersubjective, emergent democracy, where it's like you don't have to elect a representative to represent your views on a certain area, it decentralizes it, where you can just express your views yourself and everyone's views are on some common substrate, which can then be composed and interpreted and be used to drive decisions or make governance. And what that gives you is that nuance where you can down to the individual hyper target exactly the needs and values of each individual member of society. So instead of trying to fix problems from the top down, where it's like, you can try to implement this one law, and then it fixes five things, but breaks six other things, and then you do that again and fixes some things and breaks. And we've been doing that for a very long time.
00:21:26.214 - 00:22:30.090, Speaker A: And I'm not really optimistic that it's going to actually progress us fast enough to where we need to be to actually get out of the sort of timeline we're in. But I think going the other way around is like a potential we could address it in that way. But again, it's the same thing with the Internet. Right when Internet first came out, people were just like, how do we put radio on the Internet? How do we put books on the Internet? How do we take what we know and just apply this new thing to it? Instead of the Internet, native companies like Snapchat or Instagram or Facebook, they took that medium and utilized its strengths and unique advantages in a way that wasn't ever possible before, in a way that you couldn't even really think of before if you just held on to existing notions of what you had. So in the same way, I think the new system will look very different, and that's going to be the future of social media as well. Instead of just communicating information online and trying to influence others to do things. We don't have to influence anyone.
00:22:30.090 - 00:22:56.550, Speaker A: We can just be constantly making attestations on what we find is valuable around us. Right. So social media, I think it starts to become more decentralized as well, where it's really more about you and your relationships and the people you work with and these sort of like networks, rather than, oh, here's a big influencer with a million of followers. It's like, that's very one to many, but I think it's going to become more many to many. And instead of just information, also communicating in value through these direct attestations.
00:22:57.130 - 00:23:16.698, Speaker B: Yeah. What does an attestation look like? Or is it more of an idea? Because I think the most basic reductive version of an attestation is like, I am a student at school, and my teacher taught me something really useful that day. So I pull out my phone and I give her five stars. Is that the attestation we're looking for?
00:23:16.784 - 00:24:01.834, Speaker A: I think, yeah, there's attestations that are made all the time. They're just not recorded or captured or made verifiable. And sort of the whole crypto methodology, if you get paid from your dow, that's an attestation. If you vote on a proposal, that's an attestation. We could actually create systems for direct attestations, too. Imagine personal tokens, and whoever you give your personal token to, that's essentially an attestation of some sort. So I think attestations will take many forms, and it's not really about creating this new system that we have to now learn how to use and adopt, but more so mapping our existing behavior and building the technology around that.
00:24:01.834 - 00:24:52.746, Speaker A: And that's another thing I really prioritize, is creating technology and organizations and everything around the people instead of molding the people around the technology or organization. So in traditional startup or company, it's like all the employees are sort of forming around the corporation, and it's like they're sort of changing their identities or the way they're working or the things that they're doing to conform to what this organization needs. I think that will change in the future, where at the center will actually be individuals and then communities and groups of people, and then organizations and products and tools will essentially be built around them to conform to what they're doing and what their needs are. And so in that sense, it's like kind of flipping the table a bit, like finding out that earth is not the center of the universe and something like that.
00:24:52.928 - 00:25:14.410, Speaker B: So the idea would be instead of having the corporations that control us in our nine to five jobs, being the center of the universe, it flips it on its head. And the corporations actually respond to the humans and answer to the humans, rather than the humans answering to the corporations. And it's all through the primitive of attestations. Like, attestations are how this is unlocked.
00:25:14.490 - 00:25:51.354, Speaker A: Yeah. And if you make a tweet, that's also an attestation. If you say something like, oh, we should do this, or this project is dope, those are all attestations. It's just that they're not quantified or verifiable. But if that exists in a web3 medium where you can actually, when you say that, oh, you support this, that this is actually like a cryptographic record of something. Like, there's an NFT that represents that, whether it's an organization or an event or whatever it is, you can point to that thing, and then once you've mapped that out, then that same essentially builds up this irrigation system for the infinite garden. Right? Right.
00:25:51.354 - 00:26:37.274, Speaker A: Now, if we're talking about the infinite garden of everything humans are doing, the way the irrigation system works is like, there's a big bucket of water, or like, certain buckets of water, and then people are certain sort of. You delegate allocation of money to someone else. Right, I'll take a bucket of water, and then my job is to go try to find out where the soil is dry and then pour some water there. But on the way, I'll probably drink half the bucket because I got thirsty. And then all these other things of someone creates, like, a cabal to take all the water from everyone else, and all these things happen. Instead, what this is, is we have sensors that can read the moisture levels of all the soil everywhere. And this automated, complex irrigation system that can sense exactly where water is needed and what amount at what time and instantly get that water there.
00:26:37.274 - 00:27:42.826, Speaker A: So I think in the world, that's how money will serve us is based on what the humans want and what the humans sort of, instead of getting rid of our humanity and sort of suppressing who we are, to be this sort of robot for the corporation, I think that's a symptom of the industrial age, I think. But, yeah, instead of doing that, it'll become like, we express who we are, what our needs are, and then the irrigation system is something we collectively govern and influence, and we can control how it's set up in our certain communities, but it moves the resources from where they are to where they're needed. And if you think about it in the world, there's no shortage of money, right? The issue is, it's just, like, stuck in these pockets. So imagine this scenario where you had a society where everyone got paid, like, $200 an hour, but you couldn't keep more than five grand in your bank account or in your wallet. And then what that incentivizes is, if you want to actually make the most of it, you actually have to spend it. So it incentivizes people to actually get capital moving through the system as much as possible. In that system, you actually don't need a lot of GDP.
00:27:42.826 - 00:28:39.326, Speaker A: The amount of money you need in that system is not a lot, but you can get way more economic throughput. So money that's sitting idle is essentially like a drain on society. It's all this value that was captured and sort of created and sort of stored in this form that's now sitting there doing nothing. That if there was a way to communicate exactly where it could be effectively used, even the people who are rich and powerful, the money itself doesn't make them happy. It's still in human nature that you derive happiness from making others happy or seeing some sort of purpose or influence what you're doing. And people like rich people or powerful people, they might want to influence that through direct command and control. But if you can know that, if Elon Musk could know that he could flow a million dollars through this irrigation system, and it will actually get really effectively allocated to all these places where it's needed based on attestations of people, then I think people will be much more willing to do philanthropy, because it goes even beyond philanthropy.
00:28:39.326 - 00:29:07.274, Speaker A: It actually becomes, like, a way to invest in these things that you believe in and ensure that your money is, like, lossless value transfer right now, it's way too lossy, because you'd be like, oh, I'll give it to this charity, and then they'll give it to this nonprofit, and then everyone's going to take a cut along the way. And at the end, it's like cents to the dollar towards the actual cause you wanted to do. And that's what happens when you have all the money, all the water being carried by people in buckets, instead of being distributed with an advanced irrigation system.
00:29:07.472 - 00:30:12.510, Speaker B: So, with this current financial ecosystem that we have and also nation state paradigm, I think a lot of your argument is that the lossiness creates a strong incentive for having a scarcity mindset. Because if this paradigm of financial loss, if you do anything, you have lossy outcomes with your finances, like, kind of how you were saying you got a bucket of water walking through the desert, you're going to go from A to B, but you're going to lose water along the way for reasons if we can build out this paradigm where we have much less loss. You also create a paradigm of people that have a lot less of a scarcity mentality because they're less fearful of paying taxes to the government, they're less fearful of donating to charity because they have stronger assurances that the outcome of the resources that they are giving up, they have assurances that there will be something produced as a result of that and they'll be able to see that manifest rather than kind of just pray and cross their.
00:30:12.660 - 00:30:53.526, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. I think the idea Vitalik made, this blog post about retroactive public funding and stuff like that, and I think that's really sort of on point. And you look at open source software and all these things, there's that key problem of that generates all this value, but there's no way to distribute value back to them. I think in that same way of guaranteeing it's going towards something that was not only that will create value, but that was proven to have created value like the value was already created. It's just now being retroactively recognized. Right. And then that changes the game too, because then people, instead of thinking primarily, how much am I getting paid? And then thinking how much effort to put into that based on how much you're getting paid, I'm getting paid 100 grand.
00:30:53.526 - 00:31:48.206, Speaker A: So I'm going to put in the amount of effort that would meet my boss's expectations for this pay grade, and then not anything more than that, but it changes that, where the first thing you'll think of is, how can I create the most value for the most amount of people? Like what you were saying after university, you wanted to make the most amount of people happier than average. And then once you do that, then the money you get out of that would actually map directly to that value you created. Whereas now it's like someone could do something that's ultra impactful, like the core devs of Ethereum, for example. I know they're doing it, they could get paid way more anywhere else, but they're doing it because of that fulfillment they get. And that's another sign of like, it's not about the money, it's about they're getting value in all these other ways. But we should map that to actual value they get for money monetarily as well, too. And we can do that if we have the way to recognize that value and then ensure that it gets distributed to the right people.
00:31:48.206 - 00:32:57.814, Speaker A: And I'm working on a project actually directly for this that was inspired by the whole geth team not getting enough funding, where we can actually, instead of having to give money to their bosses and then delegate it to them on how to allocate it to the people, you could run something like source cred on the geth, GitHub repo, and then have a map of who did the most work and committed the most code. And whatever effort they did, even if it's not perfect, it's some representation, then you can create a contract that's like, and anyone could deploy it, it's permissionless, that would then directly send the funds to those people's wallets, those devs that directly contributed. And then if you actually make that system strong enough where you have these cryptographic guarantees, that could eventually become a thing at a protocol level, where protocol fees could actually become the master sort of source of water that then gets redistributed out based on direct value created. And maybe not like on the crypto level itself, but there could be protocols above the base layer chain to do something like that.
00:32:57.852 - 00:33:34.254, Speaker B: This is certainly what optimism is trying to do with the revenue from maximum extractable value out of their sequencer. Right. So the idea for the optimism's optimistic roll up is that there's a lot of value to be extracted from fees, from protocol fees, not at the base Ethereum layer one, but the optimism L2. And that value that comes from sequencing the MEV gets fed into retroactive public goods funding. So this illustration that you are describing is actually being experimented and iterated on in real time with the optimism team, for sure.
00:33:34.292 - 00:34:16.960, Speaker A: And I see when I talk about this being the future, I get a conviction and say this, because I see everyone else moving towards this as well. You can start to see the patterns and the structures. And for me, it's like I'm not really trying to say I know what's going on, I'm just pattern matching on what's actually happening. And yeah, I think what they're doing is really awesome. And it illustrates a great point where there are certain things that will generate a lot of money, but they might not be something that you want to fund itself. Right. These protocol fees, that's why people are like, oh, projects shouldn't take fees, because what do they need it for? Is that's a protocol, it's permissionless, anyone can use it.
00:34:16.960 - 00:35:27.474, Speaker A: Why are the fees going there? And then on the flip side, there's all these things that generate incredible value, but don't have a way to be monetized. Or if they were monetized, it would sort of ruin the point of it. So teams that build this amazing tech that's not really productizable, and they're forced to almost productize it or add some way of value capture there that doesn't fit to try to get that value. But I think when we can create that connectivity between these pools where a lot of value can accumulate but it isn't necessarily allocated yet, and then places where it's really needed, but we don't want to monetize that thing, instead of having to value these things directly, we can disassociate where the value comes from and the thing that creates the value. So protocol fees like that DeFi treasuries like yearn, for example, the fees it generates. And they do this themselves right now of they really give back to the community and sort of do a lot of grants and funding, but it's still sort of people manually pouring buckets in places. I think eventually we can evolve that to be even more decentralized and people can still have that influence, right.
00:35:27.474 - 00:35:43.370, Speaker A: They would just have a lot of voting weight, for example, to influence that irrigation system of where it goes, right? So they can say, I think it should be here, and then the pipes will shift here a bit, and then the other guy says, I think it should be there, and then it'll shift there a bit. And then once you average it all together, you get the outcome.
00:35:44.590 - 00:36:12.974, Speaker B: One of the problems that I'm seeing with this is when you talked about attestations and then you kind of list some activities like a Dow paying someone as an attestation or like a tweet can be an attestation. If you extrapolate that, aren't you just really talking about data? And how do you standardize data? Because there's so much data out there, and how do you ensure that the data is the right data? And how do you actually consume that data in ways that is scalable?
00:36:13.102 - 00:37:27.834, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think the difference between attestations and data is an attestation is cryptographically verifiable. So if you sign a message that says, I support optimism or I like optimism, then there's inherent value in that attestation, in that your Ethereum address is attached to all this activity on chain, all these various forms of identity and reputation that you can associate with that address, that you can then weight the value of that statement in a certain way. So the nice part about this is, normally in a blockchain, there's a scalability issue, because you need global consensus of this token moved there, this value moved there. The nice thing about these attestations is it becomes much, much more scalable, because instead of a bunch of validators in the network needing to verify that information before that block can be processed, the only people that need to validate that information is the people that are carrying or using that information. So you can still use cryptography, because crypto is way more than just blockchain, right? You can still use cryptography to record these attestations. And as long as you have it in a.
00:37:27.834 - 00:38:10.130, Speaker A: Vitalik talked about this, too. In ECC, we need a shared state, a credibly neutral shared state, in which we can just dump all the raw data of what happened. And this is not like high level data. It's just like, just as much information we have on things that happened, that it's cryptographically verifiable. And then you can have multiple entities essentially curating that information or filtering that information to represent a certain community's views or a certain product's views. The way this scales and sort of builds up is this composable thing is, it's not an end to end system. You just want to get the bottom layer right of just like, let's just get all the data in one place and have it be verifiable.
00:38:10.130 - 00:38:56.386, Speaker A: And then we can work from there to figure out how best to use it and associate value to it. And then so you'll have layers and layers and layers of higher level sort of interactions being built in terms like, actually, I think ceramic network is a great project, and they're really trying to solve this problem of acting as the data layer. It's like an L1 for data and attestations and sort of verifiable identities. So things like social graphs or even all sorts of data that you just want, instead of being stored in a server or just in IPFs, where it's like a static blob, it's not like you can't do anything. You're storing it in a much more composable way, where you can define a data model, for example, in ceramic. So there's a group right now, I forgot what it's called exactly. Dow stars.
00:38:56.386 - 00:39:46.054, Speaker A: I think it's like a bunch of the top Dao people, like Gnosis Guild and Dow House and some Aragon people, a bunch of people kind of working group, coming together to define the data model of a you know, there's all these different implementations of a DAO. But if we can at least agree on what are the components of a Dow, and here's a proposal, here's a member. What are these common denominator fields? If you can agree on that data model, then that greatly increases the interoperability. So we can separate the data model from a specific application built on top of it. So this is what ceramic really enables is instead of, if you log into a website, you have your user account for that website. Instead of that, we just have a user account that's sort of universal. This is somewhat your wallet, but the wallet alone isn't enough.
00:39:46.054 - 00:40:31.110, Speaker A: You need all this other auxiliary data and links and this graph system on top of it. And then any app can be built in the same underlying data. So it actually changes data ownership too, where you can actually own your data. It's not like this data is owned by the platform. You would give the platform access to read and write to your data, but the data would be sovereignly owned by you, and you could control the access to it and everything like that. So that's how it really kind of becomes composable from the bottom up is like getting those primitives right. If you look at DFI right in 2017, maybe there's a lot of these monolithic projects that are trying to be like all in one DFI platforms and stuff, but none of those really ended up working out.
00:40:31.110 - 00:41:09.410, Speaker A: The things that worked out is like we had ERC twenty s, and then we had ether Delta, and then we had uniswap, and then we had compound, and then we had yearn. And these all sort of progressively built off of a really solid underlying primitive. So I think right now we're really just figuring out these underlying data primitives, and then over time, we'll all sort of build new layers on top of it to get more sort of complex systems that emerge. Again, it's really about emergence. Rather than trying to premeditate what is going to happen and trying to build that, you just want to create the right infrastructure to allow the right things to emerge naturally.
00:41:09.990 - 00:41:47.786, Speaker B: The other person that I know is working on this is the other team. Is the team at Disco. Are you familiar with disco? Yeah. So the way that I've had this explained to me is with verifiable credentials and decentralized identifiers. And Evan McMullen always describes this as your loop bag for data, where your ethereum address can be your loop bag for on chain tokens like ERC 20 tokens. And nfts, like it's your inventory. But then she says that you need an off chain loop bag for your data and your verifiable credentials and your decentralized identifiers.
00:41:47.786 - 00:43:01.026, Speaker B: And the way that she's explained this to me is that your Ethereum address, your private keys can unlock your loop bag, but your loop bag can actually rotate out private keys, so you're not ever tied down to one specific ethereum address. Which makes sense if we're talking about digital identity, right? Like, I use many ethereum addresses, how can any one of them be my identity? Right? How can any one of them reflect my soul? My soul is really an aggregate of all of my ethereum addresses and much more that has nothing to do with any transaction that's on a blockchain. It has to do with the data of the world that I have both consumed and projected and interacted with. And so she calls it the space between the chains, as in there's all the blockchains in the world, kind of like the root system, but then there's the space between the chains, which is kind of like the mycelial networks of the infinite. My mental model for this was data is a bunch of micronutrients and tokens, and NFTs. And dows are a bunch of macronutrients. And then those are the value, right? The macronutrients are the value, the proteins, the fats.
00:43:01.026 - 00:43:49.414, Speaker B: But then you have the micronutrients of the organism, like the little, like the magnesiums and the iron and the molecules. But for an organism to exist, you need all the micronutrients to process, to correctly and efficiently process the macronutrients. And so to put this into crypto language, you need the dows, the tokens, the NFTs of the world, the value of the world. It needs the direction of the micronutrients in order to know where to go. And so if we're talking about your irrigation metaphor, the micronutrients of the world are redirecting the flow of water in micro ways in order to most adequately produce the outcomes that the organism wants, which is to route the value into the places that the people want it to go.
00:43:49.532 - 00:44:16.880, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. And I think it's pretty awesome because we actually already have the answers in front of us. Nature is already a highly evolved value Internet. It's its own distributed chain, like mycelial networks. So they do three things. One, they communicate information. So like stress signals and organisms or plants and stuff, and just like information, sort of electrical signals that get communicated over them.
00:44:16.880 - 00:45:10.190, Speaker A: So then we had that with the Internet, and then after that, there's value. So nutrients or carbon or things that sort of travel along these networks, then we got that with Ethereum, right? And then the third thing that mycelial networks do that we don't have yet is they decompose things. So when something dies or something, they rot it and it decomposes and it takes those nutrients, then redistributes it out to the system, and we don't have anything for that. And I don't think people have really thought about that too much. It's like, how do we allow for decomposition? Because the legacy way is like, you create an organization or you do something, you start a company, you essentially want it to succeed forever and grow forever, right? That's sort of the game you're trying to play, is like, how can we make this thing succeed and grow forever? If you look at nature, the only thing that grows forever like that is cancer.
00:45:11.410 - 00:45:15.230, Speaker B: It doesn't even grow forever, though, because then cancer ultimately kills the host.
00:45:15.310 - 00:45:22.770, Speaker A: Exactly. If we try to grow these things forever, the only outcome of that is it'll kill the host, aka all of us.
00:45:22.840 - 00:45:23.074, Speaker B: Right.
00:45:23.112 - 00:46:17.078, Speaker A: So to actually avoid that, we need to introduce the ability to decompose things, allow things to die. And I think this is another sort of trick of western. Not just western, I think human nature, too, but this fear of death and people not being sort of come to terms with the fact that they're going to die or their own mortality is, I think, a big thing, because it's like then you're just going to be trying to make the most of what's here and whatnot. So I think death is a feature, not a bug, right? Because imagine if Putin was going to live to be, like, 200 years old or 300 years old, right? Then he's doing all this crazy shit now. But if he's no, he's going to live that much longer, then he's going to go to even crazier lengths to do this shit, right? So it's actually good that at a certain point, he's going to be like, I'm too old for this shit. I'm going to die soon. I'm not going to all this shit I did, it's just going to be left behind.
00:46:17.078 - 00:47:32.406, Speaker A: So that is a feature. And then the new can sort of take that place, but we don't have a way to deal with that. And I think the way it'll actually take place in crypto, I'll use the example of consensus right. So consensus served a really important purpose in bootstrapping a lot of the ecosystem, getting the talent, acting as that bridge from pre web3 to web3. But because they were that bridge, there's inherently they have that legacy sort of baggage that came along with it and all these issues and all this stuff happening with consensus. And it's actually really hard to try to fix consensus at its core and turn it into something that's actually better or sort of like next generation. The way to do that is actually decompose consensus from the outside in, aka take the talent that's there and deploy them in the web3 ecosystem, because it's crazy, because there's an incredible amount of really top level crypto talent at consensus who's been in the space since OG days that are completely siloed from the rest of the ecosystem because they're like, oh, you can't work for a Dow, you work for consensus.
00:47:32.406 - 00:48:34.622, Speaker A: So now all these people are now not interacting with Dow people at all and not really understanding that side. But what would be actually better is if you, instead of trying to fix consensus, you took these people at the edges and Dow pilled them and then deployed them to do some awesome work somewhere else where it's way more impactful. So this is what decomposition is. Nature decomposes this old thing that's rotting and dying, takes those nutrients and puts it towards something new that's growing, that's like, it's much better off there. So then these people, these human resources would essentially be the fertilizer for the infinite garden that you can then like, oh, this shit died, just decompose it and distribute it out there instead of trying to put on life support forever and wasting resources and misallocating. And I think we're trying to do the same thing with how we structure our dows and organizations, where we should start every dow with the assumption that it's going to die and prepare for that outcome and treat as like a feature, not a bug. Then you evolve it into something else.
00:48:34.622 - 00:49:16.560, Speaker A: You take those people and you give them a pathway. People want to be afraid of that because they would be afraid of uncertainty. But if you can give them a certain pathway of like, here's the other channels or avenues which you can be deployed or have your influence, then it starts to make more sense. And you stop being worried about this organization dying, because you're not sort of building your life or personality or whoever you are around the organization. The organization is built around you. If you were to fall off the mothership that's scary, but if some aspect, if you were to shed some skin, that's no problem, right? So it's all connected in that way of really shifting the mindset on how we think about how we coordinate and think about value and all that.
00:49:16.930 - 00:50:07.066, Speaker B: The L2 era is upon us. Ethereum's L2 ecosystem is growing every day and we need l two bridges to be fast and efficient in order to live a L2 life. Across is the fastest and cheapest and most secure crosschain bridge with across. You don't have to worry about the long wait times or high fees to get your assets back to the layer one assets are bridged and available for use almost instantaneously. Across's bridges are powered by UMA's optimistic oracle to securely transfer tokens from L2 back to Ethereum, across is critical ecosystem infrastructure and ownership is being handed over to the community. You can be a part of this story of across by joining the discord and becoming a co founder and helping to design the fair fair launch of across. If you want to bridge your assets quickly and securely, go to accross to bridge your assets between ETH, optimism, arbitram or Boba networks.
00:50:07.066 - 00:50:48.490, Speaker B: Bankless is proud to be sponsored by Uniswap Uniswap is a new paradigm in asset exchange infrastructure. Instead of a cumbersome order book system where trades are matched with other humans, uniswap is an autonomous piece of software on Ethereum that lets you trade any token at the current market price. No human counterparties or centralized intermediaries, just autonomous code on Ethereum. Input the token you want to sell and receive the token you want to buy. The Uniswap grants program is accepting applications for grants. Do you have something of value that you think you want to contribute to the uniswap ecosystem? No matter how big or small your idea is, you can apply for a unique grant@uniswapgrants.org and help steer uniswap in the direction that you think it should go.
00:50:48.490 - 00:51:27.862, Speaker B: Thank you, uniswap for sponsoring bankless if you're going bankless, you need Metamask. This is your tool to unlock the world of defi without giving up custody over your private keys. Metamask is both a secure in browser wallet and also a secure bridge for your hardware wallet. You can now trade tokens on any decks or aggregators. Metamask swap gathers real time pricing information across all the DeFi exchanges, allowing you to select your best price while getting all the metamask benefits of self custody, lower gas costs and increased transaction success rates. Metamask also has a fantastic mobile wallet that I use when I'm out and about which I use to collect poaps, NFTs and do all my d five things while I'm away from home. If you haven't downloaded metamask, you got to try it out.
00:51:27.862 - 00:52:35.230, Speaker B: Web three wouldn't be the same without it. Download metamask for desktop and mobile at Metamask IO and load up your treasure ledger, lattice, or Keystone hardware wallets so that they too can get into the world of web3. I think the meta goal here is to how do we retain and transform value rather than losing it, right? We're going back to lossiness. The death of organizations is the destruction of capital. But I think what you're talking about is how do we not let capital be destroyed, but instead let it also be transformed? And I think I'm in the middle of a Ray Dalio's book, which is titled something about the changing lessons, or lessons for managing how to survive like a changing world order, and using kind of the frame of reference that we've been talking about right now. And also the fourth turning thesis, or it's a fourth turning theory, is also related to this, where it tends to be every 80 years, humans go through, like, a destruction cycle because our institutions get too calcified. The people and their institutions are too misaligned.
00:52:35.230 - 00:53:40.514, Speaker B: Whoever holds the reserve currency of the world has spent it on military for too much. And now no one uses it as a coordination tool anymore. And so the world order dies, and then there's a period of chaos, and then a new world order is being born, its place. So it's a little bit like we lose the structure, but then new plants grow out of the decaying body of the old structure. But the thing is, we want the world to be iterative games, not single games, right? And so one eightyear long cycle of conflict before we go on to the next 80 year long cycle of conflict, is one game followed by another game, not iterative games. We want one game to fold elegantly and gracefully into the next game, because every time, the current paradigm of the world is always like, two steps forward, one step back. That's just because we need to take that one step back in order to take two more steps forward.
00:53:40.514 - 00:55:02.282, Speaker B: But I think what we're talking about here is like, all right, how do we build systems where we can take three steps forward or four steps forward before we take a step back? And it's all about, like, there's this concept of Jubilees that has been just ingrained into human DNA since before written history, right? The concept of sin in the Bible is a very similar concept to a debt jubilee, where sometimes society just gets too much pent up sin in the world. And so we need to just blanket forgive all sin. And that's what Jesus did. Jesus blanket forgave all sins. And then later on, we got recorded history, things got a little bit more concrete, things got a little bit more able to be reasoned about, and we went from sin to debt Jubilees. And debt jubilees are something we saw all throughout Judaism and many, many other religions and early, early human organizations where like, oh, there's just way too much debt in the system. We just need to wipe it clean so we can take two steps forward, which is very destructive, because when you wipe a debt clean, you're taking value from somebody that was owed that and just, like, deleting it just for the sake of everyone, right? So there are big losses in the system, but on net, it's the right choice, just because so much debt was built up in the system.
00:55:02.282 - 00:55:29.800, Speaker B: And now we're coming to that part of our history more or less again, right now, this is what Ray Dalio's book is all about, is like, there's too much debt in the american economy. Everyone owes debt. The american economy owes debt. The Federal Reserve owes debt. All the other central governments of the world owe debt. There's just too much debt in the system. So now we're going to have to wipe the slates clean, as we have always done throughout human history, in order to take two or three more steps forward.
00:55:29.800 - 00:56:14.610, Speaker B: I think one of the meta goals of crypto as human organizational structures is finding ways to not have jubilees, because jubilees are always about taking step back. The goal is to not take steps back. And so when you're telling me there's this system where we can build our social structures with a difficulty bomb baked into them like a dead end in them, it's like, hey, this is going to die. We can actually have contingency plans as like, all right, well, the goal is to create value and then die, and then pass that value along elegantly, so that one step forward turns into two steps forward turns into three steps forward, and perhaps we can have a brand new human renaissance that we've never, ever had before.
00:56:14.760 - 00:57:06.674, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. And I think it's just that instead of trying to delay the death for as long as possible, because that's the thing, is we talk about human systems and then natural systems as if they're outside of each other. But we are actually just also a fractal of nature or a product of nature. So nature will have its way, whether we like the easy way or the hard way. The longer we work against it, then it'll eventually still have its way on a long term. Even if we destroy the world with global warming or whatever, eventually it'll come back into balance and come to the stability again. But I think what you're saying about every 80 years cycle, I think what we can do is instead of having 80 years, we can do it maybe every eight years or maybe every 8 hours, take it to that level.
00:57:06.674 - 00:57:33.760, Speaker A: Because then that's how we actually. It's not about. We can't ever eliminate mistakes from happening, aka steps back, but if the steps back are happening at a micro level instead of just at a macro level, then they're much less painful. And when you zoom out, it'll just look like sort of consistent forward progression. Even though in between we're taking all these steps forward and back. It's just that we got to iterate much more frequently. I think that's where we'll go.
00:57:34.290 - 00:57:53.554, Speaker B: I'm getting sounds of like an old cranking engine slowly turning over. Like one revolution, two revolutions. But then if we can get it faster and faster, then the engine actually, you start to turn and tumble and tumble and tumble, then boom. We all have an engine that is doing 80,000 rounds, revolutions per second, and we can actually make some goddamn progress finally.
00:57:53.672 - 00:58:29.310, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. And I think the thing you said about this rebirth thing, who was it? Terrence McKenna. He had this really good talk that he was giving once about how. And this was in the. This is crazy because it sounds like he's talking about now, but he's saying the trajectory of the world is just like we're at a road's end, it's too late to sort of fix them, and things are going to keep accelerating and we're going to go through this process. And that process is actually not a bad process because it's like a birth in a way. So think about a baby in the womb.
00:58:29.310 - 00:59:04.166, Speaker A: It doesn't know anything about crypto or the Internet or anything. It's being fed, it's getting its nutrients, it's comfortable, warm, it has everything it needs in a way that's like heaven for that. And then it goes through this. The process of birth is like the most violent part of a pregnancy, right? It's like the transition and the detachment from the thing that was created from the crater. So that's the thing is too, we actually have to let go. The child has to be detached from its mother. And then you're in this world now, and then you experience that and there's this new paradigm.
00:59:04.166 - 01:00:24.958, Speaker A: And I think in the same way, society itself will go through this valiant rebirth and it's going to be painful and we'll be screaming. And that's all you can do, is scream. But once we go past that, we'll be in this entirely new, unrecognizable space that's fundamentally different from where we were before. And it's crazy too, because if you think about primitives of the universe, a lot of people who are coming more from a materialistic standpoint are like, oh, we have atoms and we have molecules, now we have quarks and subatomic particles and trying to find the answers to the universe there, but there's nothing really there, right? There's just less and less stuff there. There's no answers there. So it's like, okay, if that's not the primitives, then what are? And if you think about the golden ratio and fractals and these patterns, the patterns are the primitives of the universe, right? If you look at the structure of a tree and the branches there, and how that looks the same as the structure of a river, and how that looks the same as the structure of the neurons in our brain, and how our eyes look the same as flower petals or these things in trees, those are the parameters of the universe. So if you start looking at those instead, you start to see these fractals in which the things that are happening at a micro scale are just like smaller versions of the larger thing that's happening.
01:00:24.958 - 01:01:07.858, Speaker A: And if you think about the process of pregnancy and the embryo, the baby itself is actually replaying the whole history of evolution. We went from this tadpole looking, speed running evolution. Yeah. We went from this tadpole looking thing to this little fish looking thing to then growing arms and this. So that's a fractal of all of human history in a way. And if you think about it, we can use that as inspiration to know what to do next. This comes back to the mycelial networks, right? So if that network pattern we can recognize in nature, you damn well bet that that pattern is going to repeat itself in different forms in the future.
01:01:07.858 - 01:01:43.854, Speaker A: So it's almost like an onus to look at that and then recreate the things that we're building to follow those patterns. Because when you follow those patterns, you're sort of like doing it in nature's way. And this discussion. So if you really want to take it to a meta, meta level, when you think about nature itself, nature is essentially the substrate or the creation itself. Right. But underlying, even if you think about humans, we actually suck at coordinating. None of us really asked to be here or coordinated us to be here.
01:01:43.854 - 01:02:05.378, Speaker A: Right. It all sort of just happens, right. And in fact, actually, when we try to exert our own control, it actually breaks things from coordinating the more you let go. Even this conversation, you said you didn't want to set the agenda because that would constrict you from the actual good things that would come out of it. So you exerting human control actually, for.
01:02:05.384 - 01:02:09.458, Speaker B: The listeners, that's what I say to the guests on the start of layer zero. That's the alpha.
01:02:09.554 - 01:02:43.762, Speaker A: Yeah. That breaks down then. So you realize letting go of control is the way for it's actually more intelligence and better coordination there. If you think about, okay, where is this root coordination coming from? That's God. That's what people refer to as God, is that root coordination. And then God's way is letting go of that human egotistical exertion of control and more so realizing that you're on remote control, you're not under control. You're on remote control, and you're a part of this thing.
01:02:43.762 - 01:03:36.382, Speaker A: That's the nature has been coordinating. And where Kanye west says this, but he says, human beings are God's iPhone, right? It's not like we're not doing the coordinating. We are, but we're the iPhone. We're not the person running the iPhone. So it's like we're the vehicle in which this coordination happens. Just like human beings use our phones to coordinate, but the phone itself isn't doing it, but we only see the phone, right? So in that way, I think root coordination, and it's crazy because people, I think, for reasons discard religion or certain forms of organized religion, because of things it's done, but it's actually a misattribution. It's actually a failure of humans, like them messing up and not doing it properly, not like the religion itself or the concept of religion or God itself.
01:03:36.382 - 01:04:11.918, Speaker A: So people are like, oh, why did God do this? God didn't do it. We did it. Right? So it's like the religion or God's way is essentially humans, like, letting go of that control and allowing these things to emerge. And that's how I see everything we're doing is, for me, if you asked me, like, two years ago, if I'd be doing any of this shit today, it'd be like, no way. But as soon as I let go of control and allow things to emerge, then I'm in places that I never would have imagined. And I'm like, holy shit, I see a light at the end of the tunnel for how I can actually make a difference in the world. And none of this would have happened if I tried to do it my way.
01:04:11.918 - 01:04:14.320, Speaker A: I was like, put here.
01:04:15.890 - 01:05:12.480, Speaker B: The framing of crypto using a biological lens, I think, is the most underappreciated and also the most useful when you're talking about the patterns of the universe, right? The lightning in the sky, the arteries in our veins and our neurons, and you can find these same, like, the roots of trees. These are the fundamental patterns of the universe. And how God is the overarching rule set that produces those outcomes. Whatever God is, is the thing that just produces the rules. It is the rules. The if this, then that version of the things that make the outcome, that's the archetype for what this thing is. And I think as we move into the future and move into a metaverse and have an even more digitally enabled future than we have today, I think one of the best things that's going to be an outcome of that are people are going to start to view some of these digitally native organization schemes as nature itself.
01:05:12.480 - 01:05:28.434, Speaker B: Right now, we look at our square homes with our square windows and our square skyscrapers and our grids and the grids of our roads, and it's like, God, it's so inorganic, it's so fake. Everything is so manufactured.
01:05:28.482 - 01:05:33.190, Speaker A: And so the cookie cutter house is at MCon in the mountains.
01:05:35.610 - 01:06:18.600, Speaker B: But I think as we move into the future, people are going to start to extend what is nature into things like cryptography, things like math, things like what today feels like Sci-Fi science, but is actually just. Once again, the only way that this crypto industry is going to work is if it follows the rules of nature, because like you said, if you don't follow the rules of nature, it'll get you. And so the crypto system, the crypto blockchain, the crypto l one that wins, is going to be the one that resonates most with the rules of nature. And because that's the thing that is going to be able to take many steps forward without having to take a step back.
01:06:19.290 - 01:06:47.358, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. And I think overall, Ethereum community has done a great job of that, really decentralizing, allowing things to be emergent, iteratively evolving things. A lot of the core innovation here. And Vitalik, he made that New York Times thing. I think he made a lot of good points, is know we've done a pretty decent job thus far. Let's not mess it up to, it's like a fire that we're kindling. Right.
01:06:47.358 - 01:06:56.046, Speaker A: It's like as soon as it gets a little grow, we should not just run with it and do whatever and we'll just end up extinguishing it or.
01:06:56.068 - 01:06:57.230, Speaker B: Lighting the forest on fire.
01:06:57.300 - 01:07:26.746, Speaker A: Yeah. And it's really about nurturing it in the right way and continuing to nurture it. And we go through these cycles, I think, of bull and bear, and I think that helps keep it in balance. Again, we're not in control. And I think overall, as long as we're all operating in God's way or in nature's way, that that will have the right outcome. It's really liberating too, because then you're not stressed about having to figure it out. It's like, I don't have to figure it out.
01:07:26.746 - 01:07:30.966, Speaker A: It'll figure itself out as long as I'm adhering to these principles.
01:07:31.078 - 01:08:02.882, Speaker B: Right. The bowl and bear case, I think, is a great example. There's always been frustration from the crypto people about all the gamers of the world that hate NFTs and all the artists of the world that hate nfts. And we as crypto people got super frustrated, like, you guys shouldn't hate nfts, you guys should love NFTs, they're going to make your games better. But if we really thought about it and we just injected NFTs into all these games, first off, we don't have the technology to do that. Ethereum would be at capacity. Even the L2 s would be at capacity.
01:08:02.882 - 01:08:58.870, Speaker B: Salana and Avalanche would be at capacity. And so the pushback from society about like, hey, I hate your NFTs is probably healthy and probably what the crypto community needs because we are not ready to onboard another ten more million people. We do not have the structure to do that. And so they probably would hate NFTs a lot less if we had more scalable blockchains, if we had better nfts, if we had better organizational smart contracts around these NFTs, they'd probably hate them a lot less and they probably adopt them, and then we would probably go through another bull market. But it's one of those things where I definitely resonate with in the bear market of 2018 to 2020, me and a few other people like Ryan, Anthony, Suzano were just shouting from the rooftops about like, ethereum is going to this d five thing is going to be a thing, guys, this is going to work. Ethereum is money. Ether is money.
01:08:58.870 - 01:09:26.158, Speaker B: This is going to happen. But then as soon as the bull market started, at least me personally, I was like, well, if you don't believe me, I guess I'll just stop shouting it because I'm no. Is just going to unfold the way that it will unfold. And I'm going to stop trying to make sure Ethereum doesn't die from a lack of funding because it doesn't have that problem anymore. And now I'm just going to let the leaf float on the wind because however it's going to work is going to be how it unfolds. And I just have to take that on faith.
01:09:26.254 - 01:10:28.166, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. And if anything, our purpose is just to observe what's happening. And if things somewhere are diverting from nature's path, then it's maybe step up there and try to correct it and balance it. But again, it's not about us or what we want. It's really about understanding what's that core thing underneath? And the Quakers, they had a very interesting, and I think, effective governance mechanism, their governance mechanism as a decentralized collective of people to figure out what to do and things like that was to come together and discuss and try to collectively determine what is God's way or what would God do, what's like God's path in this decision. So it's not about what you think you should do or what you think you should do. It's about collectively trying to understand according to their principles or whatever values they have, what's like God's path in that thing.
01:10:28.166 - 01:11:00.670, Speaker A: And then that's how they would make decisions. So basically it was like not making decisions, but discovering decisions. It's like dusting for fingerprints, right? Like the fingerprint is already there, dusting it just. You're not like drawing the fingerprint when you put the ink on it. It's just like discovering what's already there. And I think what we do and when we iterate in our organizations and the things that we do, it's just like we shouldn't make assumptions. We should look at what's happening and pattern match and then build roads on that pattern.
01:11:00.670 - 01:11:47.182, Speaker A: And it brings me back to this example of my university where they had the middle park area between all the buildings. They were trying to decide where they should build the pathways between the buildings. So instead of trying to decide that what they did is the first year they just planted some grass and then just let the people walk all over it. And then they looked where the grass was beaten down the most, and then they built the sidewalks there because essentially people, the students themselves, walking around, needing to get to class on time. The patterns of all their activities sum together to show this is the most efficient way to do it. Right. So that's the thing, is the answers are sort of inside us, but we have to let them come out and not try to let our egos suppress it.
01:11:47.182 - 01:12:00.340, Speaker A: And then when you look at the way they built the sidewalks, it's like, who designed this? It looks like crazy. There's a bunch concentrated here and then these weird. Going in different directions. But when you actually walk on it, you're like, oh, this makes a lot of sense. How do they figure this out?
01:12:01.510 - 01:12:31.558, Speaker B: I would imagine walking on the, again, taking a look at it and be like, well, that looks weird. And then realizing that it's actually super functional would actually be a very trippy moment. I think trippy is the right word to describe how the realization process, because, again, there's no grid. Clearly an engineer didn't do this, or somebody with a fixed engineering type mind. I think trippy would be the best word to say the discovery of. Because it's nature, right? This is an expression of nature.
01:12:31.654 - 01:13:11.274, Speaker A: Yeah. This thing is like, we think we have the answers, but we do, but it's just like in a different place. And I think this is where psychedelics are really fascinating, too, is because if you're like, I could understand someone being skeptical about this whole theory and all the stuff I'm saying, that's just like wombo jumbo. But psychedelics is a way to directly prove that to you through direct experience. Right. There's no doubt in your mind that it's not just like uncovering some fundamental truths about the universe and how it operates. But I think, again, that's not like an end either.
01:13:11.274 - 01:13:45.380, Speaker A: That's just a means to sort of show you the patterns if you don't already see them, right. Even with psychedelics, they're not addictive in that way. They almost tell you that you don't need to take them. It's just like showing you things that were there the whole time that you just failed to realize or notice. So in that sense, it's like, I think training wheels, but not necessarily. You talk to people, too, who have done this, who go really deep into psychedelics and just take insane doses of DMT or all these things to try to discover some sort of truth about anything. But there's nothing out there, really.
01:13:45.380 - 01:14:14.800, Speaker A: There isn't a fundamental truth out there. It's just a vehicle to sort of show you the underlying sort of the cosmic circus behind it all. But the answers are really in what you do, in the actions you take and those sort of things. And again, it's like just fractals of what many world religions throughout history have expressed and tuned into. And it's just like we're evolving our understanding of that.
01:14:16.770 - 01:14:34.626, Speaker B: Dreamer. What advice or just knowledge would you have for somebody who's newer in the crypto space? Is there like a life rule of thumb or just rule that you live by that you have thought is really useful for you, that you would like to share with some of the newer people in the space?
01:14:34.808 - 01:15:30.914, Speaker A: Yeah, I'd say stop trying to learn crypto and start trying to unlearn web two stuff. I think it's almost frustrating, I think, to try to really understand the whole crypto space before you get this put in that effort to. It's not even effort, but just be consciously aware of assumptions that you hold about things and why you hold those assumptions and allow yourself to let go of those assumptions and sort of discover things that way. So I think once you do that, you'll start to see new patterns that you didn't see before. And I think throughout history, it's just really been about suppressing people's individual thought, because that creates problems. It's hard to coordinate that when people are all thinking different things, it's as advantageous as possible. If you can sort of make people think in uniform ways and sort of control how they think and how they coordinate.
01:15:30.914 - 01:16:18.854, Speaker A: And that's what's been done throughout history. But recognizing that and then starting to realize that, it's like, James Young makes a perfect example of this. It's like this transition into web3 is kind of like the transition from serfs plowing the land to then the enlightenment age when the serfs were like, oh, hey, we don't have to just keep plowing this land or for our whole lives. We can just go here and do some stuff ourselves. Right? And then you had the whole enlightenment phase. So I think in the same way that's happening from this web two to web3, transition or sort of legacy to new world transition is not necessarily we're not tearing the old world down. We're just like, throwing a better party, and then people are coming over, right? So it's like the serfs is like, oh, do I want to slave myself away on this land or am I going to go make some fun stuff there? And they're of course going to come over there.
01:16:18.854 - 01:17:17.654, Speaker A: So I think the legacy governments and legacy system, it's going to exist. It's just going to decompose from the bottom up or the outside in until eventually it might not need to exist or it'll take a whole different form. But we're not trying to destroy it from the top down. That's the wrong way to go about it, and that's going to put us in more danger too. So, for example, with money right now, government sort of plays the role of allocating money through taxes. And I think that will change where tax distribution will sort of become decentralized, but the government will still play the role of being the referee and sort of like, because there's sort of governance stewards then instead of actually players in the game. So I think that's how we'll sort of meet in the middle is we're not trying to tear them down or create a new system, because if you actually try to work for any dow, you'll realize how broken it is and that there actually is a lot of value in sort of the legacy legal system and the judicial system and the ways and practices we've been doing.
01:17:17.654 - 01:17:51.390, Speaker A: You don't want to destroy that. You want to encompass that and do something more. It's like, yes, and not that way and my way. So I think back to the original question, I guess I think that's one thing. Unlearn the old mindsets. That's a general rule of thumb. Second one would be really break things down into its primitives and compose those primitives and realize that collaboration is now a better, more effective strategy than competition.
01:17:51.390 - 01:18:23.302, Speaker A: In Web two, competition was the most effective strategy. The people that can outcompete others won. In crypto, it's the opposite. The people that can collaborate with the most other people win. So start to disassociate yourself with what you think of an organization or working for an organization. Think of it like what you need, what you're interested in, where you can collaborate with others to move that forward in a meaningful way and just build up from there. Rather than I see a lot of people, they're like, oh, I need to find some company to work for who can pay me so then I can make the transition.
01:18:23.302 - 01:19:00.650, Speaker A: And it doesn't have to be a binary thing like that, and you don't have to apply those mentalities. Think of it more so just like an online game, right? If you're playing World of Warcraft or something, you'll create your clan, you'll go do some battles with friends, and then if you stop collaborating with them, it's fine. Or stop playing with them, it's fine. You go find some other friends to play with. You almost have to bring back that childlike mindset, how the child's exploring the world just through play and experimentation, and treat it like that more than anything. And you'll start to figure it out and find your place naturally.
01:19:01.310 - 01:19:08.022, Speaker B: Talk about the importance of a yes and mentality. Can you define yes and just kind of explain the yes and mentality?
01:19:08.166 - 01:19:42.262, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think whenever it comes down to any disagreements between any two people, it's like, very infrequently is it about one person is right and the other person is wrong. It's just that they're both talking about different things from different perspectives out of different sort of needs. So it's like, disassociate the fact that they're disagreeing with you from your idea being bad. It's like they're both good ideas. Figure out what's the common denominator between them or the pattern between them that allows them to. And again, think about the meta level.
01:19:42.262 - 01:19:59.066, Speaker A: Don't think about what you're disagreeing on. Think about why you're disagreeing. Right. And disassociate yourself and don't make it personal in that way. Obviously hard to do. But then once you do that, you start to pattern match all these behaviors among all these people. Then you see, like, oh, this thing is actually common among all these.
01:19:59.066 - 01:20:45.514, Speaker A: So if you can make an improvement here, it'll help all these people. Right. We express our problems, but those problems aren't solutions. Right. I think some of the issue with some of the modern left thinking is recognizing a problem and then trying to address it at that level of, for example, the whole issue of people getting admissions into schools and whether there should be quota for certain races or genders to. We have to meet this quota. So we get more people in because there's not enough colored people here.
01:20:45.514 - 01:21:14.260, Speaker A: Right. I think that's the wrong way to do it because that's actually probably more racist because you're assuming that those people can actually get there through competency, that you need to give them this handicap to get there, and realizing that the problem is not there. The problem is like upstream of that. So where can you go upstream and fix a problem there and then that will actually result in this outcome that you want downstream. So we see the symptoms and try to address the symptoms, but we don't think back far enough to talk about the real problems.
01:21:14.970 - 01:21:20.418, Speaker B: Metadreamer last question before we wrap this up. What about the future makes you optimistic?
01:21:20.594 - 01:22:24.442, Speaker A: The thing I'm most optimistic about is people, again, moving into this post scarcity mindset, and instead of everyone, even people who are rich or poor, it's like Zach from coordinate said this once, he's worded it, but he's like, money is great until you have it, and then it becomes a problem. So it's like, this is almost like if you have more money than you need, then it actually makes you more depressed. And if you have less money than you need, then it's actually like you're just as sad. So it's like even the ultra rich, they're not really happy or content with their lives either. So it's actually about getting that balance. And if you have these mechanisms to better distribute value, you can give people guarantees that they'll have their baseline needs met. And then once you have that and you can go into post scarcity mindset, then I think that'll be like this new sort of renaissance where we're really understanding what it is to be human and the way we're interacting with each other.
01:22:24.442 - 01:23:23.014, Speaker A: And I think that will alleviate a lot of the built up sort of internal stressors. Or if you think about it, all the problems in the world could be broken down into. If you had a bad childhood experience because your family wasn't well off and they couldn't afford to do this stuff, then that leads you to all these emotional issues and all these things. So much of it can be broken down into people not having their needs met and having that worry of what's going to happen to me tomorrow and that safety. So true happiness, I think, is not really about what you can get or the good things that can happen to you. It's about eliminating how many bad things can happen to you. Because if you've eliminated all the bad things that could happen to you but nothing else on top of that, then I think you'd be perfectly content and happy and sort of at peace with everything.
01:23:23.014 - 01:23:56.422, Speaker A: And that's like a lot of people do have that. It's like they're just like monks or living like very minimal lives. And they realize that the key to happiness is eliminating negative externalities or the potential for negative outcomes to happen, and not necessarily positive outcomes. But from the western capitalist view, there's like an advantage in sort of convincing people they need all this. This will make you happy. And you take this pill for that. Then you take this pill to deal with the symptoms of that pill, and then you shampoo your hair to get rid of all the oils, and you use all these other hair products to put all the oils back in.
01:23:56.422 - 01:24:21.854, Speaker A: And then that whole cycle. So it just creates this artificial sort of game that literally leaves us unhappy at the end of it. We can actually change that, and I see us actually getting there. For me, I think it's a race of race against time. More than anything, we're on the right trajectory. It's just we need to accelerate it in the right direction before we fly too close to the sun.
01:24:21.972 - 01:24:24.830, Speaker B: Metadreamer thank you for coming and sharing your thoughts on layer zero.
01:24:24.980 - 01:24:26.514, Speaker A: Thanks for having me. It's great talk.
01:24:26.552 - 01:25:03.662, Speaker B: Cheers. Hey, we hope you enjoyed the video. If you did, head over to bankless HQ right now to develop your crypto investing skills and learn how to free yourself from banks and gain your financial independence. We recommend joining our daily newsletter, podcast and community as a bankless premium subscriber to get the most out of your bankless experience. You'll get access to our market analysis, our alpha leaks and exclusive content, and even the bankless token for airdrops, raffles and unlocks. If you're interested in crypto, the bankless community is where you want to be. Click the link in the description to become a bankless premium subscriber today.
01:25:03.662 - 01:25:17.850, Speaker B: Also, don't forget to subscribe to the channel for in depth interviews with industry leaders, ask me anythings and weekly roll ups where we summarize the week in crypto and other fantastic content. Thanks everyone for watching and being on the journey as we build out the bankless nation.
