00:00:04.170 - 00:00:41.126, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline national banks can hold stablecoin reserves. Big news regarding Fiat backed stablecoins such as USDC and Tether. On Monday, the Office of the Controller of the Currency said that federally chartered banks can hold the reserves for such coins. Although stablecoin issuers have been using US. Banks for years, the regulatory environment surrounding such use has been murky. The OCC guidance has now made it clear that federally regulated banks should feel comfortable providing this to stablecoin issuers as long as they are backed on a 101 basis with Fiat Currencies Publishing.
00:00:41.126 - 00:01:56.334, Speaker A: Concurrently, the securities and Exchange Commission released a statement from its FinHub unit which focuses on digital assets, noting that certain stablecoins might not be securities under federal law, but each case would be decided on, quote, a facts and circumstances determination. Presumably, fiat backed stablecoins are not securities, but from previous cases, such as basecoin basis algorithmic ones, could be. Next headline is the Uniswap token a Security In the latest twist to the SushiSwap saga, Uniswap went live with its token uni last week. Immediately, crypto lawyers began saying they believe uni looks like an unregistered security. First, it was airdropped, and airdrops quote, may not spare you from securities regulation, according to a 2017 Coin Center blog post, which Niraj Agrawal, its communications officer, felt compelled to tweet out the night of the Uniswap AirDrop. Second, as the price has shot up, people may be interested in obtaining uni with the expectation of a profit rather than to utilize the network. And the value of uni could be influenced by the efforts of an identified party uniswap.
00:01:56.334 - 00:03:12.140, Speaker A: And that would trigger the final prong of the so called Howey test, which determines whether or not an investment contract is a security. Greg Lisa, a partner at Hogan Levels who worked on a case involving Ether Delta, a crypto exchange that billed itself as decentralized but which the SEC determined was not said to the block, quote this really looks like a blimp crash. It can be seen from a mile away. The biggest question is when, not whether the SEC and other regulators or law enforcement are going to, say, do something about this. On a related note, two bipartisan bills introduced to Congress this week could clarify how the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission handle tokens, since tokens can sometimes start out as securities but evolve into commodities once their networks are sufficiently decentralized. One bill, called the securities Clarity Act, would explicitly define SEC jurisdiction to token pre sales. As Coins Center puts it quote A non security is being sold the future decentralized token, but it comes with a contractual promise from the issuer, which is the promise to build the token network as specified so that tokens will actually do something of value in the future.
00:03:12.140 - 00:04:38.178, Speaker A: The second bill proposes a way for the CFTC to regulate US. Based crypto exchanges and would give crypto exchanges the option to register as a Digital Commodity exchange, or DCE, and any pre sold tokens, meaning those that started out as securities, could only be traded on these CFTC registered exchanges, but only after the network is live. A token is sold to the public there, and at that point it would lose its security status. Next Headline High gas fees Have Forced Uniloggin to Shut down Uniloggin co founder Alex Vandersan announced that the DAP onboarding solution is closing up shop due to high gas fees on Ethereum, with the cost of onboarding a new user soaring to over $130 on some days. Although the provider considered a pivot to a L2 DFI focused wallet, it would have required an almost total restart of the project. Uniloggin has decided instead to return its remaining cash to investors, adding that even if gas prices were to improve and its uncover lessened, it still can't imagine a way forward because Ethereum's high gas fees do not appear to be a temporary problem. In related news, a progress report on EIP 1559 Ethereum Improvement Proposal 1559, which promises a significant change to Ethereum's fee market, was posted on Wednesday, first proposed by Ethereum creator Vitalik.
00:04:38.178 - 00:06:11.906, Speaker A: Buterin in 2019, the transaction pricing mechanism for EIP 1559 would offer a quote fixed per block network fee that is burned and dynamically expands and contracts block sizes to deal with transient congestion. The main concern is that since the EIP 1559 could stretch blocks up to three times their current size, any denial of service attack could now be three times as effective. Next Up Analytics Roundup Dune Analytics Secures $2 Million in funding Dragonfly Capital led a seed funding round in Ethereum centric analytics platform, Dune Analytics, which enables people to create their own charts and dashboards and share them with others. For those of you who haven't yet tried Duna Analytics, I highly recommend this resource, which a lot of my own sources use to explain things to me. Next up in the roundup, Block Native announces Mempool Explorer, calling it a missing link in the ecosystem. Block Native unveiled Mempool Explorer on Wednesday, which enables people to, for instance, detect when more than $10,000 of liquidity moves into or out of a specific protocol, or to find out when someone's smart contract is party to a pending transaction and more. If you recall the story by Dan Robinson of Paradigm about the $10,000 that he tried to rescue from a smart contract but could not because a bot spotted his rescue attempt in the Mempool and stole the money first.
00:06:11.906 - 00:06:58.930, Speaker A: That helps in explaining how this tool could be useful. Next DFI Roundup MakerDAO will not compensate victims of March's Flash crash after initially deciding in early April to refund washed out investors from March's Black Thursday crash on Tuesday, larger MKR holders dominated a vote and decided against making whole those same investors who lost a cumulative $8.33 million. Only 38 unique votes were cast, the equivalent of 8.7% of all MKR token holders. Participants were incentivized to vote against any compensation because additional printing of MKR would dilute the value of their holdings. TBTC is now live.
00:06:58.930 - 00:07:38.650, Speaker A: The TBTC network, which launched earlier this year but quickly pulled the plug, has relaunched quote with unprecedented security measures in place, allowing users to deposit and redeem bitcoin in DFI without intermediaries. Users can now exchange BTC for TBTC, which is an ERC 20 token for use on DFI platforms at a one to one ratio. Quote Each TBTC is fully backed and matched by at least one bitcoin held in reserve. Yam looks forward after relaunch after a wild three day launch and then crash in August. Last Friday. DFI token yam. Relaunched.
00:07:38.650 - 00:08:40.718, Speaker A: By Monday, it had its first rebase with $571,000 in YUSD added to its treasury. Next Headline A New Alternative to Buyback and burn in a blog post, Joel Monegro of Placeholder Capital examines the common buyback and burn model and points out that though this model works for currencies, it has pitfalls, particularly for governance tokens. He writes quote when it comes to capital assets like governance tokens, issuance is key to capitalization, and burning can get in the way of growing fundamental value. He defines currency as an asset whose value comes from exchange, such as to consumer goods or to services. However, an asset used for governance or equity participation is capital. He cites MKR and ZRX as examples of networks that generate income in ETH but then redistribute value via their governance tokens. He says if you draw an analogy to buybacks in equities world, stock buybacks typically do not result in shares being destroyed.
00:08:40.718 - 00:09:33.490, Speaker A: They tend to be held by the company as treasury shares and just reduce the number of outstanding shares. On the flip side, issuance is how a crypto network such as a Dow or a protocol can obtain the resources it needs to scale, he says. Quote this is why tools like mining, proof of stake and liquidity rewards can work so well. There's far more upside to smart issuance than there is in clutching to scarcity. He then proposes a balancer smart pool. Balancer is one of those automated market makers, and he proposes a smart pool that would be 10% ETH and 90% of a capital token. That could function as what he calls quote, an automatic buyback machine token, issuance pool and liquidity provider, since it would automatically rebalance by selling excess ETH or the capital token to retain a specific ratio and that would function as a buyback.
00:09:33.490 - 00:10:52.570, Speaker A: His post gets even more in the weeds than this Hopefully I haven't lost you all, but it's definitely worth checking out for creative ways to provide liquidity in a token. Next Headline How to value the Wi Fi Token The Wi Fi token, which governs urine or Y earn, was launched with a disclaimer that the token itself, quote, has zero value. However, investors disagreed with that initial assessment, and FYI limited to only 30,000 tokens has reached a price as high as $44,000 since its launch. But how should such a wide ranging crypto network be valued? The newly formed mechanism capital did a deep dive into potential valuation methods, first dismissing the usefulness of total value locked, which is a common metric, as well as price to earnings ratio. The article then makes a case for two future oriented valuation models forward price to earning and discounted cash flow. It presents base conservative and aggressive forecasts for the price of WiFi, with the bear case being for a token that's worth $15,800 and the aggressive case for a much higher price token $315,500. Fun bits jack dorsey to speak friday at the oslo freedom forum.
00:10:52.570 - 00:11:23.490, Speaker A: I realize this is somewhat last minute, but if you are listening the morning that this episode drops, you can see twitter and square CEO jack dorsey speak at the oslo freedom forum. The prominent bitcoin proponent will be on stage, as it were, because the conference, of course, is virtual this year at 10:45 a.m.. Eastern. And the conference will be live streamed on the oslo freedom forum's YouTube page. All right. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about jake NFTs and wearable, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode.
00:11:23.490 - 00:11:40.650, Speaker A: Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash c slash unchained podcast and subscribe. Today unconfirmed is produced by me, laura shin with all from anthony yoon, daniel ness, bossy baker and the team at CLK transcription. Thank. Thanks for listening.
