00:00:02.000 - 00:00:52.728, Speaker A: Hello, I'm Josef, and I'm gonna talk about a joint work with Adrian Dumetrescu. The title of the paper is piercing all translates of a set of axis parallel rectangles. But first, I would actually like to start with a puzzle. So here it is. So, imagine you play a game of battleship where an opponent has a three x two shape, a rectangle with widths three and height two, hidden somewhere inside an n by n square board. The question is, how many cells do you need to shoot at to be sure that you hit the ship at least once? So, if you want to think about the puzzle, think about it, and you can pause the video and I will continue talking. So, as an example, this shooting arrangement is not valid because.
00:00:52.728 - 00:01:47.046, Speaker A: Because there are still copies of the places where the ship could be and where it would not be hit. So if you think about it, you'll probably find out that there is an arrangement of shots that hits roughly every 6th cell and that has the property that it hits the three by two ship no matter where it is placed. There is even a little bit of freedom of how we, where exactly we shoot. So roughly one 6th of the shots would suffice. And indeed, one can also see that one 6th of the shots are necessary because most of the board can be tiled by three by two rectangles, and each such tile requires to be hit at least once. So this was actually a simple puzzle. It was not the actual puzzle.
00:01:47.046 - 00:02:46.794, Speaker A: So the actual puzzle is what if you do not know whether the ship is placed horizontally as a three x two or vertically as a two x three? So how many shots would you need now? So that's the actual puzzle. So again, you can pause the video and I will continue talking. So this time, the initial arrangement will not work, because even though it does hit all the horizontal ships, it might miss some of the vertical ships, or it does miss some of the vertical ships. What you can do is you can use a denser arrangement that hits roughly every fifth cell, and that does have the property that it pierces all the ships, both the horizontal ones and the vertical ones. But one fifth is more than one 6th. So the question is, is one fifth really needed? Or could we perhaps do with few workshops? And the answer to that is that indeed one fifth is needed. You can't do with fewer shots.
00:02:46.794 - 00:03:27.604, Speaker A: And I'll just very briefly sketch the argument. So, the trick in the argument is to look at three by three sub rectangles that I will call boxes. And you can note that some boxes will be hit in their center in their central cell. Of the nine cells they consist of. But the observation key observation is that if a box is not hit in its center, then it needs to be hit at least twice. And you can check this, it's a very, very small casework. Maybe if it's hit once in the left middle cell, then there is still a empty two x three rectangle that needs to be hit again.
00:03:27.604 - 00:04:22.780, Speaker A: And similarly for the corner anyway, either you, for each box, you either hit it in the center or you have to hit it at least twice. So now with this observation in mind, the proof is actually a kind of double counting argument. So I'll just briefly go through it. So we can suppose that s should suffice then s at most s of the boxes can be shot in their, in their middle, in their central cell, and all the remaining boxes of which they are n two squared minus s, have to be hit at least twice. And each cell that we shoot at contributes to at most nine boxes because simple geometry. So in the end, we get an inequality that reads like this. And upon rewriting we obtain that s is at least one fifth of the n minus two squared.
00:04:22.780 - 00:04:51.214, Speaker A: So ignoring the logo order terms, we get that we need to hit at least every fifth. So one over five n squared roughly, is really needed. Cool. So this is the solution to the introductory puzzle. And this for me will be a bridge to the problem that we actually study. So the problem we actually study is a bit different from this. And there are two differences highlighted here at the bottom of the slide.
00:04:51.214 - 00:05:51.786, Speaker A: So one difference is that instead of considering rectangles inside a small or inside a finite n by n board, we would like to remove the boundary conditions. So we work in the whole plane. This is a small disadvantage that we need to define density of a point set. And, you know, this now is a little bit more technical, but there is a standard way to do that, using limits inferior as the density over disks that are larger and larger. So in the limit of r, the radius of that is going to infinity how many points there are in the intersection over the area of the disk. And also another difference is that instead of using discrete translates, translating b vectors in z squared, we'll actually consider all the possible translations. So in the end, what we obtain is the problem stated here above.
00:05:51.786 - 00:06:31.722, Speaker A: Given a family f of rectangles and rectangles, all of them x is parallel, all of them closed. What is the lowest possible density PI of f of a point set that pierces each translate of each rectangle. Cool. So this statement might remind you of some similar problems you have seen before. So let me briefly cover at least two areas that are somewhat similar. So one broad area is of course piercing finite sets of rectangles. So that has been studied for decades.
00:06:31.722 - 00:07:17.422, Speaker A: And there are many interesting, cool results. So I always suggest a very few. So the one good, strong, interesting result already from the eighties is that the question of finding the smallest possible set for a given family, finite family of rectangles, the question of how many was the fewest number of points that you need to pierce each of those rectangles. So this problem is empty, hard, even if your rectangles are inflated squares. From the more recent side, there is an approximation, actually a logo approximation. So a pretty good approximation, even though not a constant vector. 120.
00:07:17.422 - 00:08:01.510, Speaker A: Ten. This is by epsilon net. And there is also an interesting bueno melt time approximation scheme. If the finite family of rectangles has a property that it's fat, whatever that means, you can look at the reference. On another note, there is another broad area that is somewhat similar to what both. So the differences from this setup I just discussed to our setup, is that for us, the family of rectangles is infinite. So we consider a family of templates, but then each template, we consider all the possible translations of the template.
00:08:01.510 - 00:08:36.832, Speaker A: So this makes the problem different. Fine. So now for the second area, there is a thing called dispersion. So the way to think about it is that you are given a unit, square, zero, one, and you are allowed to drop endpoints inside that square. And what you would like to do is you would like to pierce all rectangles that have large area. So, for example, if you are allowed to use ten points, it's easy to pierce all the rectangles that have area one half, because there are just not so many of them. But then you could also pierce all the rectangles that have area one over three.
00:08:36.832 - 00:09:21.788, Speaker A: And the question of what's the lowest area that you can guarantee to peers? So that's exactly the dispersion dn or d or d of n, depending how many points you have. So there, it's known that the dispersion scales is, I mean, the dispersion is inversely proportional to the number n of points that you are allowed to drop inside the square. And very recently there has been progress on the associated constants. So we know that the associated constants are between 1.5 and 1.9. And the difference to our setup. So how is our setup different to dispersion is that dispersion doesn't care about the shapes of the rectangles.
00:09:21.788 - 00:09:47.114, Speaker A: It only cares about the area, while we do care about the shape. So we have a few shapes and we consider all the transients. Another difference is of course, the dispersion operates in a bounded region, a square of size zero one, while we operate in the hold down. So there is this unbounded nest. Okay, cool. So this was just briefly covering some of the related work. So now let's go back to our problem.
00:09:47.114 - 00:10:49.814, Speaker A: So first we cover some simple cases. So one simple case is when our family consists of a single rectangle. So we insist that we pierce all the translates of one fixed single rectangle. And then actually the solution is very simple because that one rectangle will tile the plane and we can use a lattice that corresponds to the tiling as our piercing set. And on the other hand, one can easily see that each tile has to be pierced at least once and those two bounds match exactly. So in the end, what we obtain is that the lowest possible piercing density, this PI of f, if the set f consists of a single rectangle with width w and height h, is simply one over the product w times h. And this is a first hint also that actually what is sometimes more convenient is to look not at the density, but at the reciprocal of the density.
00:10:49.814 - 00:11:14.644, Speaker A: So kind of the pair point area. So we will denote this by capital a of f. And the future bounds will be for the capital a of f instead of for the density. Because we'll in this way we'll avoid some fractions. Cool. So this is a simple case, and actually it is also a good position. Good point to make a short detour.
00:11:14.644 - 00:12:34.164, Speaker A: So let me just state, without going to details of the proofs, that in case our family f consists of a single shape, and it could be any shape, not necessarily a rectangle, then the problem of determining the minimum piercing density is in effect equivalent to the classical problem of determining the minimum translative covering density for theta t of the same shape s. So the proof is here below. It's just from the definition, it turns out to be that the two problems are equivalent. I think that's interesting, but unfortunately it does not really help us in solving our problem because it turns out that this problem of determining the translative covering density is only known for solved for shapes that either tile the plane or for a very few other shapes, such as discs or regular end coins. But it's a nice connection anyway. Okay, but this was just a detour that I wanted to briefly mention. So let's go back to our problem, to the next simplest case, which is if our family f does not consist of a single rectangle, but of two rectangles.
00:12:34.164 - 00:13:45.678, Speaker A: So, the first observation here is that, without loss of generality, we can assume that the narrower of the two rectangles has width one and the shorter of the two triangles has a height one. So this is just because any piercing points that can be stretched along the x axis and along the y axis, such that, you know, all the rectangles stretch accordingly. So now, the simpler case is if, after this stretching, one of the rectangles is much bigger than the other one. So here I drew two rectangles. One is wide and the other one is kind of tall, but not so tall. And what we can do in that case is that we construct a lattice that barely pierces all the copies of the not so tall rectangle. And then what turns out is that we get to pierce all the copies of the wide rectangle for free, because it's just so wide that no matter where we place it, it will hit one of the marks, one of the points that we use to hit the tall rectangle.
00:13:45.678 - 00:14:39.154, Speaker A: And again, this is just a very brief sketch. You would have to think about it, I guess. But this is just an idea. So, what this leaves us with is the case when, upon the rescaling, what we get is two rectangles that are, where one is one, has the width that is roughly the same as the height of the other one. And here, roughly the same, turns out to mean that the floors, like integer floors of those two numbers, turn out to be the same. So we, what we still need to. The cases we still need to cover are when the width can be expressed as some integer k plus x, where x is between zero and one, and the height of the other rectangle can be expressed as the same k plus integer k plus some leftover y, again, in the interval from zero to one.
00:14:39.154 - 00:15:17.726, Speaker A: And what we can show in that case, and this, arguably, is our main theorem, or one of our two main results, is that there is an upper bound and there is a lower bound on this pair point area. The lower bound, that's not that interesting. It's just some examples of lattices that happen to pierce both those rectangles simultaneously. But the interesting part is the upper bound. So, I would like to briefly talk about the upper bound. So how we proceed to show that. Well, it's similar to what we did in the actual puzzle, if you still remember.
00:15:17.726 - 00:16:08.844, Speaker A: So, instead of looking at a three by three box, we look at a box that has a size k x times k plus y. So it's shown here on the left. So the width matches the width of the wide rectangle and the height matches the height of the tall rectangle. And then we defined a sub region of that box that we call a zone. Now, here in the right figure, it's shaded in yellow and, you know, it consists of k squared. Sub rectangles and dimensions are as specified in the right panel. And the key thing is that we can show that the box either contains k shots, all of them inside the zone, or otherwise it must contain at least k plus one shots.
00:16:08.844 - 00:16:52.816, Speaker A: So this hopefully resembles on some level, the argument that we saw for the discrete version with two x three and three x two chips. So, let me now try to convince you that this claim is true. So, let's say we look at the box and we find a shot that lies outside of the zone. So maybe it lies here. Well, then we can still partition the leftover part over the box, or we can find three interior disjoint tall rectangles inside the box, and each of them has to be pairs. So, together with the one shot that was lying outside of the zone, we still require k more shots. So, in total k one shots.
00:16:52.816 - 00:17:38.288, Speaker A: And similarly, if the first shot was here in this small region, then we can find k more horizontal rectangles. So in any case, once the, if there is a shot inside the box that does not fall into the zone, that kind of does not help us at all. We still require at least k more shots inside that box. Well, and now, given that this is true, how we proceed is essentially analogous to what we did in the puzzle. We somehow average over all the possible boxes and we do some algebra. The algebra is now a bit more technical because there are integrals instead of just discrete double counting. But it can be done.
00:17:38.288 - 00:18:02.082, Speaker A: And there is also some smart bounds. But I mean, this is the main gist of the argument. Cool. So, let me move on. So, to summarize our results for the two rectangles. So we have a matching upper bound and a lower bound in a good proportion of cases. So this is the left panel.
00:18:02.082 - 00:18:34.770, Speaker A: So on the x axis we have the width w. On the y axis we have the height h. And on the vertical axis we show this pair point area of. When this family f consists of two rectangles rescaled as we. And then whatever is shown in orange, this is where our bounds match exactly and where they don't match. There we show the lower bound in blue. So you can see that if the floors of the w and h are different, then we know exactly.
00:18:34.770 - 00:19:34.754, Speaker A: If both the floors are equal to one, then we also know exactly. That's because the upper bound and the lower bound from the previous theorem actually match. So what we do not know is when both the floor of w and the floor of h are equal to some integer, but that integer is at least two. And in that case, we have lower bounds shown in blue on the right, and upper bounds shown in red that are still pretty tight, pretty close to each other. So, all in all, one consequence of this is that we have a very good approximation. So if we consider the problem where on the input, we are given a family of two rectangles, then we can answer, what's this optimal piercing density was the sparsest possible set that pierces all the translates of both those two rectangles, not exactly, but within a ratio of 1.086 or something.
00:19:34.754 - 00:20:13.384, Speaker A: So this is our first algorithmic result. But I would stress it only applies to the case when the family consists of two rectangles. So what happens when the family consists of n rectangles? Well, that's our second result. And there we get again an approximation, the constant vector approximation. The constant is a bit worse. It's this 1.895, which might look familiar to you because it already, it appears in some related results on dispersion, but still, it's a constant vector approximation.
00:20:13.384 - 00:21:16.544, Speaker A: So I'll just very, very briefly sketch again the idea behind the proof of this constant vector approximation. So this is the crux. The claim is that if we take a lattice with bases one, phi and phi minus one, where five is the golden ratio, then this lattice will pierce all the rectangles that have area five to the fourth power or more. And maybe that's surprising when you first hear it, but when you actually draw the lattice and look at all the maximal boxes that you can draw in the lattice, it quickly turns out that they have some properties. They are like essentially Phi to some power and phi to four minus that power. And this is a claim that can be proved by induction. And once it is proved by induction, it means that we can take this lattice and scale it down such that this area five to the fourth power instead becomes the area of the smallest rectangle in our family.
00:21:16.544 - 00:22:05.556, Speaker A: And this is a lattice that attests that we have this constant approximation. The vector turns out to be this PI to the fourth power over phi squared plus one. Or in other words, this expression here, or in other words, roughly 1.9. Cool. So this was very brief, but, you know, and if you want to see more here, I'll be happy if you have a look at the paper, and I'll be happy if you show up at the conference and to hear the short talk and ask some questions. So let me conclude by two slides with some possible directions for future research. So one more specific slide is this one about the loose end.
00:22:05.556 - 00:22:49.952, Speaker A: Hard work. So, of course, one outstanding question is what is actually the ears intensity for the case of two rectangles, when the two rectangles have the dimensions that have the same floor, and the floor is an integer which is at least one. So now there was the only cases which we could not resolve exactly for the regime of two rectangles. Now for the regime of n rectangles, we really don't quite know. So we present this constant approximation. But as far as we could tell, it could even be that there is a polynomial time approximation scheme, or at least there is a better constant approximation. On the other hand, we really could not tell.
00:22:49.952 - 00:23:32.570, Speaker A: Maybe it's just the heart, and maybe there is no polynomial time approximation scheme. So there is much to explore, and then even more generally. So all of this work was focusing on two dimensions. So an obvious question is, what happens in a higher dimension? And this is largely unexplored. Some results from the dispersion world might be helpful in some regards, but it will not be easy. That's at least, that's what we think. And another assumption that we made is that we only consider translations.
00:23:32.570 - 00:24:18.454, Speaker A: Of course, one can ask what happens if you consider rigid motions instead of translations? And this was only, I mean, we are aware of essentially only one paper that does something like that, and this would be the result. The third question is, we considered only axis parallel rectangles. What happens if you consider more complicated shapes? Presumably, the problems become hard. So, can you prove hardness of that problem? And what is the simplest possible family of shapes for which you can prove hardness? So many questions remain. Okay, and with this, I would like to thank you for your attention. And yeah, I hope to see you at the conference. Thank you.
