00:00:06.650 - 00:00:56.234, Speaker A: Hi, my name's Harry, and today I'm going to talk to you about the various ways in which you, a developer or passionate community member, can contribute to chainlink. Now, contributing to open source software is a great way for building up your personal skills and experience, as well as getting your name out there in the community, which can lead to things such as future your employment opportunities. On top of this, it's actually really fun. Gives you a real sense of community involvement as well as personal satisfaction. Knowing that you're helping to build something that's really going to enable this more fair, transparent and efficient new world powered by hybrid smart contracts. So with that being said, let's go through six ways in which you can help to build Chainlink. Now, the most direct way in which you can contribute to Chainlink is by contributing to the core code or the various tooling found in the Chainlink GitHub repository.
00:00:56.234 - 00:01:42.266, Speaker A: Let's take a look. So you can contribute to the code by raising an issue if you find some kind of error or issue with the code in the Chainlink repositories. So you just choose your category here and then put in as much detail as possible into the issue itself. Now in addition to this, you can actually request new features via this process too. So if you think of something cool that you think should be part of Chainlink, then create an issue and label it with the feature request label as you can see here. Now, in addition to this, you can actually vote on feature requests as well. So as you can see, some feature requests have a needs votes tag, as you can see there.
00:01:42.266 - 00:02:43.570, Speaker A: So what you can do is you can go into the feature request and you can give it a thumbs up or a thumbs down emoji to vote on it. So this will actually help drive the decision on whether the feature gets implemented or not. And in addition to this, you can also directly comment in the feature request to get your voice heard. You can also contribute by submitting a PR or pull request against a created issue or an accepted feature request. Now, if you're looking for something to pick up, you can search through the current list of open issues or feature requests, and once you've submitted your PR, be sure to monitor it for any questions or updates that come up while the team and the community review the changes. In addition to this, if you're new to contributing to open source software or to Chainlink, we've tagged some good first issues against all of the major repositories in the Chainlink GitHub. These have a good first issue tag here, so these will be perfect for someone new to contributing to take on and try and tackle.
00:02:43.570 - 00:03:40.850, Speaker A: Now another great way to contribute is to help maintain and improve the Chainlink documentation. Let's take a look. The Chainlink documentation is the first pointer call for smart contract developers and node operators. And like the Chainlink software, our docs are also open source allowing for other developers and community members to help improve and maintain them. So the process for contributing to the docs is actually the same as the process that I described earlier for creating issues and submitting pull requests. In addition to this, each page in the docs has a suggest edit link at the top right here and this will directly take you to the page in the documentation repository where you can create a new pull request with the suggested changes for the page. If you do plan on contributing to the chainlink docs, be sure to also read the contributing file in the main repository for some good pointers.
00:03:40.850 - 00:04:58.310, Speaker A: Now another way in which you can contribute is by creating community content. We've got an amazing community and you'll often see contributions coming in the form of blog posts and videos focused on Chainlink. Some examples of community content include doing a deep dive on a chainlink solution or perhaps writing up a technical tutorial that showcases using Chainlink in a specific use case, such as creating a parametric insurance smart contract. Another way to help contribute to Chainlink is to join the community advocates or the developer Experts program. Let's take a look. Chainlink community advocates are passionate members of the Chainlink community that help to accelerate the awareness and adoption of Chainlink by doing things such as running meetups or connecting with partners and sponsors, or creating content. Developer experts are more technically minded, smart contract and blockchain developers with deep experience building applications using Chainlink that only help out and provide technical knowledge for other community members, but also do cool things such as participate in feedback sessions with the chainlink product and engineering teams, as well as get opportunities to speak at global chainlink events and community meetups.
00:04:58.310 - 00:06:00.122, Speaker A: If you're interested in becoming a community advocate or developer expert, you should head to chain link and then head to community overview and become advocate or to developers, developer experts. Participating in hackathons or running boot camps is also a great way to get involved as well as help you to grow your skills and experience. Chainlink runs multiple hackathons per year and they serve as a great way to learn how to use Chainlink as well as act as a vehicle for showcasing your skills and talent. Now, many people don't know, but hackathons are actually one of the best places that recruiters and blockchain companies look to get talent from. To see the latest information in regards to Chainlink hackathons, head to hack chain link. However, if you prefer educating over hacking, you might consider running a Chainlink focused developer bootcamp, either in person or online. You can even take one of our existing bootcamps and translate it and run it in another language.
00:06:00.122 - 00:07:00.362, Speaker A: Just be sure to reach out to us first so that we can make sure you have the support that you need. Finally, we have a great grant program for creating critical developer tooling, adding high quality data, and launching key services around the Chainlink network. Grants categories include community grants, integration grants, bug bounties, research and social impact grants. If you have a great idea that fits into one of these categories, you can apply for a grant to receive the funding and support needed to successfully build and implement your idea. So for more information on this, you can head to our website at chain link and go to Community grant program. So as you can see, whether you're a developer or just a passionate community member, there's lots of different ways in which you can contribute to help to build and improve chainlink. Now, if you have any questions on all of this, feel free to reach out to us on our discord at Chain Link Discord.
00:07:00.362 - 00:07:02.700, Speaker A: Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next video.
