00:00:00.250 - 00:01:20.626, Speaker A: There are a number of exciting and important open research challenges. One scalability. For example, currently Ethereum has limited scalability, can only perform about 20 transactions per second and such scalability limitations severely limit the scalability of DeFi applications as sequence. Today, most of these DeFi applications are very expensive to use oftentimes can cost tens of dollars or even hundreds of dollars to perform a single transaction on these DeFi applications. And hence, it's also an important open research challenge to see how we can enable the broader population to utilize these DeFi applications how we can also make it easier for end users to use these DeFi applications. As I already mentioned, privacy is another open research challenge in DeFi and in particular how we can enable greater privacy for users and at the same time can also enable regulation compliance. And security is a huge open challenge in DeFi.
00:01:20.626 - 00:04:07.606, Speaker A: And as we already discussed, there can be security issues at all layers of the blockchain DeFi applications. How can we design and build more secure oracles to provide authentic and correct information in a timely fashion? On chain protocol and smart contracts can have different vulnerabilities and have been exploited in the past for huge loss to the users and we need to design and develop new program and protocol analysis and formal verification techniques to ensure the security of these DeFi protocols and smart contracts. How can we design and develop new approaches and techniques for better analyzing composability risks and mitigate systemic risk? We also need to develop more effective incentive designs to ensure that the players in the ecosystem have the right incentive to behave properly and minor extractable value is a huge phenomenon in the DeFi ecosystem today. How can we design better DeFi applications and services that can reduce these minor extractable values and provide more benefits to users? And governance is a new domain for exploration, for research, how to design better governance mechanisms to ensure that the DeFi application services is decentralized and at the same time can operate properly and be secure. And DeFi area is very new, it's very different from how traditional finance works and there are many open questions for legal and compliance and this is a huge area for open research as well. So overall in this class we hope to help shed light in this interdisciplinary domain at the intersection of computer science and finance and for each financial function we hope to investigate the CFI and DeFi options. Is either one of these optimal? And we'll evaluate both through the lens of computer science and finance.
00:04:07.606 - 00:05:01.530, Speaker A: Is the application computable programmable? Is application welfare enhancing and stable? How do the new and old systems interact? We also hope to explore new questions and challenges in regulation and legal frameworks. So this class will cover different topics in DeFi. The first section of the class is a few introduction lectures to provide the background for the basics including blockchain technology, smart contracts and traditional finance. In the next section of the class, we'll look at specific examples of DeFi applications and services, including stablecoins, decentralized exchanges, decentralized lending.
