00:00:12.970 - 00:00:43.530, Speaker A: So, hello, everyone. Welcome to our alternative view of simply opview. As you know, right. At Opview, we chat with industry leaders to get to know them, and also their opinions and insights. And we hear about their views, may they be popular, unpopular, or brand new alternative, or anything in between. So I'm your host, Yaoji from all layer and elastic and versatile execution layer on ethereum for Web three. Today, it's our great honor to have Xin yuan working with the flashball these days.
00:00:43.530 - 00:00:57.680, Speaker A: And he's also mainly focusing on the research on MEV and also three Evs. So it's a sort of great pleasure to have him. And Xinyuan, can you tell us about yourself and what are you working on at the moment?
00:00:58.770 - 00:01:38.694, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I mainly do research ashballs or performance art, as most people say, that my talks are kind of more like performance art rather than research, but yeah, overall. So my agenda would be to unlock the magic of credible commitment. That is how I would bring it. Not MeV, but unlock the magic of a credible commitment. So if you think of why crypto has value, right. It's because we want to use crypto as a device such that we can encode general statements about any kind of credible commitment.
00:01:38.694 - 00:02:12.054, Speaker B: And those credible commitments restrain in whatever game, restrain those agents action space. And thus it's easier to reason about the game. Right. And then if you restrain the agent from doing some undesirable actions, then it's possible that you increase the social welfare, or AK, like increasing the economic efficiency. Okay, yeah. So this is like what we are all doing here, crypto as a hub. But then why does this tie to Mev specifically? It's at the unlocking the magic part.
00:02:12.054 - 00:03:04.294, Speaker B: It has some magic most people are working on. How do we extract this magic? But then the real blocker in my mind is Mev. So because of MeV, the magic of credible commitment cannot be exerted. Why? It is because the economic efficiency that you can gain from having a credible commitment will be eroded due to the negative externalities caused by the past dependency of which approach you take to eliminate those inefficiencies. Yeah. So then if you choose to use permissionless, credible commitment devices, such as crippled, to achieve this coordination, then you have the externality of MeV, and this is what we are doing. See?
00:03:04.332 - 00:03:39.570, Speaker A: I see. Yes. Sounds amazing. At the same time, even you say that it's not research, but from your description, it's quite sort of academic. And as you know, right in Devcon, you talk about what's MeV and what's not MeV. I still have a lot of impressions on how you share about the description on these definitions here. Can you also share a little bit more about your research on these topics? And probably just start with what's MeV and what's not Mev?
00:03:39.990 - 00:04:32.958, Speaker B: Yeah, sure, exactly. So, at Devco, my colleague Alejo gave a talk about this is not Mev. And then I gave a talk about this is Mev. So I'm going to start with this is not Mev part. So if you think about any game. So, previously I mentioned that we wish to use credible commitment to solve the inefficiencies in economy, right? So in any game, the agent have some payoffs, right? So then what kind of payoffs are exactly meV? What kind are not? So, if you take the simplest example, prisoner dilemma, right? So in a prisoner dilemma, you have two prisoners, a and b, right? And if they choose to both cooperate, they get a higher payoff than if they both choose to defect. Or if one of them choose to defect, another choose to cooperate.
00:04:32.958 - 00:05:03.902, Speaker B: Then the one chooses defect will get a higher payoff, right? Yeah. This is for background. So then let's take the simplest payoff schedule. Let's say if they both cooperate, then both of them get a payoff of two. And if both of them defect, then they both get a payoff of one. Okay? So then in the original game, we know that the dominant strategy, equilibrium, the dominant strategy for each agent to play is to both defect. And then at this time, both of them get a payoff of one.
00:05:03.902 - 00:05:48.662, Speaker B: Right? So both of them extract a value of one from the system. And this value is not Mev because there is nothing happening. There's no conflict. Once, because the OG definition of MeV states that if one privileged party, or a collision of privileged parties, can extract value from a system by manipulation of the system, then that value is called MeV. Right? So then here, there's no manipulation or privileged party happening. This is purely like the payoff, the value that you can extract from the original game. Okay, so that one from prison dilemma is not MeV.
00:05:48.662 - 00:06:25.702, Speaker B: Then what is Mev? So, for example, now we have a credible commission device, right? So suppose we have crypto, and then you can publish smart contracts. This sounds great. Then one of the prisoners published a smart contract saying that if the other agent commits to cooperate, then I will commit to cooperate. If the other agent does not commit to cooperate, then I commit to defect. Right. Then once the agent a publishes a smart contract or credible commitment, then the other agent sees this contract and the dominant strategy for the second player would be to commit. Right.
00:06:25.702 - 00:06:44.622, Speaker B: And then both agents commit, cooperate, and then we get the best payoff. Right. Like, both of them cooperate, and then both of them get a payoff of two. And if we compare, it's four minus two. Right. We have gained two units of social surplus. And this value can be called MeV, right.
00:06:44.622 - 00:07:14.358, Speaker B: Because this is like you change the game, you wrap the original game with giving both players the power to do credible commitments, and thus you've created the value. And that value is Mev. However, and this is clearly one of the good mevs, right, as people call it. There are more nuances to this. Right. Let's move on.
00:07:14.524 - 00:07:42.350, Speaker A: Yeah, so as you just mentioned. Right, so you talk about sort of the MeV, and at the same time, I know you also basically proposed a new definition for MeV to three ev. I think that's the beauty part, the beautiful part. Alice, I heard from your talk, can you also share about three ev part time? I believe the new definition of EV is really more precise.
00:07:43.090 - 00:08:42.946, Speaker B: Yes, exactly. So some background for three ev. The motivation for me, basically, instead of the original definition, the original definition is that any value that the miner can, or like the block builder or validator, can extract from insertion or deletion or reordering of transactions within a block, that value is called MeV. So that is the OG definition given by field and widely used by a lot of academic work on MeV. And then there is also the focal version, right? The focal version used by most people on crypto, Twitter, or widely in the industry. Is that any way that you can make money on chain is called MeV or not even on chain, right? Any way you can make money is called MeV. However, this folklore version has been disproven by my previous prison dilemma thing.
00:08:42.946 - 00:10:23.890, Speaker B: Okay, so now we want to give a better example, right? We want to give a definition of MeV that actually works. So, as a motivation, let's think about why opaque privacy, so things like threshold encryption or fair ordering doesn't work. So the reason why it doesn't work is because it is true that you can eliminate the MEV that originates from agents gaining an exposed knowledge about other people's private information. What do I mean by exposed knowledge? It's like if you have two agents, a and b, if they were supposed to play the game in a simultaneous order, but then currently one of the agents plays the game as if it is in a sequential order and such that agent knows previous agent's actions and then privilege information, then the surplus value that the second agent can extract is called bad MeV. Or I usually characterize this as Mafia EV, because if you look at this, what you are railing is like, form your mob and then use this mob to either extort others or to act privilegedly based on your information, right? So extortion is also a heavy part of this, right? Because it is a well known principle in classical economy that if the seller knows the utility of the buyer, then the seller can extract a surplus. Or like. Yeah, can extract a surplus that almost equals to the full utility of the buyer.
00:10:23.890 - 00:10:49.750, Speaker B: On that part, it is clearly mafia ev, right? So if I'm a seller, I know that you have a utility of 1 million for this painting, then I will charge you 1 million, right? And I know you will accept. And then suppose I didn't know, then I would probably just, I don't know, charge you something like five hundred k. And then the difference, the delta 500k, is like Mafia ev.
00:10:49.920 - 00:10:50.510, Speaker A: That's true.
00:10:50.580 - 00:11:22.358, Speaker B: Okay. Yeah. Okay. So back to the fair ordering example. So fair ordering or like structural encryption, any kind of private mempo solution basically solves this. Because they say, oh, there's no way you can extract information from other people's actions, right? I don't know anything that you do, and thus I can't act on this information, right? I can't extort you. I can't give you an offer that extract almost all of your utility because I don't really know what your utility is.
00:11:22.358 - 00:12:14.610, Speaker B: So this is how they aim to solve this. But however, there's a major flaw with this. It's because, as we previously mentioned, the whole reason why crypto has any value is because we want to use crypto as a credible commitment device, right? However, credible commitment cannot work if you don't know what the commitment is, right? The whole value, why it has any whole reason it has value is because you know that the commitment has been made. So suppose the prisoner dilemma example. Now, the first prisoner publishes the smart contract saying, oh, if the other person commits to corporate, then I will commit to cooperate. Otherwise I commit to defect, right? This is the commitment. Now, suppose you end up in a private scenario.
00:12:14.610 - 00:12:50.434, Speaker B: Then the other agent does not know this commitment has been committed. Then the game doesn't check out. Or more generally, what you can see is that we know that in Defi or in general, in amm trading, it is better to, in the simplest example, suppose you have six orders. Buy, sell, buy, sell, buy, sell. Right? Then it is better for everyone if I order the orders in. Buy, sell. By sell by sell, rather than buy Buy sell sell.
00:12:50.434 - 00:13:44.414, Speaker B: Right? Because in that case, the slippage is the least right if I order by buy, sell by sell by sell. So that's essentially the coincidence of once we let users trade against each other instead of trade against the market maker because the market maker charges more slippage. Okay, so then we know there's some coordination, there is some welfare that we can recover from knowing what the user's order is. Right? If I don't know what your order is, or if I know, but I don't have the power to reorder your transactions, then I cannot make buy by sell sell into by sell by sell by sell. Right? There is some certain amount of welfare that is lost from not being able to coordinate. So this traditionally, like in game theory, has been called price of anarchy, which is intuitive. It's anarchy.
00:13:44.414 - 00:14:33.970, Speaker B: There is no single coordinator that can help you to recover this welfare. And thus everybody pays a price. Okay, we know that fair ordering or private mempool or in general, traditional private mempo or traditional threshold encryption schemes does not account for this because even though it eliminates mafia extractable value, but it's best burden of price of anarchy. So then we really need a new term for this price of anarchy thing, right? Because what we really care is like social welfare. We want everybody have a better price. We want everybody to gain real utility from using crypto or using any kind of me bearing applications. So then we want those two terms.
00:14:33.970 - 00:15:42.322, Speaker B: But it's ugly. If we just add those two terms together, we say, oh, what we are optimizing is price of anarchy plus this mev term. Why not just call them both Mev? And I argue price of anarchy is mev. Okay, but let's get back to the three ev point surprise of anarchy is something I usually call like Malok extract. Malok is basically like this deity or God in, I think, hebrew culture or in the myth that it's basically an evil God that has a head of ox and you can sacrifice your child to the God and then the God will grant you immediate success in war. So this is like how the mythology goes. And then in modern culture, people usually use Malok to refer to inefficiencies in the economy that is caused due to discordination.
00:15:42.322 - 00:16:48.750, Speaker B: Right. So why is this? Is because if you imagine discordination, both start with m. So we can keep the MeV term. Very well. And why I insist on making price of anarchy another term for MeV is because if you look at, for example, NFT launches or liquidations, right? So in those things, it's not like anybody, it's intuitive. Those two things are Mev, right? Like atomic arbitrage, liquidation, and NFT launches. Those things are surely Mev even by our intuition or folklore definition.
00:16:48.750 - 00:17:25.020, Speaker B: However, there's no agent that gains any kind of exposed private information advantage. There's none. All of the information is public, and yet our intuition tells us there is still Mev. Then why is that? It's because this is a coordination problem. You have a scarce resource that you need to allocate, and a lot of people want it. You have some MeV to be extracted from the allocation of those resources, and that allocation itself is a coordination problem.
00:17:27.150 - 00:17:35.040, Speaker A: And validator can front run the other users to sort of do this kind of value extraction, right?
00:17:35.890 - 00:18:20.394, Speaker B: It is possible. So in that case, it would be the validator exerting mafia extractable value onto the system. However, it is also possible that the value is created without the value being the mob. So imagine two agents, for example, the easy example, like Newton, and like they both claim they created calculus. First, you can kind of feel there's quote unquote front running happening here, right? However, there isn't any expos of private information happening here. None of them are acting privilegedly to anything. It's just like they both come up with the thing.
00:18:20.394 - 00:19:14.938, Speaker B: So it's same as in FT launches, right? Everybody has a need for that thing, and it's not like people are acting privileged on that. So the thing you were talking about, right? So the coordinator or the validator acting privilegedly based on the information. So this thing traditionally. So, for example, we've been calling this situation as uncredible auctioneer or uncredible coordinator. So in this case. So, for example, we know that in second price auctions, second price auction is basically you bid your true value and then the highest bidder pays the second highest price. And then in this case, we know that it is possible for the auctioneer, the seller, to boost the price that the winning agent pay by inserting fake bids, right? You can observe all of the bid and place a bid that is like the first bid minus epsilon and extract utility.
00:19:14.938 - 00:20:04.160, Speaker B: So this is like the mafia EV case. But then it is also possible that we also know that second price auction is the most efficient, aka welfare maximizing mechanism that you can use to allocate a good, right? So then, now suppose you don't use second price auction. You use like a sheeting mechanism that is somewhere, since, for example, random, you have people do like paper, scissors, rock, paper, scissors to decide who wins the auction. So in this case, you're not necessarily allocating the goods to the people with the highest utility, right? There is some social welfare loss and that social welfare loss, it's the emollogic tradable value, right? Yeah.
00:20:07.330 - 00:21:15.010, Speaker A: I think you really give sort of a long explanation about this three ev. And we all know that the different definition like whatever this mev already happening on ethereum and also various other l ones like Polygon and also BnB chain and even some non EVM chains like Solana. Beyond that we know, right. For the recent l two general purpose l two like Avi farm and also optimism. We can also monitor sort of like we don't see mev at the moment, but it's claiming to be first come, first serve. But at the same time, as previously discussed, there are a bunch of applications specific roll up sort of built for these dapps, that is defi social app and also games. I also would like to know, do you think there are some potential MEV cases in this sort of app rolapse? Like us, we're also providing some aprolab for application.
00:21:15.010 - 00:21:21.830, Speaker A: But do you think in the near future for these app rolapse, do you feel like there will be a lot of places for the MEB?
00:21:23.290 - 00:22:06.914, Speaker B: Yeah. So I've been thinking about this for a while, and especially since this is a thesis that many people in the community share, right? Appchain thesis or the fancier name Shardy. The roll up thesis. Okay, people, I love fancy names in the roll up community. Okay? So if you think about it. So previously I talked about monologue, tradable value, right? So that part is about coordination. And then we know that there is need for coordination.
00:22:06.914 - 00:22:57.554, Speaker B: There is need for a coordinator for elimination of inefficiency if the scenario is more complex, right? If the scenario is simple, or I would call more common value, common value. I think everybody wants the same thing. Then you don't really need a super expressive mechanism to solve this. Why? So imagine the simplest case, arbitrage or liquidation. Then everybody wants the same thing. What do they want? They want to first capture the opportunity. Then what you really need is a very simple mechanism that, for example, PGA works priority gas auction or like block space priority auction, that basically says, okay, like I auction off the first slot in the block.
00:22:57.554 - 00:23:52.120, Speaker B: And then this very simple mechanism actually solves most of those mev, right? Because everybody wants the same thing. It is common value thing. However, if we move from common value to diverse value, then this doesn't really work. Right? So this is also the motivation why we ended up in this model of PBS proposal builder separation is because the builders is able to not only run those simple mechanisms, but also to do bundle merging or like blob building in general. So like bundle merging is basically saying you have diverse preferences, and then for example, one person want an FP launch, another person wants to capture the liquidation, then those two things can be merged, right? They're not in conflict of both wanting the first slot of the block. So then we can merge them together. So this is the more simpler case.
00:23:52.120 - 00:25:32.982, Speaker B: So blob building is basically for the generic version of the generic transaction version of this, you can merge non conflicting bundles together. Okay, so this is why if you move from common value, diverse value, or diverse preferences, then you need more expressive mechanism. Okay, so then, now talking about app roll ups, the app roll ups, as you can see, moving from generic general computation platforms to application specific roll ups, then we know that on a single domain, domain meaning chain or the roll up, then the value moves from diverse preference to common value, right? So for example, previously people launch both FTA and FTB on the same platform. Now they move to different roll ups, different chains. Then on each chain, on each chain, we only need a very simple mechanism to solve mev, right? Because there's less overlapping in the preferences, or each agent knows more about other agents preference for the same good or the same resource, right? What this implies is that on a single domain or on single chain, on a single roll up, there is still mev. However, there's less molok mev to be eliminated because there is less diverse preference, there is more common value. Okay, this is the single chain case.
00:25:32.982 - 00:25:55.120, Speaker B: What about cross chain? Cross chain is where the molocham you will live on, right? So like cross chain, on cross application specific thing, then you can imagine, I don't know, cross domain coordination layer is where it captures most of the diverse preference allocation problem. Yeah.
