00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.559, Speaker A: A ton has happened within the Eigenlayer ecosystem over the past couple of weeks. I wanted to do a quick summary of events, announcements, upcoming events, developer tooling, educational content and just ecosystem updates. So let's dive right in. The first thing is it's kind of hard to keep up with all of the things happening within the Eigen Layer Ecosystem, projects being built, et cetera. The Eigen foundation recently sent out a Tweet highlighting around 110 of these projects. So this is kind of a good place to go if you just want to get up to date with everything that's happening. I'm going to link everything below.
00:00:29.559 - 00:01:03.963, Speaker A: By the way, the next is another summary and this is coming from Andy from the Rollup podcast. He's highlighted around 45 different projects along with their main focus. Also from Andy from the Roll up podcast, they're doing a series called Eigen Layer Unlocked that is interviewing a lot of different Eigen Layer Ecosystem projects. So if you want to get up to date and dive deeper into what anyone is building, this is probably a great place to go. Next, I want to highlight megazoo. Megaz is an event co sponsored with Eigenlayer and Mega Eth in Chiang Mai, Thailand. Lasts for about a month.
00:01:03.963 - 00:01:37.905, Speaker A: We've invited the best builders in the world to come out there and build software and we're seeing just some incredible applications and absence coming out of that demo. Days have been getting better and better. It's really interesting to kind of see and I hopefully we will do this again in the future if you want to kind of get up to date about what's happening there. They're actually doing like a reality TV show and they're dropping out these snippets every couple of days. So if you go to the Megazoo account you can watch them. They're entertaining and they're also just kind of interesting to kind of see what's happening on the day to day basis. They're a lot of fun but also a lot of work.
00:01:37.905 - 00:01:57.403, Speaker A: Another tweet from Megazoo. It's a picture of Vitalik watching the Theory and documentary. Pretty funny. On to events that we're going to be hosting in the coming weeks, mainly around defcon. We're going to be doing a new ABS day, so definitely check this out. This is going to be a packed event. We're going to have over 30 AVs present.
00:01:57.403 - 00:02:26.969, Speaker A: A really great place to go if you want to network, if you want to meet new people within the Eigenlayer ecosystem or if you want to start building an Eigenlayer ecosystem. So AVS is operators, stakers, anyone involved and interested. Next up, we're also doing another event with Alt Layer, another roll up day. These are always just incredible events, amazing lineups always. Vitalik is going to be there, Sriram is going to be there along with a lot of other incredible speakers. Definitely check that out. And then finally we're co hosting an event with Mega Eth called World Computer Day.
00:02:26.969 - 00:02:47.333, Speaker A: This venue is really cool. The layout and the kind of programming is really interesting. It's not just focused on talks, it's also very focused on in real life connections. Thoughtfully. We're also going to be hosting a breakfast here in the morning, a builder breakfast. So World Computer Builder Builder breakfast. You're hearing it here first.
00:02:47.333 - 00:03:14.837, Speaker A: I'm going to link below. This was just announced. We're also doing another build a breakfast on November 12th. Again this is just being announced here. I'm going to drop a link below. This is for anyone that's interested in either building on Eigenlayer or if you're already building Eigenlayer and you want to kind of network and get to hang out during some quiet time. I like these breakfasts because they are not during the middle of the day when everything is hectic and they're not at night when things are also hectic and they're not a club environment.
00:03:14.837 - 00:03:59.535, Speaker A: They're kind of a very, you know, laid back environment. Next I'll dive into a few launches and announcements. First of all, Gaia is a fantastic AI solution that's being built on Eigenlayer just announced today. The way I would put it is that Gaia is a platform that democratizes AI by providing developers with tools to create, deploy and scale decentralized AI agents that can be customized with unique knowledge and expertise. I would definitely dive into this tweet as well as the blog posts as well as their documentation to learn more. Skate announced mainnet today. They have a really cool demo of building Cross Chain with TON protocol along with Prediction Market that you can also check out with Poly Market Cap.
00:03:59.535 - 00:04:37.955, Speaker A: This is a team that I met a few months ago, maybe six or seven months ago. They are also at Megazoo. Really really interested in not only the use case but the founder is really, really great. They are building a stable coin on Eigenlayer along with Mega Eth Opacity Network. I've been really interested in the ZK TLS space. They announced their fundraise recently and we're going to be doing a lot more with the ZK TLS space with Opacity Network in particular, they're going to be at ABS Day as well if you want to kind of come and hang out and talk to some of these founders. A lot of these founders are going to be there.
00:04:37.955 - 00:05:37.117, Speaker A: Redstone announced a couple of days ago their abs. They are an Oracle protocol. They've been around for a long time and I really, really like and know some of the founding team there. So pretty excited about that. A Predicate also recently announced their rebranding as well as their fundraise and Predicate's interesting and I tried to kind of do a definition what I could kind of explain what predicate is because it's brand new to me this entire idea of what they're building. Predicate allows developers to create and enforce customizable transaction inclusion policies for crypto applications, acting as a semi permeable membrane to enhance security and control while maintaining censorship resistance. Now if you kind of really dive into what that description is, it kind of gives you this idea that you can basically design the inclusion rules for transactions and then exclude other transactions, I guess.
00:05:37.117 - 00:06:14.839, Speaker A: And then the most important part of this is while maintaining centers of resistance. So really excited about what they're building and really happy for for them to be kind of announcing their recent updates. Zero or Zaru, I'm not sure how to pronounce this announced they're building something called Z Score, which is what they're calling the world's first truly decentralized Omnichain credit score on Eigenlayer. Next we'll dive into some content. I want to highlight a tweet from Bread Guy, who I think is one of the best technical writers out there. He's able to really break down complex topics in a way that's really easy to understand. He highlighted Mega Eth and dove into some charts.
00:06:14.839 - 00:06:53.805, Speaker A: Really breaking down the scale of what they're trying to build underscores the thing that they always talk about only possible in Mega Eth. And I think it's really, really a succinct explanation of the scale of what Mega Eth is building. Next I will go over some content from Jordan McKinnon. He is doing some really, really great videos on different Eigen layer abse. He's done one on both Align Layer. He's done one on Lagrange and he's done one on actually Eigen layer as well. So we're tweeting those out from Build on Eigen, but I suggest to go to his YouTube and check all of his videos out and maybe even subscribe if you want to support him.
00:06:53.805 - 00:07:31.925, Speaker A: There's also Satya, who has been doing a lot of really, really great technical content on Eigenlayer. So I've highlighted one of his tweets here on Alt layer. But definitely if you're interested in kind of getting a lot of high quality breakdowns of verticals within the Eigen Layer space, go follow him and check out some of his previous tweets. This was a recent tweet from Predicate. I highlighted Predicate earlier. This is a pretty succinct explanation of the value proposition of Eigenlayer. So this if someone's like, oh, what is Eigen layer? Why would I build with it? I thought he gave a really, really good explanation in only 49 seconds.
00:07:31.925 - 00:08:19.915, Speaker A: Mustafa, who is a builder and part of the Eigen Layer or Eigen Labs team, released a list of restaking dashboards that I thought was really great. He covers quite a few of them, some of them that had not seen before. Next we'll jump into some developer tooling. Layer XYZ came out of stealth not too long ago, announcing their fundraise as well as their product. This is an SDK or an abstraction or really an ABS that just makes it much easier to build ABSes. So this is a very OG team from the Cosmos ecosystem that's now jumped headfirst into the Eigen Layer ecosystem and you can learn more about them by going to their Twitter layer on ETH or going to Layer xyz. They're going to be at Def Con and if you want to kind of get started building, go check them out.
00:08:19.915 - 00:08:57.125, Speaker A: Um, next up, Alt layer. We're wrapping up this ABS a thon hackathon in a couple of days, but I just want to highlight that we've seen a lot of really great projects come out of this using this product called Wizard. Wizard is just an abstraction that makes it very simple to abstract away a lot of the underlying complexity of building an abs. So you can focus on the differentiating product features that you'd like to build. So it's worth checking out. And again they're going to be at devcon hosts co hosting Alt Layer Roll up day if you want to also learn more about them and meet some of the team there. And this is just a view of the wizard dashboard.
00:08:57.125 - 00:09:53.941, Speaker A: Next up I'll highlight Authentic, who went to mainnet a few weeks ago. They've been announcing a lot of new AVSs. So these are teams that are using Authentic to build their AVS's. Authentic is a product that makes it a lot easier to build avss. So if you want to learn more, definitely check them out and reach out to them. They are very helpful and they've helped bring a lot of new products to mainnet and I'm a big fan of them. More recently we've seen Tangle, who is also building out developer tooling and SDKs and abstractions for building AVs's and they have a product called Gadget and they may they recently released a reference architecture for building with Gadget and they have these blueprints and one of them is this incredible squaring Eigen layer blueprint that I would call out because it's essentially a copy of the infrastructure design that we had originally, but it's just a lot more simple using Gadget.
00:09:53.941 - 00:10:33.593, Speaker A: So I would definitely keep an eye of what they're doing and kind of dive in if you're interested in these different abstractions. Next, I'll dive into this announcement today from WE vm, who've been experimenting with this idea of building absence with RET execution extensions. And the main idea here is that you kind of encapsulate all this functionality in one place to reduce latency. If you want to learn more about the announcement from WE vm, I'm going to be linking to a couple of things there. They have this tweet, they have this blog post, and they even have, I believe, an open source repo. And then if you want to learn more about RET execution extensions, I'll also link to that as well. And that wraps it up.
00:10:33.593 - 00:10:36.305, Speaker A: If you have any questions, please drop them below and I'll do my best to answer.
