00:00:00.170 - 00:00:46.214, Speaker A: Once again, this is Sam Seeley with Circle and this time this video is going to be on the judging overview. So before I get into that, let's talk about who our core bounty judgers are. Up front we have Juan Lopez, Circle Ventures associate with our Circle Ventures team. Next, Chess McDermott, software engineer with our engineering team and James Hink, lead product manager with our product team. Now, under the feature bounty category, we have two bounties. We have unlock opportunities with cross chain transfer protocol and embed streaming USDC payments into your app. Now, for both of these we want projects that are full mvps and that include code, not just proof of concept.
00:00:46.214 - 00:01:22.614, Speaker A: In a PowerPoint. These should be functional and able to show the functionality in action. Please show us how you got to the solution. This may include gists, sketches, discussions, issues, whatever. We would like to see a steady commit trail of your development process and not just one big pull request. List any challenges that you've had while integrating with the protocol or using our API or our docs. We want to see the most creative ways in which people add USDC to their application while providing anytime access to payments and financial services.
00:01:22.614 - 00:01:58.718, Speaker A: That of course is for our embed streaming USDC platforms into your app. Now for our Crosschain transfer protocol, or CCTP as we'd like to call it. There's been some really neat ways in which people have been exploring this use case. We've seen crosschain swaps, crosschain deposits, purchasing nfts, crosschains. We want to see what you can come up with. We're really excited to see what comes out of it now in our next bounty is the early stage startup bounty. Here we're looking for people to build web3 businesses at scale.
00:01:58.718 - 00:02:30.762, Speaker A: We want projects here that are functional and ready to go live. They include well polished screens and good ux. We want to see your code and a project that you would be proud to go live with. Please show us how you got to the solution right. Once again, this includes sketches, discussions, issues. We would like to see a steady commitra once again of your development process and not just one big pull request. I say that again, there should be a comprehensible readme showing how we will be able to run that project locally.
00:02:30.762 - 00:02:50.460, Speaker A: List any challenges you've had while integrating with our APIs, the protocol or using our docs. Overall, have fun. Really, really get involved here. We look forward to seeing what you're able to come with and we're happy to help you along the way. Can't wait to see everybody at eat. Denver. Take care.
