00:00:00.440 - 00:00:24.750, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 30 March 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So for those of you who don't know, I actually am a co founder of ETH Hub. And each week we also put out a newsletter and a weekly podcast as well. So you can go to ethub dot substack.com here and kind of like view the, view the newsletter.
00:00:24.750 - 00:01:05.468, Speaker A: And what this will give you is basically a weekly recap on everything that happened within Ethereum. So maybe you don't have time to kind of like tune into the refuel every day or you just want like a recap at the end of the week because, you know, there's, there are some things that I won't talk about on the refuel that, that will make it into the newsletter. You know, basically gives, goes over the news, the project updates down here, some interesting tweets and then a bunch of like blog posts and podcasts and things like that and, you know, memes of the week and stuff like that as well. So, yeah, if you aren't subscribed to this yet, definitely go check it out and subscribe if you're interested in just, you know, I guess, like keeping up even more with a theorem than you already are. I mean, it is basically more than a full time job right now for more than one person. So. Yeah, definitely go check that out.
00:01:05.468 - 00:01:45.254, Speaker A: But I'll end my little shill there for now. So I think the biggest news of the last 24 hours, and we already knew this was coming, but essentially PayPal will be announcing kind of later today that I guess, yeah, later today. It's Tuesday for me today, but Tuesday for the US just started, so, but they're going to be allowing us consumers to use crypto to pay at millions of merchants globally. Here. Now, the cryptos that they're supporting, you know, initially are, you know, the, everyone's fan favorites, bitcoin, ether, bitcoin, cash and litecoin. And I say everyone's fan favorites, but really it's only bitcoin and ether. I don't know how many people actually want to spend or use these other kind of things here.
00:01:45.254 - 00:02:15.640, Speaker A: And it's funny, they have a picture of ripple in the, in the, in the, in the header here. But I mean, this is, this is quite fun, right? This is quite fun to see. The market seems to be reacting to this right now. You know, I was just looking at the charts before, and things seem to be moving on up on this news, which, I mean, off the back of the visa news yesterday as well, is pretty cool. But there is a major drawback here for. For people in the US and, you know, using their crypto as money. You know, as far as the tax law is concerned, if you kind of dispose of your cryptocurrency for anything.
00:02:15.640 - 00:02:43.754, Speaker A: So if you use it as money, if you dispose of it for another asset, or if you just dispose of it for fiat, that is a capital gains tax event. So essentially you have to pay capital gains tax on. I mean, well, you have to. It's a capital gains tax event. If you made money, you have to pay tax. If you lost money, you have to write off that, you know, on, um, I guess, like, on your tax filing, which is like, going to severely limit this, I think. I mean, I can't imagine people wanting to incur tax liabilities, you know, using their crypto to purchase things.
00:02:43.754 - 00:03:11.480, Speaker A: So I'm not sure kind of what the uptake is going to be here on this and how many people actually going to use it. You know, a lot of. I guess, like, crypto in general is not suited for payments. I guess, like, I mean, I do say ETH is money, but I never said ETH is good money. Obviously, the volatility of these things means that you don't essentially want to hold it as, like, money, but you do want to hold it for the potential upside. So a lot of people obviously have these assets. But what I'm more interested about is, I guess, PayPal adding support for stable coins.
00:03:11.480 - 00:03:42.958, Speaker A: That's like the logical next step here because obviously a lot of people want to use kind of USDC. You know, if they. I mean, I think that would support USDC to start mean, maybe they'll support die. I don't think that they'll support die off right off the bat because of its decentralized and kind of opaque nature. But USDC definitely, and other kind of, like, US domiciled stable coins, like GUSD and stuff like that, I could see them supporting that, and it makes a lot more sense for them to do that. I don't know if the tax law is going to change in the US here, when it's going to change. Obviously, it's a very, like, silly law.
00:03:42.958 - 00:04:13.444, Speaker A: I think in Australia we don't have this. If you actually do use your asset as kind of money, I don't think it incurs the tax taxable event, which is pretty positive. I don't know what it's like for the rest of the world. But, yeah, the US seems very restrictive here, so we'll have to kind of keep tabs on that, see how it goes. But while that kind of, I guess, like, tax law is in place, I just don't see much uptick here unless people just aren't aware of it and, you know, they just use it as money. And then, you know, at the end of the tax year, they basically get stung with this bill or, you know, they didn't even know they. They owed sort of thing when they're doing their taxes.
00:04:13.444 - 00:04:31.594, Speaker A: So we'll see. But overall, bullish news, I guess just another company adopting, I guess, like, not just a theory ever, just crypto in general. Like another traditional finance company. Right. We've seen, like, you know, obviously visa and there's, like, a bunch of others, you know, people. Companies putting bts on their balance sheets. Companies putting ETH on their balance sheets.
00:04:31.594 - 00:04:52.326, Speaker A: You know, technically, PayPal and visa have ETH on their balance sheet now. Right. If we're going on technicalities, obviously they haven't bought it as part of it, kind of like treasury, but, you know, it's still going to be on there. So that, that was pretty cool to see as well. So, yeah, big news. Markets are acting positively. Kind of feels like there's a lot of positive news is coming out of the last few days that the market seems to really love.
00:04:52.326 - 00:05:20.268, Speaker A: So, you know, and I guess, like, the macro environment, still quite stale in terms of, like, the stock market and things like that. But we'll see how it goes. I, you know, I remain bullish, of course. You know, maybe we'll see a new ETH all time high sooner rather than later, hopefully. But, yeah, obviously, like, we're all going to be keeping tabs on that. I reckon each and every one of you watching or listening right now is the same as me. We check the price of ETH, you know, at least, you know, at the very least once a day, if not, like, you know, tens of times a day.
00:05:20.268 - 00:05:50.560, Speaker A: Right. Just, you know, I mean, I have the chart up all the time just watching what the price is doing. Don't trade on it. But obviously, we are all just addicted to watching those kind of, you know, price movements, I guess. So some big news from Dharma today. So with the Dharma app, you can now cheaply deposit up to $25,000 of fees it a week into supported apps, Aave, compound, yearn and Uniswap directly from your bank account instantly. And this is available to, I guess, like us users.
00:05:50.560 - 00:06:18.894, Speaker A: I don't know if it's available to people outside the US, but definitely within the US here. This is crazy. I mean, this is skipping, I guess, like all of the onboarding and going directly into DeFi. So normally when you want to go into DeFi, you have to go through, like from fiat. You basically have to go through either very expensive kind of onboarding from. From various different, I guess, like wallets out there or like services out there. Or you have to go through a centralized exchange, like Coinbase, for example.
00:06:18.894 - 00:06:47.190, Speaker A: Deposit, maybe buy some stable coins, buy some ETH, whatever you want to do. I mean, you have to. If you don't have any ETH, you have to buy ETH to pay the gas fees. But then, you know, you go and you withdraw it to your wallet from the exchange. You know, you wait for that to process, then you can go into deFi. Now, what Dharma is kind of promising here is that, yeah, you'll be able to deposit $25,000 per week instantly from your bank account into these supported apps here, which is, you know, quite crazy. I mean, the integration that I actually think is, is probably the.
00:06:47.190 - 00:07:37.150, Speaker A: The, I guess, most exciting here is going straight into yearn vaults, right? Because, you know, yearn vaults obviously are very, very optimized for stablecoin farming and stable coin yield farming. So imagine being able to put, you know, I mean, obviously most people aren't going to put $25,000 a week into this kind of thing, but imagine being able to put, you know, just a maybe, you know, two, $300 of your, your kind of paycheck in each week. And that's like your savings account. So instead of your savings account being in, I guess, like just a normal bank account that's paying you basically nothing in interest, you can basically deposit it instantly into a yearn vault using the Dharma app. So I think that was the most exciting feature release here. Obviously, there's others like compound and uniswap and what was the other one? Aave as well. But I mean, Aave compounds aren't going to pay you very much on your stable coins.
00:07:37.150 - 00:08:01.022, Speaker A: You know, just your vanilla stable coins. They're not for that. But, you know, and then going into uniswap, I guess, like, you know, depositing stable coins in the uniswap, you could become an LP. That's still very risky. So that's why I kind of think that that yearn is the best use case here. Yield farming in general, like, you know, savings accounts on kind of defi in general are the best use case of these fiat onboarding kind of tools here. So yeah, really cool to see this from Dharma.
00:08:01.022 - 00:08:38.812, Speaker A: I'm sure they're not done here. I'm sure they're going to be adding more DeFi apps here. They're going to basically be your home for like DeFi within their, in their mobile app here. And if you haven't checked it out yet, definitely go, I guess like check it out, you know, download it if on your phone and things like that. And one other thing that they kind of mentioned here was their Dharma OS, which is an open SDK. Now, what SDK stands for, it's basically stands for software development kit, which basically means that devs can kind of use this to basically connect any Ethereum protocol action to Dharma on their on and off ramp as well. So, you know, they're describing it as if Coinbase had a stripe like API and an App Store built into it.
00:08:38.812 - 00:09:14.454, Speaker A: So it's basically invite only right now, still in Alpha. But this is really, really cool. I mean, you know, the Coinbase, I think, is going to do this as well. I mean, if they don't, they'll be left behind here or maybe they'll just acquire Dhamma or something like that. But I mean, I've had this kind of thesis for a while that, you know, plenty of these kind of like, I'm not gonna, I don't, I'm not calling dumb essentialized, but plenty of these kind of like centralized solutions like Coinbase and, and things like that are gonna build interfaces and build on ramps into defi from the old world and they're gonna capture a lot of market share. I do think that, I mean, dumb has been around for a while. They've pivoted a few times.
00:09:14.454 - 00:09:44.228, Speaker A: But I do think this is an important area to be in because this is giving users kind of like guess exactly what they want. And at the end of the day, you know, a lot of new users simply just want, I guess, like yield on their stable coins. You know, not everyone wants to have a hundred percent of their net worth in ETH. I mean, not everyone's me. I know I don't have 100% of my network in 8th, but, you know, not everyone wants to have a large chunk of it in ETH there or in any kind of like volatile asset. So, you know, and people like to do a split. Maybe you're like 20% stable coins, 80% volatile crypto.
00:09:44.228 - 00:10:35.124, Speaker A: Like, even if you're in the crypto ecosystem and those stable coins, you don't want just sitting in your wallet, right? You want them kind of like yield farming. And then, you know, maybe if you've got kind of like dollars in your bank account, definitely don't want that sitting there earning nothing and kind of just like, I guess, being stuck in the old system, you want, you know, unless you need it for something, some kind of purchase, whatever, you know, you want it earning some yield. So, yeah, really, really cool release from dummy here today. Go check it out if you haven't already. So, interesting tweet from eric here today. So he basically said, this time next year, ethereum will have proof of stake finalizing the chain, aka the ETH one to ETH two merger fee burn with AIP 1559, approximately net zero issuance with fee burn coupled with proof of stake issuance and full L2 scalability. And then he goes on to say, have you adjusted your portfolio accordingly? Now, I hope.
00:10:35.124 - 00:11:09.532, Speaker A: I mean, I know I have. I know, you know, I'm still majority kind of ETH here, but the, this goes back to what I was saying yesterday about kind of like, you know, imagine ETH two years ago and then imagine ETH two years from, from now sort of thing. And I think this is very important because this is not two years from now. This is like, this time next year. So basically, March, I guess, what, 30th of next year, right? Or March 29 of next year, whatever. You know, I, I don't know about proof of stake finalizing the chain as, like, a given because the merger could get delayed for whatever reason. But I do think that, you know, there's a high chance it goes live in q one of next year.
00:11:09.532 - 00:11:30.796, Speaker A: So we could have the merger done. Obviously, 1559 is going to be live in July with the merger. And with fee burn, we could have net zero issuance due to burning more fees than is. Sorry. More Ethan is being issued each year. And full L2 scalability, I mean, I see that happening. Like, I mean, over the next few months, I think people are underestimating how much L2 stuff's coming over the next few months.
00:11:30.796 - 00:12:09.742, Speaker A: You know, I know optimism got delayed to July and all that sort of stuff, but I mean, as I've said many times on the refuel and on Twitter and on my newsletter, you know, optimism is not the only layer to scaling solution. There are so many more out there. And I, I know I sound like I'm beating a dead horse at this point, but, but kind of like, definitely, I guess, like, good to keep that in mind. You know, over the, the coming months, plenty of stuff going live. So full L2, scalability by this time next year is not that far fetched. Now, if you imagine all of this stuff basically happening by this time next year, what, what do you imagine eats price gonna be if we're still in, you know, a general kind of bull market, general uptrend. We haven't gone into, like, one of the.
00:12:09.742 - 00:13:00.130, Speaker A: The brutal crypto bear markets, which could very, very kind of like, there's a very real possibility that that can happen because, essentially, doesn't matter how much good news happens during a bear market, the market just doesn't care. Right. It definitely will not kind of, like, price that in until later. So, essentially, if we're still in a bull trend and if all this stuff plays out, which I think it will, then, I mean, I can't see its price being, you know, anything but, like, pretty high from where it is now. Not, not investment advice, but, you know, in general. And I think that's why Eric kind of says, here, have you adjusted your portfolio accordingly? Because, you know, there's a lot of people that I know that, you know, maybe not you guys, like watching and listening, but there's a lot of people that I kind of know that don't have very much ETH exposure because they just, like, think that ETH is just gonna be a stable coin forever and doesn't do anything well. I mean, ETH is known as the teleport coin for a reason.
00:13:00.130 - 00:13:19.854, Speaker A: I mean, it's not. That's not something that you really see many people say, but I guess it's something that I kind of say a lot. ETH will do, like, sideways movement for a while. You know, that's fine, but then it'll catch everyone off guard and just, like, double in a couple of weeks. Right. We saw that play out when ETH went from, like, $700 to $1,400 in, like, a couple weeks. We've seen that play out, you know, plenty of times in the past.
00:13:19.854 - 00:13:44.510, Speaker A: ETH is not something that, you know, is. Will just continuously go up, like, every day. Right. And there's kind of nothing like that. You know, I think people kind of, like, look at ETH and then look at all these other assets going up all the time and think to themselves, why isn't it going up? Well, I mean, you're comparing one asset to, like, many different assets, right? And not even, like, bitcoin goes up all the time either. Right. There are periods of time where bitcoin and ETH are just sideways for pretty much most of the time.
00:13:44.510 - 00:14:13.096, Speaker A: It's just sideways movement and then you have like, this kind of explosion up for one reason or another. So I think that's going to play out for sure. And, you know, I think a lot of people are going to be caught off guard by that. But, yeah, good, good tweet from Eric here and basically speaks to, I guess, what I was saying yesterday about all this. So sushi swap. Put out a q one update just before what this goes through is basically everything they achieved during Q one. I mean, I'm really loving these kind of avatars that were, that was created for the Sushiswap team here.
00:14:13.096 - 00:14:30.210, Speaker A: And there's actually a better view of them kind of down here. It's really cool. I mean, this is something different in the ecosystem where you have, you know, a bunch of people basically had character. Character caricatures. I can't even say that word made out of them. And, you know, some of them are anonymous. Some of them kind of aren't.
00:14:30.210 - 00:14:51.142, Speaker A: You know, Joseph DeLong here holding the kind of like salmon here. He's not anonymous. Right. But, you know, a lot of these kind of people are here. So, you know, I think that was a really cool way to kind of, I guess, keep their anonymity but also give them kind of character as well. Well, but yeah, outside of that, I guess the major updates included team expansion. So they added, like, all these people during Q one.
00:14:51.142 - 00:15:01.574, Speaker A: So that's a huge amount of people, I think. And as I said, most of them are a non. Right. They've got like an on profiles and things like that. They bought the sushi.com domain. You might have seen that.
00:15:01.574 - 00:15:49.588, Speaker A: Or at least, I guess, future fund, one of, I guess, like the funds that are a big kind of, um, investor in sushi bought, bought that domain for them. Uh, they had their contracts formally verified. They obviously did a bunch of multi chain deployment, including ethereum, kind of like, I guess, side chains that are popular, like Xdai and Polygon and then a bunch of other EVM compatible chains. They, as I discussed yesterday, they released bento box and Cashy, and they had a bunch of, like, governance proposals go live and kind of like the on Zen program was, was reworked. And I guess they're doing like an airdrop right now for, you know, for people. So if you haven't checked this out yet and I guess you've been participating in sushi governance, you'll get an airdrop here. Let's, let's see, 100 sushi for each eligible foreign participant and 50 sushi for each sushi hoodie NFT holder.
00:15:49.588 - 00:16:00.940, Speaker A: These hoodies. I mean, I saw them the other day. There's only a hundred of them. And it released while I was sleeping because, of course it did, right? Everything happens while I'm sleeping. And I missed it. You know, I don't even care about the sushi airdrop. I just wanted the hoodie because it looked so cool.
00:16:00.940 - 00:16:14.688, Speaker A: Um, but, yeah, unfortunately, I didn't get it. I still have my yam pants. I bought some yam pants a while ago, so maybe I'll get an a yam airdrop one day from there. But anyway, pretty, pretty healthy update here from sushiswap. They're doing a lot. They're innovating a lot. Right? It evolved.
00:16:14.688 - 00:16:34.544, Speaker A: I mean, I was. I don't know if people followed kind of like what I was kind of. I guess my opinion of sushiswap back when it first came out, I actually kind of hated it at the start. I thought it was, like, very tasteless. But it's kind of evolved into a much better project now. It is evolved into a project that is. Is differentiating itself from sushiswap.
00:16:34.544 - 00:16:57.274, Speaker A: It's innovating, it's building different things. It's not relying on, I guess, like, just copying everything uniswap is doing. And that's kind of why I came around to it and why I hold sushi tokens now as well. But obviously, you know, I still hold uni tokens. I still love uniswap. But I think they're two very different projects now. So I think there's still a little bit of animosity between the teams, maybe because of that.
00:16:57.274 - 00:17:30.822, Speaker A: But I think, you know, that animosity. Animosity should be directed towards, you know, the. I guess, like the sushi chef, the original kind of like Chef know me. They kind of did, did all this. The new crop of people working on this, you know, and the people that have worked on it since those days have just changed the kind of narrative here, I think, and definitely should be given, you know, the credit where it's due here. So Sigma prime released a new edition of their lighthouse ETH two client. If you run their ETH two client, definitely recommend going and upgrading to this, you know, you can find that on GitHub, of course.
00:17:30.822 - 00:17:49.718, Speaker A: Course. You know, I think Lighthouse and I mean, prism are the two top clients. So I'm sure some of you are running lighthouse here. I love these names. Shall I shoot my pants? I don't know, man. Like, these. These release names are funny, but, yeah, anyway, you know, what I actually really love about Sigma prime is that they're an Aussie based team up in Sydney.
00:17:49.718 - 00:18:23.718, Speaker A: I just love the fact that we have Australian representation within ETH two and also within a lot of defi these days. I mean, if you kind of, like, look at the landscape in Defi, there's so many australian based projects like M stable, which obviously, you know, a lot of, you know, I'm an investor and advisor to. There's Maple finance, there's thought chain, there's synthetix, there's, I mean, there's a new one called handle finance as well that just raised the seed round. There's plenty of these kind of projects out there that are Australia based. Australian based. And it's quite cool because we're, you know, we're an island, right? We don't have a big population. We have like, 25 million people.
00:18:23.718 - 00:19:11.516, Speaker A: We're not really a tech hub, right. In general, we're definitely a finance hub in some respects, but I think just the fact we definitely love our gambling, too. So I think that might play a part into it. But I've always kind of been wondering, why are a lot of Australians kind of, like, I guess, like, attracted to this ecosystem? And I think it's just like a confluence of things, right? We definitely have the, I guess, like, background of loving to speculate on things right, through gambling, but we also have the grit of wanting to kind of, like, get our name out there, right, and prove that, you know, we aren't just like some. Some people stuck in an island doing nothing, right. Because, like, Australia, for those who don't know, is typically known as, like, a mining kind of country where we expensively make all of our money through exporting. Kind of like our mining output and services within Australia.
00:19:11.516 - 00:19:33.544, Speaker A: Like, real estate's huge here, but, you know, we're not really known for our tech and things like that. So it's great to see that we're making a name for ourselves here. And I'm very lucky to be a part of that cohort, right. I still kind of live, live down here in Australia as well. So, yeah, really cool to see this. A little bit of a tangent there, but definitely go upgrade your. Your node or your client here if you run the lighthouse ETH two client.
00:19:33.544 - 00:20:22.200, Speaker A: So Eric put out another interesting tweet here. So what was funny is that May 16, 2020, Eric put out this tweet where visa actually a patent out there to digitize dollars, which showed that they planned to use Ethereum. So Ethereum was referenced here and everything, like, that. And, you know, not even a year later, maybe nine months later or ten months later, we have, obviously, visa supporting Ethereum. So you can see how, I guess, like, I, you know, this is fast for a big corporation, but it's still slow, right? If something in, I guess, like, Ethereum took ten months to be released from, I guess, like, when it was first patented, it would be considered a failure unless it was, like, a massive release. Like, I think Uniswap has been probably ten months in the making, probably more than that. But Uniswap is a massive endeavor, right? And same with ETH two and stuff like that.
00:20:22.200 - 00:20:51.976, Speaker A: I'm talking about, like, you know, I guess, features for, I guess, like, you know, I guess upgrades to different protocols and stuff like that. Like, ten months is an eternity in crypto. But on the flip side, what visa has done, I'm sure, took them a long time, because they've got such a large organization. They had to make sure everything was right. They had to get sign off from the right parties, you know, they had to go through the whole press kind of thing and make sure everything was fine. So, you know, I think that's actually a pretty quick turnaround. Um, and, you know, I mean, as chain Linkard says here, it, you know, pretty quick turnaround, and he's impressed.
00:20:51.976 - 00:21:10.962, Speaker A: I mean, yeah, I'm impressed as well by this. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that they actually kind of, you know, went somewhere with this. It didn't just, like, fall into. I guess the visa's R and D department never got touched again. So, yeah, really, really cool to see this. So diversify. Put out an awesome ethereum layer to ecosystem map here.
00:21:10.962 - 00:21:33.192, Speaker A: Now, as I've said to you guys, optimism isn't the only game in town. Look at this. You know, if we're just talking about infrastructure, look at the top left. Look how many L2 projects are building. Kind of like, out there already or coming, coming soon, right? Starkware building a bunch of, you know, I mean, I'm not going to go through all of them, but I'll go. I'll go through the infrastructure. You know, Starkware is obviously building a lot there.
00:21:33.192 - 00:21:52.640, Speaker A: They've got, like, dy DX out there on Alpha. Immutable X is launching soon. They're powering diversify. So you know that they've already got stuff out live there already. Hermes network went live on Mainnet last week. Aztec, with their L2 privacy staff, went live with v two a couple weeks ago. Loop rings been live for a while.
00:21:52.640 - 00:22:05.462, Speaker A: Of course, ZK sync is live on on Mainnet has been used within gitcoin loom. I'm not sure what's happening with loom these days. They were pretty big back in the day. Some of you may remember loom. I don't. I think it's kind of like maybe a dead project at this stage. I'm not sure.
00:22:05.462 - 00:22:23.202, Speaker A: Don't, don't quote me on that. I haven't kept up with it. Obviously we have optimism there, you know, in private mainnet. So still live, just, you know, obviously public mainnet was delayed. Arbitrum has their mainnet release candidate on the Kovan testnet. They're going to be releasing any day now. Zero X Habitat is a new project that I haven't looked into too deeply.
00:22:23.202 - 00:22:50.258, Speaker A: Definitely making moves. Polygon right now is working on their L2 solutions, but they have I guess like their plasma chain live seller network, also doing state channels. Connect is doing bridges between the different L2s and cross chain things. OMG network is obviously live, doing a bit of USD transfers there, fuel, fuel labs. I don't know if they're live just yet. I haven't heard much from them lately. And this last logo here, I don't actually know what it is.
00:22:50.258 - 00:23:16.030, Speaker A: And, you know, for me not to know what something is, that's surprising. And I'm glad because it means there's much more than, you know. I guess I thought there was, but yeah, that's really cool. On the infrastructure side, not obviously. As you can see, there's a lot of, I guess, you know, double ups here. But you know, the reason why loop ring, I guess, is in the infrastructure side and the swap side and the exchange side is because they fall into all that categories. Looping built their own zk roll up, they built their own amm.
00:23:16.030 - 00:23:47.290, Speaker A: So that's why they're in the swap side here. They built their own order book exchange, that's why they're in exchanges. And they also built their own payments layer, that's why they're in payments and transfers. And they also built their own wallet. That's why they're in the wallet section. So if we take all that into account, it's fine that there's kind of doubling up here, but I think just focusing on the infrastructure side of things, you can see how many teams there are and this is missing, missing things as well, I think, you know, and it's just going to keep growing from here. So really, really cool ecosystem map from diversify, which is building on L2 as well.
00:23:47.290 - 00:24:16.536, Speaker A: I mean, they have an exchange on there. They're doing a lot of good stuff. I've talked about them before, so definitely go check them out if you haven't yet. But yeah, this L2 ecosystem, I mean, Ethereum's L2 ecosystem is more mature, more far along than so many of the, I guess, like, quote unquote Ethereum killers and other Leo layer one ecosystems at this point. So, yeah, really, really cool to see that. I'm kind of glad to see that play out there. All right, last thing to talk about here was a, was a tweet that Jacob Franek put out here where he basically said, reminder.
00:24:16.536 - 00:24:42.020, Speaker A: Vitalik coined Ethereum as the Lego of crypto finance in 2014. The white paper calls out Defi as the first category of applications for Ethereum. But critics will tell you that Ethereum's narratives keep changing. No, you just caught up, sweetheart, which I thought was quite a funny way to end that tweet. But I wrote about this in the deli Gwei newsletter today. But I'll kind of, like, summarize it here. You may hear this all the time where people say, well, Ethereum's changed its narrative.
00:24:42.020 - 00:25:10.122, Speaker A: You know, it was a world computer. Now, no one calls it a world computer, or ETH was only meant to be used as gas on the network. You know, now it's more than gas, you know, blah, blah, blah. There's always this kind of kind of narratives that are, that are out there. And to Jacob's point, you know, there's a lot of narratives that took a while to kind of like take off. You know, Vitalik essentially coined Defi in 2014, or at least like, came up with it in 2014. And we didn't really see Defi kind of take off and find product market fit until like the second half of 2020.
00:25:10.122 - 00:25:50.400, Speaker A: Yes, it existed before that, but it really wasn't existing in any kind of large capacity. Now. It's like, you know, obviously any. And, you know, what everyone talks about and then, you know, obviously the white paper calling out defy as a category as well here, not, not saying deFi, but basically calling out the same thing, you know, just speaks to the fact that a theorems narrative in that respect hasn't changed. It just took a, you know, six years or so for the narrative to kind of come into, come into its own, which has nothing to do with the narrative changing. Now, if you want to talk about, I guess, like, eat as an asset, that narrative changing, it has, and I don't think that's a bad thing. Like, okay, let's discuss kind of like ETH for a second here.
00:25:50.400 - 00:26:41.166, Speaker A: So eats narrative has changed from just being used as gas on the network. The ethy asset and its monetary policy has changed from eh, we don't really know, to what's called minimum necessary issuance, right? Those two things are critical. If ETH just remained as gas on the network and it was used for nothing else, it wasn't used for staking, it wasn't used for trustless collateral and defi, it wasn't used as money, it wasn't used in the enft economy. If it wasn't used for any of that, its price would be worth basically nothing. You would only need it for gas, so you would buy it, dispose of it, you know, to do transactions on the network, blah blah, you know, you know, you can kind of, I guess the rest there. So you, that's, that's a very good thing. Now if Ethereum's monetary policy didn't change from eh, we don't really know, to minimum necessary issuance, which actually organically formed from the community, then the Ethereum kind of like network would still be paying five ETH per block to miners where it's paying two ETH per block now.
00:26:41.166 - 00:27:17.972, Speaker A: So that would be more than a kind of like double from where it is here. I think that would put issuance at like 10% a year, which is extremely high. So that would still be happening. ETH would not be viewed as, you know, I guess like a sound economic asset where it had a known monetary policy where people kind of like had certainty or at least relative certainty to kind of like what ETH was, I guess like doing and how ETH was going to be viewed in the future. So there's that as well. And then third, which I think is actually the most important thing, is that east monetary policy would be so prone to capture. It isn't even funny because if you think about it, if there is no precedent, right, if the monetary policy is eh, we don't really know, we'll figure it out later.
00:27:17.972 - 00:28:09.528, Speaker A: Then you can imagine a special interest group or some kind of group coming in and capturing it for themselves, right? And saying, well you know, ETH doesn't have a defined monetary policy and there's no kind of social contract here, let's just raise the block, the, you know, the, the issuance to like ten ETH per block. And that could have really happened, that could have been a reality that happened where the miners basically petitioned for this and then the ecosystem in general would be like, eh, well, you know, I mean that makes sense. Right, because there's no social contract here. There's no kind of, um, I guess, things saying that we don't raise the kind of limit now with minimum necessary issuance. We, we know we don't raise the block, block reward if it's not necessary to do so because we only issue as much as is necessary to secure the network. And right now we're overpaying, right? Not even if you take out the fees that we're paying miners. I still think we're overpaying for security with block rewards, given how high the ETH price is.
00:28:09.528 - 00:28:40.598, Speaker A: So I think that is critically important to remember as well. So those, those kind of three things there around ETH, I think, is just a very positive narrative change. And, you know, the critics of, I guess, Ethereum and saying that Ethereum's narratives keep changing, they're the same people who, I guess, like support bitcoin. And I mean, I see this from bitcoin maximalist a lot. And if you really look at bitcoin, its narrative has changed over time too. Like pre 2016. Bitcoin, I think you could say, was all about payments, right? It's all about using bitcoin as money.
00:28:40.598 - 00:29:04.938, Speaker A: Um, you know, essentially what became bitcoin cash. Now it's all about digital gold. And I'm not going to say what's, you know, what narrator is better and what's not. That's not the point of this. The point is that, like, for the longest time, it was regarded as money. It wasn't regarded as digital gold or a store of value. And, you know, on top of that, you know, in earlier, earlier on in bitcoin's life cycle, it was also regarded as just like a thing to use to kind of go on darknet markets and buy drugs.
00:29:04.938 - 00:29:59.822, Speaker A: Now, obviously that narrative has completely changed. And not many people say that anymore about bitcoin unless, you know, you're like totally unaware of what bitcoin's being used for. So from that perspective, you know, that, you know, it's kind of like hypocritical to say that Ethereum has changed its narratives when bitcoin has as well. And, you know, I actually think that, you know, bitcoin changing its narrative to what it has is good for bitcoin. You know, obviously it is because it's got over a trillion dollar market cap. It has, you know, all this attention and all this sort of stuff, if you're just counting like market cap as a signal here. But Ethereum changing its narrative from world computer to, I guess, like settlement layer, as I spoke about yesterday to, you know, defi being like, really hot and settling on Ethereum, Ethereum's monetary policy changing to be minimum necessary issuance and emerging organically from the community is incredibly powerful and is a major reason why I'm extremely comfortable holding ETH because I know that there is a, I guess, you know, social contract there that we're just not gonna raise issuance, we're not gonna do willy nilly stuff with the monetary policy.
00:29:59.822 - 00:30:25.672, Speaker A: You know, people will try to tell you that, you know, at the click of their fingers, vital. It can change the monetary policy of Ethan. That's not true at all. That's, that couldn't be further from the truth. And, you know, I mean, technically, 1559 is a monetary policy change, and it took two years to get that into the network. So anyone who tells you that it's easy to change the kind of Ethereum's monetary policy or anything got to do with, you know, ETH issuance and ETH paid to, I guess, like validators of the network is. Is kind of like lying to you, essentially.
00:30:25.672 - 00:30:56.416, Speaker A: So, yeah. Good tweet from, from Jacob here. I do like that. He kind of ended it with, no, you just caught up, sweetheart, because, yeah, this is, I guess, like what I was talking about the other day about information asymmetry and how so many people in this ecosystem are unaware that these things on Ethereum have not been things that have just formed recently. They were formed very early on, but just found kind of, I guess, like product mark, product market fit recently, which is very different to Ethereum changing its narrative to suit the product. Right. The product basically grew into Ethereum's narratives already.
00:30:56.416 - 00:31:11.104, Speaker A: So, yeah, really, really cool to look back on that here. All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
