00:00:03.200 - 00:01:19.228, Speaker A: So welcome back. And during this hour we will talk about Cardi Smirnoff absorbable. So as I mentioned before the break, this will be totally different from peripheral merc absorbers we discussed before, because first of all it's specific not just to one model, but to one instance of one model to face percolation of hexagonal lattice or side percolation on triangle lattice. So when you assign uniformly at random two colors, blue or yellow, two different faces of hexagonal lattice. And another thing that it's global, so it depends on the whole configuration as opposite to paraphernalia which can be defined locally. And so let me set it up a little bit. Our hero for this model would be what is called a conformal triangle.
00:01:19.228 - 00:02:25.674, Speaker A: What is it? It's a simply connected domain with three boundary points or prime ends. And you consider delta approximation of this domain. So this is approximation by hexagonal lattice, by subset of hexagonal lattice. And you select three vertices which are close to a and b and C correspondingly. So a bit later I will explain in what sense we should select them as the closest vertices as before, I mentioned already that this is non trivial. Which ones to choose? Sometimes things which are close in Euclidean metric are not the closest in the right conformal sense, so there will be some discussion about that. But for those of you who already know, this is the closest in Carthage dorimetric okay, so let me talk a little bit about history of the subservient.
00:02:25.674 - 00:03:43.544, Speaker A: So it starts with a physicist, John Cardia who observed the following. So he looked at a rectangle or maybe even the conform of rectangles. So again imagine we simply connected domain with four points, and as we will see a bit later in the course, every such conformal rectangle can be mapped to a real rectangle besides one l. And he found, using conformal fill theorem, a formula for probability of crossing this rectangle in difficult direction. So this is called hard crossing. So you should imagine that l is a big number, is a large number, and the probability of crossing between this side and this side is. Well, I will show you the formal, but before that let me show you that this probability, if you just look at the topology of the hexagonal lattice, it's one minus the probability that we have an easy yellow crossing.
00:03:43.544 - 00:04:56.594, Speaker A: So either at your configuration, at any given configuration, either you have a hard blue crossing from left to right, or you have an easy yellow crossing from top to bottom. And you can imagine that l is large. These things, the probability of having left or right crossing should be very, very small. And then, so the formula that he found was not for a finite configuration. He found exactly the limit that we would talk about, well, again, not rigorously, but he found the formula and the formula for the probability of crossing of delta approximation of this, think that delta goes to zero, but the formula is not asymptotic anymore. So it will be a precise formula for the limit when delta goes to zero, the probability of hard crossing of 112 rectangle. Okay, so what is the formula? Oh, it's very easy.
00:04:56.594 - 00:06:11.322, Speaker A: It just, well, let me not read this, but so this is just hypergyometric function of the order one, two. And here's, in case you don't remember, this is the formula for hypergymetric one two, hypergymetric function, very easy. So that's what he computed using, again, a totally non rigorous mechanics of methods of conformal field theory. And again, what he observed is that it's conformal invariant. So for him, again, the physicists knew that scaling limit of percolation, whatever it is, should be conformal invariant. So of course it's true for any conformal rectangle. Okay, so this is a nice formula.
00:06:11.322 - 00:07:30.494, Speaker A: Looks horrible, totally unclear how to prove it, but then it took probably the best modern analyst, Leonard Carlisson. And again, this name will appear a lot in this course too. So he noticed that actually, well, it's conformal invariant object. So we can map two different objects. So the correct place to map this conformal rectangle would not be rectangle, it would be actually equilateral triangle. So if you map this picture to equilateral triangle ABCD, where a, b and c are mapped to the vertices and d is mapped to somewhere on the side Ac, then the probability of this blue crossing is just cd of Ac. Because if you look carefully at Christopher Schwarz, this is actually exactly the formal for the conformal map to the triangle, to the collateral triangle.
00:07:30.494 - 00:08:51.483, Speaker A: So, okay, this is something which already begs a proof, right? So this is already a simple form and what stas Menov observed, that indeed, all you need to do is just complexify this absorbance. So Cardi Smirnov absorbal is discrete complexification of this function. So it's somehow, if you want, so you're looking at the conformal map from your rectangle, from your conformal rectangle to a triangle. Can we have maybe a nice discrete representation of the whole conformal map, not just of its boundary value here? That was his idea. So let me start with talking about this picture. So this is our conformal triangle. Again, this is our hero for today, conformal triangle or rather for the rest of today.
00:08:51.483 - 00:09:49.784, Speaker A: And you have a point z inside z, as usual would be on the medial light that does change. And the ha delta would be the probability of event ea delta. Event EA delta is the event that z is separated by a blue cross category. So I should use blue color here. So it's separated by blue cross cut from Bc together with a. So there is a cut from a Ab to AC which separates z from Bc. And the same thing is with Hb delta and Hc delta.
00:09:49.784 - 00:10:37.084, Speaker A: So HB delta is the probability that you are separated from ac. Hc delta is the probability that you are separated from above. Okay, okay, so here I actually lied to you a little bit before. So we define it on vertices, we define all these probabilities on vertices of hexagonal lattice. Now what we do, so this is standard. So here would be the first time I will prove that something really converges to conformal map. And I intend to.
00:10:37.084 - 00:12:09.974, Speaker A: Well, I still haven't said what it would converge to conformal map, but what we really need to say is, well, to set up convergence we really need a function not just defined on vertices, we need to define it on the whole domain, omega delta. And the way we do it, we just extend it affinely. So what we do on each edge, first we just extend it as linear function and then we extend it inside each hexagon, again any way we want, but so that it stands locally linear and agrees of course with boundary values. So this would be highly nonsmooth function, but at least precisely. Okay, so again, these are our objects probabilities that we separate from each side. Now if you look at this picture, so what are we talking about here? This is exactly the value of this ha at the point d, right? This is the probability that we separate d and a together from the side Bc. So that's why it is a complexification of Cardi subservient.
00:12:09.974 - 00:13:45.278, Speaker A: Okay, so, okay, so far this has nothing to do with hexagonal lattice. This object can be defined on any planar lattice. But unfortunately next theorem cannot be proven on any planar lattice. And well, let me first, before, let me just, before stating all this result, let me just state that this construct ha plus tau hb plus tau squared Hc, it converges to a conformal map of a conformal triangle, to equilateral triangle where a, b and c are mapped to one tau tau squared, and the sum converges to identically one. So this absorbable really describes discretization of this map. And actually now we know that there is a power rate of convergence. Okay, so this is what I will try to prove to you in the remaining time.
00:13:45.278 - 00:14:31.714, Speaker A: And probably I will not succeed. So I will. Something will spill off to the next week. So again, we are trying to show that h plus tau, hb plus tau squared, Hc really converges to the conformal map of the triangle. And the ideas are very similar to what we already saw before. There will be some sort of discrete cache, Riemann there will be, or Marrere theory. But here I will try to show you all the steps and well, follow the steps.
00:14:31.714 - 00:15:45.042, Speaker A: When you prove such results, it's very important to be able to say, okay, let's talk about any subsequential limit. And if we would be able to show that any subsequential limits of our objects when, say, you have some sequence delta n going to zero of this ha delta n plus tau delta n plus tau square h c delta n. If you would be able to say that this is the same for any choice of subsequential limits, then, well, by compactness, it will converge. So you need some sort of compactness, you need some sort of a priori estimate on models of continuity of these functions, because otherwise you cannot talk about subsequent limits at all. And again, even if you can, the fact that they are little wouldn't give you anything. So here there is a percolation statement, which I will not prove, but I think we had enough combinatorics today. But I will just state so this.
00:15:45.042 - 00:16:36.934, Speaker A: A priori uniform regularity of this h delta functions is given by ethereum of Rousseau, Symor and Welch. So we already saw Welsh when we talked about heimersly welsh decompositions. And here are Rousseau and same. And the result is the phone. So, as you will see, this is essentially the first glimpse that something should be that if there is a scaling limit, it should be conformally invariant. But it's a very weak thing. So suppose that you have a ring or an anomalous centered at the point z, inner radius r, outer radius to r.
00:16:36.934 - 00:17:45.274, Speaker A: So, and then r is much, much bigger than delta. Say r is bigger than 100 delta, which is probably then the probability that they exist blue crossing between these two sides. It cannot be arbitrary, close to zero and one. It's scale independent and it's bigger than some q and smaller than some y minus q. So this is all this is saying that when you rescale your analyst, the probability to cross it by percolation just stays away from zero and one. That's all. Okay, so this is a statement, and it's true again for very wide class of percolations, not just for hexagonal percolation.
00:17:45.274 - 00:18:58.476, Speaker A: So any self respecting percolation model would satisfy this. That's called RSW condition. Now why is it related to regularity of this h delta? Let's do a corollary. There exists some beta which could be model dependent such that the probability that they exist of blue crossing of an analysis centered at z in radius little r, outer radius capital r, it just bounded well up to a constant. I use this notation for up to a constant little r over b car to the power beta. So this is already a colder type of condition. So the probability that you cross a really wide analysis, it's actually proportional to the ratio to some power beta.
00:18:58.476 - 00:19:40.380, Speaker A: At least there is an upper body. And the proof is very easy to cross from this little r to this capital r. What you need to do, you need to cross about this number of analyte with ratio two. Right. So any crossing here, what? First cross this. Then there is a crossing here. So I'm not saying that you go immediately from here to here.
00:19:40.380 - 00:20:32.426, Speaker A: No, you just look at the last crossing here. Then there is another crossing here. Now, so if there is a crossing of annals from little r to capital r, there are crossings of each small anole. And we use the fact that it's percolation. So whatever happens in the smaller is totally independent from whatever happens in the analysis here. So the probability that all of this happens is actually product of this probabilities. So probabilities of this crossing is bounded by u from the previous lemma to the power of log two of r over r, which is ro to the beta, where beta is just a logo.
00:20:32.426 - 00:21:41.714, Speaker A: Fun over here. That's all. Okay, so this is a standard percolation argument. Again, you'll see some of it later, but just wanted to show you this in terms implies the stated a priori regularity of the function h. So this probability that you have a separation, so there exists some k which depends on the domain, and beta which doesn't such that this function is always beta Helder. So the probability of crossings, the probability that z is separated from some point and probability of w separated from the same point boundary, sorry, same boundary edge. They are the same.
00:21:41.714 - 00:22:41.330, Speaker A: Well, they are the same up to this. Okay, so here there will be an important observation in the proof. It will be important later. So we pick at nr so that for every z in the domain b of the r intersected most two sides. So that's where the domain comes in. So we pick capital r to be relatively small number, so that at no point a disk of radius r can intersect all three sides. It's again, this is domain dependent and let's take any z and w, the square root of z minus w less than r over can't.
00:22:41.330 - 00:23:39.140, Speaker A: I realize that I forgot to put on pointer thing. So now this will all stay here anyway. So it's known that of course to prove further estimate, all you need to do is to prove it for z and w, which are close enough. And so this condition is not restrictive. And now I want to look at what happens here when you have a separation of a and z together, but you don't have a separation of a and w. So this is the picture and that would be very important. So you have z, it is separated by a blue guy.
00:23:39.140 - 00:24:58.844, Speaker A: So this is our blue guy, but w is not separated by a blue guy. So what does it mean? It means, again, think about it, there is no crossing from a blue crossing from here to here. It means that there is a yellow crossing from w to Bc. So there is a path of yellow hexagons which goes to the side Bc to the side Bc, so to the side of the conformal triangle. Okay, so that the picture of this configuration of configuration where the eas happens and e of aw did not happen, I can realize that I need to correct this slightly. So this is ea delta of z minus ea delta. Now this is correct.
00:24:58.844 - 00:26:03.284, Speaker A: Okay, so now look at this picture, let's look at the analysis center of radius, outer radius r, but the inner radius is square root of z minus double. So this thing, you see that. Well this is somewhat misleading. Innocent can also intersect two sides. It's okay. In any case, you would have either blue crossing or yellow crossing of these annals. So in the case when this event occurred, a delta z minus a delta w, there is a blue or yellow crossing of the annals within radius, square root of z minus w and outer radius r.
00:26:03.284 - 00:27:36.216, Speaker A: And you know the probability of this cosine, it's bounded by this corollary of Rosseimer Welch by square root of z minus w over r to the power beta. And the same of course happens here. So it's just opposite thing, it's more difficult to draw here, but you can imagine that there will be some crossing here and then there will be some yellow crossing here. Same thing, there will be a crossing to the side which was not to view with which this circle of radius are intersect. And so we see that eventually we have this a priori hydration. And so this one over to the beautiful would contribute to this dhamma independent kia funica. Okay, so any questions here? Okay, so now this, of course this corollary is enough for us to just use our cell as colycerium.
00:27:36.216 - 00:28:16.794, Speaker A: And we have a pre compactness because, well, this all probabilities, everything is bounded by one. So boundedness is not a question. The only question which needed to be resolved was uniform continuity and heatwise. So we have uniform continuity. And from this we can improve things dramatically. So let us do it. Let us return to hexagonal lattice and let's look at an array and attach from x to y.
00:28:16.794 - 00:29:31.384, Speaker A: And for this array and attach, we define two things. First, it will be average value. This is just what you would expect. And discrete derivative h of y minus h of x. And now let us look at this pa delta three probability that y is separated from Bc, but x is not separate. And of course we can define it the same way for b and C, there is absolutely no difference. Now let us observe that this discrete derivative is just this probability minus probability of the opposite.
00:29:31.384 - 00:30:04.274, Speaker A: So h of Y minus h of X is the probability that Y is separated, but x is not minus probability of the opposite. So this is p of e minus p of minus. Okay, so just set up. And now I was already saying tau, tau. I realized that I forgot to define it. So tau is just cube root of unit e to the two PI over three. And now for an edge e.
00:30:04.274 - 00:30:40.824, Speaker A: Let us do some notations. Let's denote by tau E and tau squared of the edges from also going from x, which have, well, which are obtained by rotation by tau. It's a hexagonal lattice. And that's where things becoming very hexagonal lattice like. So this is the moment where things break down. For other lattices. You simply cannot do what is done here.
00:30:40.824 - 00:31:46.104, Speaker A: You can try to mimic it. But again, for hexagonal lattice, what will happen next is very precise. And this is the main point of this Mirnov's proof of eventually convergence of exploration process to sls six. The simple combinatorial identity that probability PC delta three, the probability that y is separated from c and x is not separated from c is the same as probability that x is separated from a. And this point here is not separated from a, is the same as the probability that this x is separated. Sorry. Rather this point is separated from b and the x is not separated from.
00:31:46.104 - 00:32:49.834, Speaker A: So these three probabilities, they're not approximately the same or anything. They're exactly the same. More than that. Well, you know, as you will see this is just combinatorics. And amazingly, this was known combinator. Well, it was not known to stas when he invented this, but people working on similar things. And the transform that I will describe in a moment was studied before, but somehow it took this combination of, I think, Kardlisson's formula for Cardi and Smirnov's realization that we need discretization of this more complex complexification to make the real use of it.
00:32:49.834 - 00:33:30.534, Speaker A: So here's let us describe what this thing is. So what is this event? E c delta of y minus e c delta of x. The event which, whose probability is PC delta. Let's look at it carefully. So you have your point, x. And you have your point y. Y is separated from side ab by a blue crosscut.
00:33:30.534 - 00:33:57.366, Speaker A: So here's your blue crosscut here. But x is not separated. So it means that there is a yellow path. Well, not too yellow, but it will disappear in a second. It will be yellow again, disappeared. Good. So this is the picture of this configuration.
00:33:57.366 - 00:35:04.134, Speaker A: There is a tripod, right? So blue blue yellow tripod. There can be more than one such tripod. So for this, what we do, we take the highest yellow crossing from a to ic, and then we take the rightmost yellow crossing from x to ab. So again, specifically speaking, this is again the crossing from, we take the highest crossing here and from Tau squared to ac, we have take the right moss crossing here. And we look at this picture. So this is the picture that we look at, and we say it's perkalis. So let's fix everything that happens there and let's flip all the colors here in this region.
00:35:04.134 - 00:35:54.844, Speaker A: So we fix all the colors up to here. We fix all the colors up to here. And then we flip all the colors here. So we pair any site configuration with. Let's see what we have, what will happen here. This blue crossing, of course, becomes yellow crossing. So we have a tripod again, but this is yellow blue tripod corresponding to eb delta for x plus tau square t minus e b delta of x.
00:35:54.844 - 00:36:36.060, Speaker A: So this is just again a tripod for slightly different thing. Well, and it shouldn't worry you that we used to have blue yellow tripod. Suddenly it's yellow blue. Who cares? The probabilities are the same. It's probability of yellow and blue is one half. So now we can recall every, just change colors of everything from blue to yellow. So there is just one to one correspondence between configurations corresponding to this and configurations corresponding to this.
00:36:36.060 - 00:37:41.584, Speaker A: So of course their probabilities are the same. So this is the part which is not yet done for any other model. There are some extensions and you can do something, and. But this precise calculation, or even our approximately precise calculation, remains. 20 years after the proof was invented, it's still unknown what to do, even for seemingly very related model on the same lights. When instead of randomly coloring faces, you color edges, for example, or you color vertices of hexagonal lattice, this is all wide open, the same symmetry seems to persist, but if you try to work out the details, doesn't work. Okay, so this was a fairly elementary computation.
00:37:41.584 - 00:38:38.034, Speaker A: And again, as I said, it turned out that it was known that you can do similar things. Well, not quite in this context. And now we want to form two functions, h, which is just some of our separation probabilities with coefficients, one tau tau squared, and yet another function, which is just some of them. So these are two functions, one domains, omega delta. One on delta tends to zero, omega delta from anterior approximates omega. So we can talk about the subsequential limit. Again, we have a priori pre compactness.
00:38:38.034 - 00:40:23.504, Speaker A: So we have, we can talk about subsequential limits of them over some sequences, delta standing to zero. And all we have to show is that, well, the subsequential limits are the same and that what we want, and the claim is that, and this is now the real Smirnov theory, is that h, as I mentioned, is a Zecharin formal map from omega. This, which maps a, b c to one tau tau squared, where again, this delta blackboard bolt, at least what I tried to show, it's the triangle one tau tau squared, and the sum tends to one identical. Yet for me, one of the surprising corollaries of this, well, forget about conforming variance, that's all great, but why would this tend to one? Right? So the probability for any given points that you separated from all three sides, when you sum them up, it tends to one kind of strange. I don't know of any elementary combinatorial proof of this. The only proof I know, again, just relies on complex analysis. Okay, so in what happens next, again, in when I discussed previous models, I talked about what we want these discrete observables to have.
00:40:23.504 - 00:41:50.380, Speaker A: And we had fundamentals which said, we just hinted at what should happen in the proof here, I will try to show you why this identity really implies, first, that the limiting map h and s, that they are conformal, sorry. That they are analytic like a normal sense that satisfy cache ribbon, and second, that we will see from boundary conditions that they should be what we want. So, just one observation here, that from this formula, it follows that ha delta is convergence convergent to two real part of h plus one over three. So this is exactly correspond formula if you look at the boundary. Now the proof. So again, let me first motivate what would happen next because there will be some computations next. Wrong idea of such proofs would be okay.
00:41:50.380 - 00:43:19.212, Speaker A: So you have a function which is well defined. You look at its derivative and you want to show that its derivative, it's convergent to what should converge, or at least that the derivative exists, for example, to the limit complex derivative. You can probably try to do that and you probably would fail. You need much, much more stringent a priority regularity estimates which are simply not existent. But one thing which happens before because of uniform continuity and a priority estimates is the fact that your integral over curves of this function over arcs, they converge, right? So if you have sequence of functions uniformly convergent to some other function, clearly the integrals converge. And if you can show that these integrals are zero or almost zero, then you would know that at least integrals for loops of the limiting function are zero. So you can use my reverse theorem and prove that the limiting function is indeed analytic.
00:43:19.212 - 00:44:12.072, Speaker A: That's all you need. And that's what, what happened here. So let us start with certain integration by parts. So, good thing about discrete analysis is that when you integrate over loops on the lattice, there is an elementary loop, that is the smallest loop. And all you have to show, to prove, to show that something has some integral over any loop is zero, is to prove that integral over any elementary loop is zero. Unfortunately, this is not the case here. Here the integrals of elementary loops, they not quite zero, but it will be.
00:44:12.072 - 00:45:08.974, Speaker A: Okay, so let's do this. First observation would be integration by parts. So we look at some phase of our hexagonal lattice. C of f would be its center and the vertices x naught x one x two x three x four x five. Well, this would be the versus of the space. And now I want to integrate our function h delta of x, or actually any function over this phase. Okay, now notice that this is continuous, honest to goodness integral of extended function that I will discuss in a moment.
00:45:08.974 - 00:45:43.674, Speaker A: So I'm not talking about any sort of discrete integrals like we had before. We extend our function to edges and to integrate, we also extend it inside. But for this computation it's not important. So we just integrated over the edges. And this integral is just sum of e. So remember that e is here. I think about it as a complex number.
00:45:43.674 - 00:46:43.954, Speaker A: The difference between these two edges multiplied by the average of the function over this, which was our notation. Yes. And so we do this sum, and let me spell it out. And as usual, five plus one is zero here in this notation. So we sum it up here, and then we write it down like this. So we add and subtract c of f, multiply it by this. So we write it as sum of xk plus one minus c of f, minus sum of x k minus c of f of the same things.
00:46:43.954 - 00:47:05.328, Speaker A: Okay, nothing changed. But now we group what happens with each x k minus c of f. Of course this happens. And then when solve is a minus sign. And then. Sorry, first it happens. This happens with the minus sign.
00:47:05.328 - 00:47:28.144, Speaker A: So this is. Did I do it correctly? Probably not. Right. So. So this is. Okay, so, okay, this is. Yeah, that's explains it.
00:47:28.144 - 00:48:07.604, Speaker A: So, plus minus, that's better. Now, you group together xk and xk plus one, and you get this. And then you notice what this is. X k plus x k plus one over two minus c of f. That's well up to a constant. And I will forget about constant here. This is just the dual edge, well, divided by two x k plus x k plus one minus co five.
00:48:07.604 - 00:49:20.854, Speaker A: This is just the dual edge going here. So this is the sum of dual edges multiplied by the derivative of h on the edge on the e k. Okay, so now let's see what this is. Remember that dk of H? Now let's talk about our specific h. H is ha plus tau hb plus tau square hc. And we also had this exciting high density that for each of them is just difference of e minus a. So when we combine it together, this would be sum over all this e k dual over two multiplied by pa of a k tau p b of a k tau squared PC of a k minus p a of a minus k minus tau pb of a minus k minus tau squared PC of a minus k.
00:49:20.854 - 00:50:13.114, Speaker A: So far it looks horrible, but this would lead to lots of exciting cancellations, which eventually would show that the integral over the curve depends only on its outside edges. And then we'll see that, since for Maria Ethereum, we only need to look at the smooth curves and their length is bounded, so the number of such things would not be too light. And then a priori estimates what happens. Okay, so let me finish with this here. Next time. Again, we'll finish proof of Smirnov theorem.
