00:00:00.250 - 00:01:06.180, Speaker A: Hi everyone. So I'm very lucky to be joined here by some of the smartest people in the crypto and the blockchain ecosystem, some of the folks that are actually getting something built and knocking up against the real world problems of taking our collective industry and ecosystem into the next stage of its evolution by providing entirely new capabilities such as derivatives, lending, insurance, kind of really building the first iterations of what is, in my opinion, going to be the next generation of smart contracts that will go on to define our industry. So I'm really excited to have them here with us and I'm just going to ask each of them in turn to describe what they work on, what they've undertaken to make in terms of smart contracts. And then we'll go on to some interesting questions that I know a lot of people will find quite interesting and informative. So I guess starting in the order that we have folks here, if we can just kind of start with Kane. Kane, if you could tell us a little bit about what you're working on.
00:01:06.950 - 00:01:43.150, Speaker B: Yeah, so I'm the founder of Synthetix. Synthetics is a synthetic issuance platform. So we basically allow people to have exposure to synthetic assets on Ethereum. So we've got a number of synthetic assets that are available already today. Commodities like gold and silver, equity indices like the Footsie. We've got a number of crypto assets and we essentially use the chainlink oracles to provide those price feeds to allow people to get access to price exposure to those synthetic assets.
00:01:43.970 - 00:01:49.680, Speaker A: Great, thank you. Alex, if you don't mind telling me about some of the great. Telling us some of the great work you're doing.
00:01:50.210 - 00:02:17.400, Speaker C: Sure. So I'm with Celsius Network. We invented this category of interest income. I know some people call it lending, but 90% of our 100,000 users are coming to us because we pay them interest every week. So we support 13 blockchains, 27 assets in total. So the rest of them are either tokens or other type of products. And we've been paying interest now for over two years.
00:02:17.400 - 00:03:02.914, Speaker C: So if you look at the kind of like what we call the value stack, bitcoin, the granddaddy is the store of value. King Tether is the basically form of payment. It's 80% of the traffic on Ethereum these days. And we think the third product that everybody needs, that is a utility that 7 billion people on the planet that need is interest income, because it's something that is disappearing from this planet. And the other 10% of our users basically also take loans against their assets. If you have bitcoin or Ethereum and you don't want to sell the coin, you can get a cheap loan from us and basically be able to use the cash and not sell the assets. So that's basically the utilities that we created.
00:03:02.914 - 00:03:19.206, Speaker C: And we have about 600 million in assets under management. Paid about $12 million in interest today to all of our users. That's more than all the DFI guys put together. And we think that that is how we bring the next 100 million people into crypto.
00:03:19.238 - 00:03:19.386, Speaker D: Right.
00:03:19.408 - 00:03:22.870, Speaker C: They're all going to come for something like interest income.
00:03:23.030 - 00:03:34.740, Speaker A: Great. Thank you, Alex. I mean, it's obviously a lot of success you've had in the approach you've taken. Hugh, if you don't mind telling us about all the exciting kind of next level stuff you're doing.
00:03:35.510 - 00:04:18.474, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. So I'm the founder of Nexus Mutual. So we're a people powered alternative to insurance running on Ethereum, a DeFi platform, and our visions are to become an alternative to a large insurance company. But we're starting within the crypto native sphere. And specifically our first product is covering solidity code against bugs. So to provide a claim payout if there's a hack, like the Dow hack or the parity multi sq wallet issues, or more recently, the BZXM hack. So we're there to provide a risk management tool for kind of a new economy that we think is being built on Ethereum.
00:04:18.474 - 00:04:24.640, Speaker D: And we think risk management and insurance is kind of a key part of that, as it is with any economy that gets built.
00:04:25.990 - 00:05:20.498, Speaker A: Great, thank you. Yeah, I think it's very exciting. And I think insurance has a lot of trust issues and programmatic insurance that looks for actual outcomes in something proven, as it can be proven in your case, is really the next generation of that whole industry. Likewise with what Kane is doing. I mean, derivatives are the world's biggest market, arguably, and putting them on chain and making them work properly in that environment is just probably one of the biggest opportunities out there. And in Alex's case, I'm always massively impressed by the returns people get on his platform. So now they can have a large amount of cryptocurrency, which gives them all kinds of guarantees about ownership, and they can also get a return that's superior to the vast majority of banks and even professional asset managers, which I feel like you guys really exemplify for me, that people that are kind of pioneering the next generation of what this technology can do.
00:05:20.498 - 00:05:46.330, Speaker A: And so I'm really excited to ask you some more questions. About how you're approaching that. So Alex, if you don't mind, I think there's some interesting new ideas that are around Celsius, around how you're planning to decentralize the project and how you're planning to approach the further decentralization of it, which I know we've discussed. And I think that's a fascinating question, which I'd be thrilled to hear your point of view of how you're approaching.
00:05:48.270 - 00:07:35.710, Speaker C: You know, decentralization is first, a lot of people don't even know what that is, so go to Wikipedia and read about it. But basically it's not a zero to one, right? It's not like a one step, it's a process. And we think that you almost need to have a bridge between centralized solution and decentralized solution because a lot of stops along the way, and especially in our community, there's a lot of kind of diehards who think, no, we're going to go to 100% decentralized solutions overnight and that's where the world needs to live in. But I think if we find ways to provide users the comfort that they used to in the centralized world and then slowly move them across, it's really the better path. That's the path that Celsius took versus the pure defi guys who just don't want anything to do with the old world. When you have one leg in decentralization, one leg in centralization, you're caught in that middle, right? Because you can't rely on the old data, you have to rely on new data from the blockchain and there's no real bridges between the blockchain and the TCP IP network, the Internet, right? So part of the opportunity and the problem is really, okay, who are your oracles, who are the sources of data that you can really have this machine to machine kind of communication and rely on them for delivery, right? I mean, before Celsius I ran an IoT company, right, notel wireless, with several hundred million dollars in revenues, 1500 employees. And I can tell you we had the huge problem there of oracles, right, of basically how do IoT devices, and there's billions of them, right, rely on this data? I think what you guys are doing in chain link, it's a brilliant idea.
00:07:35.710 - 00:08:33.710, Speaker C: Just, I can't give you enough credit for not just coming up with it, whatever, seven years ago, how long ago it was, but also sticking with it because I think you were way ahead of your time sticking with it and waiting for the industry to kind of catch up with the whole concept that you can deliver this independent source of truth and a whole industry can be built on top of that. Part of our move to transparency, just last sentence is all about kind of showing to all of our users that for just a simple example, when we price bitcoin or ethereum so they could buy it or exchange it or anything else that the source of data came from, not just multiple oracle, but also we acted in the best interests of our community. So it's transparency and the ability to prove that we weren't like an exchange that tried to manipulate the price or take advantage of you or anything like that. So a lot of opportunities there. And again, thanks for, we're really excited about our partnership with chain.
00:08:34.450 - 00:09:13.042, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you, alex. That's very high praise and I appreciate it. I'm glad that we can help provide this transparency and reliability to your product and to your users and create this environment where a system like yours that has so much value can become more decentralized at a lower cost, at a higher level of security. And I'm thrilled to hear that you think so highlighted. So thank you for your words of high praise. I really appreciate it. Now, I think there's definitely a lot of merit in what you said, but I think one of the people that have experienced already some of that themselves is knit at synthetics.
00:09:13.042 - 00:09:52.620, Speaker A: And I know he's had a lot of experience with oracles, and he's experimenting now with the combination of oracles with various other systems that provide scalability to his product at synthetics, and they're doing some really cutting edge stuff there. So, Kane, would you mind telling us how is synthetics evolving as a product that's achieved some kind of decentralization and then it plans to maybe expand in its capabilities or the role that oracles have had in that, or the role other systems plan to have in that. So I'd be thrilled to hear how synthetics has really been expanding in its feature set while being in this decentralized state, in this decentralized form.
00:09:53.310 - 00:10:31.398, Speaker B: Yeah, I think just to echo what Alex said, my view and the approach that we've taken is that adding decentralization to something that people want is what you need to do. Right. If you start with something that's fully decentralized, there's a lot of kind of rigidity to that and it can be hard to iterate and improve. And when you're building a product, you don't necessarily know what people are going to want. Right. And so the approach that we've taken was to start fairly centralized and to as quickly as possible decentralize the protocol. But there's other things that are obviously very critical, particularly for a derivatives trading platform.
00:10:31.398 - 00:11:17.320, Speaker B: You need speed, there's a requirement for speed, and as we all know, that's something that there's a pretty big trade off on Ethereum l one compared to a centralized platform. Right. It's probably okay if you're running a lending platform to kind of forego that potentially. But for a trading platform, for a decentralized exchange, it's pretty challenging. And so we're actually running a demo at the moment with the optimism team of the OVM, which is a layer two scaling solution. We're running that demo with our own centralized oracle right now, but obviously talking to people in chainlink about getting the chain link oracles migrated across there. And I think it's been a pretty eye opening experience for a lot of people to kind of see.
00:11:17.320 - 00:12:02.050, Speaker B: There's been a lot of promises about Ethereum scalability for a long time, right. And we haven't really seen kind of a demonstration, I guess that could show how much the improvement would be if you could add this scalability to the platform. And to see something like synthetix, which is definitely hindered by the latency on Ethereum and kind of unleashing that actual scalability and showing people in real time what it looks like has been pretty exciting. So we're super excited for that and obviously leaning into the scalability side of things as much as possible, because until we've got very low latency price updates and oracles, it's going to be challenging to really take on centralized exchanges, which is the ultimate.
00:12:03.990 - 00:12:57.810, Speaker A: I can, I can see what you're saying. I think we really need to achieve systems that both provide the feature parity and maintain the security of the smart contract and the blockchain and all these guarantees that people come to our space for. So I think that's really the challenge of how do you create a certain feature richness while also maintaining all of these properties of security and tamper proofness. And yeah, it's very exciting, the stuff that you're working on. And I think we have concrete plans to make sure that oracles are available in whatever environment you or other folks want to consume them in. And I think it's exciting that people are working on creating a number of solutions that allow people to basically incrementally decentralize and achieve the speed and the reliability capabilities that they want at the same time. So I think all of that is quite exciting.
00:12:57.810 - 00:13:22.570, Speaker A: Now, I think while people do that, there's all kinds of risks that they take on. And so I'd be thrilled to hear from Hewitt at Nexus Mutual about how he's seeing insurance playing a role in the growth of Defi and how he's approaching having that. What role do you see that performing in this exciting, fast evolving context?
00:13:23.630 - 00:14:20.782, Speaker D: Thanks. I think there's a whole lot of. One thing I've noticed is I believe there's a whole chunk of money sitting on the sidelines that wants to get involved in Defi, but is actually worried about the technical risk of various things or various risks of doing so. And it's perhaps more regular money, less kind of the crypto gambling mentality that a lot of we've got going around right now, which is great to get us all started, but if we're to kind of get to more mainstream stuff, we need to kind of manage the risks a bit better, and so hopefully we kind of can play a part in that and help out. At the moment, we cover the bugs in the solidity code, but there are a bunch of other risks out there. I guess the recent makerdao events on, I guess, black Thursday when the prices dropped dramatically, kind of highlights some of those things. At that point, the transaction fees on Ethereum went sky high.
00:14:20.782 - 00:15:01.786, Speaker D: So scalability, really bad side. What could happen? And Oracle were delayed in actually getting the results on chain, which ended up with a whole bunch of things happening and people lost some money. Our product at the time doesn't cover that stuff. It's just focused on solidity code, and that's not where we want to be. We want to have a much wider coverage because anytime you kind of have something outside the system, there's additional risks involved. And oracles are one of those things. Obviously, the oracle providers could fail or be malicious or anything like that.
00:15:01.786 - 00:15:34.200, Speaker D: And Chainlink's design is kind of really good at minimizing that type of stuff. But also the makerdao ones highlighted that even if the oracles are doing exactly what they have been designed to do, if the transaction fees spike, then they can't get the transaction through and then people can't read the data on. You know, there are other risks that people don't necessarily think about. And I guess just to get us to be more resilient and to get us to comfort levels that more regular people would expect, we need these kind of systems in place, and insurance is one part of.
00:15:35.050 - 00:17:13.830, Speaker A: Yeah, that's very exciting, and I think that's something that there'd be a lot of interest in, in terms of even related to Chainlink and providing certain guarantees to users around the reliability of those oracles in various manners, whether it's staking by the oracles, the security guarantees of the infrastructure they run, their performance history, or in this case, insurance. So I think it's really next generation stuff that you're working on, Hugh, is you're really making a form of cyber insurance that is three steps ahead of the current forms of cyber insurance because you're making it for an environment that can provide a lot of proof about what happened. And I think making insurance in that type of environment with a lot of proof is a very smart and useful and efficient thing to do, which I think can provide the types of guarantees that you mentioned. So, really impressed, my hats off to you. Really impressed that somebody's doing this in a thoughtful way, as thoughtful a way as you are now. I think some of the other questions, and we've kind of touched on them briefly in this conversation so far, but in line with the title of how oracles are going to relate to the growth of Defi, it might just also be useful to get everybody's measured opinion on how they think oracles will fit into the growth of DeFi and how they've seen that either impact their plans to grow in DeFi or how it's going to impact the growth of DeFi in general, like their availability or something like that. So I guess we can once again start with Alex and just get his feedback on how he sees the oracle mechanism playing a role in whether DefI will grow faster versus slower.
00:17:14.890 - 00:17:40.030, Speaker C: Yeah, so I'm old enough to have been there, the birth of the Internet, and was involved with voice IP, and when you kind of showed that capability, that's what we're using right now. They showed that to people, they were like, wow, this is amazing. And the conversion was like 100%. Right. It was like a no brainer. Right. But when you try to get people to switch their money from the traditional world into the DFI world, the bar is extremely high.
00:17:40.030 - 00:17:49.154, Speaker C: Right. And you have to do a lot of convincing to really, not just on the technical side like we talked about before, that everything's going to work, but also that you know what you're doing.
00:17:49.192 - 00:17:49.394, Speaker B: Right.
00:17:49.432 - 00:18:36.500, Speaker C: Because there's not enough players and not enough time has passed to show people that you or others in the Defi community know what they're doing. What we're seeing is we're seeing a lot of early adopters kind of jumping in. They're all excited about this, but we ran out of early adopters. And the question is, okay, where is that army of hundreds of millions of people coming in with all the money that is sitting in fiat? And to get there, you really need to solve the trust issue. And you can solve it two ways. One is you can spend 700 years, like the banks did, of building beautiful towers with marble columns and things like that, or you can be fully transparent and deliver something that no one has done before, like acting in the user's best interest. Right.
00:18:36.500 - 00:19:26.138, Speaker C: And to do these things, transparency and specifically proving to people, even if they're not technical, proving to them that every step of your process, every step of your execution is acting in their best interest. And it all starts with data. And we live in a world where some of the most successful companies in the world, these guys that told us, do no evil, remember Google? That was the phrase when they started. Or Facebook. I mean, the people who brought you fake friends and fake news are not bringing you a fake blockchain, right? So you can't rely on any of these people. They all just thinking about how do we extend the life of centralization? They're not thinking Defi, they're not thinking decentralization. So again, oracles are an extremely important piece of that puzzle, of that chain, and we have to deliver on all those pieces just to win the trust.
00:19:26.138 - 00:19:37.160, Speaker C: And if you deliver on all the pieces, maybe you're going to get 10% adoption. Right. So it's a very difficult task. It's not a simple task, and it's going to take us a while to get there.
00:19:39.370 - 00:20:42.794, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's definitely something that's going to take a lot of effort and smart people to put together systems that allow consumers to really see a guarantee that they don't see in other places. I agree that it's competing against these brands, and I think that's a very high bar to meet. And either something happens to those brands where those brands start to fail in their guarantees and that accelerates it, or like in your case, the returns, plus the ability to prove extreme reliability starts to make it a no brainer. So the risk hits near zero limits, but the returns are substantially higher and therefore people switch over. But that proof does need to come into existence to overcome the skyscrapers, right? The big brand that basically says, trust me, I have a skyscraper. And yeah, I think that's a very thoughtful, accurate picture of things. So on this same point, I guess, Kane, you've been working with oracles now for many years, actually.
00:20:42.794 - 00:21:06.980, Speaker A: You've dog fooded a lot of the things related to oracles in ways that other people haven't. And I'm sure you have points of view on how there being more oracles or less oracles, or better oracles or worse oracles, or how any of those dynamics would, in your opinion, impact either the growth of specifically the type of defi you're working on, or maybe through new markets or something, or the growth of defi in general.
00:21:07.670 - 00:21:08.178, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:21:08.264 - 00:21:34.554, Speaker B: So I think one thing that people maybe was really obvious a while ago, and I think a lot of the enthusiasts and early adopters that are in the ecosystem have kind of forgotten is that blockchains are disconnected from the rest of the world, right. They're a self contained system. They don't care or know about anything outside of themselves. Right. They're like a two year old, right. They just know about themselves and that's it. Right.
00:21:34.554 - 00:22:10.726, Speaker B: And if you want to take all of this activity that's happening outside of a blockchain and bring it in, you need to be able to tell the blockchain about what's happening, right. Or you don't. Or you can try and recreate that activity from scratch in there and hope that people will just make this huge leap across this chasm into this system. But the reality is that people need some handholding. They need assurances, they need to have confidence in it. And I think that when you can take information from the real world and put it into this self contained system to kind of connect it back, it can provide people some confidence. Right.
00:22:10.726 - 00:23:07.718, Speaker B: You can give them information that they're used to having in these external systems and bring them into the blockchain context and let them use that to provide new services or provide functionality that they don't have in a more transparent way. And so I think that for us, as you said, we've kind of been dealing with oracles for a long time. We want to have that system be as robust as it possibly can be. Right. And so we don't want a system that is specific to our needs. We want a system that's generalized, that's scalable and extensible, and we want to be able to consume that service rather than try to recreate it ourselves. And so I think there's kind of this fundamental question of do you take the real world information, do you bring it in, or do you try and recreate it inside this little closed ecosystem? And obviously, my view is in the short term, until we can really build up what's over here in this blockchain, context, we need to bring in the external information.
00:23:07.718 - 00:23:27.070, Speaker B: And so that's what Chainlink does for us, and that's what's allowed us to kind of scale up to having so many different assets, things like equities and commodities and obviously newer assets like Brent crude, for example, that we're working on bringing all of that across to this new ecosystem and letting people interact with it is kind of the goal.
00:23:28.050 - 00:24:41.602, Speaker A: Yeah, I think you made one point that really also resonates with me and many other people we talk to is that there's a certain level of complexity with building a decentralized infrastructure. And a lot of these teams are really, I wouldn't say limited, but every company, every technology company, even at medium to large sizes, is constrained in its technical resources. Right? And I think the way that I have always seen people successfully build high quality applications in the web world has been they focus on building an application and then they use infrastructure that other people built. They don't necessarily devote their limited technical resources to building infrastructure, because if you do that, what I've often seen is people end up, in many cases, if they don't graduate to some kind of infrastructure provider. In many cases it's ethereum, in many cases, it's some blockchain that provides one layer, one of infrastructure, and then another layer of infrastructure is oracles. But the attempt to both make an application and rebuild one, two, three, however many pieces of infrastructure is something that I've recurrently seen slow people down to the point where it's very difficult for them to be competitive, and often they realize it late. So I'm really thrilled to hear that you've been able to launch new markets.
00:24:41.602 - 00:25:29.110, Speaker A: And that's something that I think that's really the good marriage between good infrastructure and good teams that make high quality applications is those teams can now make as many great applications and as many features as they want because they have the right inputs, outputs, infrastructure to do that. So I'm really thrilled to hear that. Kane the other quick question is also how do oracles affect decentralized insurance? How do they enable that? How do they interact with that category of DeFi? And like I said, hugh is one of the few people actually making very tangible progress in making decentralized insurance a reality. Hugh, I'm sure we'd all be thrilled to hear how you see oracles either growing DeFi or applying directly to the growth of decentralized insurance. I think it's a very exciting topic.
00:25:29.530 - 00:26:29.858, Speaker D: Yeah, I guess two main points, like kind of echoing Kane that basically the blockchain world is kind of separated. And to build anything interesting, you generally have to take in some outside information. There are some things that don't, and you can do it with economic incentive games and bringing stuff in manually and all the rest of it. I guess the UnisOps is a reasonably good example there, but I think if you don't rely on oracles, then it's going to take us a lot longer to get there and bringing everything on kind of natively, if you want to describe it that way, is going to be a long, hard research road without many users for a very long time. And some of those problems may not even be solvable. I mean, an example there is like you could use Uniswap as a price oracle, but it's not robust enough to do much with it because we've seen that it's been attacked multiple times or manipulated to attack other systems. So it completely makes sense to choose a much more robust solution right now.
00:26:29.858 - 00:27:07.590, Speaker D: Maybe a native blockchain solution can work in the future for price feeds. I don't know. Theoretically I guess it could, but we might be a long way from that in terms of insurance. To do anything with insurance, you need some sort of information outside the chain to tell you what happened. Is there a claim payable or not? And so you need some way to bring it on. And you can do that via oracles or voting mechanics or various things, but oracles are going to be a key part of that with a whole bunch of different solutions. But if we're only looking at self referential stuff on the blockchain, we're not going to get very far very quickly.
00:27:07.590 - 00:27:37.550, Speaker D: So we need oracles and outside information sources on chain to use the benefits that we have got in terms of Defi, of automatically programming things in a trustless way so people can be confident that they know what's going to happen with their funds. So it's a key part of how we're building, and I see it as very critical to actually speeding up adoption and getting users on with meaningful.
00:27:39.410 - 00:28:48.750, Speaker A: I completely agree with you, Hugh. I think those are very astute points. And I particularly think that at this point there is some amount of price data generated in some kind of on chain environment, but it doesn't actually represent the real universe of what actual price is. And I think the reality is if you have any kind of oracle mechanism that doesn't provide market coverage, that doesn't properly cover all the places where price is represented, and doesn't cover all the places where price discovery could happen and where volume could shift, then you have a significant problem and actually a huge architectural risk. So I think at some point years from now, far into the future, there could be enough data generated on various chains and that data could be shuttled between chains in some meaningful way. But right now still and for years longer, I think the majority of data that people are going to want to actually rely on, that's going to represent the reality of a price or a claim or some kind of actual event is going to be delivered from these off chain systems. And the problem is, it's a chicken and egg problem.
00:28:48.750 - 00:29:36.766, Speaker A: If you try to build products only within a blockchain data context, you don't build very much. People say, oh, you can't build very much in that context. Nobody else tries, and you're stuck in a land of tokens, which is a limited place for this technology to continue living. Whereas if you build using external systems, then the entire world of digital contracts is available to you to properly create derivatives like Kane is doing, or all kinds of things with interest payments or even next generation insurance. I'm really, really thrilled and gratified to hear that the work on oracles and the role that you guys see it playing is important. I think these have been some really thoughtful points that you've made. Unfortunately, we don't have longer for this panel.
00:29:36.766 - 00:29:59.620, Speaker A: I feel like we could keep talking about this for another hour or two and none of us would be tired from discussing it. I know I'd be thrilled to talk again about this more, and I'm sure once we're out of the bubble, we all live it. Now we can meet up and discuss it more. But I really appreciate all the thoughtful insights you've had. Thank you. Thank you very much for joining us and it's been a great conversation. Thank you.
