00:00:00.240 - 00:00:23.790, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan. This is the 26 June 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone, but that is going to lead me into doing a little bit of housekeeping here on the refuel. Now, you guys know that I miss at least one episode a week, and I have been doing that for quite a while now, even before my break.
00:00:23.790 - 00:01:09.726, Speaker A: And you guys know that I took my break, or at least the main reason I took my break was because I was totally burnt out within the, with the crypto ecosystem generally, because I had just been in it for so long. I've been doing things so hardcore for so long that I needed a break there. Now, if you're in the Delaware Discord channel, you know what I'm about to talk about, because I leaked it yesterday. But for the first time ever, I'm changing the cadence of the daily Way refuel. I've been doing this since late 2020, I believe, or early 2021, and the cadence has usually been the same where I do five episodes a week on weekdays or I try to do five episodes a week on weekdays, but going forward, I am only going to be doing episodes on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. So it will be going down to three episodes per week. Now, I have not made this decision lightly.
00:01:09.726 - 00:01:42.530, Speaker A: It's probably been a long time coming, to be honest. And I think that if I don't do it, it's just going to lead to me burning out again and me having to take more extended breaks, which I'd rather not do. I'd rather be able to kind of keep up a regular cadence and have breaks in between. So, you know, having a break on Tuesday and Thursday from, from doing the show and just doing it on Monday, Wednesday and Friday instead. There. Now, I will say that there will be, will be exceptions where if there's a big news day on like a Tuesday or a Thursday, I will probably do an episode then. And there might be sometimes where I swap the days around, but I'm going to try and stick to three episodes a week here.
00:01:42.530 - 00:02:07.502, Speaker A: Now, of course, you guys know that I've recently restarted doing into the ether with Eric Connor. So I think that even though I'm going down to three episodes a week into the ether runs for like an hour, which is technically two refill episodes. So I'm still doing the same amount of content, I guess. And I like that cadence. I like, I like, doing that. So that's what I'm going to stick to going forward. So I think that this new schedule will start next week.
00:02:07.502 - 00:02:31.822, Speaker A: This week. I'll probably just do an episode tomorrow and miss Friday, I think. I think I'm gonna have to miss Friday this week. So I'll probably do one tomorrow, tomorrow being Thursday, and then Friday, I'll miss. And then next week, I'll start on my Monday, Wednesday, Friday cadence there. And I guess, like, I wanted to apologize as well to people out there who have the Daily gray refuel as their morning routine. There's going to be now two extra mornings a week, obviously, including the weekend where you won't have a refuel.
00:02:31.822 - 00:02:46.042, Speaker A: But I have to do this. I have to do this for my health, my mental health. I have been in this industry for so long, and it's. It's caught up with me. Guys like, you guys know this from when I took my break. It's caught up with me, and I really don't want to have to keep taking extended breaks. I don't want to.
00:02:46.042 - 00:03:09.890, Speaker A: I don't want to have to keep burning myself out. So I'd rather just kind of drop down to a three day a week cadence. There still probably 30 minutes episodes probably go over, depending on, you know, on the day and how much news there is out in the, in the ethersphere, as we call it there. But that's going to be it going forward. And, you know, who knows? Maybe I'll go back to five days a week eventually. If I feel like that, you know, the ecosystem needs that. I feel like I can do that.
00:03:09.890 - 00:03:37.118, Speaker A: But going forward, starting next week, there'll be episodes on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday only. And sometimes, I obviously will switch the days around. But if I do that, I'll let you guys know, as I always do, by announcing it in the daily way. Discord channel there. But anyway, enough housekeeping onto the news. So there was a tweet that was put out by Vanex, head of digital assets research today. Now, for those of you who don't know, van Neck is one of the tradfi institutions that has applied for an ETH ETF, and we'll be getting that approved soon.
00:03:37.118 - 00:04:09.526, Speaker A: And they said here, or Matthew, the head of digital asset research advant, said Vanex is going to waive the fee initially on the spot ETH ETF. So in an email to eTf.com, matthew here wrote that the firm aims to be a leader on crypto ETF fees, even if it means we lose money at the outset. And then their plan is to make it up on volume, in this case, decentralized finance volume. Now, you may be wondering, that's a bit weird. What does ETF's have to do with Defi? You know, these ETF's don't happen on chain. There's no on chain buying going on, really.
00:04:09.526 - 00:05:04.722, Speaker A: That's all that's going on is these ETF's are buying ETH from the open market, not through DeFi, usually through an exchange such as Coinbase. So what does this have to do with Defi? Well, Matthew, I guess, elaborated on this in a reply to someone asking this exact question, where he said, more on chain activity equals more eth gas spent equals eth price higher equals van eth bags go up, and there's not a guarantee this will happen, but that's the kind of thesis here. So essentially, the thesis is that even if they've only got a certain amount of Eth, and they kind of plateau there in terms of aum, like Eth denominated aum, if the eth price is going up, it's better for them, because when they do implement a fee, the fee is on the dollar amount, right? So if they have, like, a 0.2% fee, which seems to be the standard ETF fee, then that is obviously going to be worth more. If the us dollar value of their Aum goes up. It doesn't matter about the EtH denominated value. If, let's just say they have a million EtH in their ETF, if that's worth.
00:05:04.722 - 00:05:28.326, Speaker A: You know, I'm going to just do napkin math right now off the top of my head. If that. That's worth a billion dollars, it's worth more than that. But let's say it's worth a billion dollars, but then the ETH price doubles and the ETH Aum stays the same. Well, that's now worth $2 billion, and now it's 0.2% on $2 billion. So that's the kind of thesis here, essentially getting in as much Aum as you can at the start, and then hopefully, as you know, as things go on, ETH price goes up.
00:05:28.326 - 00:05:53.144, Speaker A: Obviously, in usdomination and these companies make more money. Now, of course, they're going to be doing everything they can in the background to get people into the ETF's. So it's going to be interesting to see how all of that plays out there. But it's an interesting strategy from Vaynek. I know the other ETF issuers have different strategies. I know bitwise is dedicating some percentage of their fees to protocol core devs or court or, sorry, protocol guild. The protocol guild.
00:05:53.144 - 00:06:15.782, Speaker A: I think that was bit wise, I believe. I know Vayneck was doing it, or one of them was doing it for the futures ETF's, but there are different kind of things happening here between where the fees are going, what the fees are going to look like, so on and so forth. But the fee wars have begun, really. It's the same with the BTC ETF's. There's. There's a fee war because you want to bring in as much a, um as possible, and then you can either kind of raise the fees later, or I. You will basically implement the fee.
00:06:15.782 - 00:06:33.134, Speaker A: So you'll do like a six month period where you don't have a fee, and then you'll implement like, a 0.2% fee. And the logic is, by that point, you'll have a lot of aum. And people knew that this was going to happen, and you've provided them such a great product and experience that they're just going to stay with you anyway, even though they're paying a 0.2% yearly fee on this year. And this is extremely lucrative. Guys.
00:06:33.134 - 00:06:57.288, Speaker A: Like, when you think about the numbers that these institutions are working with here and the fact that it's a yearly fee, like, okay, it'd be awesome if, like, eth on average goes up 50% a year or something. Like, nets out to 50% a year on average. That's great, because even if you're getting. Even if you're paying a 0.2% fee, it does. You're not going to feel that, right? You're not. You're not going to feel that because your ETH portfolio value has gone up by 50%.
00:06:57.288 - 00:07:20.916, Speaker A: But these companies are definitely going to feel that because for them, that that .2% is coming off of the dollar value. So if it goes up 50%, they're. They're just making so much more money off of this .2% here. So that's why these products are so popular. There's one of the reasons why they're so popular and why these institutions love selling them to people, because it's just like a very nice wrapper around assets and in a tax advantaged way as well.
00:07:20.916 - 00:07:48.616, Speaker A: So anyway, that's. That's it on that topic there. But I guess, like, generally with the ETF's, we haven't heard anything, I think, over the last day. But I guess, as I said yesterday or the day before, I should say, I'm expecting to hear some kind of stuff this week, but really, it'll probably launch next week if I had to put money on it, you know, July 2 seems like a good day to launch, and my prediction would be wrong. Then I said July 8, but I don't know. I just want them to launch at this point, Ethan. Right.
00:07:48.616 - 00:08:10.422, Speaker A: Like, it's just been so, so long. We've been waiting for this, and we got the approval, and now it's been over a month since it got approved, and it still hasn't launched, as was suspected at the time. It was suspected that it will take up to six weeks for these things to go live trading. If it goes live on July 2, that is six weeks from when they got approved. So pretty much bang on the money there in terms of predictions. Not myself, but other people out there who'd been predicting this stuff. But that's how I'm kind of looking at it right now.
00:08:10.422 - 00:08:44.230, Speaker A: But anyway, just wanted to discuss that a little bit there. Keep you guys updated on that. All right, so Peter from Geth has been working on a bunch of different things with, I guess, like, that relates to a couple of different things, like statelessness and client diversity. So you remember a few months ago, Peter penned a post that he think he thought that the. There was another approach to client diversity other than just getting people to switch off of Gethse to another client. And that other approach was enabling stateless verification between clients. So, essentially, the TL doctor of this, because it's quite a lengthy post.
00:08:44.230 - 00:09:05.924, Speaker A: There you go. Definitely go give this a read. But the TLDR is that you could essentially check your. The validity of what your. Of what you're kind of proposing, I guess, attesting to the blocks that you're attesting to or the validity of what you're verifying as a full node or as a validator. Well, I think this is actually applying more to full nodes. I'm still digesting this because it suddenly came out just before, and I've been reading through it.
00:09:05.924 - 00:09:27.384, Speaker A: But essentially, what you'd be doing is cross verifying what your full note is seeing statelessly with other full nodes. So you wouldn't need to run, say, geth and Nethermind. You could just do stateless verification with a nethermind client that someone else is running. At least that's my understanding of it. Or never mind know that someone else is running. And that way you have client diversity. Well, I mean, you don't.
00:09:27.384 - 00:10:23.690, Speaker A: Okay, technically, it's not client diversity, but that way. You have a diverse way of, of verifying the chain without having to run multiple clients with aim to check it against multiple clients. Because in the, I guess current paradigm you have to, if you want to have a backup here, you run Geth and then you run Nethermind as well, and then you cross reference these against each other, but you have to run full nodes for both. Whereas in this paradigm, what Peter's describing is a way to run just like a geth full node, but then check your full nodes validity against another full node statelessly. So not having to run that whole node, you can just check it against someone else's node and you can do that in a, in a stateless way where essentially you're not trusting that full node. It's still being verified by your own one, but you're able to cross check it, basically cross reference it, you know, check your work against someone else's work sort of thing here. It was a really interesting thing that Peter has come up with here, but as I said, like read through the post yourself, because I'm still digesting this on how this all works.
00:10:23.690 - 00:11:14.078, Speaker A: It is actually live today. It is implemented into Go Ethereum and functional. So if you want to play around with this, you can. Maybe it wouldn't be something that I would recommend playing around with on like a main implementation just yet, or a production implementation just yet, because it's new, but it is live out there for you to try out if you want to. And as I said, it's a different way of doing client diversity, but a very interesting way because I guess like the biggest thing for client diversity is that it's a bit of an overhead to get people to change from one client to another. So is there a way that we can make it so that it doesn't matter what client you picked, you can pick whatever client you want, but with this functionality in built into that client, you don't have to suffer from the penalties of running a super majority client. And the penalties have been discussed at length before in the community and also on the refuel, you know, those penalties of basically you suffering greatly if there is a.
00:11:14.078 - 00:11:50.488, Speaker A: If there is a bug and you're on the wrong, you're running the wrong client, running the bugged client. Or if the chain ends up finalizing on a bug chain that would affect everyone and that would obviously be really bad for everyone because it requires, would require social coordination in order to fix. So can we prevent this from happening even if there is a client on the network that has a super majority on either the consensus layer or execution layer side. And that is what Peter has been working on and it seems like he has been able to crack that nut. I mean, from, from reading through this, it all makes a lot of sense to me. And as I said, I'm still digesting it. But just on the first read that I read through before I was looking at, I'm like, this makes a lot of sense.
00:11:50.488 - 00:12:30.554, Speaker A: And, and this actually fits in with the wider Ethereum road map of being able to state of verified the chain statelessly or being able to run true like clients and being able to trust that you're not getting rugged, you're not being lied to, essentially. So yeah, very, very cool things out here. You can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so eat staking guides. There are so many of them out there, but hey, what's another one for you guys to check out? So this one comes from Samuel Chong, who updated his ETH home staking guide after the last version, which was done nine months ago. So there's a bunch of new content included in this, a bunch of updated stuff in this.
00:12:30.554 - 00:13:07.222, Speaker A: So essentially this incorporates DVT or distributed validator technology into home staking as well. But this is a really great guide, guys. I went through it myself. I mean, I haven't used it because I've already got all my stuff set up, so I don't have any need to use it right now. But if you're someone who wants to get started with home staking, you know, solo staking, whatever you want to call it, this is definitely a guide that you should check out, especially if you wanted to integrate DVT into your setup here. So this is pretty detailed. Like I, as I said, I went through it already and it gives you a lot of information on pretty much like everything got to do with not just home staking or solo staking, but also staking generally and also DVT.
00:13:07.222 - 00:13:40.642, Speaker A: So if you've at all been interested in that and you've wanted to get started, I think you should definitely check this guide out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But that's really all I wanted to say on it. I just wanted to give a shout out here. Huge shout out to Samuel Chong, who's otherwise known as Steak Osaurus on Twitter, for putting this guide together. We always could do with more guides for, for staking your ETH. I mean, obviously the easiest way to stake your ETH today is to just delegate it to Coinbase or binance or one of the lsts or LRT providers out there. But there are trade offs with that, right? With delegation comes very little, I guess, control over what happens with your ETH.
00:13:40.642 - 00:14:23.464, Speaker A: You're not running the software yourself, you're not running the validators, you're not running the infrastructure yourself. You're giving up some percentage of your rewards as a fee, and you've got really no control over what happens on the validator side or on the full node side. And you're not really, in my opinion, adding any more kind of security to the network. At this point, I think 8th has enough economic security at this point. I think anything more that's being added has severe diminishing returns, unless it's being staked with maybe new node operators. But like, for the most part, most of the eats stake is going into existing node operators. So the fact that it's already super expensive to attack Ethereum from an economic security standpoint, and adding more, it just has extreme diminishing returns in my opinion, means we don't really need to have much more eth stake.
00:14:23.464 - 00:15:08.936, Speaker A: But if that ETH is being staked with new fresh new solo stakers and fresh new home stakers who are running nodes themselves, running the validators themselves, that does add more security and decentralization to the network overall, as well as I guess like a bit more economic security too. I'm not saying that it means nothing, but there is a point of diminishing returns. And I think we passed it. I think we passed it a little while ago, guys, like there is what, 30%? Almost 30, I think over 30%, like of each stake. I always get these numbers mixed up in terms of like Total E staked versus what's staked in Lido and other providers here. I'm just looking this up my other screen here. So yeah, this 33 million ETH staked, which is worth many, many tens of billions of dollars, guys, the attack vector of attacking via economic security.
00:15:08.936 - 00:15:54.870, Speaker A: So essentially, I mean, how do I put this? Basically, if you wanted to attack via buying up enough ETH to get a majority of the chain or get 33% of the chain or 66% of the chain, it's basically impossible to do that at this point. Even if you're a nation state. Not only does it cost too much, it's also very hard to even source that amount of eTh. And then you also have to go through the entry queue anyway. So by the time you do that, the community would respond to it and you'd be forked out, or essentially it would be identified as an attack and something would be changed in order to prevent you from doing that. So the path of least resistance would actually be to go after the node operators themselves. Right? And so to get more note operators online is to make the chain more resilient, is to make the chain more secure, because it means you have to go after more and more node operators in order to get to those thresholds there.
00:15:54.870 - 00:16:30.080, Speaker A: So economic security is very real. It's not a meme, as some people believe, in the ecosystem, but there is a point of diminishing returns to it. And I think within ETh we have definitely reached that point of diminishing returns. Not to say that we shouldn't be bringing more ETH online to stake, but I would much rather see it go into homestakers, solo stakers, or different node operators or I smaller node operators than what we've seen with, with the bigger ones out there to add actual, I guess, um, to add actual security to the ethereum chain here. But anyway, enough of a tangent rant there. You can go check out this guy for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:16:30.080 - 00:17:14.561, Speaker A: All right. L two B has a new feature out today called the ZK catalog, which is an initiative that kickstarts ZK circuit verification in blockchain projects. They say here this marks the start of a wider initiative aimed at boosting transparency, transparency and trust in zero knowledge systems. So this is l two beats foray into making sure that you can have total, I guess, a total view of what's happening behind the scenes when it comes to ZK roll ups and ZK proofs. Now, of course, a lot of this is still in progress. There are a lot of things still to work out. But if you were to click on to, let's say, the details of scroll here and what this looks like, you can see that right now, l two bit lists that there's only two verifiers with scrolls, zero knowledge proofs right now.
00:17:14.561 - 00:17:48.954, Speaker A: Are they doing aggregation? Yes or no? Yes. And was there a trusted setup? Yes or no? And they're listing the verifiers out here for you. You're able to go check them for yourself. And there's a description of what's actually happening in, in the background, as well as links to the prover code, you know if it's open source or not, so on and so forth. So this is great because at the end of the day, a ZK roll up especially, or a ZK approving system especially, is only as strong as the transparency around it. Because if it's a black box, if you can't actually see what's happening, then essentially what you get is a closed kind of de facto centralized ecosystem. Because if you can't see into the box, then anything could be happening in that box.
00:17:48.954 - 00:18:18.452, Speaker A: And if it's just spitting out a proof of what happened, okay, you can be certain that the proof proves what happened. The CK proof proves what happened. But if what happened was, you know, dodgy or shitty or, you know, the rules were changed underneath you, or there was a rug happening, then it's, it doesn't matter if the proof is correct. What actually happened is not good, right? It's not a net good here. So you definitely want to be able to see what's happening behind the scenes. And this is what l two beats ZK catalog initiative is all about. So huge kudos to them for putting this together.
00:18:18.452 - 00:18:38.956, Speaker A: You can go check out this for yourself. But as I said, it's still early days. It's going to become more, more populated over time. They're going to be covering more and more projects over time. So great to see that they have to put this together here. All right, something interesting out of the rainbow ecosystem today. So Rainbow is a wallet app on mobile and desktop that you guys know about.
00:18:38.956 - 00:18:59.720, Speaker A: Disclosure. I'm an investor, an angel investor in Rainbow here. They've been about, around for quite a while. And one of my favorite wallets to use, what they announced today is something called rainbow eth rewards. So they are airdropping the ETH that rainbow has earned to the most active rainbow users every single week. And this is just phase one. There are more phases to come, but for now, let's talk about rainbow eth rewards.
00:18:59.720 - 00:19:48.160, Speaker A: And they've got a thread here talking about, talking about this here. Now, while this is interesting to me and why I'm bringing this up, because it's not something I usually talk about. I don't usually talk about reward programs or points programs on the refuel. But the reason I'm bringing this up is because usually with points programs, you're rewarded at the end of the program with a token, right? Like a project will do a token, they'll air drop it, and then maybe they'll do seasons. Whereas in Rainbows case, what they're doing here is they're rewarding ETh that they've earned as, as a wallet back into the community. So actually, like a token or an asset that you actually want and you actually probably more likely to hold on to and keep then something that you maybe get air dropped and then self eat anyway, right? So, and this is coming from, I guess like the, the, the eth that's been earned by rainbow, not from just printing it out of thin air, right. So it's something different, but also makes a lot of sense.
00:19:48.160 - 00:20:21.556, Speaker A: You know, with rainbow, for example, I don't know if it makes sense for them to do a token for themselves. They're a wallet, right. It would make, it definitely makes more sense for them to be a wallet. Take some fees off of offering that wallet service, right. Whether it be swap fees or whatever else you want to, want to say it is, and then trickle that back to people using the wallet and the most active users in the form of ETh. And as I said, an asset that people actually want to hold, actually want to store their worth in and actually want to invest in over the long term. So that's why I'm bringing this up today, because it's something different here, which I thought was very, very cool.
00:20:21.556 - 00:21:09.580, Speaker A: So you can go check out how this actually works under the hood. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But also the reason I want to talk about this is because it opens up a wider discussion around, I think, tokens generally. Now of course, I, I've been talking about this for a while now and I've been talking to a lot of projects and teams about this and I'm, I've got to say I'm quite frustrated not with the project and teams, but I'm frustrated with the meta of tokens generally. So the meta today essentially is if you're a project and you plan to do a token, you raise money from accredited investors, normally VC's and angels, right? And you give them some kind of percentage allocation of the total token supply. You give a percentage to the team and which, I mean, there's nothing wrong with that, but that this is how the token breakdowns are done. And then you have the rest of it going to the quote unquote community.
00:21:09.580 - 00:22:01.212, Speaker A: A portion of that will be for an airdrop, a portion of that will be for the community treasury, and a portion of that might be for the protocol guild or something else, right? But that's the current meta of things. In no way. I mean, I guess like at no point in that meta or in that pipeline is there an ICO or is there a token sale to the public. There is only tokens giving to the public via and an airdrop which is most likely immediately sold for the most part, and also an airdrop is very different to someone actually buying your token. When your airdropped a token, and let's say the airdrop is worth a airdrop, goes back down to like $500 because the token dumps and you haven't sold yet. Well, okay, you didn't lose $500 because you didn't invest $500, you didn't invest $1,000, right? You got it for free. So it's still dollar 500 of free money that you got.
00:22:01.212 - 00:22:48.706, Speaker A: I mean, yes, okay, there's some opportunity costs because maybe you had to deposit funds in order to farm the airdrop, but you haven't actually bought this token. Whereas when it comes to, I mean, just buying an asset directly or an ICO, for example, you've put your money in. So when you put like a $1,000 in and you buy the token for tokens for a $1,000, if that token goes down 50%, you've now lost dollar 500. So there's a different calculus here between buying something and getting it for free. And this is not unique to crypto, guys. This is, this is an economics thing way beyond crypto. But my point here is that the reason why tokens suck today, so many tokens suck today, is because of the fact that the projects are forced into doing this current meta, this really shitty meta of an airdrop just to give the community something.
00:22:48.706 - 00:23:12.722, Speaker A: Put most of the token supply in a treasury, sell a lot of the supply to VC's in order to fund your project to begin with, right? And then the public gets scraps at the end of the day. And this is not the project and teams fault. I've spoken to a lot of projects and teams about this. I'm trying to change the matter myself. But every single one of them says the same thing. They're going to end up getting sued by the SEC or some other regulatory body. And it is straight up illegal for them to do this.
00:23:12.722 - 00:23:50.014, Speaker A: It is illegal to sell assets in a securities offering, essentially because that's what the SEC argues that these things are, to unaccredited investors. So when you sell them to accredited investors, you're getting around that. And accredited investor, as defined by the US, is you have a certain net worth or you have a certain income over a period of two years that meets a certain threshold. It's basically a wealth test here. Now because of that, that's why we've got the current meta, because you can't sell to the public and because these teams don't want to do it because they don't want to get in trouble. And I don't blame the teams for this. You have the meta of what I just described before, but also this ends up with a low float.
00:23:50.014 - 00:24:28.264, Speaker A: You have five to 10% of the tokens floating from day one instead of the 50 plus percent that you would have if you did a public token sale. The token doesn't have a natural price because it's being priced based on some weird pre market that exists before the token goes live and maybe some, I guess, pricing based on what the previous vc rounds were done or done at. But there's no public market that was able to buy into this token before it started trading. Thus there was no real price discovery happening here. And in the face of that it basically has a high fooled looted value. Over time, more and more tokens come to market and essentially the token goes down only from there. So no one is protected here.
00:24:28.264 - 00:24:48.464, Speaker A: No, no one is better off here. Everyone is worse off. It doesn't matter if it is the, you know, the VC's, the team, the airdrop recipients, or people who buy the token on public markets. Everyone is worse off. Some people still win. Like for example, the VC's still win because they're up so, so massively on this. The team obviously with their own tokens would still win.
00:24:48.464 - 00:25:26.166, Speaker A: But in my opinion, they're worse off than they otherwise would be. And they're worse off because of the fact that a down only token means a down only community, means a depressed community, means your project has less chance of success overall. So I wish to live in a reality where icos could be a thing without people getting in trouble for doing them. Imagine you have an ICO where you sell 50% of the supply to the market and let's say you raise $50 million, right? And that's maybe on the higher end of things. But let's say you raise $50 million. Okay, well, if you've got 50% of the token supply sold for $50 million, that implies a fully diluted value of $100 million. That's it.
00:25:26.166 - 00:25:53.354, Speaker A: That's your price discovery right there. You basically gave it to the market and you're like, hey market, what do you want to buy our tokens for before there's even a market for them? This is what it's like and that's the starting price. Hey, and look at that. It's way less than the many billions and billions of dollars fully diluted value that exists today. And hey look, half of the supply is already circulating. Maybe you have 20% of the supply that goes to the team from there, and 30% of the supply that goes to a treasury. And look, it's so much better than what exists today.
00:25:53.354 - 00:26:20.708, Speaker A: Now, in saying all of this, it's not a perfect solution. It's not something that's going to be the holy grail. It still definitely depends on if the project's good or not, and if the project actually executes or not, and if value flows to the token or not. But it gets rid of this shitty meta of high, fully diluted value, low circulating supply, low market cap down, only tokens over time, even if the project is doing extremely well, right? Look at, look at some of the most successful projects. Arbitrum, for example. And disclosure. I'm an investor in Arb.
00:26:20.708 - 00:26:38.268, Speaker A: I'm not trying to show you my bags. You guys know, I've told you many times not to buy these things. But look at arbitram, absolutely killing it. The top l two for a long time keeps growing. Keeps doing so many things right to keep growing. Yet the Arp token is down only against USD and ETH. Why? Because there are tons of unlocks coming over time.
00:26:38.268 - 00:27:15.190, Speaker A: Now, whether the unlocks get sold or not is irrelevant. What is relevant is the fact that the market can see this and the market wants to price this in over time. So essentially you have a dead zone of three years, let's say, of the vesting period of these tokens having to come out before you can actually start to have true price discovery. And then when that happens, by the point that that happens, most projects are probably dead by that point. So what you've, all you've done is you've enriched the VC's who are still up massively, right? And you've enriched the team who is still up massively. And all the public market buyers are wrecked. Essentially everyone who tried to buy it on public erect your community.
00:27:15.190 - 00:27:57.932, Speaker A: You know, maybe not as strong as it could have been, if it's still strong, kudos to you. You built a community around things other than a token price, which, which obviously is important, but it just leaves you much worse off. So, as I said, I dream. I have a dream not to use that over overdone cliche, but I have a dream that we bring back not just icos, we bring back the high, I guess, like token supply on market from day one, the natural price discovery. Because that is the way that a prize token doesn't go down, only that is the way to actually get a community bought into your project. They can buy the token early on when it's worth not much, then your project keeps growing and then your token goes up and your community is happy. I think Pendle is a really good example of this.
00:27:57.932 - 00:28:30.534, Speaker A: If you go to Pendle, you look at the chart, it was depressed for a while. People could buy there, people could buy it at the lows and they could get in really low. And then it went up a lot and people made money on it because they bought, I think it went up like 150 x or something like that, something crazy. Because Pendle grew as a project, they executed well. And their token holders, people who bought it at the lows and supported the project, you know, when it was still growing, were rewarded for that. You don't get that at all in the current meta for the vast majority of projects. And on net, it means that most of this industry is just completely uninvestable.
00:28:30.534 - 00:29:16.436, Speaker A: As a public market investor, as a private investor, sure, you're probably doing well because you're still up massively on these things. I mean, you guys know, I mean, I'm an angel investor in a lot of these things, but honestly, I would rather that meta die completely. I'd rather not be an angel investor anymore and I'd rather be able to just buy these things on the public market at a much lower valuation, mind you, and let them start off as I'm at a much lower valuation, and then let that grow into the project, growing over time, not the other way around where you can have a super successful project and a token that doesn't reflect that at all. And token that's just down only. That is a complete warping of, I guess, like what a project should be or what, what a, what investing should be. It shouldn't work this way. But because of the SEC, because of the regulators, because of the current system, they have forced the system to be this way.
00:29:16.436 - 00:30:02.686, Speaker A: I don't blame the VC's, I don't blame the, the, you know, insiders generally. I don't blame the team here because there is no other way to currently do a token besides, I guess, like meme coins. But then in that world it's completely different where essentially you launch a token, but, but how are you going to build a project around that? If you launch a token and the token is worthless and then you've got no money to build the thing, it doesn't happen like that. You need to be able to raise some kind of money in order to build a project out, in order to build a team, in order to get, have a Runway for many years. So you can just focus on the project instead of focusing on having to fundraise all the time and focusing on worrying about money all the time. So this is why the current meta is the way it is. And I'm honestly, from coming from where I've been in this ecosystem and seeing this play out over time, over years, I'm really pissed off about this, guys.
00:30:02.686 - 00:30:33.512, Speaker A: Like, it's something that I really hate that has become a theme within crypto, and I hope that we can change it, and I hope that it can change in the future. I'm trying to be the change I want to see in the world in the background, but I'm getting stonewalled, guys. And I don't blame teens for stonewalling me on this, straight up, they just say, we can't do it, it's illegal. And I'm like, okay, well, that makes sense. Like, I'm not going to blame you for that, but I can still lament about how shitty it is that it is illegal. Just because something is illegal doesn't mean that it is wrong that a lot of people think like this. A lot of people outside of crypto think like this, or even inside of crypto, but, like, in real life think like this.
00:30:33.512 - 00:30:56.478, Speaker A: If, oh, if it's illegal, it must be wrong. It's like, no, no, no. There's been plenty of things that have been illegal in the past that were later made legal because it is the law. It can change. The law is malleable. The law is basically a set of widely agreed upon beliefs that people can codify, and there are consequences for breaking that law. But that does not mean the law is morally just or ethically right or wrong.
00:30:56.478 - 00:31:27.494, Speaker A: All that means is people have agreed at that point in time for the law to be that. But laws should be changed when that is no longer the case. And right now and for many years actually, the current meta of how investing works for early stage startups inside and outside of crypto is completely fucking broken and completely fucking unfair, and I want to see it change. So I'm going to keep pushing. I hope you guys can get involved in any capacity that you can, because at the end of the day, we need to make a difference here. We need to make a change here. Crypto is all about making a change and making a difference, and we need to start at ground zero.
00:31:27.494 - 00:32:05.858, Speaker A: We can't, you know, I guess, like show these virtues without following along with them ourselves. But anyway, that's very rancy, but I just wanted to get that off my chest, something I've been thinking a lot about lately and something that obviously really annoys me, but hopefully we can see some change going forth. Now, last up here, I want to end with something not as ranty. So Volantis has introduced themselves, and this is another project that I'm an investor in that I wish you guys could have been able to invest in as well. But unfortunately it's illegal to sell tokens to the public or illegal to sell equity to the public. So unfortunately not. But Volantis is a new form of decentralized exchange.
00:32:05.858 - 00:33:09.762, Speaker A: Now, I know there's a lot of dexs out there. I know there's a lot of decentralized exchanges out there. And generally I try to avoid investing in, I guess, a lot of app layer things because a lot of them are copy paste of what already exists. But Volantis, in my opinion, is quite different because what they've tried to do, and they've described it here, they've tried to create basically a modular decentralized exchange. What that means is that they want to have an app store of reusable decentralized exchange components here where essentially you can pick and choose which components you want to build on. Developers can pick and choose which components they want to, they want to use and build with in order to make their, you know, their ideal decentralized exchange for whatever they're trying to optimize for here. And Volantis hasn't been building for quite a while now, and it's actually pretty impressive what they've been able to build and what they've been able to do here and basically integrate all of these different things from all the different projects that have existed in the past in order to essentially make it so that you can have the, I guess I wouldn't call it the perfect decentralized exchange, but the near perfect one, where essentially you're only limited by your imagination as a developer when building this out.
00:33:09.762 - 00:33:39.310, Speaker A: You're not limited by what the, I guess, like modules can do, what the project can do. You're limited by your own imagination. So basically Lego blocks for decentralized exchanges here. So if you haven't been following along with Volantis, I highly recommend that you do so not for my sake. I don't really care if you follow with my investments or not. I invested, as I said, because I find Volantis extremely interesting and I find what they're trying to build extremely interesting. But if you're at all interested in DeFi and you want to look at things that are new or net new or pushing things forward or innovating.
00:33:39.310 - 00:34:00.190, Speaker A: I believe Volantis is one of those things. You can go check out their blog post post for yourself to see exactly what they're doing here and why they are different. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so, but I've gone over time here so I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
