00:00:00.090 - 00:00:18.030, Speaker A: Introduced is by Chadwick Strange from scale. And Chadwick will be talking about how Ethereum Native app specific blockchains are made and just the internals of how scale works. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome him on stage and I'll let him kick us off with the presentation.
00:00:19.250 - 00:00:40.810, Speaker B: Hey, everyone, good to be here. Chadwick Strange, VP of Product at scale. Let me get this going. Yeah. So I'm really thrilled to be here today to talk to you about building Ethereum Native app specific blockchains. Again. My name is Chavik Strange, VP product at Scale Labs.
00:00:40.810 - 00:01:33.578, Speaker B: And just to set up the stage of everything, I know a lot of projects and teams are being formed and everyone's watching in as I talk and as I show slides. Feel free to go to our GitHub at Slash Skill Network. And then during the talk or after, you can hop onto our Discord skill chat that will throw you into our core team community discord. Without further ado, let's get started. So, just as an intro scale network, our mission is to empower Ethereum DApps and DAP developers to scale smart contracts in a secure, reliable, cost effective manner. Think of this as like the Web Three cloud. You can use all the Ethereum Tooling dev tooling that you normally use.
00:01:33.578 - 00:01:57.630, Speaker B: Truffle Web. Three Ethers Rebix scale networks. Compatible with ERC 20 ERC 721 token standards. All the Ethereum wallets work out of the box. So, just wanted to set that as a stage. And I want to go into deeper about some unique properties of scale network. Scale is an ETH Native multi chain network.
00:01:57.630 - 00:02:41.562, Speaker B: And I want to break this down. Like, what is ETH native? What is MultiChain? To all of you, this might be new terms. This is something that the core team and the community has been iterating and developing over the many years that we've been developing the scale network. So let's put some context in here. So scale network. What is ETH native? ETH native is my term is built with Ethereum technology scale. During its early inception, we took some of Ethereum technology like the Aleph client, which is a C client, and we tweaked it, made some bells and whistles, some changes to it, and it's now known as Scaled.
00:02:41.562 - 00:03:31.760, Speaker B: It's sort of our scale EVM Ethereum Client that we use on all of our nodes. So ETH Native is using the compositions of Ethereum technology and then using part of that ecosystem. ETH native is also transacting with ethereum. This separates it from other l ones that are in completely other different ecosystems. ETH Native is transacting coordinating, interacting with Ethereum main net. ETH Native is also having security that's based on the Ethereum network. A security model where you're using leveraging proof of work, you're using Staking, you're using all the security guarantees of the Ethereum miner community at large, the Ethereum nodes, the network itself, to provide security or leverage that security for additional security.
00:03:31.760 - 00:04:36.194, Speaker B: And you're not putting that security in something else, or some separate technology, or some separate black box where you don't know quite what's going on there. You're leveraging the security that everyone knows and loves about ethereum inef Native is coordinating incentives, coordinating economic behaviors, to be sure that all actors of an ecosystem are acting within the best interest of the community at large and using ethereum technology, the network, those technologies, leveraging them to incentivize good behavior and to disincentivize malicious behavior. So why does ETH native matter? Well, we can look at the contrary to this. What is non native. What is that? I mean, this would be other layer ones that have their whole sort of walled garden ecosystem, where they have a whole different security mechanism, a whole different technology, and they might build some sort of bridge to ethereum. But in that way, they're not ETH Native. They have a bridge that supports that.
00:04:36.194 - 00:05:25.220, Speaker B: But the majority of their technology is totally separate walled garden. And there might be interoperability or standard issues, a different l one, or a different ecosystem that's not ETH Native might have different token standards, different cryptography standards. And so that interoperability or those standardization issues might go into conflict with building with the Ethereum community. And there might be hold up and rent seeking. Another layer one might have a different community or different dynamics. They might take away transactions or scaling from the ethereum at large and then put it in their network. So in that way they have their own walled garden where they're not driving back value to the ethereum network itself.
00:05:25.220 - 00:06:03.806, Speaker B: And the other layer one, the non Native layer one, might have different governance issues, they might have different incentives to change things at will. So Ethereum community has been developing over a very long time. So ETH Native kind of is contrary to that. There's a strong community sense, there's a strong governance sense, there's a strong standardization process that supports that sort of ETH Native technology and that support. So we covered ETH native. I'm going to jump over to what a multi chain network is. And a multi chain network is not a side chain.
00:06:03.806 - 00:06:51.342, Speaker B: I view as a side chain, as a network that is existing as one chain. Scale network is many, many chains blockchains on demand. So the scale network is comprised of over, as of today, over 150 nodes. Each of those nodes are supporting all the scaling infrastructure. They're supporting multiple chains that can be selected at random out of the network. So in that way, a scale network can be hundreds of chains that are selected at random to support a particular DAP. And so as a DAP developer or any community that's using a skill chain, your skill chain, which is one out of many that the skill network supports, is attributed to you and to your DAP and to your community.
00:06:51.342 - 00:07:32.710, Speaker B: And you can set up the specifics and sort of dial that in to support your infrastructure. So your skill chain, you have your own endpoint, you have fast block times, high TPS, full state smart contracts, decentralized storage. You can use Ni skill bridge called IMA. You can deploy your own bridge that is yours, that sort of component out of the network, out of the many multichains that skill network supports. And why does MultiChain network matter? I kind of touched on this a little bit, but I'll go down into a little bit more detail. Your chain can be DAP specific, similar to Web 2.0. You need scaling infrastructure.
00:07:32.710 - 00:08:59.814, Speaker B: You'd go to a different cloud provider, select your instant size, you'd select your Elastic IPS, you select your scaling infrastructure, your S three buckets, and whatnot you build that infrastructure, that scaling infrastructure to the product that you're building and the users who are using your product. Similar to Web three scale network provides that specific chains that can be tailored to your or your community specific decentralized application and to the users who use that. And I'll go into more detail. MultiChain networks also matter because of the pooled security model where all the nodes collectively have stake, and you're building on that collective pooled security of stake and selecting a chain that can be allocated to your DAP out of the many chains that are supported by this pooled security of stake. So, into dialing it a little bit further, what is a DAP specific chain? So again, scale network out of 150 nodes of a network that supports hundreds of different scale chains, independent scale chains operating and running these can be dialed in and customized for a particular DAP. For example, at the very top, we have one sort of proxy as a scale chain, this sort of oblong circle. It could be a different size guild chain.
00:08:59.814 - 00:09:59.638, Speaker B: We have three sizes small, medium and large. They have each size attributes to the amount of CPU, memory and storage resources that are provided, similar to a T, two medium, XL, large, sort of AWS instance or other cloud instance. So a medium chain has medium CPU memory storage resources. That chain can be customized to use and leverage the scale ETH bridge, which is called the Interchange Messaging Agent or IMA. And this scale chain might be set up that the project or whatever DAP is running on that can continue to fund and operate and sort of change that medium chain separately if another project might request a large scale chain. So this is the highest amount of CPU, memory and storage layer resources that a node can be provisioned for. And this large scale chain might be customized to support multiple bridges.
00:09:59.638 - 00:11:08.654, Speaker B: So maybe not just the scale ETH bridge that comes pre deployed to each scale chain, but you might connect in other bridges like Connect, or maybe a customized bridge to provide whatever specifics that your DAP might need in order to talk to Ethereum or other networks. And whatnot and then similar to a large chain, if that DAP needs specific multiple bridges, maybe it wants to leverage some unique properties of file storage. So file storage is another feature that comes with each scale chain. It's a decentralized storage layer that uses the storage layer resources out of the nodes. And as a DAP developer owning your large skill chain, you can then upgrade or modify those pre deployed file storage contracts to provide additional functionality or features that you might need specifically for your DAP. And then just a third example, maybe there's another medium chain or even a small chain, and maybe that project builds out a very custom bridge particular for their chain. And that the entire chain, the upgrade structure, the continued funding of that chain over the months that it's in operation is community funded.
00:11:08.654 - 00:12:17.154, Speaker B: So there's no central party. Maybe it's a Dow that continues to agree on like, well, should we again lease this medium chain with a custom bridge for another twelve months out of the skill network? Do we want to have the community to decide whether we should upgrade file storage and whatnot? So in this way, DAP specific blockchains can be customized around different central or decentralized structures around the management or maintenance of that infrastructure layer. And it can run multiple bridges or be customized according to size or different attributes to support your specific DAP. Because no DAP is the same, a gaming DAP will have different requirements than a DAP that's deploying NFTs to a DAP that might be a decentralized exchange. There's different security models, there's different storage requirements, there's different throughputs. So DAP specific allows you to dial that in and have the resources, the web three scalable resources that you need to power your DAP and your community. The pooled security through ETH native.
00:12:17.154 - 00:13:08.370, Speaker B: This is the second component. Scale network again is over as of today, over 150 nodes. When a DAP developer requests a scale chain, a subset of those nodes are randomly select using all the logic that exists in scale manager contracts on Ethereum. So we're pooled, we're leveraging the Ethereum mainnet scale network has all these smart contracts that define how to create a scale chain. It defines how to select at random these nodes out of the network. It defines how nodes can register with scale manager, the requirement of stake to put up, to register and interact with the scale network. So the pooled security will select those nodes at random.
00:13:08.370 - 00:13:42.990, Speaker B: Those 16 nodes then basically form one of the many multi chains that the scale network supports. And from that pooled security, you get a random node selection. You get the pool out of all the collective stake out of that network. That stake is supporting your scale chain to run your DAP. Those nodes can be rotated consistently to avoid collusion over time and you get access to consensus and full state smart contracts. So wrapping it back around, we've talked about ETH native. We've talked about multi chain networks.
00:13:42.990 - 00:14:56.406, Speaker B: So how is the scale network ETH native? Well, we have a couple of things I've touched on before. The entirety of the scale network is operated and managed and orchestrated by probably the largest smart contracts ever engineered that define not DeFi but define scalable infrastructure that exist on the Ethereum Mainnet. Today scale manager has different logic layers. For example, Scale Manager defines how validators register with the scale network by interaction and transacting with those contracts in Ethereum Mainnet node creation. So validators can register any number of nodes and then basically stake for each node to be registered on the scale network. So all that logic is also defined in Scale Manager through transactions on Ethereum Mainnet. All the delegation that's used to pool to delegate into validators to supply the amount of stake required to operate a node on the network is done through Scale Manager and is secured and staked through Scale Manager contracts on Ethereum bounties that are paid out to the validators for providing resources to the scale network.
00:14:56.406 - 00:15:54.026, Speaker B: That's also done on Scale Manager distributed key generation. We use threshold scale network uses threshold cryptography to assert data availability and provide the security model for all the independent nodes of the network that's all orchestrated and coordinated through the distributed key generation and scale verification contracts on mainnet, then scale chain creation, rotation and slashing. Those are also defined in Scale Manager contracts. And so in that way the network is leveraging and is fully ETH native in terms of the logic management and orchestration of the network itself. And then to provide the economic coordination mechanism. This network has the scale token on Ethereum and this is a ERC triple seven standard with a couple modifications to provide delegation and staking functionality. And that exists as a part of Scale Manager.
00:15:54.026 - 00:17:22.090, Speaker B: And if you go to our GitHub, we have Scale Manager contracts and the scale token code all available there for anyone to inspect. And the third component is Scale node. So as validators register node, they provide bare metal compute resources and part of that is a containerized system. And the parent structure is a containerized system called Scale admin which is a Python script that contains all the logic that's used to register a node used to allocate resources out of the node CPU, memory and storage resources for each DAP specific scale chain that's requested. And what the scale admin does this Python script is it's calling and transacting all the time with the Scale manager contracts on Ethereum Mainnet. So when a node registers, Scale admin runs a Python script to then tell Scale manager hey, I'm registering this node, I have this amount of stake and it's doing all those transactions, it's driving all those transactions back to the Ethereum Main net. And when adapt developer requests a skill chain, skill admin is notified if that particular node is selected to participate in a skill chain and then scale admin responds by allocating CPU, memory and storage resources to provide that DAP specific chain, all those resources and all those configurations needed to scale that DAP.
00:17:22.090 - 00:18:39.154, Speaker B: So scale network is ethnic from scale manager the entire logic, the orchestration logic that exists on Ethereum mainnet the scale token itself which provides the coordinating mechanism between DAP developers validators and nodes and the scale node, which is a containerized resource, a bare metal or some machine that contains a Python script that's always actively communicating, calling and transacting with the scale manager contracts on ethereum. So how does ETH Native support the scale network? So we have this notion that the skill network is many nodes, many chains, multi chains, and each chain can be specified to run a particular DAP. And again, there's other layer ones where all of that, the entire node registration architecture of validators is a completely separate system. When you register a validator and register nodes, or you do stake, none of those transactions actually exist on Ethereum. They're a totally separate network. Scale is different. Where scale manager, all those transactions, the validator registration, node registration, those are all transactions on Ethereum, all through the scale manager system.
00:18:39.154 - 00:19:46.562, Speaker B: So the entire network is orchestrated and managed through logic scale manager on Ethereum. So we have node, orchestration, node rotation, ERC, triple seven token is on Ethereum. All the staking, bounty, chain fees, inflation and slashing all exist on Ethereum. And this is really important because it's a decentralized shared value capture. Scale's mission is to make sure Ethereum is successful in scaling and supporting all the amazing DApps and community that are building on top of Ethereum. And being ETH Native means that means not to be competitive or to take transactions away from Ethereum, but it's to make Ethereum successful in driving transactions back to Ethereum while allowing Ethereum to scale. So as scale network grows, and as the number of nodes and validators continue to grow over time, as people request scale chains, these are all transactions that are driving back to the Ethereum mainnet, back to the Ethereum miners, back to Ethereum nodes.
00:19:46.562 - 00:20:26.130, Speaker B: All of the scale network scaling as that grows is relying more and more on very key secure transactions on Ethereum. So again, we're driving transactions and value back to Ethereum as scale launches, because scale manager and all the orchestration is done by leveraging all the great technology that Ethereum has to offer. And I can give you a result. Summary scale network has been around for a while. We've got some data points we'd like to share with you about this synergy and these results. Last October we launched what's called the Kilimanjaro mainnet. We've always been sticking to this sort of mountain theme.
00:20:26.130 - 00:20:55.790, Speaker B: We began with Fuji. We moved to Kilimanjaro. So Kilimanjaro was last October. Since October, the network has been operating without pause, without any crashes, for over 190 days. As of today, we have over 45 validators. Some of which are shown here on the right. Collectively, we have over 150 nodes and are continuing to grow, which supports over 400 DAP specific chains.
00:20:55.790 - 00:21:31.722, Speaker B: Again, as a MultiChain network, we support many different sizes of chains, small, medium and large. And all those chains can be customized to be DAP specific to help the DAP and the community scale as best as possible. And the network has over 2 billion staked. Again, this is staked through scale manager contracts on ethereum. So that stake is secured by the Ethereum network using logic from Scale Manager on Ethereum. And this week we're announcing the next network phase called Denali. And this kicked off a few days ago.
00:21:31.722 - 00:22:21.762, Speaker B: It's a multi day upgrade process where we've been upgrading Scale Manager system to the newest features to support live scale chains on mainnet. We've been iterating this over many testnets and had great participation and guidance from our validators to help refine scale chains. And so our Scale Manager contracts have been updated and the next few days we'll be updating all the nodes on Mainnet, all of our mainnet nodes to support skill chains live on Mainnet. We're super excited about that. So, back to ETH global hackathon. So as hackers, as developers, you can request your scale chains from the hackathon. So many of you might be wondering, well, what can you do with scale? It's awesome that you're ETH native and you're multi chain.
00:22:21.762 - 00:22:58.674, Speaker B: There's DAP specific and pooled security model. Well, what does that give me? There's a couple of buckets here. Scale can operate very fast, very fast, very Fast Finality, having a DAP specific chain and leveraging all those resources from a node and then having that orchestration and management from Scale Manager on Main. Net scale chains have very fast finality. And what we've seen in the past is some interesting ideas people have with fast Finality you can really change. You have a step change function and how you can provide user experience. You can make web three apps feel more like web two apps with very fast finality.
00:22:58.674 - 00:23:56.390, Speaker B: Instead of having to wait ten minutes for a transaction confirmation or trying to mimic that instant gratification of a transaction going through. We've seen some projects in the past build media paywalls using skill chain, so as soon as you submit your transaction, you can get access to all the rest of the media. So it feels just like a Web Two app, but using decentralization and security models of Web Three and authentications and excuse the spelling error there having people get access to sites and not having to wait for many block confirmations to go through. No Gas Fees so skill chains operate with no gas fees. There is gas on skill chains. It's used as a metering agent to prevent any rogue execution of EVM. But if you deploy your adapt on a skill chain, all the transactions on a skill chain are no gas fees at all.
00:23:56.390 - 00:24:45.874, Speaker B: And we all know how expensive NFTs are to mint on Mainnet. So let me just leave you with this. Imagine what new business models you can create if minting NFTs cost nothing on a scale chain. I think there's some really interesting new business models that you can leverage with NFTs way beyond what we've seen on Ethereum Mainnet and using scale technology to provide greater depth of resources from NFTs. And whatnot dows? With all the big spikes in gas prices over the last couple of months, to make any vote on Dows could easily cost a single actor maybe $50.50 US dollar equivalents or more. Obviously, that tends to skew who is then incentivized to actually vote.
00:24:45.874 - 00:26:00.142, Speaker B: If you have thousands of dollars locked up in a Dow, you'd be more attributed to vote on a proposal than someone that might be a smaller token holder. So imagine what you can do now with Dows and voting and governance if you have a scale chain that operates with zero gas fees and then complex EVM. We've seen a lot of interesting projects using machine learning and file storage to basically put more complex transactions than just like architecting token transfers. But now that there's zero gas fees on scale, imagine all the new business models you can do if you're not constrained as a solidity developer to think about how do you minimize gas reduction. But now what are the new things that you can do with not being restricted to minimize gas in your solidity contracts? And the third bucket is high throughput scale chains, depending on the size, can support hundreds of transactions per second. And we've seen a lot of interest for people to do immersive gaming. Imagine hooking unity up to your skill chain and adding all the movements or all the transactions of the game design on a scale chain itself.
00:26:00.142 - 00:26:41.770, Speaker B: Or even streaming having streaming data being written right to a scale chain itself. There's a lot of interesting business models that you can create with just these three buckets here, and there's plenty more. I mean, think of Scale Network, the Ethereum Native and multi chain network as an infrastructure that you can build on top of. And there's many more things just beyond these three buckets that I think you can iterate with. So I hope this is inspiring for you all. I think hopefully this is generating some interesting ideas. So again, to wrap up, we've covered how scale network is Ethereum Native Native being leveraging all the great that Ethereum Mainnet and technology provides.
00:26:41.770 - 00:27:13.880, Speaker B: And a DAP specific or multi chain network. Scale Network is not a side chain. It's a network of many chains. And each of those chains can be customized to support a particular DAP or an infrastructure community. So thank you all. I know you've been watching lots of these videos probably today. So if you have any further questions, feel free to join our discord or jump over to our GitHub if you want to inspect the scale manager contracts or see the technology of how we're leveraging ethereum based technology.
00:27:13.880 - 00:27:31.420, Speaker B: And then again, you can go right to our slash docs. And I think I'll stick around here. If there's any questions from the community, I'll just pause here as Kartik will maybe gather some questions.
00:27:32.850 - 00:27:56.978, Speaker A: Thank you so much. That was a really helpful presentation, understanding how everything is set up. Just in the interest of time, I just have a single question for you. How should DAP developers be thinking about liquidity fragmentation in this model? If they are all app specific, what are the kind of the implications or side effects or just the considerations you have to keep in mind for liquidity in the protocols?
00:27:57.154 - 00:28:32.766, Speaker B: Sure, it all depends on the bridge that you wish to architect. With the scale IMA bridge, you can build sort of liquidity protocols on top of that. But again, you can leverage any other bridge that you want. So you can customize how you're thinking about messaging from skill chain back to the main net. Again, a skill chain is 16 different independent nodes that are operating all independently. And each of those nodes are looking for messages on main net. And then each of those nodes are independently sending transactions back to mainnet to support that bridge model.
00:28:32.766 - 00:28:42.350, Speaker B: At least that's the scale native bridge. But again, you can use any bridge or any other sort of liquidity design to bridge from a scale chain to ethereum mainnet.
00:28:42.930 - 00:28:45.380, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, thank you so much again, chat we can.
