00:00:00.570 - 00:00:25.720, Speaker A: So next up, we have our next talk by ZX. ZX leads the crypto econ lab and drives the Filecoin ecosystem growth at Protocol Labs. He will be talking about bridging with Filecoin and just the new ventures in Web Three. This is a talk that I've had a sneak peek into, so I'm super excited about it. So without further ado, I'll welcome him on stage and I'll let him kick off with talk.
00:00:30.730 - 00:00:33.720, Speaker B: Great. Thank you, Kadik. Just give me one moment.
00:00:39.570 - 00:00:40.880, Speaker A: Everything is great.
00:00:41.250 - 00:01:04.146, Speaker B: All right, thank you. Hi, everyone. Welcome to Hack FS Storage Provider Summit. My name is ZX. I work on crypto economics lab and ecosystem growth at Protocol Labs. Today, I'm very excited to talk about bridge with Filecoin, New Frontiers, and Web Three. And I think we really represent a lot of tremendous growth and building opportunities for both builders and entrepreneurs in the ecosystem.
00:01:04.146 - 00:01:30.586, Speaker B: And then Hack FS is the perfect place to get started. And then I'm pretty sure our ideas and venture does not end here. There's lots of amazing program like the accelerator program that we just saw, really help us take our ideas and businesses to the next level. Great, let's get started. Let's do a recap. What is filecoin? This is the island economy analogy that we often use. So Filecoin is like an island on the island.
00:01:30.586 - 00:02:05.798, Speaker B: There are different kinds of participants. You have researchers building the protocol and the algorithms. Then you have developers building tooling experiences, application and products, or even layer two protocols. And then you have token holders providing liquidity and facilitating transactions or providing collateral. And then you have miners amassing all these physical and capital resources to produce storage related goods and services. And then we exchange that with storage clients through Filecoin. And the overall goal of everyone in the ecosystem is to really bring in more participants and use cases and clients into the network.
00:02:05.798 - 00:02:48.034, Speaker B: And there are many lenses to look at Filecoin just like any other blockchain network. It's a utility token, it's a platform, a protocol, a blockchain network, community and economy ecosystem and an evolutionary system. And there are different stages to the economy. So we kind of move past the capacity building stage. We're now coming close to nine exabytes of storage with 50 petabytes coming online every single day. And there is some very recent upgrade that really lower, that makes the chain more scalable and really lower the transaction cost and kind of increase the transaction throughput of the Falcon network. And that paves the way for more adoption, more application, more deals, more transaction on the Falcon network.
00:02:48.034 - 00:03:52.506, Speaker B: And I think the collective goal of everyone is to really bring us to this so called Stage Three, where we have a really strong brand around Falcon, a full through product, very diverse market. We think of Falcon as an airbnb for cloud services, and then Falcon itself can be a sustainable economy. And so Falcon as a layer one is really unique, right? It's unique in the sense that it's well positioned to support both web two and web Three use cases. And then we will explore more of these later today. So today's talk, we talk about bridging with Filecoin. So a lot of that really is like building bridges to really use the storage, use all this, tap into the potential, tap into the compute, tap into all these different aspects of the Falcon protocol. Because Falcon is a layer one protocol, so it cares about the very basic thing, which is are the miners storing your data good? And then do we have a periodic proof that they are storing it? So then we saw people building bridges in various form with different ecosystems or with different web two companies and industries.
00:03:52.506 - 00:04:39.210, Speaker B: And these are not just the traditional token bridges that we might be familiar with in web3. I think these are storage bridges, data bridges and value bridges. And also just to talk about some of the web two opportunities when using storage on filecoin, because Falcon is a protocol, it's somewhat different from like a traditional web two product where you expect to see one way of how things work, right? Storage is provided on filecoin in the form of sectors. It gets proven, the protocol checks on it every 24 hours. And then using storage on Falcon really is to use the storage provided by storage providers on the Falcon network. So all sort of features are possible, like redundancy encryption, indexing, fast retrieval. Many teams are building on better indexing to enable fast retrieval services.
00:04:39.210 - 00:05:27.020, Speaker B: And then Filecoin is a layer one, so it's designed to enable emergence. So there's lots of room for layer two protocols that can emerge on filecoin. And while the cost of storage is very competitive today on filecoin, many miners are offering free storage for clients, some are even offering negative prices. But Falcon storage is not just about cost. Just like Airbnb for cloud services should be about the experience and we will talk a lot more about that. So there are many examples of kind of abstract bridges of application that makes using storage on Falcon easy, right? You have NFT storage ChainSafe, files, there's also a text bucket, web two storage. Asteri many of these tools are popping up, I encourage you guys to try it out during the hackathon and build amazing product and experience with it.
00:05:27.020 - 00:06:13.114, Speaker B: And another big opportunity here would be like client minor. Right now there are close to 3000 storage providers on the Falcon network as a client coming to the protocol, which one do we choose? Right? So there's lots of room here of improving the UX of the clients. I think some of the tools that I mentioned earlier are great examples. And then there's also space for geo matching platform, kind of like Airbnbs or Dropboxes on the Falcon network. And we started to see many of this emerging. And then reputation system will come into key and then that will also extend into credit and other ratings and then that also give us the opportunity to define grades of storage services which is then become a precursor to commoditized cloud storage, which is something that we have never really done before. And we talk about DeFi a lot.
00:06:13.114 - 00:07:12.154, Speaker B: But it's also entirely possible to have exchanges whether it's centralized or decentralized or even new form of exchanges based on new structures on cloud services. And as we mentioned, there's lots of compute GPU sitting around storage. This colocation of storage and compute represents tremendous opportunities. I think we'll hear from one of the large storage providers later today to talk about different opportunities as the Falcon storage providers and then you can run analytics algorithms and then offer Snark GP as a service. We all know that the metaverse likely require lots of both storage and compute resources. The filecoin network will be a perfect place for that and then people are also researching and building caching and retrieval services. There's also given that you need like Classroom to become a search provider on filecoin there's also token price volatility which doesn't have to be borne by either the miners or the client.
00:07:12.154 - 00:08:31.730, Speaker B: There's actually lots of opportunity for financial services on filecoin to be really useful to help with managing risk, providing liquidity and reducing uncertainty and then everyone can benefit with a more predictable kind of financial situation and then data services will become increasingly important as the level activities increases on filecoin. When you understand what's the risk profile both for the storage and the storage provider and the clients and then that enabled participants to make more informed decision we start to see like mining return calculators, more and more sophisticated analytics with lenders and strong network analytics really paved the way for more sophisticated products on filecoin. So we talk a lot about web Two style interactions. I also want to emphasize Falcon really brings a unique and new building block to web Three and we use this diagram to really illustrate. We call that the dataverse and this is what we call like a data supply chain. It's very common in web Two world, right? You have production of data many times this data are actually public, right? Then you have Refinery, can you mine inside? Can you cling up data? And then you do curation you package that in the format that people want and then deliver value or satisfy some kind of desire and then you generate value and then potentially attribution. Except that in the traditional Web Two world many of the attribution really happen in the last stage.
00:08:31.730 - 00:09:09.426, Speaker B: But in the case of Web Three you really have this network structure and I think this is where the whole content address web of IPFS really come in. You have this network of nodes and edges. How do you define them? That is like a full on protocol of defining what is an edge and there's lots of research on this from the traditional network science literature. But IPFS layer gives you this network structure and enable us to define the structure over it. And then what the Falcon layer really brings to the table. I think one is huge volume, very cheap supply of storage. But as we already know, it's not just about price, it's really about that experience and the value.
00:09:09.426 - 00:10:02.894, Speaker B: And the next piece is this periodic proof about the data being stored on FalcoIn. And then before Falcon gets an EVM or user defined smart contract system, there's lots of Bridging layer, which is the main thing of our talk today. And then we will see a few more examples and they enable others to build smart contract layer logic on top of the Filecoin storage network. And we already started to see people experimenting with this, but I think I will go over some of the example of some of the other Web Three successes and how do we really crack this and how do you really showcase their immense potential at the intersection of Filecoin and Ethereum or other smart contract platforms. So going back to this again, so these are not just the regular token bridges. This is something that the world has not even seen. We have not fully appreciate the potential and the power of these storage bridges.
00:10:02.894 - 00:10:36.190, Speaker B: So these are not just like token, they could be storage value data attribution flow. It could really be anything. The sky is the limit. And hack FX is a perfect venue to really explore, build teams and kind of like try it out, really experiment what could be possible. Many of the successors in Web Three started in hackathons like this one. Some of the other announcement or kind of like progress they made with these bridges like Falcon Chaining Bridge, falcon Ethereum Bridge, Falcon near Bridge. There's also free storage on the near bridge.
00:10:36.190 - 00:11:30.074, Speaker B: And more recently there's lots of joint grants. I think we hear from Mosh later on, talk about these exciting grant opportunities. And then there's different kinds of bridges with Polygon near hedera and lots of ecosystem momentum. Really kind of enable experimentation, empower this kind of trial and error to figure out what is the right use case. And then we talk a bit more about some of the use cases. But before that, let's just take a step back and look at DFI and NFT, some of the successful case study in Web Three. So back in 2015 when Ethereum first came up, people talk about smart contract, but it took us a long time to figure out what is the part of market say, what can we really do with it that can really satisfy and customer demand? And there were many debt back in 2017, I remember pretty vividly.
00:11:30.074 - 00:12:10.790, Speaker B: I also make a few of those, but they didn't make it right. I think one strong thing with DFI is we really leverage the building block that Ethereum brings to the table. It really didn't really go too far into interfacing the real world. It really is like simple mathematic calculations that you can perform on Ethereum. Right. And then there are many protocol that's being built on top of the underlying layer, one very composable building block that enable even more emergence. So some of the takeaway here potentially would be like what are some simple operation that cannot be enabled by this entirely new building block that's introduced by Filecoin? And then we look at NFT.
00:12:10.790 - 00:12:33.970, Speaker B: NFT was also a concept for a while and then people kind of saw the need for it and people defined a standard of what is an NFT. So that's ERC 721. But they didn't really take off until CryptoKitties, which I believe that was in Eve Denver. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that's in E Denver, they really showcased the immense potential and what can we do? Sorry, pardon?
00:12:34.790 - 00:12:36.014, Speaker A: Eat Waterloo.
00:12:36.142 - 00:12:55.834, Speaker B: Oh, Waterloo. That's right. Thank you. So, like CryptoKitties really demonstrate what is possible with NFTs and then we see lots of companies and really building. And then now we saw this NFT summer. So some takeaway here will be the importance of defining a standard. Having reference implementation, proof of concept will go a very long way.
00:12:55.834 - 00:13:25.262, Speaker B: And then we still need to find product market fit for whatever we are building, whether it's a protocol marketplace or a platform or an application. So just some more web. Three ideas that are enabled by Filecoin. I think we talked about this on a previous talk, just going over them again. We have Data Bounties where we have smart contract putting together funds for the storage of a particular CID. Right? It could be a collection of NFTs, it could be some data sets. And then this fund only pay out when there's a proof that has been stored on Filecoin.
00:13:25.262 - 00:13:55.226, Speaker B: Last I heard, this has already been implemented. I think maybe we can take this hackathon as an opportunity to really figure out what are some interesting games or like DAP that we can develop on top of this. And data dows Dows cannot be formed as a building up on Data Bounties. Dows cannot be formed around data that the community cares about. Right. People can join and join this Dow by having proven that they store a piece through Filecoin and through all these bridges. Or they could just contribute to the pool.
00:13:55.226 - 00:14:46.890, Speaker B: Right? And then on top of that, you have storage insurance, commodity futures. Miners are incentivized to repair data. If, let's say, the Falcon Protocol reports that oh, this piece of data is missing, now you have a bounty to fix those. Or like, there will be penalty already on the Falcon Protocol if the miner is not storing it. And then we talk a lot about NFTs. Right? I think we celebrated NFT, but we also noticed there are many areas of improvement and I think one obvious one will be like can we really redesign rethink the flow of NFT and what is the value proposition value like? Because I think the metaverse should be open and the value is really in the contents, right? So there is lots of room here to really rethink about what is the economics, what is the future that we want to see. And then we leverage unibuilding blocks on Falcon to define new protocols.
00:14:46.890 - 00:15:42.526, Speaker B: And as mentioned earlier, we talk about what is a node, what is an edge, right? And really defining those even in NFT setting, what is a no, what is an edge? Potentially, let's say I merge two NFTs to create a new one. Inherently there's a relationship, right? How can we really think through about value attribution and make that in a more transparent and fairer way to really enable a greater community and a greater economy and verifiable computes, right? CID, which is unique identifier of the content on filecoin, they can be binary of an algorithm. You can also store that on filecoin. In that sense, you can verify compute based on the algorithm and based on the input data. When you have compute and data, you get more data. So that creates a very interesting sub reinforcing loop. And I think lastly, I think there's lots of room for layer two protocols on filecoin.
00:15:42.526 - 00:16:35.220, Speaker B: You really leverage this guarantee, this basic building block that the protocol provides. You can do multiple perpetual storage protocols on filecoin, pay once for forever. You can see like maybe ten of this on filecoin content delivery protocols. You can also see many of this on filecoin. And another observation here is when you look at all these web two platforms when they first started out, users have really strong incentive to use the platform upload data to use the storage. Can we think about more creative incentive for clients to use Falcon to use web Three to really bring their digital existence onto the web3 infrastructure? So, with that in mind, Falcon really is an exponentially growing ecosystem and many of teams come into our ecosystem through the previous iteration of Hack FS. So I'm very excited for Hack FS this time around as well.
00:16:35.220 - 00:17:05.270, Speaker B: And as we participate in the hackathon, we think about what new interaction can we enable, what kind of businesses are we building and how can we find product market fit and to recap. Filecoin is really uniquely positioned. There's immense opportunities building layer two protocols, platforms and product on filecoin. And we should constantly think about the business model. And there are many areas as we lay out that we can explore together as a community. And with that, I would like to pass on the time back to Karthik.
00:17:07.650 - 00:17:26.010, Speaker C: Thank you for excellent presentation. There was a lot of information and I know everyone's going to take some time to digest that. Given that we are a little short on time, I want to remind people to continue the conversation in Discord if that's a good place for them to reach you. I know we're really excited to get the conversation underway.
