00:00:00.240 - 00:00:13.630, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano. And today, 13 October 2023. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. That is two this week that I've missed.
00:00:13.630 - 00:00:39.870, Speaker A: So should really rebrand the show to the Daily Gwei rug fuel, right? No, sometimes it's gonna happen, obviously, as I say, every time. I just sometimes run out of time and I can't get a recording done. But I definitely aim to do as many as, as many episodes as I can, of course. But hopefully, hopefully next week. I don't, I don't rug any episodes there. But anyway, without further ado, let's go into the news from the last couple of days. So I'm starting off here with some ETF news.
00:00:39.870 - 00:01:14.330, Speaker A: So Eric Balkanis, who I've spoken about a bunch of times on the refill before, he's one of the senior ETF analysts at Bloomberg, shared that Ark, the one of the BTC spot ETF filers, has filed an updated version of its spot bitcoin ETF prospectus. The SEC emailed issuers a few weeks ago with comments and questions about their s, one that they wanted. They want it to be addressed. So it's very possible Ark has answered all of that in this filing. And then Eric says, we are looking through this now. And then they basically, sorry. Then Eric states the changes in his Twitter thread here, which you can go check out our link in the YouTube description below.
00:01:14.330 - 00:01:59.946, Speaker A: But I think generally at this point, we're all pretty convinced that the bitcoin spot ETF's are getting approved, right? We just don't know the timing. And the timing is a funny thing, because as I said before on the refuel, the SEC can approve these ETF's anytime they want, right? They don't have to wait until the deadline. So the deadline right now for the Ark ETF is in January, I think January 10 or something like that. And the deadline for the rest of them is mid March next year. Now, as I said, the SEC does not have to wait until that deadline to approve or deny. Obviously they can still deny, but between now and, and the Jan deadline and the march deadline, they can approve or deny all, any or all of these ETF's. Now, the common understanding is that they're going to approve or deny all of them at once.
00:01:59.946 - 00:02:52.222, Speaker A: I mean, I'm pretty convinced that they're going to approve all of them at once know if it's going to happen in Q four or Q one. But as I said, like the deadline for Ark is Jan, so they could just wait until the deadline and do it in January, which I would prefer, as I've outlined many times on the review before, the reasons why I prefer that. But on top of that as well, there's something else that's actually happening today or maybe not happening today. So the SEC's deadline for filing a appeal in the grayscale case that they lost. So just to refresh your memory, grayscale basically sued the SEC saying, you know, you denied our conversion of our trust from the BTC trust, the GBTC trust to an ETF, and you didn't give us good reasons to deny. And the judge basically agreed with that. And so if the SEC doesn't appeal today, from what I've read, it seems like people think that it's, you know, it goes from basically 90% to 100% chance that the spot ETF's are going to get approved.
00:02:52.222 - 00:03:21.326, Speaker A: Because if the SEC isn't appealing that case, they're basically admitting defeat and basically saying, well, we're just going to approve the grayscale conversion. And as I said before, they're going to want to approve all of these ETF's at once because they don't want to play favorites or don't want to open themselves up to more lawsuits. So that's not to say that the ETF's are going to get approved today, right. That's just to say that if they don't appeal, the chances of the spot ETF's getting approved go to 100%. Right. At least that's from, from my understanding there, for BTC. And then it's just a waiting game, right, of when they want to approve it.
00:03:21.326 - 00:03:55.736, Speaker A: But as I said, the deadline for the first one is January 10, which is Ark, and then mid March for the rest of them. But the funny thing is, is that as I've explained before, they would have to deny arcs one and force Arc to refile in January if they wanted to approve them all in March. I don't think that's going to be the case. I would put money on the fact that the latest they're going to approve this thing is the arc date here. So the June 10 date. But obviously, as I said, they can approve all of these anytime between now and then, and we'll see how that plays out. Now, as, as for its impact on the markets, I think I'm going to leave that for the end of the episode because I do have a bit of markets chat for you guys.
00:03:55.736 - 00:04:16.810, Speaker A: I know that things are depressing right now, but I. Hopefully I can inject some hopium into you guys, uh, by the. At the end of the episode. But I'll leave that for. For then because that'll just be a good way to round out the episode there. But moving on from the ETF news to Ethereum core dev news. So the latest all core devs call happened yesterday, and as usual, Tim Bico has his tweet thread here.
00:04:16.810 - 00:04:50.010, Speaker A: But Andrew, Andrew here also has a summary screenshot from Tim Bico about what they discussed on the all core devs call. So as I mentioned before, Devnet nine testing is still ongoing and Tim says it's going strong. Bad blocks are being sent for testing. MEV pipeline testing is also in progress and some clients are debugging issues found on the network. Devnet Ten is now planned for launch next week, which is awesome. So very, very close here. And obviously, as I've said before, Devnet Ten is probably going to be the last Devnet before they start forking the public test nets.
00:04:50.010 - 00:05:30.408, Speaker A: And as Tim continues here, the things that they want to see on Devnet Ten is a final KZG setup in the consensus layer. Specs and clients general stability of the network confirmed that the MEV pipeline works and getting better tooling around blobs, which is obviously AIP 4844. And then Kun will activate shortly after Genesis to allow us to flood the deposit queue and trigger the churn limit. That's for the, for the Devnet ten here. If things go well, we'll start looking at scheduling goly. So yeah, I think in terms of timelines now, if they do devnet ten next week, let it bake for a little bit. We could expect the girly testnet public testnet fork be scheduled for mid to late November.
00:05:30.408 - 00:05:59.234, Speaker A: Right? And that was kind of, I mean, the target was like early to mid November because of Devconnect. But mid to late November is basically the, you know, a similar thing there. So it's like a couple of weeks difference. So sometime in November we can expect the girly testnet to get forked. And obviously that's being done first because that's that Testnet is being sunset in favor of whole sky, which is live right now. So I guess it will go girlie, sepolia, whole sky. I guess the order doesn't really matter, but maybe they'll do two of them at once or something like that.
00:05:59.234 - 00:06:36.192, Speaker A: But really that still brings us into next year as I've discussed before. So expect 48 44 in January, February. Still, there's no changes to the timelines there, of course. But yeah, that's the update on that one. And Tim continues saying there was a concern raised by the Geth team with regards to ban requirements for ERP 4844. And they discussed that on the call and they spent the rest of the call discussing the EOF updates and included how many affected l two s and such and so forth, how they're talking about Prague, which is the, the next update for happening next year. So yeah, that's all for the all core devs recap there.
00:06:36.192 - 00:06:56.376, Speaker A: As I said, you can go rate Tim Biko's Twitter thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. The ultrasound money account on Twitter shared that the staked ETH amount grew 50% since withdrawal. So at time of withdrawal, staked ETH was at 18 million and now it's at 27 million. So in six months. And so that's a growth of 50% there.
00:06:56.376 - 00:07:18.994, Speaker A: And the reason why they're bringing this up today is, is of course because as you all probably know by now, the entry queue or the deposit queue for the beacon chain was empty today. I mean I don't know if it's empty right now. I can actually check that on my, on my screen here or bring up the beacon chain website. Yeah, it's 171 entering validators. But yeah, at some point today it was zero. So it's basically empty at this point. The churn limit is actually 13 now.
00:07:18.994 - 00:07:58.280, Speaker A: But as you guys know that will be lowered to eight in the Denkun upgrade. So really I think there's around 3000 validators that can enter and exit per day. But I don't expect staking demand to spike like it did over the past six months ever again, really. And in terms of like when we see the next big influx of staking, I think it's going to have to come from the execution layer side of things. Because when you think about the way that the Ethereum proof of stake mechanism is designed, it's designed to find an equilibrium in terms of the consensus layer rewards, which is the new ETH issuance. It's designed to find an equilibrium at some point. And it feels like we've found that because all obviously gas fees are low, Mev payments are low.
00:07:58.280 - 00:08:42.910, Speaker A: So overall rewards are lower than what they historically have been. So if we are to see another influx of ETH into the, into staking, it will have to come from the fact that fees have gone up again, right, MeV payments have gone up again and the overall net yield has, has gone up to make it more palatable for people. Now, of course, different things can throw wrenches in this. You know, there could be services offering token rewards for staking and there could be restaking which, which obviously can offer token incentives there or other incentives there. So there could be these kind of like other things that are kind of unforeseen or we don't exactly know how they're going to play out. That could factor into this. And the funny thing is, is that if the bull market comes back in, I don't know, the timing is a bit hard.
00:08:42.910 - 00:10:05.708, Speaker A: But obviously if the bull market comes back next year, right, and demand skyrockets and we have gas fees of 50 way plus and mev is going crazy and we have rest taking, we have token rewards everywhere, you could expect to see a pretty big influx of stakeholders of new ETH to stake, right? But, and that was obviously the impetus for getting EIP 7514, that churn limit decrease into Denkun so that we don't overload the network with validators. And I mean, I totally get that and I've gone through that EIP a lot of times on the refuel before, so I'm not going to rehash it here, but that's where it's going to have to come from because the consensus layer rewards are not changing, right? It's not like they're going to get lower or higher based on kind of people paying more fees. That's just the execution layer rewards side of things. The consensus layer rewards are dictated by the issuance curve, which is baked into the protocol. And the only way to change that is by obviously submitting an EIP and getting it into a network upgrade, which may happen sometime in the next few years. I went over the post from Anders the other day that covered a possible change or tweak to Ethereum's monetary policy to make it better overall for staking. But the way it is right now, it doesn't change unless more people stake or people withdraw their ETH from staking there, which I don't foresee happening, to be honest, because so the way the reason why I don't foresee it happening, the reason why I think we're going to be in an equilibrium for a little while is because if you haven't unstaked by now, right, you're not going to unstake in a big way.
00:10:05.708 - 00:10:37.620, Speaker A: Because I think that if you are going to unstake. And, and what you're going to do with that ETH is sell it. You're probably just going to wait for the bull market to come back to do that. And obviously as I mentioned, there's no real reason to, to stake right now for people who don't want to just get whatever the yield is, three to 4%, they obviously want more than that. And you can get more than that on your dollars. Obviously if you're not like bullish ETH or if you don't think that way and you want a safer way to get yield, you can get more than that on your dollars. But obviously when you, when you're talking about getting yield on ETH, it's ETH denominated, it's paid out in ETH.
00:10:37.620 - 00:11:16.612, Speaker A: And if you are bullish on ETH over the, you know, the next few years, of course, then you obviously are going to benefit from that as well as measured in the dollar amounts there. But yeah, hopefully that gives a bit of context around the current state of ethaking. But as I said, I don't expect to see any major spikes in ETH staking unless, you know, the fee, the fees spike again. And that will just basically mean the bull markets back and it will have to be like a prolonged fee spike. It can't just be like a one or two day thing. It has to be at the very least a few weeks, but I would say probably a couple of months for it to attract a huge amount of new stake. And in terms of exiting stake, yeah, I mean I don't expect that to happen until a bull market either because there's no reason to exit your stake right now.
00:11:16.612 - 00:11:41.338, Speaker A: If you've been staking for a while, especially because you're just basically, when you're exiting, what are you going to do with it? Right. Maybe you're exiting to restake it and get an LST, but I'm talking about like a net x a net a net withdrawal. Right. Whether that ETH gets sold, I don't know. I don't feel like many people want to sell their ETH right now because it in my opinion is the worst time to sell ETH because the market's so quiet. But yeah, we'll see how that shakes out over the next few months. Moving on.
00:11:41.338 - 00:12:21.550, Speaker A: Sigma prime has a new UI for their block print website. Now on this block print block print website, if you go to it here, actually you can see that they have a new nice UI showing client diversity on the consensus layer side of things. And they're explaining obviously where this data comes from, and it comes from something that they created called block print. And they go, and there's a bunch more information here, which I'll link in the YouTube description for you to check out. But client diversity on the consensus layer side of things is looking real good still. I mean, it could be better. Obviously, if no one client was over 33% that would be ideal because right now, if all the prism clients were to have a bug in them and go offline, it would delay finality.
00:12:21.550 - 00:12:42.934, Speaker A: And we actually saw that happen recently. Um, and same with Lighthouse because lighthouse is over 33% as well. So that's why we say the goal is less than 33%. But it's not exactly the danger zone because delaying finality is not going to send the chain offline or anything like that. And it's not going to finalize on a, on a bugged chain or anything like that. Um, but danger over 50% definitely. And obviously over 66% is critical.
00:12:42.934 - 00:13:15.998, Speaker A: Danger, like get, get it below that because that then if there is a bug, it could finalize on that bug chain, which would require social coordination to kind of like fix that, which is obviously what we don't want to see there. But yeah, client diversity on the consensus layer is very healthy right now. But you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, maybe I should have spoken about this before when I was talking about staking, but David Hoffman has a new blog post out today, or talking all about Diva's vampire attack on, on Lido. So you can go read the blog post for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:13:15.998 - 00:13:40.488, Speaker A: But the TLDR is that something that I've been discussing on the refuel up over the past few, past couple of months. Maybe Diva is doing this vampire attack where essentially they're taking in Vanilla ETH and Steth. You're paid Diva tokens, which currently aren't live. That doesn't have a value right now. We don't know kind of what the value is going to be. But you're paid Diva tokens for staking with, with Diva. And then when the D.
00:13:40.488 - 00:14:14.386, Speaker A: But, but the thing is, is that like the Diva Mainnet isn't live right now. It's not actually staking anything. Like if you put vanilla ETH in there, that ETH is not being staked, it's just sitting in the contract. Obviously if you put Steth in there, you're still benefiting from the fact that you're getting yield because the STE is still accruing yield because it is staked with Lido. But then once they launch the Diva protocol, I think the launch is slated for Q one of next year, the ETH that the vanilla ETH is going to be automatically deposited and you're going to get Diva ETH, the Diva LST. And then the STE is automatically going to be swapped for diva ETH as well. So that's why it's a vampire attack, right? And they're using token incentives to do that.
00:14:14.386 - 00:15:01.790, Speaker A: Now, I have said before in the past that, as I said, it's not live yet. This protocol is very new. I wouldn't trust most of your ethan here, to be honest, and I would be very aware of the risks here. But if you are up for taking some risk, if you are, if you do hold Steth right now, and maybe you want to kind of be part of this vampire attack and you want to earn some token rewards that may or may not be worth something, like, we have no idea. Right? You can do napkin math about what it's worth, and I'm not going to do the math on the call, but you can take the total supply, you can give it a market cap, and then you can work out the dollar amount of each token, and then you can look at the. When they, I don't know if they published it yet, but you can actually look at how much diva you're getting per day or something like that. And then you can work out what the dollar amount is there and if it's worth the risk reward for you.
00:15:01.790 - 00:15:21.310, Speaker A: But I definitely highly recommend going and giving David's blog post a read because it's got all the details. But there's also a thread as well that you can read for or TLDR. I'll link them both in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. L two beat has introduced something called the BYOr, or build your own roll up. So they say. Yeah, we're on.
00:15:21.310 - 00:15:50.856, Speaker A: We're beyond thrilled to unveil our new tool, a gateway to sovereign roll ups stripped down to the core for a better understanding of the roll up magic. So what is this? They say this project is a simplified version of a sovereign roll up. In contrast to optimistic and Zk rollups, it only relies on the l one for data availability. It. It is currently deployed on the whole sky testnet, and you can play around with it on the web app, which I've got in front of me right now at BYOR Dot l two, b.com and you can check it all out here. I mean, it's a pretty bare bones UI, but it's there.
00:15:50.856 - 00:16:28.446, Speaker A: And then I continue by saying the code base is here on GitHub. And then for more information on how it works, there's a blog post here as well. So I guess this is just continuing the trend of kind of the, I guess, roll up as a service thing that we've been seeing play out over the past few, few months. Especially there's a bunch of teams building this. And it's not just like new teams, it's existing teams, like obviously Polygon doing their ZK chain thing, optimism doing their super chain thing. The bunch of others have announced different ways of doing it as well. And this really is kind of, I guess, the next big thing of the next few years.
00:16:28.446 - 00:17:19.506, Speaker A: I think it's like, which project is going to win the most chains building on them, basically. Right? And what's that going to look like in the end state? Like, are we going to have hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of these app chains that all kind of interconnect? Or are we going to have the, the generalized chains where the bulk of the activity happens? And I've gone through this before and about my opinions, where I basically said that in terms of the generalized chains, I feel like there's only going to be a handful of them that are, that are super successful. In terms of the app chains, it's hard to tell. Maybe that. Maybe it's a pareto distribution where most of the activity concentrates in a bunch of apps, which I think is probably going to be that. Because if you look at the way, just generally everything works in life. And when it comes to tech, if you look at the popularity of apps, for example, on the App Store, I mean, there are only a handful of apps that have all the users.
00:17:19.506 - 00:18:15.884, Speaker A: And then, I mean, probably more than a handful, but then there's a long tail, right? A lot. Like there's millions of apps, but really, how many apps do all of you use on a day to day basis? Right? I mean, you could probably pick like a hundred apps worldwide that people use on a day to day basis out of the millions. So it's probably going to look like that where we potentially have lots and lots of app chains, but only, you know, maybe, I don't know if it's going to be 100 or some other number like that, where they're heavily used and everyone uses them. Because at the end of the day, there can only be so many app chains doing the same thing. Right? And there can only be so many app chains doing something different, because if you look at the way the mobile market works, for example, apps on the mobile market, there are so many different chat apps, right? But what ends up happening is that there, there's so many different ones, but a lot of them don't have. Have either kind of like regional usage. Like, for example, in Australia, WhatsApp isn't used very much at all, but Facebook messenger is used a lot.
00:18:15.884 - 00:18:52.448, Speaker A: Right. But in other countries, WhatsApp is very popular, so it's kind of a regional distribution there. I don't know if that's going to happen with crypto. I mean, we do see a bit of it right now with obviously BSc being popular in Asia and Tron being popular in South America. But that's more based on the fees rather than the kind of product itself. I mean, you could argue that the product itself is lower fees and stuff like that. But these are all the open questions that you kind of have, right? Where are they going to be, these app chains that are more localized? You know, why are they going to have usage over one of these other app chains? Are we going to have like 20 different app chains that do decentralized exchanges? I don't know what that's going to look like, especially because liquidity is a concern.
00:18:52.448 - 00:19:18.386, Speaker A: Like liquidity is something that has a strong network effect. So it kind of depends on how you can source the liquidity, where it's sourced from, who's sourcing it, fees, all that sorts of stuff. So really, I think we'll get an answer to this at some point. It's probably not going to be for the next five to ten years at least, probably even longer than that. But I do think we'll get an answer to that. But anyway, you can go check out l two beats, build your own roll up kind of blog post here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:19:18.386 - 00:19:38.044, Speaker A: So. Now, of course, Farcaster went live, I think, a couple days ago, so it's live for everyone. It's permissionless. I'm sure a lot of you have signed up for for it now. And Dan Romero announced it here on Twitter, of course. And then he had a couple of other tweets, which I'll just load up here. He introduced something called scriptoless, but on chain onboarding for Farcaster.
00:19:38.044 - 00:20:00.462, Speaker A: Warpcast allows anyone. Warpcast is one of the clients of Farcaster. It allows anyone with an iOS device to sign up for Farcaster without a pre existing wallet or any crypto, just a few taps with pass keys and in app purchases. So all 1.4 billion iOS users can use this without any extra work. So this is very cool. It's integrated directly with the obviously face ID system on iOS here, as you can see in the screenshots.
00:20:00.462 - 00:20:21.966, Speaker A: So basically you create your account, you get charged a dollar a month, apparently. I think it was $5 a year for the, for the first year or something like that. But whatever it is, I guess it's probably going to defend depend on local currencies and stuff like that as well. But, but yeah, you can see what it's like. Yeah, you create the account and then you just use your Face id to sign in. And there's no extra steps, steps required here. It's using the magic of pass keys.
00:20:21.966 - 00:20:53.206, Speaker A: If you don't know what pass keys are, they're basically the same thing as like what we know as crypto wallets, as a private public key pair. The private key is basically is kept on the secure enclave, on the iOS device, or in Android's case on the Android device. But I don't think this is available to Android just yet. And then you can just use that to access your account, which is obviously a huge step up from a UI UX perspective. And I would say this is probably the furthest along, honestly, in terms of an app that's actually getting actively used. Forecast is really alive. I was browsing through the feed today and I'm getting a lot of new followers on there.
00:20:53.206 - 00:21:19.858, Speaker A: So it's definitely alive right now. And I have high hopes for it, to be honest, as an alternative to Twitter, obviously as an alternative to other social media networks out there. And something that's, that's definitely crypto native, I definitely have high hopes for it. But yeah, you can go check that out if you haven't yet. And you can see here Dan Romero also put out a tweet with a screenshot of etherscan showing people paying on chain to sign up for far cast stars. So yeah, people paying with ETH to sign up for Farcaster. That's awesome.
00:21:19.858 - 00:21:47.438, Speaker A: Like how awesome is that? And this is being done at l two, I believe, on op mainnet. This is the dream, guys. Like, I've talked about this for so long now, and it feels like it's, it's been decades, but it really hasn't. It probably has been the last couple of years where I've been going on about this thing. When it comes to the dream of something being like a totally crypto native app, being able to pay in crypto. And being on an l two, Farcaster is one of the most far along apps here. And it's a non speculative app.
00:21:47.438 - 00:22:20.506, Speaker A: That's the most important thing. This is not something that is speculative. Yes, sure, there might be some people trying to airdrop farm. I don't even know if gonna have a token, but sure, people are gonna try and airdrop farm. But the, the point is, is that Farcaster is not inherently a speculative app. It is a social media platform. You go on there, you send your fuck your casts out, you browse the feed, you follow people, you do everything that you do on Twitter, but in a crypto native experience, right? And you also get the optionality of using different interfaces likely used to get when using Twitter, but Twitter shut that down.
00:22:20.506 - 00:22:53.064, Speaker A: And then because everything's natively crypto, it's very easy just to pay in crypto, as you can see here in the screenshot, it's very easy just to pay for your subscription in crypto to far cast it here. So this is really the dream, guys. Every app is going to look like this eventually, speculative or not. It's just going to be very, very easy to sign up. Everything's going to be done natively on chain, it's going to be on l two. So fees are going to be negligible or zero. To be honest, I've discussed before how I think the end state of fees is basically zero because the l two will just cover the fees for the users or it'll just be baked in to different actions that the user takes.
00:22:53.064 - 00:23:19.818, Speaker A: But yeah, just, I don't know. I don't know if you can hear it in my voice. This stuff excites me more than anything because you can finally see it going from insider crypto kind of stuff to like, wow, we can actually scale this to people that aren't in crypto. People outside of the crypto ecosystem are going to get value out of this. And it's not just going to be for speculative reasons. They're not just coming in because they want to gamble on some coin. They're coming in because we're providing them an application that is better than the existing one that they've been using or that they're used to.
00:23:19.818 - 00:23:40.794, Speaker A: And as I said, it is crypto native there. So, yeah, anyway, if you haven't signed up for Farcaster yet, you can. All you have to do is go to the website, go to warpcast.com. That's the client that I use. Probably the best client right now out of all of them and then you can sign up on there. And as I said, doing it from an iOS device means you can just sign in with Face ID. No, no need to do anything else there.
00:23:40.794 - 00:24:14.682, Speaker A: All right, so I did promise you guys a bullish rant at the end of the episode and here we are. So there is a tweet here that I put out just a couple of hours ago where I said the final stage of the bull market makes you feel like you're going to make infinite money. The final stage of the bear crab market makes you feel like you're never going to make money again. Hold on, friends. The light of the bull market will shine upon us soon enough. Now, you guys know my general view on the market and has remained the same pretty much all year where I basically said 2023 is a crab market. Yeah, we're not going to do anything, you know, anything amazing price wise.
00:24:14.682 - 00:24:38.050, Speaker A: We're going to be stuck between that 1000 and $2,000 range for the whole year. And I mean, it's October. We've only got what, two and a half months left of the year and we have been stuck more or less in that one to 2000 range with a little bit of a spike above it or I think two spikes above it during the year, but to like 2100 or something. So it doesn't, it doesn't really count. Right. So we've basically been in that range all year. Now.
00:24:38.050 - 00:25:14.408, Speaker A: I've also said that I believe next year we're going to finally break out of that range and we're going to basically break out of, I think for BTC it's thirty two k, the top of the range. And for ETH it's like two point two k. And I said that once we break out of that range and hold it, then the bull market basically starts at that point. And I've given reasons before as to why I think it's going to happen next year. Obviously, the ETF stuff, new year, bullishness, just following the four year cycle. ETF's of course, all that sorts of stuff there. But the reason I put this tweet out was because it's kind of funny how the markets, just bull and bear markets, they work this exact same way, just opposite.
00:25:14.408 - 00:25:59.312, Speaker A: And what I mean by this is exactly what I said in my tweet. Like if you're, if you remember, I don't know how many of you, how many of you remember this? I remember this, of course, because I'm explaining it, but I don't know how many of you remember this. But if you go back to, like, I don't know, the end of 2021, maybe like October, November, where everything was going nuts, all the nfts were going up, all the other layer ones were going up. Ethan, BTC were hitting a new all time high, and it felt like the super cycle was actually a thing at that point in time. I'm sure many of you felt that you were going to keep making money forever, right? Maybe you had a little bit of doubt about that and you were like, oh, okay, this is too good to be true. But. But I'm sure a lot of you and I know for a certain, most of the market bought into the fact that they thought that it was just going to be up, only they were just going to make infinite money.
00:25:59.312 - 00:26:27.470, Speaker A: The gains train was never going to stop. And of course, that wasn't the case, right? Within a year from that feeling, everything was in the shitter. Like, everything had gone down so much. Everything had blown up. Terror blew up, FTX blew up, Celsius blew up. Like, all of these things blew up and everything went down except BTSE and ETH by 90 plus percent. Right? And just to give you a refresher of how bad it was at the time, ETH went from 4900 in November to dollar 880 in June.
00:26:27.470 - 00:26:52.852, Speaker A: That was six months. In six months, ETH tanked by, like, almost 90% or something like that, or 85 or 90%. Something crazy like that, right? Um, and that. And, and before it bottomed at 880, it was twelve straight weeks of down action to three months of just red down action on ETH. Um, during that. And then, obviously, we, we, we kept going. And then into 2023, it's just been even more depressing, I guess, in terms of price action.
00:26:52.852 - 00:27:32.150, Speaker A: And that's where we get to the second part of my tweet where I said the final stage of the bear and crab market is the exact opposite feeling to what you were feeling at the top of the market, where now everyone's like, am I ever going to make money from this industry again? Stocks are pumping. I could be earning 5% on my cash in a bank account, you know, but my crypto is just doing nothing. Every pump gets sold down. You know, ETH is barely above its all time high from 2018. If you, if you adjust it for inflation, it's below that. Right? So you have all of this extremely bearish energy, which, as I said, is the exact opposite of what people felt at the top. Now, I'm not going to say that this signal is like 100% going to work every time.
00:27:32.150 - 00:28:05.096, Speaker A: But this signal, for me, is a really good signal because if you get to the point where everyone just, like, is in disbelief, they're just basically like, well, you know, I feel like I'm never going to make money again. I don't know what the bull market felt like. This market's a scam, blah, blah, blah. You basically reach the stage where it's like you, and I think I've said this before on the refuel, where it's like you hit rock bottom, literally, and the only way up is up. I know it sounds silly to say, but really, you eventually hit a point where. Where you can't actually go lower. Like, the meme of it can't get worse is actually true at that point.
00:28:05.096 - 00:28:40.584, Speaker A: And I've explained before. How about how this plays out in something called time based capitulation, where it takes a long time to repair the damage? Long time in crypto time. Because two years in crypto feels like 20 years, right? But it takes quite a long time for that to happen. Now, of course, you guys know that my bet is that we're going to break out of the crab range and start a new bull market next year. Timing, as I said, is a bit funny. I have said that I think that we could get to all time highs again the second half of next year, and I still remain that as my opinion here, nothing has changed for me. The four year cycle seems to be playing out very similarly still.
00:28:40.584 - 00:29:05.472, Speaker A: But I have warned before that the next three months, and this was back in September, I think that it would be probably the most brutal because you're getting to the stage now where it's the end stage of the time based capitulation. Everyone's depressed. Everyone's like, I'm never going to make money again. Everything is just bleeding out. Like, not. Maybe not Ethan BTS as much, but if you look at the other coins, guys, they're bleeding out hard. Like, really hard.
00:29:05.472 - 00:29:36.218, Speaker A: And to me, that signals that we're basically almost there. And I could be completely wrong on this. I'm not saying to go out there and bet on. On me being right with 100 times leverage or anything like that, but if you are a long term investor and you are someone who wants to play the four year cycles, this is how you do it. That's what I try to do. I mean, I suck at short term investing because I'm just bullish, biased too much towards this ecosystem, especially ETH. There's absolutely no way that I could ever successfully do short, even medium term investments or trades.
00:29:36.218 - 00:30:03.128, Speaker A: That's just not my jam. Long term, though, I think at this point, after being in this ecosystem for so long, I have a pretty decent read of things. And people will obviously come up with the bear case still. They'll be like, well, you know, rates are high, inflation is still relatively high, there's wars going on. You know, the macro still looks bad. Recession this, recession that, and honestly I can understand that. But that isn't still not enough to convince me that it's going to be a bearish year next year.
00:30:03.128 - 00:30:34.796, Speaker A: Because in my mind there are as many bull, bull catalysts as there are kind of bear catalysts. And I feel like at this point the bear catalysts have already been priced into an extent where it's like we've been hearing about this for how long now? Like at least twelve months, right? The world's going to end the macros shit recession here, blah, blah. And in those twelve months, in those twelve months, inflation has come down the entire time. Pretty much, right. At least in the US, I'm talking pretty us centric now. We had blackrocks file for an ETF, right? A recession hasn't happened. I don't know if it's going to happen or not.
00:30:34.796 - 00:31:11.458, Speaker A: Maybe it doesn't, maybe it does. Obviously the macro economy, if you are someone who now analyzes that stuff, can look bad, like the US debt ballooning and stuff like that. But it's all about like does that actually matter in the context of crypto? My bet is that, no, it doesn't matter. My bet is also that the rate rises are pretty much done and I feel like we're going to see rate cuts next year along with more quantitative easing. But I don't pay attention to that with my crypto kind of investment thesis. All I pay attention to is what I kind of like feel like is a crypto, I guess, centric thing. Four year cycle, obviously some outside things like the ETF's, but sentiment generally as well.
00:31:11.458 - 00:31:36.932, Speaker A: Various signals that I, that I tend to use here. And that's why I say that I play the four year cycle. I play those long, very long term cycles because for me it's much easier because that's just how I think about things. And it allows me to keep being bullish, biased without wrecking myself, trying to play short to medium term trends there. So yeah, hopefully that made you guys a bit bullish. Even if you're feeling like really down or feeling really depressed about this. I know there's a lot of you feeling this right now.
00:31:36.932 - 00:32:06.688, Speaker A: The ecosystem seems quiet because of this, even though there's plenty of stuff still going on in Ethereum. But I don't know, I still get the same feeling I did in 2019 with where we're really just like, almost there, we're on the cusp. I see the light of the bull market at the end of the tunnel. The train I'm on is going really, really slow, but it's going to get there eventually and things can change really fast. As I've explained before, ETH at the beginning of 2020 was $130. By the end of 2020, it was like, what, eight dollar, 900? Things can change extremely quickly, guys. Don't be caught offside.
00:32:06.688 - 00:32:38.342, Speaker A: I guess is the. The only not investment advice I can give. Uh, because getting caught offside, you and then not being able to experience the bull market because you were just like, super bearish at the bottom is worse than losing money because you're not gaining money, but you're not losing money either, so you're not feeling anything. You're just like, oh, my God, like, what's going on? And then you're chasing things and, you know, your emotions go everywhere, so it becomes a bit crazy there. But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:32:38.342 - 00:32:44.984, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
