00:09:22.220 - 00:10:21.190, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening, everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of ETH Global, and it's my pleasure to welcome you to our DeFi Summit. I am seeing a lot of activity here and a lot of hype from our live audience, so I can't be I can't wait to show you what we have planned for today. And it's so good to see all of you from so many different parts of the world joining us to watch all of our talks and just be with us for this entire month of October. So we have a lot of things coming up for the next few hours. And for those of you who don't know, this is a summit that is also mixed along with our hackathon. And what I'll be doing today is before we kind of kick off everything, I'll be just kind of going over how this month is set up and also just kind of giving you a taste of how we're thinking about designing the experience and the talks that are going to be presented today.
00:10:21.190 - 00:11:30.596, Speaker A: So first thing I want to talk about is the live page you're using to watch this event. We've been attending online events for quite some time, and what we wanted to do for ETH Online was do something a lot more interactive and make it a lot better experience than what we've seen in the past. So we decided to create this world computer for our audience to give us a feel for how we can collaboratively and collectively experience this whole thing. There's a lot of cool things that we have planned for this experience, so it's things like being able to change the theme to suit what you're looking at. We have a lot of those minor enhancements for this experience. We have the ability to kind of show you our schedule so you can kind of keep track of what's up and coming as a talk. And for those of you who are currently not on the chat, I encourage you all to sign in and join us on the chat so you can share your feedback and even ask us questions that we can relate to our speakers.
00:11:30.596 - 00:12:02.500, Speaker A: So I hope you like his experience. We have a lot more coming over the next few weeks. And with that, I want to kind of move on to how ETH Online is set up during the course of this month of October. So ETH Online is a hackathon primarily, and the hackathon goes from October 2 to 22nd. So there's about a week left before all of the hackathon submissions are due. And then every Friday for this month of October, we are doing a summit on a different theme. The thing that blows my mind is that this is our biggest event of this year.
00:12:02.500 - 00:13:13.900, Speaker A: We have over 700 hackers working on so many different projects in DFI, Scalability, NFTs, and just a lot of creative hacks that are being worked on together by people from so many different parts of the world. For the summits like today, we have over 2600 attendees that have been signed up and have been watching these events and together the hackers come from 65 different countries spanning 19 different time zones. It is absolutely incredible that we've been able to have sort of a global audience come and participate. So we are getting so many different perspectives and we're getting to learn all the amazing problems that are important to everybody from these communities. We decided to kind of map where everybody's coming from for this event and I am still amazed that we have participation from six continents for ETH Online. So I want to thank all of you for being with us at different times of the day and giving us your attention as we go over some of our talks and also some of our hackathon ideas. So, moving on to the summits.
00:13:13.900 - 00:13:55.588, Speaker A: So this is our third summit for this month and it's on DeFi. So this is the one you're watching. Previously we did a summit on infrastructure and scaling. That was the week before and the two weeks before that was our kickoff summit where we introduced Ethanline and also did an introduction to various topics in this space. Next Friday is going to be our summit on the future of Ethereum, where we'll cover all the updates and things on ETH Two. So do keep an eye out for our next Friday. And the Friday after that is going to be our summit on Ethereum's impact in this ecosystem and our finale for ETH Online, the Hackathon.
00:13:55.588 - 00:14:40.456, Speaker A: This is where we'll get to talk about all the things that we've seen happen in the world of Ethereum this year. So all the progress we've made anywhere from where DeFi started and where we got with DeFi to all of our efforts around the world, not just ETH Global, but the Ethereum space in general. And also our finale for the hackathon will be showcasing some of our favorite projects. They'll be demoing in front of everybody and then of course, for all the hackers that are on this live stream. I just want to remind everybody that next week is the last week for the hackathon. So we hope that you're ready for your submissions. And don't forget that the submissions are due at 11:59 p.m..
00:14:40.456 - 00:15:34.744, Speaker A: Eastern on the 22nd. So I talked about what today is about and how the whole month of October is structured from ETH Online. But what we wanted to do for this event and our summits in general is that really recognize that Ethereum is a global community. Even though it's global organizing these summits and the hackathon, it's very much about how we actually introduce and involve a lot of people from our space. And as part of that, what we're doing is we're inviting some of our favorite people to come and co MC with us throughout these summits. And with that, what I want to do is welcome Ashley Schatt from the Uniswap team to join us as our MC for today. And she'll be with us helping introduce some of our talks and and sharing her insights onto how DeFi summit is structured today.
00:15:34.744 - 00:15:45.560, Speaker A: So with that, I want to welcome Ashley on the stage and I'll have her introduce all of us to all of guys. Hey Ashley.
00:15:45.640 - 00:15:46.824, Speaker B: Thanks Kartik.
00:15:46.952 - 00:15:48.910, Speaker A: Super glad that you're joining us.
00:15:49.600 - 00:15:50.990, Speaker B: Nice to be here.
00:15:52.880 - 00:15:55.644, Speaker A: We're all in different parts of the world. Where are you currently?
00:15:55.842 - 00:15:59.084, Speaker B: I'm in Berlin at the yeah.
00:15:59.202 - 00:16:11.170, Speaker A: Thanks for being with us on the evening. I know we have a lot of stuff planned today, so I want to actually kind of just get your thoughts on how the past few months and this year has been for you and kind of from the DeFi perspective, like what's going.
00:16:13.060 - 00:17:02.870, Speaker B: Well? How long do you have to talk about mean? It feels like the last few months have been like seven years at least. I don't know. It's funny because whereas every other part of everyone's life has slown down to just a halt, DeFi has gone in completely the opposite direction. It's my job to keep up with everything that's happening and I can't I can read all day and I still can't keep up with everything that's going on. So it's been really fun to see a lot of new people in the space. Yeah, I'm really impressed by the amount of coordination and the amount of new things that have been coming to market despite the fact that people are not able to meet up in person, it really is a testament to how kind of global this is. And I don't know, everyone's getting really used to working from wherever, which is great.
00:17:03.480 - 00:17:18.330, Speaker A: No, it's awesome. Well, I hope that we can design a conference that is somewhat close to an in person conference experience. But with that, I think it's time to kick off how the summit is structured today.
00:17:22.140 - 00:17:41.600, Speaker B: Yeah. So today we're going to start off with Stanny and he's going to talk a little bit about Aave and then permissionless building. And then next we'll have Robert Laco from Liquidy talking about interest free borrowing. Then we'll have a panel which will be moderated by Kartik featuring Linda and Jesse.
00:17:43.140 - 00:18:14.670, Speaker A: And then we have Layton, who's going to be talking about Apple together is making it easy for everybody to be rich with their no loss prize games. And then we have Jeremy from the Balancer team talking about how balancer can be leveraged to build a pool. And then we have Sergey who is going to be talking about how we can grow DeFi to even a bigger space with having different collateral types and using more data from other sources to leverage it.
00:18:16.320 - 00:18:44.630, Speaker B: Next we will have Amin to talk about Rye building a money god. That should be interesting. Then we'll have Peter Jihoon Kim talking about USDC upgrading a $1.4 billion token nick fett the Oracle landscape in 2020. And then we'll be following up with Hart from Uma, talking about priceless financial contracts, building synthetic assets with Uma. And then we'll have Alexis and Zubin from Open talking about exploring DeFi options.
00:18:45.640 - 00:19:15.644, Speaker A: Awesome. So that's the talks we have planned for today. So the next five to 6 hours are going to be super jam packed. And in the middle of it, you'll also get to kind of enjoy a radio that everybody's been talking about. So we'll give some breaks in the middle for our audience as well to kind of just relax and chat with everybody who's joining. We have a couple of hundred people watching this right now. So before we move on to our first talk, I want to just kind of give a special thanks to Ave.
00:19:15.644 - 00:20:06.956, Speaker A: Ave is sponsoring this event and this summit, and they've been a massive supporter of Ethg Global for the past almost two years. And we're super excited to kind of welcome them again and have them be part of this event. So we're really thankful for Ave's support in making not only just the events really successful, but also for all the support they've given us from their team to help out all of our hackers. With technical problems being available. All the time helping come up with ideas for the hackathon and just overall getting people excited to build on DeFi and Aave in general. So we have Sani, who will be joining us next, who's going to just give a brief intro to Ave as part of kind of just a quick intro to what Ave is and how they're supporting the DeFi space. And then following yeah.
00:20:07.138 - 00:20:19.810, Speaker B: After that we'll have Sonny giving us a presentation permissionless building with Ave. Yeah, Ave is building so much, it seems like I don't know how he's going to fit all of that into a time slot, but I'm excited to watch it.
00:20:20.120 - 00:20:47.500, Speaker A: So there's a lot of things we have planned and as usual, if you have any questions about the talk for our speakers, just put those questions in the chat on our live page and we'll be relaying them to the speakers after their talk ends. So, without further ado, I'd like to welcome Stani to come and share some thoughts on Aave. Welcome, Stani. Hey everyone. Hey, Karthik. Hey, Ashley. Yeah.
00:20:47.500 - 00:22:04.820, Speaker A: So today we're going to talk a bit about Ave and also permissions building. We'll share my screen. It's super cool to be here now, being very supportive for the It Global community and also the whole Ethereum community. And as some of you all know, Ave and Ave used to be called Eat Lend, short for Ethereum lending, and was kind of like born and raised in the Ethereum ecosystem. And one of the things I personally noticed is back in the days when we started to build in 2016, there wasn't much developer tools available. The ecosystem wasn't this big as it is today, not just D Five, but in general the whole on chain ecosystem. So definitely the whole community has come up very far and I'm happy to see different kinds of hack ideas you guys had in the discord.
00:22:04.820 - 00:23:32.720, Speaker A: I'm looking forward for now we'll give a quick introduction into Ave and what we are doing. So in general, Ave protocol is a decentralized money market protocol, which basically means that it consists of different kinds of reserves or actually money markets. And within those money markets you have reserves. For example, you have Dai Reserve, USDC Reserve, USDT Reserve, for example, stablecoin Reserve or other currencies as well that are listed there. And each reserve is a function of a pulled reserve in the sense that when you deposit into these reserves, your funds are basically mixed with other depositors. And as a money market protocol, you basically deposit to Ave to earn interest, to earn yield for your stable coins or other assets. And when you deposit into Ave, let's say Dai, what happens is that actually a credit line is granted to you.
00:23:32.720 - 00:24:56.590, Speaker A: So you can actually borrow against what you deposit into Ave or you can let someone else to borrow and delegate that credit line. And that's the kind of like a main functionality what we have. It's basically a base layer protocol in the DeFi ecosystem. Lending and borrowing is interesting in the sense that it provides the very basis yields for these cryptographic assets that are on ethereum network. So that is why today we're going to discuss about how people are using Aave and why it's so popular and basically what makes it so popular and why we see a lot of kind of like integrations or base part of this so called money Lego blocks. We started back in this year with the protocol in 2020 January and completely from scratch with the liquidity, the liquidity has grown quite substantially. So in DFI, those who are less familiar, there is a metric called Total Value Locked which represents the value that the smart contracts of a protocol has.
00:24:56.590 - 00:26:02.444, Speaker A: And interesting part here is that as a metric, it's not the best metric to measure any kind of a success because it just tells what is the quantity of funds that the smart contracts are trusted, but it doesn't measure the success of the protocol, the integrations or any kind of volumes and so forth. So it's basically derives from the idea that putting funds into smart contracts is always a risk. So you're risking funds in that sense. And that is why it has been seen that the more people are putting funds, the more people trust the protocol. It's not the most convenient metric, but it is what it is today in DeFi. So the money market consists of different reserves and different yields. And those yields are derived from the interest rate curves based on the utilizations.
00:26:02.444 - 00:27:14.116, Speaker A: So the more funds are deposited into Aave, it basically means that there's more funds to borrow and the interest rate goes down. And when there is more demand for, let's say different stablecoins, for example, we see more demand on Ave or less supply in Aave, sorry, in Dai. And that means that the interest rate in Dai is basically higher. And those interest rate curves that we have as a basis in the protocol, those things can be changed by the governance, for example, to optimize the yield curves. And that is one of the most fascinating things and maybe less kind of like a research area in decentralized lending on how those kind of different curves could be optimized and alternative curves could be created. And quite an interesting hack idea and also a research topic out there. And as Ave is a protocol, it also means that new money markets can create it from this protocol.
00:27:14.116 - 00:28:49.120, Speaker A: And we created during this year Uniswap version one as kind of like a proof of concept money market to allow uniswap liquidity providers to collateralize their LP shares in Aave and borrow funds against them so they're unlocking liquidity. And we got a lot of positive experience from creating this new money market. And with our upcoming version two, we will deploy the support for latest release of the Uniswap division two and also a bunch of other very interesting derivative money markets. What makes Ave quite special is that we rely heavily on interest bearing tokens. This basically means when you deposit into the arbo protocol, let's say you deposit Dai, you get in return Adai, which is an interest bearing token that represents your deposit into Abe and also any interest you're earning. So it's kind of like a receipt that you get after putting your funds into a locker. And what makes A tokens very interesting, and especially recently we have seen a lot of kind of other projects trying to also kind of take inspiration from the A tokens is that those balances of the A tokens are increasing.
00:28:49.120 - 00:30:03.020, Speaker A: Algorithmically it basically means that when you earn interest in the Ave protocol, your A token balance grows wherever you're storing. It can be in custody, it can be in your MetaMask, in your ledger. That balance is growing there as long as the provider, the wallet that you're using fetches the balances from the blockchain. And these are actually programmed to increase every second in that sense. And why it's so interesting is that you actually don't need to go back to Ave to claim that interest that you earn, but it's actually credited directly to your wallet. And I could imagine that in the future you could do all kinds of similar tricks, algorithmic balance increase tricks when it comes to payments. If you're actually hacking something in this hackathon, you could actually think about using something similar as a tokens with the changing balances especially it's cool because you save gas cost directly.
00:30:03.020 - 00:31:53.650, Speaker A: And of course it's USD nominated, which means that since a tokens is an interest bearing token, you don't actually need to deposit to abba to get a tokens, but you could actually just buy a tokens from somewhere and you actually have the exposure. If you buy a tokens from unisop or balancer, basically you're getting exposure into Permissionless Savings Account. And this is very cool because it creates a very easy way to integrate Ave. So you don't need to actually even use the simple deposit functionality or repay because you could just exchange a tokens from one place to another and use something like automated market making protocols. The important part about a tokens is that the part of being a Permission Savings account is that it actually helps people in the sense that if you come from a region, I mean, this is a very global hackathon, right? So if you come from a region where the local currency has a lot of inflation and basically there's no legitimate good access into USD nominated savings accounts in your banking infrastructure, this actually solves a critical problem in that sense because you actually have a savings account and actually no one can come in between. You basically hold your right to that. So you're not trusting banks in that sense and anything else in between.
00:31:53.650 - 00:33:01.204, Speaker A: And this is like over a long term period is quite powerful. And of course the thing is that the balance continues to increase even if you send that a token to someone else. So essentially what it means that you actually have a payment currency that is actually all the time increasing in the balance. I mean, what could be any better than paying someone with a currency that increases in value compared to a currency that has inflation and decreases in value. And this just shows what kind of innovation you could achieve in decentralized finance with the technology. And then we have an interesting feature that got a lot of traction in the protocol, which is called flash loans. So in essence, what you could do, and you could use this in a project that you are building now if you need some kind of liquidity or upfront capital.
00:33:01.204 - 00:33:53.400, Speaker A: So how does it work? You basically borrow from Ave 100% under collateralized loans. So usually when you borrow in DFI, it's over collateralized. So you put a collateral which is more value and then you borrow something else that you actually need. So you're using your collateral there as a deposit here. With flash loans you basically borrow without a collateral and you can borrow maximum amount of liquidity that there is in Ave currently it's roughly over billion, fluctuates from 1 billion to one and a half. And in practice, when the depositors are depositing into Ave, only 25% are borrowing. So the rest liquidity is there which could be used in flash loans.
00:33:53.400 - 00:35:08.732, Speaker A: And the kind of like idea of the flash loans is that you need to return the flash loan in one transaction. So if you manage to do that, then whatever you do in between will be successful in that sense. So how does it work? In the sense is that the Ethereum blockchain settles every block and every block has certain amount of gas that could be spent on transactions and every transaction could have nested transactions. So one transaction could execute multiple transactions. Which basically means that you borrow a flash loan from Aave, you could basically buy a currency that is cheaper, let's say in uniswap and sell the currency in balancer where you get better price, for example vice versa, and return the borrowed currency back to the Ave protocol. And because you return this transaction, all the other transactions will also succeed. If you fail one of the transactions, for example, you don't return the funds back to Ave.
00:35:08.732 - 00:36:45.220, Speaker A: It basically means that all the other transactions you made to call with this used capital will also fail. So it's kind of like a thing that relies upon the Ethereum atomicity and has been existed there for as long as Ethereum has been around and there's quite interesting use cases that you could do. You could do for example refinancing instruments where you don't need to take liquidity provider's capital. Instead, let's say you have a loan position in one lending protocol on Dai and you see for example that in another lending protocol there might be cheaper loan on USDC and you are using, let's say ETH as a collateral. So you could take a Dai flash loan from Ave, close the loan in the first lending protocol, take the ETH and put it to the narrow lending protocol and then draw USDC and now you have basically cheaper borrow rate you take the USDC and you sell it in uniswap and basically for die and return that flash loan back to Abe. So what you actually did is that you refinance a loan from one currency to another, one lending protocol to another and to a cheaper borrow rate without actually using your own capital. And this is a product that you could actually build for an end user and it's direct value added for them because they can change their exposures without actually returning those loans.
00:36:45.220 - 00:37:38.610, Speaker A: And there's a bunch of other things that you could do with Flash loans. I think it's just imagination that is limiting. I'm pretty sure that even during this hackathon, as usual, we will find some pretty new use cases and something that will impress everyone again. Yeah, Flash loan is kind of a serious volume these days. Since we launched in January, there has been over half a billion worth of Flash loans and I think DeFi Saver is one of the most active user in terms of Flash loans. And one cool part is that the Flash loans actually provides basically yields for the end user as well. So it's kind of quite cool.
00:37:38.610 - 00:38:26.604, Speaker A: Another thing we have, which is quite recent, that we added is so called credit delegation functionality. So credit delegation means that basically now roughly 75 or so percent there in the average protocol are depositing but not borrowing. So they're purely using the protocol to gain interest, to gain yield for their stable coins or other assets that they're long. It might be like Aave link and so forth. And that's pretty fine. That's the use case we have. But we noticed that basically there is also demand for borrowing, of course without a collateral.
00:38:26.604 - 00:39:36.660, Speaker A: But actually credit delegation is a way of delegating your credit line after depositing to someone else who could actually borrow. This could be your friend, another person, for example, you could make a legal agreement with that person, or might be OTC lending Desk. Or it can be also like actually a smart contract that you delegate the credit line to. And the idea is that the depositors, when they delegate the credit line, they actually earn more. And actually cool thing about this is that when you deposit one currency, let's say you deposit USDC and earn interest, when you delegate your credit line to someone, that entity can actually borrow anything that is possible to borrow from Aave. So that's pretty neat thing. And for this functionality, we actually deployed the so called Credit Delegation proxy which allows you to actually create this new create delegation vaults.
00:39:36.660 - 00:40:39.400, Speaker A: And anyone that holds eight tokens just deposits eight tokens into this vault. And once there's a tokens, it means there's the collateral and then the borrower can draw from the other protocol without a collateral. So I think I'm very bullish on the ability to lend out to smart contracts. There is one example of Wyron's Ya Link vault which actually has credit delegation activated, which means that you can deposit a link into this Ya Link vault. And that vault basically draws credit line from Aave. So it borrows USDC and then I think it deposits into curve to farm CRV and generate yields for the depositors. And currently they are borrowing roughly 20 million worth of USDC with the credit delegation.
00:40:39.400 - 00:41:47.900, Speaker A: The potential is huge. And I definitely urge everyone that is interested in this feature to think what kind of other use cases there could be for delegating credit to a smart contract that has pre programmed functions that people can read the contract and understand that okay, by reading this contract, the borrower contract only can do this particular function. So I'm happy to delegate because there is no credit risk or the credit risk is very low. So this is like very cool thing. Yeah, Avenomics is interesting thing because we have this so called safety module in the protocol. So one of the reasons we have a lot of integrations and developers building on top of Ave is because it has been battle tested. And on top of that we have the so called safety module where the ave community members are staking their ave into the safety module against rewards to basically provide safety for the protocol depositors.
00:41:47.900 - 00:42:19.912, Speaker A: And that's very interesting functionality. And the idea is to basically provide safety for all different money markets there are. And if there is some ideas to hack around kind of like the safety module and how to use it. Because it's insurance in one sense. And I think insurance is something that is highly needed in the DeFi space, but also where we will see a lot of innovation. So that is an area to take a look at quite closely. Yeah.
00:42:19.912 - 00:43:53.160, Speaker A: So the actual topic here permissionless building with Aave I want to actually discuss a bit about what is permissionless and why it matters in a sense and just show a bit of the key components what goes to the permissionless kind of properties such as the composability and how some of the projects that are building on top of Aave or have been built previously in these it global hackathons has actually utilized why it actually is very big value proposition for the whole ecosystem. And whatever we're building. So in very normal sense we all know that permissionless means that anyone can access. So those developers who come from the web two world, you probably pretty much know how it works there in the sense that, let's say if you want to build a product that interacts with other, let's say software, you basically need to obtain an API key. So you need a permission to use that other piece of technology. You need to subscribe to terms and conditions. So basically whatever you're building has to actually be in the line of what the service provider is offering and accepting and providing in their terms and conditions.
00:43:53.160 - 00:45:15.884, Speaker A: And then once you get the API key, then you can build different things and that API key can be revoked as well. So that access might be granted for temporary period basically in the permissionless, just like building permissionless applications, it basically means that actually you don't need any kind of API key and all the components usually are pretty much open source on ethereum. So that means that anyone can build anything they like. And for the users it means that anyone can access those things that you build whether directly or through smart contracts. So permissions technology doesn't discriminate the backgrounds of the users or the developers. It basically means that wherever you are located in the globe, you have the ability to build whatever you want in the whole ecosystem. And it's just not only decentralized finance, but for example, you might build new games, you might build some other functionality and take advantage of the whole ecosystem.
00:45:15.884 - 00:46:39.432, Speaker A: You could take advantage of decentralized finance, interact with those protocols, interact with for example NFTs and crypto, blockchain based games and a bunch of other stuff. Think about it as an internet where everything is accessible. You can use everything that is put into this. Internet, this decentralized network and that all data is usable for you and also all the interactions is also something that you can partake in and usually you can also build things on top. If there is a lending protocol like Aave you could actually build other kind of functionality that is needed or then you could just use ave to something else and use all the different protocols and all the lending protocols that are in Ethereum and even breach to other blockchains. And that is the idea of the permissionless means not just permissionless access as a user but also the permissionless building and that is what these hackathons are all about to me. And of course it means that no one takes permission on your funds.
00:46:39.432 - 00:48:09.064, Speaker A: That goes with the noncustodial aspect and that you can see what's happening in the whole ecosystem. You can see and you can audit, anyone can audit what's happening and this is like big part of the whole permissionless value proposition and I could maybe say that you could compare the permissionless DeFi or permissionless technology as an ocean in some way. So I love this picture in the sense that it really shows kind of like what you are actually accessing. So in this case if you think about ocean it's all connected with each other. In ocean you have different kinds of life in different part of the world and everything is accessible in Ethereum it's actually accessible with one function in real life probably in oceans you need to travel long distances if you want to see what's happening in another part of the world. So imagine how it reflects in decentralized finance is basically you see this kind of like liquidity pools in different places. You have ave you have for example uniswap market making liquidity balancer and whatnot and all those liquidity pools are accessible to you.
00:48:09.064 - 00:49:18.508, Speaker A: It's a big ocean that anyone can join, participate and no one restricts your access. There is no one coming to you and saying that you can't swim in the ocean because that kind of thing doesn't exist. It belongs to no one. And that's basically what it is. And I really love this comparison. And in practice how it works is for example, I was brainstorming with Mariano Conti, used to be a developer in MakerDAO and does a lot of things in the DeFi space about MakerDAO walls where basically when you create this MakerDAO world, it basically means that you collateralize ether or something else and print dai the stablecoin. Now there's different variations you could use Ether as a collateral, you could even use USDC as a collateral but you cannot swap the collateral in between.
00:49:18.508 - 00:50:39.256, Speaker A: So let's say even you collateralize eat and then you print die but then you want to change it to WBTC. You can't do it because you need to close your CDP and there's various reasons for that to keep the system simple and more secure for example and as a usability it's kind of like a difficult and I ask in Twitter just publicly like is there anyone who actually wants to build this thing? Because this is very good value proposition and very useful for many and a person that I didn't previously know. David Truong actually wrote in a few hours that I actually created this. Now I read the tweet, I created this small proof of concept so you can now swap your collateral from eat to bat to eat and that was pretty cool. And then just another person from somewhere else around the globe came and basically tried to swap the collateral and was successful in this. David, I first time met him actually in one of the global hackathons in It London where he was hacking as well and now he actually works at Aave and helps also in this hackathon. So if you have any questions from David, need any help, so feel free to reach out.
00:50:39.256 - 00:51:55.072, Speaker A: But this just shows you like you can be anyone from anywhere and just start building, participate and just create products that you think people need or products that you care about and no one is restricting you to do that. Once you deploy into the main net first testnet, of course you need to be responsible, but end of the day they will live there as long as the blockchain is hold up and there's compatibility in the update. So you could create virtually applications that will run for the rest of their existence. Imagine deploying a completely new bank that will just run as long as there is demand for it. The side effect is of course that it might become quite competitive because if someone deploys a new bank that is slightly better than your bank, then the liquidity might go partially there. But it's of course not the full story and competition that rise, innovation and so forth in terms of composability. So permissions building also means that anyone can build on top.
00:51:55.072 - 00:53:17.852, Speaker A: So if you build something during the hackathon on Aave, I might not even know about it unless you basically come and tell or I read the submission and that's the beauty out of it because you can build something fairly quickly and use liquidity that already exists in Ave or in the whole D Five ecosystem. And now the Ave ecosystem for example, there's I think 50 different ways to access Ave with different browsers or different integrations and also pretty cool projects that has been built on top in Ave. And I think this really shows what DeFi is actually not about one particular project, it's actually the whole ecosystem. When we started in 2017, in the beginning before ETLand, there was one decentralized exchange and you couldn't do much in that environment. But now where you have different kinds of liquidity pools, lending protocols, options, platforms, derivative futures, there's so much you can actually do. And also the other parts of the onchain economy NFDS and so forth are growing as well. So it's just expanding so much.
00:53:17.852 - 00:54:16.448, Speaker A: There's so many things to build. One of interesting projects that now in terms of composability is being built is Avagatchi. So ave gotchas are NFDS. So non fungible collectibles in the shape of ghost. So you have this kind of like a ghost characters and they have variables consumables and you can connect different kinds of brands into this ecosystem. And what's interesting about the Avocadchi project is that the idea came from last hackathon in hackmoney in terms of directing interest rate from one place to another. One of the founders, Dan, basically created this yield hero where you can redirect interest rate and from that idea he came up with the Ave Gotchi idea.
00:54:16.448 - 00:55:15.920, Speaker A: And it works in a way that you basically get these ghost collectibles and you can unlock those ghosts based on the interest you earn on Ave. Which basically means that the better you are at saving funds, the quicker you unlock the collectibles. And also there is this kind of a rarity farming, the better you save, for example, the more rare stuff you can get. And yeah, teaching people to save, that's the objective of this particular project. And that is why it's very remarkable as for example, the A token is a way to get grant permission savings account globally. This is a way to teach people how to save. So there is very interesting mechanics behind of this project and it's daiko which is the actual real fair launch to launch project.
00:55:15.920 - 00:57:06.052, Speaker A: So it was interesting because there's not many of those. And yeah, it started in hack money as I presented another project which is pretty cool and fascinating in the sense that is that they focus on providing stablecoin swaps with low slippage, which basically means that they're rewarding liquidity providers sufficiently to provide enough deep liquidity for stablecoin swaps. If you want to swap large amount of stablecoins, which used to be very problematic because the lack of liquidity and usually you didn't have stablecoin to stablecoin pairs. And this is what practically curve solves and to optimize those yields, curve, especially the Y pool curve deposits are going to Aave, which means that they're optimizing their yield and they're storing the collateral, the deposits in Ave getting the Ave yield and the liquidity price also getting the trading yield from curve. So it's a nice way to kind of like increase the efficiency of the product that you're creating. For example, I could imagine, for example, scenario where if you're creating a payments project and you could create some sort of like pulled model where liquidity is stored and in that way you could store that liquidity, let's say in Aave, and use those yields to pay the gas fees and enable free transactions to some extent and a bunch of other stuff. So it's an interesting thing.
00:57:06.052 - 00:58:06.010, Speaker A: And of course the wires Ya link world which I mentioned earlier is pretty cool way to use the credit delegation function directly to smart contract. The cool part is that Ya Link vault is a deposit vault and it has a strategy. And since these two things are kind of like deployed code, you basically can read the code and see what that strategy can and can't do. And based on that you can understand, okay, this strategy doesn't increase any credit risk. So it just borrows from Ave and then farms something and brings yields for the wirelink depositors. So in simplicity, link depositors are receiving A link. When they deposit into Aave, they take their A link and deposit into the Ya Link vault to earn more.
00:58:06.010 - 00:59:30.960, Speaker A: And the vault itself with its strategy borrows with credit delegation from Aave. So the Ya A link depositors are actually ones who are delegating the credit to these places, to the and currently they borrow USDC and that's pretty interesting to basically farm. And we have another interesting project called DeFi Saver that's actually utilizing the flash loans. And this is pretty cool in the sense that they are closing automatically CDPs in maker system before liquidation. So in essence they're borrowing Dai from other protocol and they close the CDP with the Dai, take the eater, sell the eater, return the Dai to the other protocol and return rest of the proceeds to the user so that the user doesn't kind of pay the liquidation, kind of like incentive for the liquidators. So they're saving funds that way. And one particular interesting project is called Photocombo.
00:59:30.960 - 01:01:00.488, Speaker A: And I think this is interesting in the sense that it's a way of using no code so aimed to non developers to basically create different kinds of DeFi transactions. And you could basically create a flash loan deposit into uniswap to provide liquidity and swap between uniswap Kyber and do a bunch of other stuff. So it's really interesting that you could actually create products that are not targeted to developers but create functionality to non developers because that's a big crowd that could be satisfied. And then we have Blazor which was in London. This project offers fixed term loans they deposit into Aave and then with their own interest rate calculation, they offer you a fixed deposit rate and also give you the future earnings for you for a fixed time period. This is quite interesting and I think the fixed deposit and also fixed borrowings is something that is still unsolved and could have a lot of innovation in the space. And if you want to get started yourself on building permissionlessly with Ave, there is developers docs docs Ave.com
01:01:00.488 - 01:01:49.292, Speaker A: developers about the A tokens and how to do a flash loan. So there is an actual example on how you could implement a flash loan with a flash loan receiver contract and try it yourself out and it might help you on whatever you're building in your project. That's all about it. This is our team, the Aventures and there's a QR code to our telegram. If you have some questions, we're here. We have the sponsor channel in the Hackathon discord. So if you have any questions but besides that, this was the presentation from my part today and I hope you guys had fun following.
01:01:49.292 - 01:01:51.330, Speaker A: And yeah, thank you.
01:01:54.100 - 01:02:21.608, Speaker B: Thanks so much, Danny. That was great. I was hoping we would have a little time for questions, but unfortunately we have to move on to the next one. But I just wanted to quickly add that if anyone does have questions, you can go ahead and put them in the chat. Stanny, I think there were a few questions for you. So if you want to hop back in the chat, I think everyone's very excited that you're here, so there might be a few things if you want to hop in the chat to answer them. Thank you so much and thanks again for sponsoring the event.
01:02:21.608 - 01:02:42.770, Speaker B: So cool. And yeah, look forward to having you back next time. Awesome guys. Next up we have got Robert Lauko from Liquidy. I'm very excited about this talk. I might be slightly biased, I'm an advisor to this project disclaimer, but Robert is going to be talking about interest rebarring on Ethereum and I will let Robert take it away.
01:02:45.540 - 01:03:37.090, Speaker A: Thank you, Ashley, for this introduction and I'm very glad to be here and thanks for having me. So let me share my screen and then I can just start presenting. So Ashley mentioned I'm going to present liquidy. Liquidy is an interest free borrowing protocol built on Ethereum. And now let me just start with a short overview of what I'm going to talk about. First of all, I would like to outline what makes a stablecoin borrowing system attractive to the borrower or to the end user. And then in the next section, what I would like to do is just look at what kind of key ingredients or building blocks there must be in order to achieve those goals, like to make stablecoin borrowing as attractive as possible.
01:03:37.090 - 01:04:43.610, Speaker A: And I will cover those ingredients like efficient liquidations and our stability mechanisms in more details later on. So let me basically start with this with the first. What should a borrowing protocol really achieve and offer to the user? It should be obvious that 0% interest would be very attractive because nobody likes paying interest or fees. And then it's also maybe not that obvious, but to some people this is a relatively important property that the system is immutable and really decentralized, which means that the whole system acts fully in a fully autonomous way, so there is nobody who can interfere with it or tamper with it. And then last but not least, speaking of collateralized borrowing, because Liquid is all about collateralized borrowing, we also wanted to make it capital efficient, which basically boils down to having a minimum collateral ratio as low as possible. In our case, we are targeting 110%.
01:04:44.300 - 01:04:49.690, Speaker B: Just quickly if you have slides you might want to share them because I don't think we're seeing them.
01:04:52.480 - 01:04:59.790, Speaker A: That's strange. Oh, sorry. I'm really sorry. Can you see them now?
01:05:01.280 - 01:05:02.590, Speaker B: Yes, we can.
01:05:03.040 - 01:06:12.870, Speaker A: Really sorry. Yeah, so here are my slides. So basically I'm talking about these three properties we want to achieve like 0% interest rate, immutability and decentralization and capital efficiency. So capital efficiency here boils down to a low collateral ratio which in our case should be 110%. This is still subject to an ongoing agent based modeling effort but based on our first intuition, it should be around this number. And now what do those three does it router really entail or what do we need to do in order to achieve them in our system? So here I think starting with the interest rate, it's important that we can issue our own stablecoin because only if we can basically mint our own stablecoin that we give out as a loan, only then can we make it interest free. Because otherwise if we need to source it somewhere on the capital market it would mean that the system would need to pay interest rates for it so that it cannot lend it out to others without charging any interest rate.
01:06:12.870 - 01:07:13.784, Speaker A: And another aspect here is that interest rates are also important in some systems to keep the stablecoin really pegged to the US dollar or whatever underlying they have. And we do this differently by making our stablecoin redeemable at face value. So you can always get an equivalent amount, like an amount that is equivalent to the face value of the stable coins that you redeem. And this redeemability is coupled with a set of one off fees which even though they are fees, they are only payable at the beginning. So you are not subject to some variable fees like as you would with an interest rate and then with immutability and decentralization. What's really important for us here is that we make our system governance free. And governance free not only means there is no body that can vote on parameter changes, but there is also no admin who could just stop or interfere with the system.
01:07:13.784 - 01:08:09.928, Speaker A: And we would also just start or use ether as our only collateral in our first release at least. So this means that ether being really the native currency of the ethereum network, this makes our system as decentralized as possible. We are not relying on any kind of token that may be subject to some centralized influence. And we go one step further by making it so that third parties can run front ends and they are even incentivized to do so. So that nobody can just easily shut down our own servers because we won't even run our own web interface. We are focusing on building the protocol and then release it into the wild. And then for capital efficiency, what's important there is really a way of liquidating positions that fall below this minimum collateral ratio in a very efficient way.
01:08:09.928 - 01:09:15.996, Speaker A: And we should also incentivize liquidators to that end, especially if the gas costs are high. So we need to pay them some compensation for the gas costs. And we also rely on an Oracle or price feed service that's fast and reliable because that's like the base input that determines whether a position or needs to be liquidated or not. So let me first of all give you more details on our instant efficient liquidation mechanism. If we compare it to what existing CDP platforms do, it's either they are like when a position becomes under collateralized, they either do collateral auctions where they basically sell the collateral to the highest bidder, or they just sell the collateral at a fixed price. Like fixed price probably means that there is a discount on the current Oracle price. Now, the problem with this is that such a liquidation mechanism is generally rather slow and inefficient by design because collateral takes time, auctions take time.
01:09:15.996 - 01:10:27.140, Speaker A: And also with the fixed price sell offs and the discount, it's not as efficient like price wise as it could be. So we, on the other hand, we try and do it differently by introducing a mechanism for liquidations where we can basically use the existing stakeholders in our system to liquidate our Troves. So we call the CDPs in our system the individual borrowing borrowers positions, we call them Troves, just to clarify that expression here. So what we want to achieve with that is to have this fast and efficient liquidation so that there is no need to find a buyer or bidder because they are already somewhere in our system available and there should be no risk of further price drops which could happen during like a lengthy liquidation process. Now, how do we achieve this? This is a little bit involved, but I will walk you through the main steps of this mechanism. So we have to differentiate between two system modes. On the left hand side we have the normal, the healthy mode of our system, which is the case when the total system collateral ratio is above 150%.
01:10:27.140 - 01:11:23.690, Speaker A: Again, this value is subject to simulations and we may have to adapt it. And then on the other hand, there is another special liquidation mode that would kick in or that would take place if the total system collateral ratio is below 150%. But let's focus on the healthy, on the normal operation mode of our system. And this involves two steps. One is a stability pool, which you can think of as an insurance pool, which is there to absorb every Trove that needs to be liquidated. Like every Trove that falls below this 110% would first be liquidated against the stability pool. And if the stability pool is not sufficient because it doesn't contain enough tokens for liquidating those troves, then we would fall back to another mechanism which is a redistribution which involves all the other borrowers in our system.
01:11:23.690 - 01:12:05.780, Speaker A: So I will skip the recovery mode for now and just show you how this main stability pool based and redistribution based liquidation works in a bit more detail. Now, so LUSD, this is the name of our stablecoin. It's obviously pegged to the US dollar. Now, every holder of this LUSD token can deposit it to what we call a stability pool. So at any time any holder can do that. So this pool will fill up over time. And then there is also another pool which may collect ether tokens from liquidated positions but at the beginning it will just start empty.
01:12:05.780 - 01:13:14.376, Speaker A: Now, let's say this position falls below the minimum collateralization ratio. Here you see the debt in red and the collateral in blue. And like we just assume here that this is below 110% as an example. So what happens is that the system can simply burn the equivalent amount of tokens, the amount that's defined by the debt of this position is burned from the stability pool and the debt can then be cleared here. So the debt is gone and the tokens were burned. Now, what happens again, or what happens as the next step is that the ether that was hold by this trove is just sent to the ether pool. Now, this pool contains some ether from the position and just the fact that those liquidations happen slightly below 110% collateralization means that whatever gain is sent to this pool should be higher than the amount that stability depositors lose.
01:13:14.376 - 01:14:33.220, Speaker A: Like the amount of LUSD they lose should be lower than the amount or the value of the ether that they gain here. And obviously, or just to go back here, the main idea is that you can basically deposit as a holder, you can deposit your LUSD to the stability pool and then you can cash out whenever you want. And the gains and the losses, they are calculated in proportion to the deposit that you have made because there will be obviously not just one depositor, there will be many. So the system just takes their stakes or their deposit as a measure to determine who gets what share of the pie. Now, it can still happen that there are just too many positions or troves that need to be liquidated or just large ones so that this stability pool would get emptied. Or if basically this debt in red is larger than this debt in the tokens held in the stability pool, then we can only partially absorb this position via the stability pool. There will be like a rest like you see here, red is still, there is still some remainder debt and remaining collateral here which we need to somehow liquidate.
01:14:33.220 - 01:15:26.640, Speaker A: And as I mentioned, there is a secondary or fallback mechanism called redistribution which would then kick in. And as the name says, basically we are just redistributing shares or chunks of this position to all the other borrowers in the system. Now again, this would happen in proportion to the collateral to those blue bars. So we chunk up the collateral of this trove and give those shares to all the other borrowers in the system and bang, they got it. So you see that the bars, like they are now slightly larger and we do the same with the debt like in red, we also just chunk it up and give it to all the borrowers in the system. So this is done. And now we see that the position was fully liquidated and everybody got some collateral and some debt.
01:15:26.640 - 01:16:22.024, Speaker A: And again the same rule or same property would hold. That if we assume that our Oracle is fast enough and there is somebody to trigger the liquidation, the liquidation function quickly enough that this liquidation should happen at a collateral ratio which is still above 100%, close to 110% ideally. Which means that those borrowers who receive the shares from the liquidated position, they would not lose anything. So they would rather gain like a net value from the position. So this was all about liquidations. Now I would like to cover another topic which is also important and this is how our system achieves price stability for its stablecoin. Now again, here we do things a bit differently from existing systems though.
01:16:22.024 - 01:17:32.670, Speaker A: CDP platforms out there, they generally use variable interest rates which are set by human governance mechanism. This is a bit like a central bank where you can basically modulate the attractiveness of the loans by setting an interest rate, so that you can basically contract or expand money supply by making loans more or less attractive. And there is also something which I call a soft peg mechanism which basically involves that whenever a stablecoin has a long term perspective of being stable and pegged to $1, then you can say that if there is like a short term deviation from the peg. Let's say it's slightly above one dollars. That means that people would have an incentive now to take out loans because they would hope that in the future that would go back to one dollars, so that when they repay their loans, they would need slightly less money to repay basically their debt. And the other ways the opposite is true. If it's below one dollars, it makes sense for you to repay maybe even a bit earlier than you would have repaid if it was exactly one dollars.
01:17:32.670 - 01:18:38.944, Speaker A: Now, we on the other hand, we have a zero interest rate system, as I mentioned initially, and also we have fees in our system, but they are algorithmically governed. So the system just looks at its own variables and like the state of everything and determines the fees. And what it also has is this redeemability which I will just cover in a SEC, which is not present in existing platforms. And now with those with the fact that we have a redeemable token and we also have a relatively low collateralization ratio of 110% we can create a price floor and a price sailing. So we can basically squeeze the price between those two boundaries which would act as relatively hard boundaries compared to the softback mechanism that I mentioned here. But we'll see how that works. So generally we have the borrower operations like the borrowers who just deposit ether as their collateral and take out loans in LUSD.
01:18:38.944 - 01:19:47.748, Speaker A: That's like similar to what is already there in the market. But what we add here is a redemption, right? Or a redemption mechanism which basically entitles any holder of LUSD to basically exchange LUSD for ether at face value, which means that you get a value of ether in return, which just corresponds to the dollar value of your LUSD. Basically you get, let's say you redeem 100 LUSD, you would get back $100 worth of ether and this. Now the question is where does the system take the ether from? And obviously it needs to take it from the borrowers because it does not come with its own pre field reserve. So what we do here is that we basically sort the troves by collateral ratio. You see here, this is the riskiest one, this is a bit less riskier and so on. And this is really well over collateralized.
01:19:47.748 - 01:20:44.060, Speaker A: So this is still our borrower Bob. And now when Ashley comes along and wants to redeem LUSD for like what happens is basically that the system starts at this position and it uses the ether that are redeemed to repay Bob's position, like repay Bob's debt. So this happens then. And what also happens is that the system takes the amount from Bob's collateral which corresponds to the amount of debt repaid and gives it to Alice. And if there is a I mean, there should be a surplus here, a remainder because this position was collateralized at above 110%. This remains with Bob. So Bob does not lose anything, it's just the fact that he loses basically the opportunity of staying invested.
01:20:44.060 - 01:21:43.612, Speaker A: And if the redeemed amount is more than the debt of Bob, it would just proceed with the next riskiest position and do the same there. So repay the debt of this one and give the collateral an equivalent amount of collateral to the person and so on. So this obviously means that there is a risk of being affected or hit by redemptions as a borrower. But you can lower your risk by increasing your collateral ratio, by making sure that you are not at the bottom end of this sorted list, but let's say in the middle or in a higher range. Now, what we also do is we take fees on or we charge fees on both the loan issuance, which is like a one off fee. Like when you take out your loan, you may have to pay an insurance fee by default, this fee is set to 0%, but it can go up. And similarly there is also one off redemption fee which.
01:21:43.612 - 01:23:06.296, Speaker A: Is charged on the redeemed amount. Like both the issuance fee and the redemption fee, they are one time fees and they are determined as percentages of the loan amount or the redeemed amount. And the fees they are charged in LUSD here and in Ether for the redemption and they are collected in a staking contract which holds our secondary token called Lqty. So the stakers of these Lqty tokens, they would get a share of the fee revenue generated by the system. And you see that an issuance fee has a very strong immediate effect on the attractivity of new loans, basically, because if you have to pay, let's say, 5% on the loan amount as a fee, you would rather consider. Whether you want to take out the loan now or wait maybe a few days or weeks until the fee would go down to zero. Because we see that the fees, they are algorithmically governed and they are governed in a way that whenever there is a redemption they would go up because the system can detect with the redemption or just infer that whenever somebody redeems tokens, the tokens would be below one dollars.
01:23:06.296 - 01:24:47.620, Speaker A: So if the price of one LUSD is below one dollars, it makes sense for you to redeem because what you get back from the system in Ether is worth more than this one dollars. In such a situation, it makes sense for the system to raise the issuance fee at least because by making the loans more expensive it can throttle the growth of the system because whenever the price is below $1 there is this kind of risk that the system is just growing too fast and it needs to be throttled. And then we also have a time based decay where the current base rate, which serves as a basis for the redemption fee and the issuance fee would just decay and go back to 0%. So in a state where the system has no redemptions, nobody redeems, the fee should eventually go back to 0%. And this, if you put that all together, leads to a nice price dynamics because we can basically have a price floor down here because if the price is below one dollars minus the fee that you would pay on redemptions in that area, it makes sense for you to redeem. And there is also price sailing which is a result of the fact that if the price trades above 110, like one dollars ten, then you can basically take out the maximum amount of LUSD against your Ether at this one or 10% collateral ratio and then sell your LUSD on the market and make an arbitrage gain. So we basically have arbitrage opportunities above the ceiling and also below the floor.
01:24:47.620 - 01:25:48.924, Speaker A: And in between we still have a softback mechanism similarly to what's already like the case with similar systems. And I will skip this. This is just like another way of showing how the price dynamics work out in practice. And I just want to quickly cover the last topic of this talk, which is an incentive mechanism for front ends and early adopters. As I mentioned in the beginning, we really want to make it so that the system will be decentralized and we don't want to just rely on our own front end. So we need to have some enshrined incentives to make it attractive to front ends to run a web interface. And the way this works is we will create like a front end launch kit which would be relatively easy to install for anybody and also release like an SDK for our system, which allows existing platforms integrator wallets to build upon or integrate our system.
01:25:48.924 - 01:26:58.080, Speaker A: So those front ends, they can be part of our system and they can set a kickback rate between 0% and 100%. And now when the system is in action and people like borrowers and stability depositors use a front end basically to interact with the back end, like with the protocol, then the system would measure the turnover generated by those early adopters. And based on the turnover, it would calculate like an allocation of Lqty tokens, which is our secondary token, the one that captures the fees. So the more turnover a front end generates, the higher will be its share of LQT tokens that it receives over time. So this is a continuous allocation. Early adopters will get more, so the curve will start high and then go down over time. And the kickback rate also means that there is a part which goes to the or stays with the front end, but the rest, which is defined as the kickback, is basically sent to the users.
01:26:58.080 - 01:27:56.180, Speaker A: We haven't fully defined yet what would be the basis for this incentive mechanisms, whether it would be the stability deposits made by them or the borrowed amount or some combination of the two. But anyway, the idea is that the users would get those Lqty tokens based on the kickback rate and based on the amounts that they transact through the front end. So there is a very high incentive to become an early adopter user or a front end for our system. So that's it. I'm here to answer questions and I just wanted to say that we are planning launch for Q One next year and we already have a Devui live on all important testnets which can be accessed via Devui liquidity.org. Thank you so much for your attention.
01:27:57.400 - 01:28:07.240, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks Robert. We did have a question. So Toilet Head asks is this only for short term loans like Ave?
01:28:09.980 - 01:28:28.880, Speaker A: This can be for short term or much longer term loans. So there is no limit on the duration of loans. The only limit you have is that you have to keep your collateralization above the minimum threshold, which is 1%. There is no minimum or maximum period of your debt.
01:28:31.620 - 01:28:46.020, Speaker B: Okay, great. There's another question in the chat about assessing loan risk for each loan. So does the system assess loan risk individually or is there an aggregate way of assessing risk?
01:28:47.000 - 01:29:24.880, Speaker A: I'm not sure if I understand the question right, but the idea is that the loans, they are collateralized. They do not depend on the credibility or the credit worthiness of the borrower as a person. But of course, the lower the collateralization ratio, the riskier, the loan, because with the price movements of the ether used as collateral, there is a higher chance that they may fall below or may drop in this range where they can get liquidated. And we use this kind of riskiness to evaluate which loan should be hit by redemption or subject to redemptions.
01:29:25.620 - 01:29:31.030, Speaker B: Great. Awesome. And when is Liquidity going to be live?
01:29:32.200 - 01:29:42.470, Speaker A: So liquidity should be live in Q one next year. This is on our schedule and, yeah, we do our best to make it happen. Awesome.
01:29:43.000 - 01:30:02.268, Speaker B: Very good. Well, thank you so much, Robert. Really appreciate you joining. If no one else has any questions, I don't know, Robert, you might want to monitor the chat in case there are any additional questions. But that was all that I saw for yeah. Thanks so much. We will move on ahead.
01:30:02.268 - 01:30:24.150, Speaker B: We've got a pretty full schedule here, so next up we have a DeFi investor panel. Kartik is going to be moderating a panel with Linda Yee and Jesse Walden. Linda is from Scalar Capital. Jesse is from variant two of the sharpest investors in the space, so this should be a good one. I'll let you guys take it away.
01:30:25.880 - 01:31:26.056, Speaker A: Thanks, Ashley, and want to welcome Linda and Jesse for joining us on this panel. So we've kind of been doing a lot of these summits every Friday here, and a lot of them have been around showcasing a lot of the projects that are building cool things in the space, especially today, where we get to see a lot of what's happening in DeFi. And we really wanted to take a tiny slot here to talk about the other side that's also betting on the future. And that's some of the investors that are not only just in this space and have been in this space for quite some time. But also the ones that are also participating in these things from the other side of this market and really kind of talking about what's interesting to them. So what I wanted to do was kind of make this a very sort of casual conversation. I have a handful of questions that are like, really specific ones, but overall, I think this is more about just all of us just kind of sharing some of the things that we've noticed in the space over the past few months, but also with the past few years.
01:31:26.056 - 01:32:11.690, Speaker A: And what I'd like to do is start off by kind of asking Jesse and Linda to introduce themselves and just kind of talk about who you are, how you got to where you are and a little bit about your fund, so I'll let Jesse take it from here. Okay, cool. Hi everyone. I'm Jesse, the founder of Variant Fund, which is a new crypto venture fund I started earlier this year. Prior to that, I got into the space as an entrepreneur. I started a project in 2014 called Media Chain Labs, which was frankly a little bit too early probably, but we were aiming to build a developer platform that would enable people to compose media Legos like people are composing DeFi Legos today. That was the idea.
01:32:11.690 - 01:32:47.360, Speaker A: And after working on that for about three years, the company was acquired by Spotify and I led Blockchain, R and D there, and shortly thereafter I joined Andreessen Horowitz and helped launch the crypto fund there in early 2018. So spent the last two and a half years prior to Variant with a 16 Z, ran a 16 Z's crypto startup school fairly recently and then decided to spin out Variant to focus on early stage investing. So, Variant is a $22 million fund that's sized for precede and seed stage.
01:32:49.880 - 01:33:37.200, Speaker B: Hi, I'm Linda. I'm co founder of a crypto fund called Scalar Capital. We invest in both early stage and also late stage, but our specific focus is on Tokens. I think that's something that's really exciting about the crypto space and having people from all over the world being able to participate in various networks. I first joined the crypto space in 2014 when I joined Coinbase, had a bunch of different roles there from working with regulators and law enforcement, and later was a product manager working on compliance and fraud systems. I'm just really passionate about crypto, and I've just done a lot of writing in the space as well. So once I got deeper into that, I wanted to kind of start a fund and get to explore more of what's happening in crypto and get to talk to really amazing entrepreneurs.
01:33:38.180 - 01:34:26.384, Speaker A: That's awesome. So this is a DeFi summit, so I do have a lot of stuff that I want to talk about with DeFi, but actually before that, what I want to do is maybe just kick it off with a question around just how things have evolved from your perspective. So, Linda, you started Scale Capital nearly three years ago, if I'm not mistaken. And Jesse, for you, Variant was fairly recent, as in this year, and kind of having sort of seen a lot of cycles in crypto from your perspective. Linda, I'm actually curious if you're able to share some of your insights on what the experience was like raising a fund back then and three years ago when people were just still getting used to what crypto is and kind of how that evolved moving forward. And then maybe, Jesse, you can sort of compare and contrast what this was like earlier this year and we'll kind of go to the D five questions after.
01:34:26.582 - 01:35:14.204, Speaker B: Yeah. So when I was raising in 2017, this was pretty fresh off like the whole ICO craze. So I think there was a lot of people who were skeptical about crypto back then and rightly so. But I think a lot of my conversations within Silicon Valley were really positive and people understood the innovation and just like long term potential of crypto. And so I found those conversations really fun and really engaging. I spent a lot of time also talking to kind of more traditional finance folks, like pension funds and endowments and that kind of crowd, and the conversations were a lot more difficult. And so I, over time was iterating on my conversations there, and mostly at one point was just like, yeah, bitcoin is digital gold.
01:35:14.204 - 01:35:57.536, Speaker B: And that was my main focus. And one part that they did find really interesting was there was a lot of conversation about price volatility during that time. A lot of the traditional financial folks were just really concerned about how volatile things like bitcoin were and whether that was a good digital gold. And so I would talk about that concept of a decentralized stablecoin and I would explain what Dai was to them and a lot of them found it really fascinating. That was one thing that really stuck with them. And I think that that was kind of their exposure into learning more about DeFi and that was kind of my Trojan horse into having those conversations. So, yeah, very different worlds, and it's improved a lot since then.
01:35:57.536 - 01:35:59.440, Speaker B: But back then there was a lot of skepticism.
01:36:01.460 - 01:36:42.270, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess my experience has been pretty varied. I would sort of rewind the tape further back. So not just fundraising for variant, but fundraising as an entrepreneur trying to build sort of a blockchain startup in 2014 was incredibly difficult. There was literally at that time, there were no dedicated crypto funds, that's for sure. And for the most part, there were no traditional venture firms touching the space with the exception of the USV Andreessen Horowitz. And both of them actually ended up investing in my company, media chain Labs. That's how I came to sort of know the team at a 16 Z.
01:36:42.270 - 01:37:42.930, Speaker A: But I remember back then, the way I started that fundraising process was just jumping into the comments on USV's blog because they were talking about Dark Web Marketplaces and how it was so interesting that when one would get shut down, a new one would pop up the next day and all of the sellers were there with their identity and reputation intact. And that of course was because identity and reputation was tied to public keys as opposed to centralized identity. And so I got in the comments and was like, wouldn't it be cool if you could do that same thing? But instead of for guns and drugs, you could do it for any piece of media on the internet. So make creators discoverable through their work anywhere it was distributed. And anyway, that got us a meeting and got us seed funding. So that was sort of very serendipitous, but trying to convince other investors at the time that that was going to be the future we would all live in was extremely difficult. And then I guess fast forward to variant today.
01:37:42.930 - 01:39:05.176, Speaker A: Well, I started fundraising sort of right on the back of crypto startup school and that was in March and April, which was also when COVID hit. So you can imagine trying to fundraise at that time was also very difficult. But I think the fact that crypto bounced back pretty resiliently from Black Thursday actually ended up being tailwinds for the fundraise and so what started as a very slow fundraising process ended up picking up a lot of momentum as people saw that, yeah, crypto really is resilient. So I think, Linda, to your point that you are having to convince people in 2017 that Bitcoin is a reasonable store of value and that crypto is going to be around and stablecoins are going to be a thing, I think that's pretty well understood now and was just reinforced by how things bounce back. That was great. I'll kind of do a quick follow up to Linda's comment and I want to see if you both have any different opinions on it from your experience. But Scalar Capital is set up as a hedge fund where you are in a way a bit more heavy on the liquid investing side, but both of you are and Jesse, your fund structure is a venture capital fund or VC fund and you are able to do equity and tokens as well, but different priorities.
01:39:05.176 - 01:39:26.530, Speaker A: So I guess as you talk to your potential investors, do you sort of see any themes or sort of different preferences where they really don't want to stay too tied to tokens because volatility or whatever reason, but they are still interested in crypto because they're betting on companies in the space. How does the long term versus trading sort of differ for each of you?
01:39:28.900 - 01:40:27.060, Speaker B: Yeah, for the hedge fund side, I think when people hear the word hedge fund, they have these impressions that it's maybe more trading focused and maybe there's more hedging involved. So I think that having conversations as a hedge fund with a long term focus doing really early stage investing and liquid coins as well, I think that was a little confusing for some people at first. To really understand the concept behind that, and especially among the more traditional financial folks, they wanted the liquidity of a hedge fund. So being able to come in and out of the fund, whereas when we were presenting them with these quite long lockups and withdrawal periods, I think they were really thrown off by that. So that was like a more difficult conversation. But in Silicon Valley, people kind of treated it pretty normal because at the time polychain was one of the main examples and they were structured as a hedge fund. So it was pretty common to just be like, oh yeah, okay, so it's a crypto hedge fund.
01:40:27.060 - 01:40:39.290, Speaker B: But nowadays I think that as long as you have the right structure and terms in place and you're attracting the right LPs, you can really be long term focused with either structure, but definitely like pros and cons to both.
01:40:40.460 - 01:41:39.036, Speaker A: Yeah, variant is structured as a venture fund, but it does also invest directly in Tokens and all the LPs in the fund are on board for that. And the expectation is that most all of the equity deals that we do usually done with a warrant for Tokens. So the assumption is that and the thesis for the fund is that many crypto startups will plan to exit to their community of users and that is likely best accomplished through a Token. So the expectation is many of the equity investments will become Tokens over time. And so while the portfolio may start more equity heavy, it will almost certainly end very Token heavy. And all the investors committed to Variant are locked up for ten years minimum. And so by default it self selects for LPs that are long term oriented and sort of view this as a game that's going to take a long time to play out.
01:41:39.036 - 01:42:38.592, Speaker A: No, that's extremely insightful. So it's going to actually segues right into the question I had for both of you, which was we are clearly seeing a trend in ownership distribution, like people exiting to their communities, people wanting to get their communities involved. And it's taken multiple forms, kind of just token sales in general. Like DAOs, we've had just protocols switch into these types of models. Jesse, since this is sort of one of the primary thesis behind the fund, I'd love to kind of get your take on what this means to you and sort of how do you think this kind of rolls out to a larger scale over the next few years. And I'll have Linda join in for any additional comments. Sure, yeah, I think what's happened in the last, I guess six months or so in DeFi world is you've seen a bunch of projects that have established some early signs of product market fit, launch tokens and effectively give those tokens to people who actually use the product.
01:42:38.592 - 01:43:42.710, Speaker A: And that is what I call sort of progressive decentralization. I think Compound was probably the first to sort of execute this playbook earlier this year and now many others have followed suit. But I think if you zoom out and look at sort of the bigger picture of crypto as a whole, this same pattern has been playing out for some time. Where Bitcoin and Ethereum were the first examples of projects that were built and now are operated by a community of users that are rewarded for doing so by having a direct ownership stake in the network that was either earned or bought. But that incentive alignment I think is a very powerful new tool that crypto sort of exposed and we're now starting to see that economic model applied to more verticals, starting with DeFi. But I expect over time the same model is going to become manifest in other kinds of marketplaces that are perhaps more consumer facing and so I'm really excited to see that happen.
01:43:43.800 - 01:44:34.596, Speaker B: Yeah, I completely agree. Really excited about that. I think one thing though that I would like to see more teams iterate on is looking at the past examples of ownership distribution and really seeing how effective they were and trying to improve from there. So I think you're starting to see the start of that where people are adding more vesting on the rewards, giving past user distribution so you can't just have only speculators. So I would love to see just more people experimenting there and taking lessons learned from that. And then one thing because I talked to a lot of teams where they are like, oh yeah, our plan is to just add liquidity mining or our plan is to just distribute these tokens. And I think my only thing there is just to make sure that this is something that would actually really be good for your product.
01:44:34.596 - 01:44:49.672, Speaker B: Because once you exit to the community, as Jesse says, you can't really undo that that easily, because now you have everyone owning your product. And so making sure that it's the right time and is also the right reason you're doing this, I think, is really important to think through as well.
01:44:49.806 - 01:45:56.830, Speaker A: Yeah, I strongly agree with both of those points. I think one thing to just add is each time a team has done this in the last six months, there's been a lot of iteration on the design. And so I'd say where we are right now, maybe by analogy is sort of like, I don't know, in the early two thousand s the web is just starting to become a mainstream thing and there's no best practices around growing network effects. But PayPal stumbles on this thing which is like, hey, if we give $20 to each of our users for signing up and then we do this referral program we can grow the network really quickly and then that sort of becomes like a best practice and many other startups sort of follow suit and riff on that model. I feel like we're in a similar spot right now where we're starting to see the best practices emerge but we haven't really sussed out exactly what they should look like yet. So that's both the challenge and a really exciting opportunity that I think we're going to figure out in the next couple of years. No, for sure.
01:45:56.830 - 01:47:27.470, Speaker A: Maybe this is something that I guess I hate to be on the spot, but I feel like this is worth digging into. But it's one of those things where do you kind of foresee this as a way for us to now represent what we already know works in the Web Two side or just how people think about customer acquisitions. If you're running a SaaS business or any other website, the PayPal example you gave and just porting those exact models to crypto? Or do you think this also enables a lot more unique kind of either impossible or unheard of ideas back then because of the lack of technology that are just not uniquely enabled with crypto or tokens? How do you feel like that sort of converges? And if you think it's going to be something new, do you kind of have any ideas on what that may look like? I definitely think it's going to be something new because tokens, I see them as like packets for value, right? Packets are standard way of moving data and tokens are a standard way of moving value instantly to anyone anywhere in the world. So I think PayPal enabled electronic value transfers, but it's sort of constrained by the legacy financial system and so it was impossible and it's still impossible today for Web Two companies to easily distribute ownership value of their product or services to users. Like you can't paper equity contracts for people all over the world at internet scale, but you can move tokens in that way. So I think that technology unlock will lead to sort of organizational and business model unlocks as well.
01:47:28.480 - 01:47:47.330, Speaker B: Yeah, completely agree. I'm really excited and part of why I'm joining crypto is because I'm really excited about all the unique use cases and ways of ownership that happen only with something like having a token where anyone in the world can actually own and participate in it. So I'm hoping that it's going to be completely new.
01:47:48.040 - 01:48:36.130, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think one thing we haven't seen effectively in Web Two yet is community operating a project at scale. Co ops have existed for centuries and we've seen social networks exist but they kind of just tend to become smaller groups that kind of exist in their own universe. But I guess how do you kind of think about measuring when a community is ready to sort of take ownership or be more active? Do you think it just ends up becoming a hierarchy again by default where you kind of trust some people to kind of own something? Or do you think we can actually get to a world where like hundreds of millions or thousands of people are just kind of contributing to make a decision or making something better?
01:48:39.000 - 01:49:33.510, Speaker B: So for myself, I feel like there are definitely decisions that are really crucial to the protocol that I think should have a really high quorum for actually getting change through this process. So I wouldn't necessarily say those kind of decisions should be made very quickly by a community, but I think that there are smaller decisions, maybe day to day or treasury management at a smaller scale that I think would be awesome to have the community involved. It's really hard to say when they're ready, but I think generally going through phases and being able to prove some concept would actually be really valuable. So doing some votes where the ramifications of it are quite small if something goes wrong and then seeing how that goes with the community and then kind of increasing the thing at stake over time and just kind of gradually decentralizing the project.
01:49:34.920 - 01:50:52.056, Speaker A: Yeah, I think I always like to sort of reference the organizational model of successful open source projects where generally there's a core maintainer or a group of core maintainers who are responsible for a lot of the heavy lifting. And then there's sort of a longer tail of contributors that sort of add value on the margins but don't commit changes that drastically change the code base. So I think it's probably likely that that's where community owned and operated networks end up too. I would go so far as to say I think protocols that have sort of strong leadership will be sort of most effective at making impactful decisions. But the key difference between a community owned network that has that kind of leadership and say like a Web Two platform that has leadership through a CEO and a board is that the users actually have recourse in a community owned network. So if the leadership starts to work against the will of the community, there's something that users can do beyond just stopping use of the product. They can actually remove those leaders and put in new folks.
01:50:52.056 - 01:51:34.440, Speaker A: So I think that's sort of the model that we'll likely get to. And right now some of the challenges around that are figuring out how to incentivize the leadership to do the work, because it is work to have an informed opinion about how these protocols should evolve. And it may not be enough to simply say that while you own tokens you should participate in a vote every Tuesday. People may need to get paid for that, just like CEOs and people on boards get paid for their expertise. Absolutely no. These are some super interesting perspectives and I think this is kind of the first time we get to see these things get executed at scale. So that definitely excites me at least.
01:51:34.440 - 01:53:06.490, Speaker A: So switching Grace to DeFi so, kind of taking from the investor perspective, how do you each think about investing in this space as investors? Is it more about you kind of looking at what people are excited about and then seeing what's kind of the best thing in that space and sort of investing in those companies? Or do you maintain an active list of problems that you like to see solved? Independence of those answers? What's kind of exciting for you that you're either thinking about or would like to see more of in this space? In DeFi so personally, what I would say is I definitely look to entrepreneurs to tell me what the opportunities. Are. I don't try to forecast sort of where the market need is. So I'm definitely looking for people who understand where the opportunity is and have a clear idea of how to capture it. I guess in terms of what I'm interested in, I think one thing that I was just talking about earlier today with someone was it is pretty remarkable how everyone's still using MetaMask. And so this is not DeFi specific, this applies to all crypto and it's like MetaMask is great, it's been around for a long time but it really hasn't changed all that much. There's a few new cool features like swapping, but it's been pretty much mostly reliable and status quo for a while now.
01:53:06.490 - 01:53:22.590, Speaker A: But meanwhile, DeFi has changed so much and so I feel like there's a huge opportunity there to sort of move with the times and make DeFi more accessible. So that's something I'm excited about and I think others are too.
01:53:23.920 - 01:54:39.732, Speaker B: Yeah, I similarly, I don't have a hard list of things that these are the only things I'll invest in. I think that especially in crypto, if you do something like that you're going to miss out on a lot of the really creative innovations that would never be on a list. I have a broad sense in that I do think that pretty much every product within traditional finance is going to be ported over to DeFi in a more noncustodial decentralized way. But then there's going to be a lot of things that get created that we have never seen before and that's the part that really excites me and something that I have been really excited by is the idea of being able to have lending protocols be able to lend to people who don't have large amounts of capital. So right now there's just large collateral requirements for these lending protocols and rightfully so because the assets are normally quite volatile. And so to make DeFi more accessible to people who aren't just whales, we definitely need more solutions for that. So that decentralized identity and reputation systems, but we also invested in a project that's doing a web of trust model so being able to start small and having people delegate their credit to someone else is really exciting to me.
01:54:39.732 - 01:54:59.070, Speaker B: So that's kind of an area I want to see more expansion of and then just also generally really excited by porting over assets from something like Bitcoin to DeFi and also tokenizing other areas real world items and being able to move that within DeFi and be able to exchange it as well. So yeah, a lot of really exciting opportunities right now.
01:54:59.680 - 01:55:29.270, Speaker A: No, absolutely and maybe kind of just similar to that then, I guess. Do both of you agree that for DeFi to really be successful, it has to be in the hands of billions of people? Or do you think it still is a metric of need and a problem it solves, but only for a handful of people because we maybe measure total value in the system or the amount of money being traded in and out? Or do you think it has to be consumer for this to really kind of be effectively called that this is working and is a bigger need?
01:55:31.160 - 01:56:30.292, Speaker B: So I'm not sure if mine's contrarian in the space, but I definitely separate what I want to see versus what I think can happen for it to be successful. And I think that DeFi can actually be very successful if it's not reaching the hands of billions of people and is actually just significant improvements to the traditional financial system on a more decentralized way. People aren't getting their funds stuck in all these accounts. There's a lot more transparency, so we don't have another situation where we have all these CDOs and CDSs floating everywhere and people have no idea what's going on. So I do think that it can be very successful, although the part that excites me is when we get in the hands of people who have been traditionally excluded from the financial system. And so I want that to be the case, but I don't think it has to be for this to happen. And it's kind of similar to how I view Bitcoin in that in the early days, I actually joined Coinbase in 2014 because back then it was like, oh, payments, everyone's going to be paying for their copy with Bitcoin.
01:56:30.292 - 01:56:54.192, Speaker B: And then over time, as that became less and less feasible, people kind of more talked about it as digital gold and now more of the kind of large institutions are using this for their capital balance sheet and you're seeing less of that payments use case. But I think that Bitcoin is still really successful in this manner. It just doesn't necessarily reach what we had initially thought. So I kind of separate those two in my mind.
01:56:54.326 - 01:57:48.290, Speaker A: Yeah, I think about it. Similarly, I think it's very likely the case DeFi has a ton of room to grow. One just serving as like a speculative casino to potentially getting to a point where it is servicing financial professionals with a better sort of infrastructure. But I think where it gets really interesting is when it does touch end users or consumers. And that's know to point you made earlier, Linda. I think there's going to be a bunch of financial instruments that are sort of net new that traditional finance types are not going to be the ones to invent, but consumers will invent because they have these new tools that make it 100 times easier to create something like flash loans. Flash loans? Yeah, I think NFTs are sort of an early example in this category, right.
01:57:48.290 - 01:58:40.404, Speaker A: Finance, I think, exists not in a bubble unto itself, but to serve an economy of real goods and services. That's the point of finance, at least initially. That was the point. I think traditional finance can move onto these new rails, we can have a very large casino speculating on crypto and using these new instruments, but when there's a real economy of goods and services also running on the same rails, I think that's when DeFi will really shine. And so maybe to sum it all or tie it all together, I would say I think these are going to be three distinct phases and each of them point to it being bigger and bigger than the one that came before. So I think it's going to be enormous and it's going to take time. But yeah, I'm very excited about it.
01:58:40.404 - 01:59:18.050, Speaker A: I think this is really good positioning because it's not about a single end goal, it is a transition into that much bigger opportunity and vision. So thanks for kind of pointing that out. So we are almost at time. So I have two quick questions I'd like to ask before we end this thing. So Linda, you recently tweeted about just kind of all the activity that's happening on the L2 ecosystem. And I'm curious, what are your thoughts on how L2 sort of just gets introduced in the space and also how that integrates into DFI? Anything you kind of learned from that research and just kind of going through all that material on what's happening in L2?
01:59:18.980 - 01:59:46.164, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm really excited by what's happening on L2. I have been using some of the different solutions. So sent TBTC using DK sync. It was almost instantaneous. It cost only a few cents. So it's pretty exciting to see that. And then I've been using Xdai for playing Dark Forest, so there's all kinds of solutions out there and for me it's like you really only need one or a few to actually be successful and work to have scaling and DeFi.
01:59:46.164 - 02:00:05.310, Speaker B: So I'm very excited by a lot of the different solutions and I mean, it seems like with optimistic and ZK rollups, that kind of is at the forefront right now. They both have their pros and cons and I think that both will be used for different use cases and what the entrepreneur prefers. So I'm just happy to see there's so many options and there's not just like, oh, this is the only thing we have.
02:00:05.920 - 02:01:01.200, Speaker A: Yeah, same here. I like using analogies, so apologies for if they're imperfect, but the early web was a layer of protocols or a layer cake of protocols, right? And there was a time, Mark Andreessen recalls that where people were saying HTP was going to expand and take on all this functionality and sort of scale up throughput and all these new privacy and all this stuff. But that's of course not how it happened. There's HTP and IMAP and Pop and SSL and all the rest. So I think to your point, Linda, I think there's a bunch of different solutions. Each of them are probably best suited to certain kinds of applications that require those features. Like if you're optimizing for privacy, you probably want zero knowledge proofs and optimistic roll ups are more composable at L2.
02:01:01.200 - 02:01:56.704, Speaker A: So I think different trade offs for different applications and likely all of them will play a role. And right now it's a fascinating time to see what will happen and sort of where the different projects land. I don't try to take a view on one of these winning out over the next. I think I'm excited to just see sort of the best teams compete on their feature set. Obviously, I think in some of these cases, most of them are actually complementary and adjacent to each other too. And it's one of those things where we realize what actual features you get to add on as part of being connected to more than one of these systems. And not also a perfect analogy here, but I think the thing that we're seeing in crypto right now is sort of an amplification of the Unix velocity and just doing one thing really well and getting that out as a product and then it being composable enough that we get to integrate and pipe things into different things.
02:01:56.704 - 02:02:39.296, Speaker A: So kind of like the early Internet where protocols were just really low level interfaces, this is a low level full experience and that's super exciting. So last question before we kind of end this panel. Any advice you'd like to give to the founders that are starting companies in DeFi? I'll just leave that very open ended. Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to run with the progressive decentralization playbook. I think over the last six months, there's been a lot of, I don't know, confusion or questions about how and when to launch a Token decentralize your community.
02:02:39.296 - 02:03:19.630, Speaker A: I think I stand by my original post on this subject, which is it's really hard to make decisions by committee, especially decisions to do with finding product market fit. Like, you need to be able to iterate fast. And I think that's best achieved by being as flexible as possible. And so I would encourage founders to really map out a path to product market fit first before launching a token. And so that's why I've started a very early stage venture capital fund to help founders get there and thereafter think about the best way to exit to the community.
02:03:20.240 - 02:04:26.892, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a fantastic post that you wrote, and I sent it to a bunch of entrepreneurs. So I really think if you haven't read it, it's definitely worth reading. Yeah, just to add on to that, I think that there have been so many projects and kind of waves within crypto that we really should look at past kind of projects and what they did well, what they didn't do well. And iterate from there I feel like sometimes I do see a lot of teams kind of build and complete silos without looking at this is how it went for another project that did almost the exact same thing. So I think just making sure to look more at just previous experiences, obviously have your own originality and do it yourself in the way that you think is best, but really take some lessons learned. And then the other thing was just, there's also just a lot of capital in the space that kind of still wants to get rich quick. So when you are raising from investors, if you do decide to raise from investors, just making sure that they are very long term aligned with you, I do see some entrepreneurs fall into the trap of just like, quick money and subsequently those investors might just sell off the tokens immediately.
02:04:26.892 - 02:04:34.420, Speaker B: So just being really careful about who you bring into your community and making sure they're long term aligned, absolutely.
02:04:34.490 - 02:05:11.276, Speaker A: No, thank you so much for that. I think just even if, whether you're an investor or a founder, your reputation is your biggest assets. So it does matter how you think about it actively because that's something you can't just change quickly or flip. So whether it's progressive, decentralization or being short term in your decision making is just not going to be helpful to the rest of the community and just everybody else that you are building things for. So great advice. With that, I'd like to thank both of you, Linda and Jesse, for being part of our panel today. I think we still have a handful of questions that are coming in the chats.
02:05:11.276 - 02:05:26.820, Speaker A: If you have time, I'll encourage you to kind of join Live Ethonline.org and just kind of reply to some of the people. But with that, we'll move on to our next talk and I want to thank you again for giving us your thanks. Yeah, thanks for having us.
02:05:26.890 - 02:05:56.232, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having us. Thanks so much guys, that was a great panel. Thank you, Kartik, that was very enlightening, as always. Always good to hear from those guys. And Linda was right, if you haven't checked out Jesse's post, I would highly recommend it. Okay, next up we have Layton Cusack from Pool Together. He's going to be talking to us about how to make everyone rich, the future of no Loss prize games.
02:05:56.232 - 02:05:58.130, Speaker B: Layton, I'll let you take it away.
02:05:58.660 - 02:06:30.040, Speaker A: Awesome. Just let me get my screen share going here. So, yeah, thank you so much for having me and shout out to all the people at ETH Global. It's such an awesome event. And for those of you who may not know, for Pool Together, which is a protocol that I spend a lot of time working on, it actually started at an equal event, so I hope everyone's inspired and really excited about what's going to come out of this event. So this talk is going to be about how to make everyone rich, the future of no Loss Prize games. I'm really excited about it.
02:06:30.040 - 02:07:15.748, Speaker A: I spent a lot of time trying to prepare it for you, so hopefully it's good. I'm going to talk about three main points in this presentation. The first is going to be basically just defining what are no loss prize games. It's sort of a weird term and I want to talk about what it is. The second is going to be making the argument for why no loss prize games are actually an incredibly differentiated and really important economic tool to make everyone rich. And the third is going to be talking about the current state of no loss prize games on Ethereum specifically. And it's going to be more of a call to action, really to the community on this call to kind of showcase what is possible and showcase what is possible and what we can do with no loss prize games on Ethereum.
02:07:15.748 - 02:07:50.556, Speaker A: So with that in mind, let me jump in to this first part of the presentation. What are no loss prize games? And this is a pretty simple definition I have for you, which is they are no loss savings accounts offering the chance to win prizes. So a typical savings account, right, you deposit money and it has a couple of attributes. You don't lose that money, you deposit and you can take that money out whenever you want to. It also has a third attribute, which is that you earn some form of return on your money. If you're in typical legacy finance, that's going to be less than 1%. And if you're in DFI, maybe that's a bit more, and if you're in yield farming, maybe it's even greater.
02:07:50.556 - 02:08:39.004, Speaker A: But that's sort of what a savings account is, what a prize game is. It has the same characteristics as a savings account in the sense of you have no loss and you can withdraw your money anytime. But instead of earning an interest return that's just applied on the capital, you have a chance to win prizes. And those prizes are derived from the interest that accrues on everyone's deposits of capital, which means the prizes can actually be in the hundreds of thousands, millions, even billions of dollars is realistic because there's so much capital that's accruing money. So that's the simple definition of what no loss prize games are. And I want to talk about why I believe these are uniquely suited to help make people wealthy. I think a lot of people, when they first hear of no loss prize games, they kind of think that's like a cool concept.
02:08:39.004 - 02:09:17.888, Speaker A: It's sort of like nifty it's maybe gimmicky would be a word you use to describe it. So it sounds interesting, but it also doesn't necessarily sound super important. And this is the argument I'm going to try and make to you right now, is that it actually is a very important and highly differentiated financial tool that we need a lot more of. So to make that argument, let's first look at this. This is the typical risk return profile, right? So the number one rule of investing, you go to Investing 101 is that the more risk you take on the more potential return you have, the less risk you take on the lower potential return. So at the very bottom, you have like a savings account, right? That's super low risk. You should never lose your money.
02:09:17.888 - 02:10:01.980, Speaker A: Super low return. As you go up, you have like, your friend startup, which would be a much higher risk and much higher return. So this is what all financial products there's only a few things listed here, but you could map all financial products on this risk return curve. What's really interesting about no loss prize games is they actually break this fundamental rule of investing because it's a product that has, again, no loss, has a risk profile that's the same as a savings account, but it has a return potential that is exponentially higher. It's actually like investing in your friend's startup or investing in even like a normal lottery, right? That's like what the return potential is. Now, obviously the caveat here is it has higher variance, right? So you don't win every time. But it does have a return potential.
02:10:01.980 - 02:10:29.332, Speaker A: So the point I want to make is that these products, these financial products that are on this line, right, savings accounts, bonds, stocks, those products work really well if you're already rich and if you want to be richer. That's who those products are designed for. So for example, right, let's look at a savings account. If you're earning 5% Apr and a million dollars, that's $50,000 a year. That's pretty cool. That actually is going to be meaningful to you. You could live off that.
02:10:29.332 - 02:10:56.200, Speaker A: But if you only have $1,000 in savings and you're earning 5% a year, that's only $50 a year. It's not going to really meaningfully move the needle on your financial picture. A savings account works well if you're already wealthy. It works well for compound wealth. It does not work well if you're not already wealthy. Going up to the other extreme example, investing in a startup, right? If you're wealthy, this works well. Why? Because you don't need instant access to your capital.
02:10:56.200 - 02:11:50.284, Speaker A: If you have a flat tire, you don't need to liquidate your stocks to pay to fix that flat tire, right? So you have long term time horizons with an ability to lock capital for a long time. Conversely, though, if you're poor again, you don't have that opportunity because the capital that you have essentially is your savings. Your investing capital and your savings capital are the same bucket. And so you can't lock money away because what happens if you do get a flat tire? You have a medical emergency, you need access to that capital right away. So most financial products are built for people who are already wealthy. They're built to help rich people get richer. And I don't say that in a bad way, like that probably sounds really bad, but I just think it's a statement of fact right? If you look at what are the preferences for people who already have a lot of money and what are products built to these people? These people can tolerate loss, right? Long term time horizons.
02:11:50.284 - 02:12:15.284, Speaker A: They don't need instant access to their capital and they want compounding returns. If you already have a lot of money, you're just looking to grow your money, right? You're just trying to go from a million to 1.11.2, et cetera. People who have very little cash, they have a totally different need matrix, right? Totally different preferences. They need no loss because their cash, again, their cash investments are their savings. So you can't risk it. They need instant liquidity.
02:12:15.284 - 02:12:55.620, Speaker A: They can't lock it up for a long time. And compounding returns just don't work. If you only have $1,000, if you only have $100, if you only have $10, it doesn't matter what your compounding rate is, it will not work. You need an opportunity for outsized returns. So this is all the economic argument for why no loss prize games are actually a very highly differentiated financial product from an economic perspective and why they are so important to help people create wealth. Once people create wealth, obviously they can graduate into other traditional financial products that help rich people get more wealth. But this is the economic perspective on it.
02:12:55.620 - 02:13:40.380, Speaker A: So that's one half of the argument. The other half I want to just touch on a bit more briefly, is the psychological side, right? So why are no loss prize games really important psychologically? So, psychologically speaking, the financial tools we have in our world broadly fall in two categories, right? You have ones that are fun but destroy your wealth. So that would be like lotteries gambling, sports bettings. You could think of this mathematically as like negative expected value financial activities. But they're very enjoyable because they take human psychology seriously. They're built around human psychology. And then you have products that are designed by economists, right? Every economist will tell you or a financial advisor will tell you, just put your money in a 401K, put it in an index fund, you'll be fine.
02:13:40.380 - 02:14:23.244, Speaker A: Obviously, if you're on this call, you probably already ignore that advice, but you have products that are very boring. They don't take human psychology seriously, but they're helpful for wealth creation. They're economically sensible. There's very few things that bridge this divide because economics typically, or financial products typically don't take psychology very seriously. And these fun, wealth destroying products don't take economics very seriously. And so no loss prize games really sit at a very interesting intersection where it is both fun and wealth creating. It's using the elements that make wealth destroying activities fun, which is chance, variance, unpredictability, the opportunity for outsized meaningful returns.
02:14:23.244 - 02:14:55.500, Speaker A: And it's combining that with action, a behavior that's actually healthy. One example of this from a no loss prize game that's on the blockchain right now is a user who deposited $10, had it for 30 days in the prize pool. They could remove it at any time and they won one $600. Right. So there's no other financial product that offers that opportunity. Right. What else could that user have done? Sure, they could have maybe bought a token that potentially would accrue that much value over that time frame, but you would still have the risk of loss.
02:14:55.500 - 02:15:55.196, Speaker A: So for these two reasons, this economic reason and the psychological reason, I think no loss prize games are actually a very highly differentiated and very important economic primitive and it's one that does exist in the real world, although it hasn't been fully, I don't think, built out to what it could be. And it exists in the blockchain world a little bit, but not very much. So I want to talk about now transition, talking about where we're at with no loss prize games on Ethereum. So Pool Together is a protocol for no loss prize games on Ethereum. It was launched about one year ago and it's a protocol to really help developers and users explore this design space, this really highly segmented space of high potential return, high variance, low risk financial products. And I wanted to kind of give a summary of where we're at right now. And Pool Together, as it's currently instantiated, has found a decent level of success in the Ethereum space.
02:15:55.196 - 02:16:42.008, Speaker A: There's 12,000 users of the protocol, which if you compare that to that's more than Synthetics or Instadap or some other of these very awesome and well established protocols. $33,000 in prizes have been given out by the protocol and it has a very large global popularity footprint, particularly, actually outside of like western English speaking markets. It's actually much more popular outside of English speaking countries. So that's kind of where we're at right now. But the problem is that we're really only scratching the surface of what's possible with no loss prize games. And that's why I'm here talking to hopefully a bunch of engineers and developers and creators who are interested in pushing the space forward. So right now there's only two no loss prize games on the protocol.
02:16:42.008 - 02:17:20.600, Speaker A: One is a Die prize pool that's weekly and has one single winner and one is a USDC prize pool that's daily and has one single winner. So what I'm really excited to talk to you guys about today is Pool Together V Three, which is the new version of the protocol that is designed to open the universe for no loss prize games. And it's actually launching in conjunction. It's going to be on main net launching next week. But there's actually already some hackers who maybe are on this call who are in ETH Global. We have some bounties who are hacking on the protocol right now. So I want to talk a little bit now just about V Three, what's now possible with no loss prize games.
02:17:20.600 - 02:17:42.656, Speaker A: That's actually pretty much what I want to talk about. So the V three enables a whole new world of different prize game varieties. So I mentioned right now, right there's, these two prize games. There's one that's in Dai, one that's in USDC. They're both a single winner. One has a weekly time frame. One has a daily time frame with the v three.
02:17:42.656 - 02:18:08.212, Speaker A: What it does is it enables developers to create their own prize games. And developers can manipulate these three kind of core parameters, which sound very simple, but there's a lot of room for creativity here. So the first is frequency. This is maybe the most simple one. How often is the prize triggered? Right, it could be every minute, it could be every hour, it could be every day, it could be every year. So you can choose that. The second is yield sources.
02:18:08.212 - 02:18:55.336, Speaker A: Thus far, the protocol has only been using compound, but the v three of the pull together protocol is already integrated with both compound and also yearn vaults. And also we're obviously working on a lot more integrations. We'll be integrated with Ave and a lot of other yield sources. So the idea here is that the pool together protocol sits as really this no loss gamification layer on top of all these yield sources. So yield source is another way developers can change things. The final thing here is the place that has the most room for really interesting creativity, prize distribution. So this refers to basically both how much people win, how many winners there are, and how winners are determined, right? So you can imagine a prize pool like we have right now.
02:18:55.336 - 02:19:33.296, Speaker A: It has one random winner a week. Or you could have one that has 100 random winners a week. Or you could have one where everyone wins a 1% return and one person wins all the rest. Or you could have one where half of the money goes to a community managed dow, and half the money goes to a random winner, or half the money goes to Gitcoin grants and half the money goes to a winner. So there's all sorts of prize game varieties that can now be created with the pool together v three protocol. So this is kind of the playground for developers to work with. The other thing I want to touch on is the V three protocol also really upgrades the actual prize pool experience for the user.
02:19:33.296 - 02:20:10.320, Speaker A: So there's a few major new features here that I just wanted to highlight. One is the prize games can have the way it's designed is the prize pool is a noncustodial contract. So see that at the bottom, there no admin keys. So people deposit their funds to this contract. It's not upgradable, which is awesome, makes it much more decentralized and secure. But the prize strategy which determines how winnings are distributed is a contract that is upgradable. So what can happen then is people can change the parameters of how prizes are distributed via community vote.
02:20:10.320 - 02:20:32.824, Speaker A: Once a. Prize game has sort of been established. So those are both two those are kind of the first and bottom. Those are both really awesome new features of the prize pools. We've also built in what I'm most excited about, referral rewards and deposit rewards into the prize pools themselves. So that's awesome. Obviously that's a huge part of growth in any type of financial product in the legacy system.
02:20:32.824 - 02:21:14.788, Speaker A: So it makes sense that we would replicate that on a blockchain enabled financial product. And so that's actually built in at the protocol level sorry. And improved randomness functionality with chain link. Sorry. So losing my voice there a little bit. Okay, so that's where we're at with the V three and where we're at with no loss prize games on Ethereum. So hopefully what you've gotten from this talk is that no loss prize games are very important and that you now have an amazing tool to bring these to the world.
02:21:14.788 - 02:22:22.490, Speaker A: And I think that there's a lot of creativity that's been unexplored even in just replicating what's already existing in the mainstream financial system, but also in using these tools to create something that's far, far better. So that's the conclusion of my talk here and I want to open it up for any questions. Thank you so much, Layton, for that amazing talk. I think you kind of did a really good overview of how people can take advantage of this thing. So we have a couple of questions coming in, but also given our delay here, I'll also encourage everybody who's going to hear this thing in 30 seconds to post more questions in the chat so we can queue them up as well. One of the first questions that I have for you is can the interest be distributed back to all the players playing in Adai or any other token? And how does that work? Yeah, so it can technically not Adai just because we haven't integrated with Ave yet, but we will that'll be done soon. I actually think someone at the Hackathon is working on it right now.
02:22:22.490 - 02:22:43.376, Speaker A: But you could do it with the other yield sorry, I'm really losing my voice. The other yield sources that we've done. So that is technically possible. Awesome. So I think we're compiling the list of some of the other ones. Clearly I need a break. I'm having a hard time.
02:22:43.376 - 02:23:22.270, Speaker A: Having a hard time. I guess I'm used to quarantine. I don't talk too much. No worries. Let's see, one question kind of we're seeing is maybe an equivalent of like a free rider problem. And this is defined interestingly, which is if you kind of put money into the pool late, you still get the same chances to win and it's still like the equal probability that goes on for that participant. So can have you given thought about sort of waiting or giving some more tickets to the early depositors or kind of like just making it sort of like an unfair game to the advantage people who are actually in first.
02:23:22.270 - 02:24:15.320, Speaker A: Yeah, we haven't thought about that too much. But I think that's the beauty of this V Three is all of those types of things can be implemented via the prize strategy. And so if that's what the community wants, they can come and say, hey, let's update the prize strategy to have this sort of special waiting or this sort of special selection mechanism and that can all be done. Personally, I haven't given a ton of thought to that, but I think that's a really exciting idea and now that's actually possible to build, it's a really big playground. That's why when you hear those three parameters, it doesn't sound like that much, but there's a lot you can do with it. No, it's amazing. Yeah, I think this is kind of the perfect answer that the platform lets you do that even though Pull together as the app, the way team designs it is not prioritizing it.
02:24:15.320 - 02:25:13.948, Speaker A: So that's awesome. Another question we have is obviously DeFi is kind of known for the money Lego theme here and you were kind of leveraging a lot of these building blocks from other protocols to offer these returns. Right now Pull Together uses compound kind of how do you think about integrating other sort of protocols to either get anyone from more safety to a bigger reward for the participants and sort of what kind of goes into these types of decisions as you think about it? Yeah, the main decision obviously is risk, right? If you're doing no loss, you're going to try and minimize risk. But I should say the V Three protocol does have already wire and vaults integrated into it. So as compound and wire as a two. So we're mostly looking at risk. We're looking at differentiation in terms of like assets that are offered and also we're looking at returns.
02:25:13.948 - 02:25:50.488, Speaker A: Obviously that's the obvious one. So those are them. I do think we're hoping that I think when it comes to community and governance, that yield sources and what yield sources are approved to be used by the pool builder will be one of the main points of that. Because I see it as parallel to if ave or if compound is like adding a new collateral type. That's a really important decision for that platform. For pool together, adding a new yield source is like equally equivalent in importance and I think we want to make sure it's no loss. Like that's the only non negotiable.
02:25:50.488 - 02:26:32.856, Speaker A: And then beyond, we're looking at those other factors. In a way it's battle tested because you have to think about it from the security standpoint. That makes a lot of sense. I think it's just another question sort of on the similar line. So maybe if you have any additional lines to comment on, that'd be great. But if not, I think you sort of answered it already. But sort of like when you are making these types of decisions, how do you think about you as the pull together team making these integrations work versus opening it up for anybody else to plug in into having that be the way other liquidity providers come in to interface with the protocol? Yeah, well, it is open, right? In the sense of it's open source software.
02:26:32.856 - 02:27:13.130, Speaker A: Anyone can do it. I do think that we would like to build a community around the protocol that does gatekeep to some degree the yield sources. Because the yield sources is the number one risk, right, for people. If people deposit into a yield source that doesn't secure their money, it's no longer no loss. So yes, people can come and obviously take the code and hook it up to whatever yield source they want. But I do think it's important to steward a community around the pool together protocol that does say, yes, we want to be as open as possible, but also we're going to try and safeguard users funds. No, absolutely.
02:27:13.130 - 02:28:29.730, Speaker A: One of the things that I really like about Pull Together is that you've effectively sort of unlocked a whole new different part of the audience that ideally would not jump into crypto first because of the risks or just that the lack of sort of deep know how on how do these things work. So what's kind of been your experience like sort of making pool together and sort of putting it in front of people who may not necessarily understand crypto or really realize kind of how all this thing works in the background but overall get the point of no loss lottery? Yeah, well, it's been super fun. I mean, I think people love it, right? I mean, it's a very intuitive idea and I love educating people and so I love it. And it's been cool with obviously the coolest thing that's happened in the space in the last six weeks is uniswap right, with the token. And it was really cool because a bunch of people had used uniswap solely in a white labeled fashion on Cool Together's website. And so we got to go back through all those emails with all those people who are like, I have no idea what I just did and tell them like, hey, now you have this uniswap AirDrop. So I don't know, that's just a fun little anecdote but it's really fun to bring people into the space and help them understand how cool this is.
02:28:29.730 - 02:29:45.290, Speaker A: Any other surprises you've seen from just what your users react to? Sorry to put you on the spot, but how long people keep their money in the pool, it's like 80% of people who have deposited pool together have never withdrawn. And sure, yes, gas fees are a factor there, but that was even before gas fees. So it is really interesting how sticky the capital is and I think that does point to right now Pull Together isn't probably reaching the DeFi Djen so much, right? It's reaching more like the Argent wallet users or the people who just are crypto curious. And it's more that I guess maybe my encouragement to the builders to turn it around a little bit is that remember that crypto Twitter means nothing. It's a cool thing, but there's a lot of people who are not on it and there's a lot of ideas that get recycled and recycled and recycled because we're all hearing the same thing. Don't be afraid to come up with a different idea and appeal to a different audience and maybe you won't get as many Twitter followers, but it might still be really rewarding. I would trade providing value to people over Twitter followers any day.
02:29:45.290 - 02:30:18.390, Speaker A: And on that note, please follow Layton and myself on Twitter. It's a wonderful message to end on and I want to thank you again for your time and we are ready to move on to our next talk. So thanks again, Layton. And our next talk is going to be Jeremy, who is going to be talking about building on Balancer and sort of what you can enable for your audience as a developer and also as a user. So I see Jeremy is already here and I'll let him kick off with his presentation. So welcome. Thank you.
02:30:18.390 - 02:30:47.580, Speaker A: Let me go ahead and share screen. All right. Is that working? We're all good to go? Great. So, yeah. Hi, everyone. I'm Jeremy Musigi. I'm the head of Growth at Balancer Labs and I'm going to be talking about how Balancer is being used as a building block for decentralized finance.
02:30:47.580 - 02:32:19.880, Speaker A: So first I'll start with a quick overview of what Balancer is and how it works on a high level. Balancer is a fundamental building block for DeFi and it makes a lot of different applications, products and services possible, both by allowing developers to reinvent systems of traditional finance, but also by allowing people to create all new innovations that never existed before because they weren't really possible with the tools that were available. So essentially, Balancer is a generalized AMM protocol and in that sense, it shares some similarities with Uniswap. But structurally, the two protocols are actually fairly different. And I think by the end of this presentation, you'll see that Balancer and Uniswap are actually very different. To start, Balancer has the flexibility to create liquidity pools beyond simply a 50 50 split between two assets. You can create liquidity pools that can skew their weights as far as 98% in one and 2% in the other, but you can also create pools that hold up to eight different assets.
02:32:19.880 - 02:33:32.700, Speaker A: So kind of the main point that I want to get across and that I'll be illustrating is that Balancer is a primitive for people to build and innovate on top of. So Balancer liquidity pools are smart contracts that hold between two and eight tokens. And these tokens are held in balance with each other according to preset weights. And these weights represent a proportion of the total value of the pool that is held in each token. And every balancer pool is created with customizable configurations such as the tokens specifically that are allowed in that pool. For example ETH or any ERC, 20 token, as well as the weights of those tokens and the swap fee that that pool will charge for trades that are made with that pool. So users who interact with balancer can be split into four groups.
02:33:32.700 - 02:34:54.632, Speaker A: First being the liquidity providers who provide assets to pools on balancer and earn passive income from fees, as well as having their portfolio automatically rebalanced. The second is the traders who come to balancer to exchange tokens with low slippage and favorable rates. The third being smart contracts that are seeking to source liquidity, for example, dex aggregators or smart wallets. But definitely many other use cases for those types of integrations as well. And fourth would be the arbitragers who come to balancer seeking to profit from imbalances in price that occur in balancer pools. And by trading those opportunities, they serve a very key role on the protocol in quickly putting those pools back into balance according to their set weights. So I'm going to cover the types of pools that exist on balancer so anyone can create a balancer pool.
02:34:54.632 - 02:35:37.480, Speaker A: And there are two general types shared pools. When you create one, you set the configurations as mentioned before, and those configurations are finalized as soon as the pool goes live. And at that point they can no longer be reconfigured. And this allows shared pools to be trustless. And because they're trustless, anyone is allowed to add or remove liquidity. Anyone can be a liquidity provider for a shared pool and the creator of a shared pool has no additional rights compared to anybody else. And there's no controller for shared pools.
02:35:37.480 - 02:36:24.056, Speaker A: So private pools are different, because when you create a private pool, you'll also set your configurations. However, they can be changed anytime after the pool is already live and the creator of a private pool becomes the controller of that pool. And only the controller can add or remove liquidity to a private pool. So not anyone can be a liquidity provider to a private pool. There's a gate there and there's a controller who you would need to go through. Gatekeeper. Yeah, that was the word I was looking for.
02:36:24.056 - 02:37:27.710, Speaker A: So I'll go through one sample use case for each type of pool. There are many use cases, so this is just a limited view. So for shared pools, anyone who wants to earn passive income and automatically rebalance their portfolio can create or join a shared pool. And for doing so, they will receive BPts balancer pool tokens which represent their portfolio ownership in that pool. And you can think of this sort of like an index fund. Private pools can be used by a professional money manager who creates a private pool to allocate funds based on their own dynamic investing strategy. And as the controller of that pool, they would regulate who is able to invest in that fund.
02:37:27.710 - 02:38:35.600, Speaker A: And so this can be seen more similarly to a hedge fund. So, third type of balancer pool is smart pools. These are private pools with a few modifications that give them certain superpowers. The controller of a smart pool is a smart contract and that smart contract acts as a gateway for anyone to add or remove liquidity trustlessly into a private pool structure. And the controller, as in a private pool, is granted rights to make changes to the configuration of the pool. However, those rights are specified during the creation of the pool and they can't be changed. So they can be limited in that sense and that is transparent to all of the liquidity providers who would be interacting with that pool.
02:38:35.600 - 02:40:10.560, Speaker A: So, for example, if a smart pool was created that gave the controller the right and the ability to adjust the weights of the pool while it's live, anyone who is interacting with that pool would clearly be able to see that the smart pool has that power. But it does not have the power to change which tokens are in the pool or the swap fee, for example. So a smart contract controller can connect to any other smart contract on the ethereum network and therefore it can act and make decisions based on events that are occurring outside of balancer. So any on chain information that is on the ethereum blockchain can be leveraged in that way. And this is where things really get interesting. So I'm going to cover a few of the use cases, real use cases of smart pools on balancer. And I want to note that most likely we have not discovered even a fraction of the potential use cases for smart pools, which is really exciting because this is a new technology and essentially a new innovation.
02:40:10.560 - 02:41:14.976, Speaker A: It'll be interesting to see what people come up with. But I'm going to go through a few of the things that have been done so far or that have been imagined at least. So the first use case is managed index funds. The first ever smart pool was created and launched by Pydow and they use balancer smart pools as the underlying infrastructure for their crypto index fund products. And this allows investors to passively invest in diversified tokenized index funds which are designed to give them consistent returns with managed risk. So, examples of these index fund products that Pydow offers there's the DeFi plus L and DeFi Plus S. Those are balancer smart pools that hold large cap DeFi tokens and small cap DeFi tokens respectively.
02:41:14.976 - 02:43:17.260, Speaker A: There's the USD Plus Plus which is a balancer smart pool that holds four different USD stablecoins which enables investors to maintain risk managed exposure to the US dollar via strictly crypto. And there's the BTC Plus Plus which is a smart pool holding four different wrapped or synthetic BTC assets so that investors can use that to gain risk managed exposure to Bitcoin within the ethereum blockchain of managed index funds, on balancer is Realty, which is a platform for tokenized real estate investment properties. And realty token holders receive rent from the rental properties that they own through these realty tokens and it's converted into dai and paid to them as a dividend. And so, using Balancer Smart Pools, Realty can create an index fund which is a single token that represents diversified real estate investments. So an example of this concept is that Realty could, for example, create a California Real Estate Index fund via a smart pool that contains tokens for properties in various cities in California like San Francisco, La. San Diego. And the way that this is possible is that you can create meta pools on Balancer, which is a pool of pools.
02:43:17.260 - 02:44:21.744, Speaker A: So let's say, for example, that there is a smart pool for a certain neighborhood in Los Angeles, contains eight properties in that neighborhood which are represented by eight different tokens. And that token from that pool is put together into another pool along with tokens from other properties in other neighborhoods throughout La. And that meta pool is then like an La. Real estate pool. And then you have your San Francisco real estate pool, you have your Sacramento real estate pool and so on. Each of those pools also has a token that represents the ownership in that entire pool. So if you took all of those tokens from those metapools, you could create yet another level of metapool which represents basically diversified investment throughout the entire state through one token, which is pretty cool.
02:44:21.744 - 02:45:46.060, Speaker A: And you don't have to stop there, you could keep going up additional levels where there are regional pools, there could be national pools, et cetera. Really cool stuff. So another use case for balancer Smart Pools is Token Sales, what we call Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools or LBPs. And that's a very exciting name, but it is actually a really exciting use case that is gaining traction as a new mechanism for fair and transparent token sales as an alternative to other ido mechanisms. So a general example of how this could work is that let's say that Crypto protocol is launching their new token and they deploy a smart pool that contains their token as well as a reserve asset such as USDC. And they can create that pool with 90% weight towards their token and 10% weight towards the reserve asset. They can set a duration for a three day token sale.
02:45:46.060 - 02:47:08.080, Speaker A: And then while the sale is live, which is while the pool is live, they can gradually adjust the weights of the pool so that they skew in the opposite direction from where they started. So they start 90 ten and they over the course of three days can skew towards 1090, meaning that at the end of this three day period, the weights of the pool will be 10% network token, 90% USDC. And so the result of this is that the project has exchanged the majority of those tokens that they deposited into the pool for USDC and they have raised money for their protocol. So the first team that did this was perpetual protocol. They did the first ever LBP a few weeks ago, and the second team actually just did it yesterday over the last 24 hours. I think it may have just ended right now, it's October 16, and that was by the Rally team. So another use case is smart treasuries.
02:47:08.080 - 02:48:12.330, Speaker A: This is based on a concept originated by Joel Monegro, who's a partner at Placeholder VC, which is an investor in Balancer Labs. And the idea is for crypto protocols to use Balancer Smart pools to create a smart treasury that is then controlled either by the team or by a Dow. And it's quite a complex but fascinating concept. And because of time constraints, I'm not going to dive into it, but I highly recommend reading the blog post on the Placeholder blog. It's called Stop Burning Tokens and it proposes Balancer smart Pools as a solution for replacing the buyback and burn model with a buyback and make model. So a few teams are already working on implementing this and Aragon is leading the way on that. So definitely check that article out to learn more.
02:48:12.330 - 02:49:54.620, Speaker A: Last use case that I'll go over is surge pricing for trades. So in moments of high liquidity demand in the crypto markets, people are less sensitive to minor differences in trading fees if they need liquidity right away. So to capitalize on that, one could create a smart pool that dynamically changes its swap fees in reaction to market conditions by charging higher fees in times of heavy demand. So this is a concept that's similar to Uber surge pricing when a lot of people are trying to get a. So no one has implemented this idea yet, but it's also an interesting one last thing I'm going to cover briefly is the Balancer Ecosystem Fund, where we provide grants and bounties to developers who are building on balancer. So bounties are ideas that come from our community and from our team that we specifically want to fund developers to build. So we would post those out there, and any developer who thinks that they can do it can basically claim that bounty and build it and get funded and grants are projects that developers will come up with and pitch to us for funding.
02:49:54.620 - 02:50:33.360, Speaker A: The Ecosystem Fund is currently somewhere around 70 million USD in value, and we'll have a new announcement coming up pretty soon with regard to the Ecosystem Fund. So definitely stay tuned for that. And that's all. So thank you very much. Awesome. Thank you so much, Jeremy, for that amazing presentation. We have a couple of questions coming in from the chat.
02:50:33.360 - 02:51:35.372, Speaker A: We have a slight lag in everybody seeing what I'm saying and I'm hearing this. So we'll kind of coordinate our questions as they come in. And in case we can't do that real time enough, I'll encourage you to just join the chat after and just answer these questions to the people directly. So the first question that we have is a quick clarification on how things are set up from the back end of the contract side. And the question is kind of going from controller pool to a private pool, is that a taxable event? In the sense that the tokens themselves get swapped and traded. So at least by US laws, does that create, to your knowledge, a taxable event or is that a seamless record change? So controlled pools and private pools are the same? Those are two words for the same thing. Maybe if you mean like shared, we're just reading the questions directly, so maybe I'll ask the person who asked this question to clarify if they see this in time.
02:51:35.372 - 02:52:38.050, Speaker A: But regardless, I definitely am not qualified for tax advice. Even once we clarify that, I don't know if I'll have an answer. It's going to be a different answer based on every region. So I totally understand that. The second question that I have, which is slightly broader, is balancer has been facilitating a lot of different types of pools and you've seen some really creative use cases of this technology. So what are some of the things that have really surprised you in terms of what you didn't realize was possible? And then sort of corollary? What are some of the things that you have on your wish list as a team that you haven't really seen come to the same fruition that you hoped for and would kind of encourage people to experiment with? Well, I would say definitely that Joel Mongro's idea for the Balancer smart treasuries really blew my mind. I thought that was incredible and I did not personally see that coming.
02:52:38.050 - 02:53:44.550, Speaker A: The possibilities are endless. These are building blocks that you can create all kinds of stuff with. It's really infinite, which is so exciting. I think that me personally, I think it's important for the balancer ecosystem that we continue to integrate with developers who are building, whether it's smart wallets or other types of applications that are looking to source liquidity or teams that want to leverage smart pools for some investment products that they want to create or to launch their token sales. I mean, there's really so many different ways to interact with the protocol. If you have an idea or you want to brainstorm something, definitely reach out. You can find me on Twitter and it's at immutable, but Immutable, that's an amazing name.
02:53:44.550 - 02:54:30.560, Speaker A: Perfect. So I think what we'll do is I'll have you sort of join the chat directly and just engage with our audience there if you have time. And I want to thank you again for this amazing presentation, was a great reminder to all the hackers that are participating that Balancer is a sponsor for this event, and they're offering a handful of bounties. So if you have any of the ideas that you want to take from this presentation, do kind of try that out. And even if you're not hacking for the online hackathon, the community pool, the Ecosystem Fund is still a great resource for you that's available for anybody who's interested in experimenting and trying on different products and strategies. So thanks again, Jeremy. Thank you.
02:54:30.560 - 03:00:33.404, Speaker A: And what we'll do is we'll take a quick five minute break for everybody on this chat. So this will give you enough time to just enjoy a little bit of the radio, and we'll resume with our next talk from Sergey at 03:00 P.m. Eastern. So we'll see you all in five. All right, so hope all of you had a quick nice break and enjoyed some of our lo fi beats. And what I want to do is move on to our next talk, which I'm super excited about, and that is a talk by Sergey Nazarov from Chainlink. And Sergey is going to be talking about growing DeFi with a lot more data and collateral types, and there's a lot of things that will be covered in this one.
03:00:33.404 - 03:01:02.820, Speaker A: So what I'll do is I'll welcome Sergey here and let him take it from here. So, Sergey, welcome, and I'll let you kick off with your presentation. Great. Thank you, Kartek, for having me at the event. Yep. Hi, everybody. So we're going to be talking today about how DeFi is able to grow because it has access to more data and various collateral types and some of the kind of economics and market dynamics that are driving its growth.
03:01:02.820 - 03:02:24.624, Speaker A: I think one of the first useful things for us to consider is exactly how the architecture or the underlying systems powering DeFi are evolving. And I think what we're actually seeing is a shift towards a more service oriented kind of microservices type architecture for DeFi DApps, which many people call composability, and the ability to join a lot of these applications together with either other DeFi protocols as services or data sources provided through Oracles like Chainlink as services. Right. And I think maybe the first basis on which we should think about this is what happened in the Web world, or even in the enterprise software world when you moved from more monolithic, singular, kind of closed systems to services libraries and all these kind of systems that could be composed together into various increasingly useful configurations. Right. And I think the shift was kind of dramatic. I think this shift from we have these closed, monolithic, singular kind of applications that can't interact with other systems at all or easily to a service oriented architecture where people built reusable services and they utilized those reusable services in various configurations in the web world that really led to a massive acceleration at the speed and quality with which.
03:02:24.624 - 03:03:38.680, Speaker A: People are able to build things. Basically you started to see things like Uber, various iPhone apps, all kinds of various use cases being built because people were able to compose reusable services in a secure way. They were able to improve those services if they really like them and put them back out to people. And it actually created this rapid, rapid iteration where you had something like Uber basically combining a GPS API, combining a SMS API to message users and a payments API to pay users, right? And that rapid iteration and the ability to combine reusable services in a service oriented architecture is what I think led to a lot of the iteration and acceleration in the web world and why a lot of the use cases we have today are so well polished and why many of them might even exist because of the resource constrained environment. Those were built in by not so large teams that then got something right and were able to expand it. I think we're seeing a kind of similar evolution in DeFi where you had more monolithic smart contracts that were more singular in their focus and they were more closed and kind of the code was much greater in its size and its complexity. And that created essentially two security issues.
03:03:38.680 - 03:05:11.444, Speaker A: So I think the security dynamics around something like the Dow and writing big contracts that kind of can have failure points because they're so big, because they're so monolithic and singular and have packed so much into them was partly for a security reason initially traded away right. For smaller contracts that can be composed in more secure ways. And now what you have is you have protocols that are written in these more secure ways where you have many separate contracts interacting properly. But people have been able to take the pieces of their DeFi protocols, like the synthetics protocol, the Ave protocol, the urine protocol, and they've been able to combine those pieces into more useful things than any of them would have built individually. Right? So you have an ecosystem now of composable essentially on chain services in the form of contracts that can be composed in a very secure way because the scope and the code and the control of any one contract is relatively small, but they all do something useful. This is where our space is really starting to mimic the speed of evolution that you would see in the web world. Actually, the thing that I've seen over the years of building smart contracts is that you could think about the evolution of smart contracts also in this sense of how do I compose different pieces together to quickly build something really secure and useful, right.
03:05:11.444 - 03:07:11.310, Speaker A: If initially you started at Bitcoin, you had one singular system that basically enabled Bitcoin and multisig and that was what the world was like and that's what you could do. Right. Then you moved to protocol smart contracts in about 2014, where you had these protocols, these blockchains which you had to do a lot of work to put any new piece into and the pieces didn't always interact at all, right? And that was really the problem that Ethereum solved for a lot of us. It basically solved this problem where I have this monolithic system, it has these pieces that can interact and now I have a way to write these individual small pieces of code like the ERC 20 standard and some Dow voting schemes and certain multisig private key signing schemes and others. And all of those then became their own separate kind of services and more and more security audited contracts that then began to get composed into the realm of token sales and Dow voting and certain private key signing things, right? And that was a huge leap forward for the space because people could build those individual pieces and compose them together in the configuration of I have a token, I have a voting dynamic and I have a multi SIG dynamic and I have these kind of two or three dynamics getting composed properly. I think that the next evolution of smart contracts is actually a combination of the composability and the ability to write singular contracts with very specific goals on systems like Ethereum and then for there to be other services and other capabilities represented on chain for use by those smart contracts effectively expanding the universe of what they could do. And what I'm actually seeing is a rapid kind of composition of the off chain resources we're able to make accessible to contracts, as well as what those contracts end up doing with that price data or that weather data.
03:07:11.310 - 03:08:30.960, Speaker A: That creates its own kind of contract and service that other protocols can use as collateral, as a resource to manage risk, basically as another service. Right? So now you have services being strung together to create better services that then other people can build on top of and not only build UIs and various interfaces to utilize the value that the service provides, but actually more services that then interact with the ones that have already been composed, basically. And this is really the very exciting and hopeful dynamic that we're starting to see evolve in DeFi. And it's kind of the dynamic that I think is driving a lot of this growth, because you have a few really world class teams like Synthetix, Aave, yern, Nexus, Mutual, and a number of others that are building these kind of building blocks, but doing it in a way that it's not a closed monolithic, singular system just for their use. It's meant to include value and interaction from other systems. And they've, amazingly enough, been able to do that in a way that, for example, synthetic savage urine all interact in a meaningful way. And I think that's one of the large driving factors of DeFi is that you have people finally building good focused products that are then reusable by other teams.
03:08:30.960 - 03:10:00.370, Speaker A: So that's one of the key dynamics that I'm seeing now in this dynamic. There is also a useful set of components that are not inherently on chain. They are not a token contract to generate a token ledger and manage it, they are not a Dow voting scheme, they are not a multi SIG process. There are a lot of resources out there that are about things like data, that are about things like computations that blockchains can't or don't want to do for privacy or scalability reasons that are about payment access to payment. Systems that use cases want access to access to various data that basically use cases need whether that's election results, price data, weather data for insurance, whatever it might be. And this is really the category of kind of services and capabilities that we put on chain in singular individual units that then get composed together with these other DeFi protocols which then create a lot of useful value around the data that we provide and ergo make another service that's even more useful for others to consume and interact with. So that's kind of the exciting stage I feel that the ecosystem is at and that both the DeFi protocols that make certain kind of contracts, that act as services for other contracts and we as the provider of certain off chain resources are enabling and driving forward.
03:10:00.370 - 03:11:12.596, Speaker A: Now the other exciting dynamic that I'm seeing is the fact that we are now driving forward the existence of multiple types of contracts. If we started out by providing market data from tens of different data providers, whether they're running their own chainlink node or selling data just directly into the chainlink network, you basically had aggregations of data that were sold to a multitude of DeFi contracts which enabled them to quickly and securely launch quickly and securely launch more markets and on a weekly basis now were able to enable the launching of new markets, new useful DeFi smart contracts. But this year, we've basically seen an expansion into other categories of contracts. And what we notice is that as we put new categories of data, new categories of off chain resources, essentially new services that can be consumed on chain through a contract in the form of an Oracle contract in the form of a chain link kind of representation of an off chain resource. We see additional use cases kind of coming into existence and getting better. Right. So one of these categories is gaming.
03:11:12.596 - 03:12:45.728, Speaker A: In that category you have randomness, you have sports scores and you have various other things people basically want to bet on and game around as well as the generation of NFTs, which interestingly enough, then get popped back into DeFi as collateral. And so what we've basically seen is a pattern where as DeFi protocols provide more services and as we provide more services or more individual contracts that can act as services for other contracts, you see an explosion of use cases and you see a rapid improvement of the existing offerings to the point where they become more attractive and useful for users. Right? And in gaming you see the provision of randomness off chain gaming data for sports events and things like that. We've also seen a lot of improvement in the insurance industry. Like, I'm very, very proud to say that we have crop insurance live using weather data fed in by chainlinks into a system like Arbol, which is able to determine the weather and automatically pay out contractual outcomes to farmers in both developed economies and emerging markets where they wouldn't traditionally have insurance. And a lot of that is possible because we're able to provide essentially an on chain service in the form of a chainlink that provides data or in the form of a chainlink network that aggregates data to a sufficiently high level of security to trigger a certain amount of value. Another category that recently arrived using the chainlink network is proofs of reserve.
03:12:45.728 - 03:14:00.248, Speaker A: So proof of reserves basically shows you that an underlying asset is there and that its value has been retained and proves that to DeFi protocols. And what that does is it allows the use of that asset, whether that's Bitcoin or real estate or gold or bank account or whatever that asset is in the use of DeFi protocols. So not only does data generate more DeFi markets, it generates new collateral by enabling things like NFTs and insurance which can then become their own units of value that act as collateral within DeFi, right? So you enable the ability for DeFi to function, you enable the ability for more collateral to function within DeFi while you're also enabling useful new use cases like gaming and insurance. And then there's a whole large world of collateral that isn't proven or understood by DeFi protocols because they can't know its stability or solvency. And once you prove that, then that world of collateral can make its way into DeFi products, both diversifying away their risk and essentially growing the value secured by DeFi. We also see a number of other categories of data. For example, recently we've been going in the direction of even putting election data on chain.
03:14:00.248 - 03:16:22.540, Speaker A: So we're now able to put election data for all 50 states and the presidential election on chain in a very reliable manner from the data source being the Associated Press. And that I think, will also enable new use cases because basically once a service is available, people begin to utilize it and they begin to compose it in all kinds of interesting ways. And then the real question is how do they compose it into their protocol such that that protocol creates a new highly valuable service that other protocols then use the way that ave and synthetix and urine interoperate right now to create large, large amounts of value, right? This is really, I think, the world that we're going to see more and more of this type of graph is really going to grow, in my opinion, pretty rapidly because teams have now made it an express goal to build individual contracts that other contracts can utilize as a service. And we have made it our express goal to enable the protocols, the DeFi protocols that are taking this approach with the best possible data, the best possible randomness, the best possible proof of collateral so that their service, that they generate is actually highly reliable, highly useful to both their immediate consumers of that service, whether that's a derivatives service through Synthetics or a lending service through Aave. And also interestingly, useful to other contracts on the back end which then take the functionality and repackage it into their contract and their interface in new and exciting ways which at the end of the day is really the design pattern that you see in the acceleration of the web world. And that's really, I think, the big exciting point that when people look at composability or they look at what's happening in DFI or why is it moving so quickly? Or why is it getting built so quickly? Or is it real or not real? I think it's extremely real, and I think it's accelerating because there are smart people building individual pieces that fit together very well, and they're building it in a way that maintains the security of each individual piece, allowing them to be used and secure large amounts of value without anyone having to reinvent them. And that's a very powerful dynamic that historically has led to a lot of new use cases and a rapid iteration and improvement of existing use cases.
03:16:22.540 - 03:17:46.880, Speaker A: Now, in our case, once again, what we do is we essentially provide a category of these on chain contracts which essentially act as services that enable people to access, in our case off chain systems. And off chain systems are important because in the case of DeFi, for example, you need price data and a lot of DeFi is driven by price data because it defines what's happening with the underlying assets that DeFi is essentially securing. And so you need an accurate picture of reality, you need a definitive truth about price data in order to know what's happening with assets. We generate this as a more detailed example in two ways. One way is that data providers themselves run their own chainlink node and they're able to at the origin, sign their own data and send that signed data into systems like Ethereum which then allows it to be aggregated in our aggregation contract. So that you have a measure of decentralization across nodes and data providers and you have a well aggregated, highly reliable source of truth that's either signed by the origin because the data provider is willing and able to run a new piece of their infrastructure because they see enough value in contracts. Or in some cases, you have data providers that aren't yet ready to sign up for new infrastructure or build an entirely or run an entirely new piece of their stack in relation to blockchains.
03:17:46.880 - 03:19:07.632, Speaker A: And the beauty of the chainlink network, I think, is that it's highly flexible. So it can both enable people to sign their data and put it into aggregation contracts and send it onto the relevant contracts. And if a data provider, as many data providers, if a data provider doesn't want to run a new piece of infrastructure, they can simply sell their data with zero changes to their infrastructure immensely, efficiently and quickly. Many times the chainlink network can even just pull data from their APIs without them having to do anything. And this enables a large universe of data, in this case price data that's accurate and reflective of reality to make DeFi products that are as good, in many cases better than CFI products, right, which is where some of the value will flow to DeFi from. Like we said earlier, we're seeing this same Oracle network model get composed into various categories of inputs, various categories of services, basically. So in this case, we are composing together an Oracle network that gets rainfall data, temperature data, various weather data, and forwards that onto other services like the rainfall evaluator contract, the temperature evaluator, and basically insurance contracts that evaluate outcomes and can actually be really used by other insurance protocols if they really wanted to.
03:19:07.632 - 03:20:34.990, Speaker A: Right? And the fascinating thing is that even if the initial implementation of Chainlink is very good at providing aggregated, highly proven, highly secure price data, chainlink is really a flexible kind of network of nodes and a framework to compose Oracles around any topic, around any piece of data that really comes in the form of structured data. So an API. And in this case, what you're seeing is the ability to compose an Oracle network around rainfall and weather, which I'm very proud to say, enables crop insurance in places in the world where they would have probably still had to wait another decade to get crop insurance. And therefore, they can manage their risk properly and benefit from smart contracts in a very specific way. The second fascinating thing is then the value that systems like Arbol Secure, which as I understand is now past 250,000,000 in risk value and set to surpass over a billion next year, that value can eventually be turned into units of collateral that make their way into DFI. So not only is there an enablement of DFI by providing data, but as you enable more value to be stored in various contracts on Chain, people find creative ways to turn that value into collateral for DeFi. And therefore both diversify DeFi's risk, which is extremely important and going to be even more important the way the global economy is going.
03:20:34.990 - 03:21:48.048, Speaker A: And also basically provide a DeFi, provides a market for those contracts to sell their value into or to sell the insurance cash flows or whatever they create, right? So this is another fascinating dynamic where you have protocols that weren't about making financial products, they were about making insurance or NFTs. But now the value they generate or the value they put on chain in the form of a contract, even if it's not a token, right, if there's no token associated with that, there's just a contract with insurance related value or NFT related value. You can now use that within the DeFi ecosystem to diversify away risk in very useful ways. And I think diversified kind of collections of assets, the way the global economy is going is going to be quite an attractive proposition. This is kind of just another example of this where you basically see something called chainlink VRF, which is our provable on chain randomness solution, providing randomness to a number of different gaming contracts. And that gives those gaming contracts assurances that they're operating properly, gives their user assurance that they're actually fraud proof in that they use a source of randomness that's verifiable. And once again that accelerates gaming.
03:21:48.048 - 03:23:29.392, Speaker A: When you accelerate gaming, you accelerate the value people place into gaming and when you accelerate the value people place into gaming, you have more value on chain to eventually be turned into collateral for DeFi. So that's another dynamic, the most recent dynamic we've seen and that we're really excited about as well, is the ability to create proofs of reserve. So when you create a proof of reserve, you basically prove that an asset is actually somewhere and that an asset is actually of a certain value or is solvent or is secure or is in the state that the entity or the contract relying on it believes it to be in, right? In fact, if you had the system like proof of reserve, the 2008 financial crisis probably wouldn't have happened. Or even if it did, it would have been softened by probably an order of magnitude, right, because you would have just been able to prove the status or the real world kind of value, underlying value of mortgages, right? So proof of reserve, even though it's starting out by proving the value or the amount of bitcoin locked up in a wrapped bitcoin contract on Ethereum, providing automated assurance to DeFi protocols that the wrapped bitcoin that they're relying on is actually backed by real bitcoin on the bitcoin chain. Proof of reserve is really extensible to a multitude of other forms of collateral. Basically any piece of collateral that you can get definitive proof about from a data source, whether that data source is a blockchain or whether it's off chain. And this once again shows how Oracle networks, when composed, they can forward in data, but they can also act to generate definitive truth or to generate certain proof or data about the world in ways that are very useful for smart contracts.
03:23:29.392 - 03:24:58.428, Speaker A: Right? And once again, I think what this all leads to is better and better composable contracts that are small security audited and interoperable with other contracts on purpose. Those contracts essentially act as libraries, building blocks, services, whatever you want to call them that then get composed successfully with other teams contracts. And soon enough you have an ecosystem where people can build truly amazing things without even having to write many of the contracts or worry about the data source inputs or the proof of an underlying asset's reliability or the randomness that's triggering a contract. Because that is, I think, what's been holding up our space for some time is that people were forced to have to build a randomness generator and a way to get data on Chain very securely, which is extremely complicated in its own set of computer science problems. And then they were building a system where they didn't have proof of the underlying assets and whether those assets actually were solvent or in existence. And so there wasn't the level of proof that they wanted, even though the contract was providing proof about state changes. And so now, once you have a world where you have really smart, focused teams building the building blocks and teams like Chainlink, providing them with various services that they need to be fit into those building blocks in order for them to work properly, I think you see a rapid acceleration.
03:24:58.428 - 03:26:11.444, Speaker A: And I think that this is really the dynamic that is going to drive us into mainstream adoption and rapidly improve use cases to the degree that everyone wants to use them. I think the challenge for DeFi is really, at this point, twofold, it's converting the rest of crypto as a format for value into DeFi contracts, which I think is going to happen. And then the second dynamic is how do you cross the chasm to the early majority, right? How do you cross the chasm to the users that want to utilize DeFi protocols, but they never heard of it, or they might not even know they're utilizing DeFi protocols? Right? So just the average user. And I think what's going to happen is that once there's enough building blocks that are secure enough and able to be connected together in a usable enough way, there will be all kinds of applications like banks, fintechs, Robinhood, any number of other applications that end up providing access to DFI protocols. Because these people don't want to build any of this, just like they don't want to build Bitcoin. Right? Their users say, I want bitcoin. They give the users bitcoin.
03:26:11.444 - 03:26:33.448, Speaker A: Their users say, I want yield from DFI because it's 4%. And the yield that I have in a bank account is 0.1%. All the interfaces on the web will just say, sure, I'll give you whatever you want. Here we go. Here's the DFI protocol you wanted. You get 4%. Now all you got to do is hit a button, convert dollars to stablecoins.
03:26:33.448 - 03:27:36.740, Speaker A: Congratulations, you're getting 4%. By the way, it was actually 8%, but we keep 4% because we're whoever. And so it's a great deal for everybody as long as D five smart contracts continue to function properly and grow in value and collateral and returns and all these things for which there is a kind of virtuous cycle, right. The movement to the early majority, I think, is going to be underpilled by the building blocks and the DeFi protocols and the services that people are now starting to compose and polish into highly secure, highly reliable collections of services that essentially define DFI and define the value of what DFI will provide not only to the crypto community but to the mainstream, which, if the crypto community is worth 360,000,000,000 right, and DFI only holds 2.5% to 3%, it's a no brainer that you would have your cryptocurrency in a DFI protocol gaining some kind of interest rate. Right. And the rails to do that are just getting accelerated and accelerated in a really rapid pace.
03:27:36.740 - 03:28:43.832, Speaker A: But in terms of the mainstream, the amount of value that's out there to make its way both into the cryptocurrency format and into DeFi is orders of magnitude larger than what we're dealing with today. And in the environment that we're going towards, where you have low interest rates and low transparency for assets and the low transparency becomes a concern because counterparty risk is what people care about when there are solvency issues, insolvency issues occur. When there are global market boomings and busts, namely busts. I think you're basically actually going to see DeFi and smart contract insurance and to a degree fraud proof blockchain gaming driving a lot of the value that goes onto blockchains the way that tokens previously drove a lot of the value going on. Because now imagine if you can offer people a 4% interest rate through a crypto bank account and all they have to do is click a button that says yes, like that's coming. And people don't care if they get their 4% from a crypto backed, crypto based, DeFi protocol powered thing or from a bank. They could care less.
03:28:43.832 - 03:29:27.096, Speaker A: They don't know. And so once all of that gets composed in the right way, those rails are going to move this value into the crypto format. But importantly, I think it'll move the value into the crypto format not for people to gain tokens, but for people to experience and benefit from DeFi. And so that's I think the really powerful thing is that tokens are one thing and that's great. And people can have all kinds of ideas about tokens and what they're worth or not worth and that's kind of their choice. But if you're able to offer the global financial market 4% or 2% interest and yield in environments where they can hardly get 0.1 or 0.2%
03:29:27.096 - 03:30:06.324, Speaker A: and you're able to make that secure and transparent and regulated and reliable, I mean, that's what the global financial system is based on, right? That's what drives a lot of activity. And so the next question then is how do we continue to enable this. This is kind of the body of work we're engaged in, where as more smart contracts appear, people have more and more reasons to consume them. And that means there's a larger market for data providers to sell their data. And that's what we enable. Likewise, as more people use contracts, they pay more fees. Those fees partly go to pay for security of systems like chainlink and data providers and so on.
03:30:06.324 - 03:30:56.976, Speaker A: And eventually you arrive at a place where you have a very large user group that's paying into DApps, that are paying for data and security and basically services in the form of on chain contracts. And both of these cycles are what we're really accelerating. We're accelerating the creation of new smart contracts by providing the services and the data and all the capabilities that people need on chain. That's generating more usage which is generating more demand for the data and the services and demand for the security of that data and those services which once again, as we put more of it on Chain we notice that people build even more contracts. So it's a very virtuous cycle, and this is kind of the body of work that we're engaged in. If you find this body of work interesting, we're thrilled to work with you. We have two formats in which we very efficiently and effectively work with people now in a kind of remote, open source basis.
03:30:56.976 - 03:32:21.168, Speaker A: One of them is the chainlink grants program, of which there are multiple categories about both integrating more data, building developer tools to build contracts better, providing security, and providing blockchain integrations. And that's the grant program. If you have a dev shop or a team that would like to work on these problems in an open source, kind of remote work way, we have a growing and increasingly more popular grants program that enables these cycles and these services to go on chain. And then finally, if you find this problem to be compelling and something that you find interesting and exciting, and you see the value in accelerating the next evolution in smart contracts into this useful state of contracts that are about providing value to the average person because of what the contract actually does and what we enable it to do, then we're thrilled to speak with you and to find a good way to collaborate. We're a remote team, open source, and really in our team and our team dynamic, kind of the best ideas tend to win. And so we encourage you to talk to us if you find this problem interesting and important. Thank you so much, Sergey.
03:32:21.168 - 03:32:58.976, Speaker A: That was a great talk. I think this is a really good way to really kind of paint the picture on how big the opportunity is that we can use crypto to leverage and kind of offer a lot more to the rest of the world. So it was really good to kind of see that perspective. On kind of how you get to enable that as developers, especially the ones watching this. And now you can also use Chain Link to sort of get this. There are a handful of questions that we've had from our chat, but unfortunately we are out of time and we're running a bit over. So what I'll do is I'll ask a quick one and then I'll kind of relay the remaining ones to you and the rest of the team.
03:32:58.976 - 03:34:06.696, Speaker A: So the quick question that I have is, just in general, a lot of people are curious about what is currently the cost of updating and sort of adding information to chainlink and sort of if it's too high, how are you making it easy for people to sort of not bear that cost? As we add more and more data sources, yeah, sure. So there's kind of two dynamics here. The first dynamic is what level of security is somebody comfortable with? And what we do right now is we perform on chain aggregation because that's the most secure method for doing this. And that's why we're able to secure over 4 billion on production without any issues. And that's why we have over billions more publicly announced and kind of more up and coming at some point, right? It's because we prioritize security, because we work with people like Re Jules, who used to be the chief scientist of RSA. Today we recently announced that our new VP of Engineering is Ben Chan, who was previously the CTO of BitCo and built the multisig solution that allows the movement of about 15% of all Bitcoin. Right? So the first priority is security.
03:34:06.696 - 03:35:11.100, Speaker A: And that's why on chain aggregation is the first step. On chain aggregation can be costly, but realistically, if you're securing billions of dollars in value, you should seek to pay for security if you're able to get it. And the key point is whether you're able to get it. And with Chain Link, you're able to get it. And believe me, from the Oracle failures that have been out there and that we've seen, you absolutely want it, right? The second answer to that is the scalability of either the on chain environment or the off chain environment. So since 2019, we've had something called threshold signatures and off chain reporting, which we're currently working through now, is in certain phases of security review and is basically the scalable version of chainlink, that is the expanded scalable version that does the aggregation in an off chain manner. But the important nuance is that you actually want to maintain an on chain aggregation as a possible fallback at a lower rate of frequency and you also want an off chain aggregation that is highly scalable.
03:35:11.100 - 03:36:37.076, Speaker A: And so the highly scalable off chain aggregation is something we're working on now, and that will enable probably an order of magnitude increase in the amount of networks we can launch in the cost of doing that. And any number of other things and that's basically born out of the need that even though we have many, many networks and we're constantly launching them for users to launch new products, we have a large amount of demand for a lot of different price pairs, right? So I think the important dynamic here is firstly that you actually want to prioritize security more than anything else with a system like this. And there's a reason that off chain aggregation provides that security, I mean, on chain aggregation provides that security, off chain aggregation also provides that security, but it's not something you slap together in the weekend and you kind of cross your fingers. The people that are doing that by forking some chain and trying to make it into an Oracle or trying to cook up something themselves with them and their one web developer. We've spent, I think over a million dollars at this point on security audits. I think we work with the academic research community on a regular basis. These are not simple problems, right? So we've been kind of baking OCR and Threshold signatures for some time and it's kind of getting to the stage where it's in those stages of security audit and review and it's getting properly assessed and figured out, right, as whether that's secure.
03:36:37.076 - 03:37:46.220, Speaker A: And I think we're kind of at that stage that will drop the costs really significantly. And also, just so you understand, the costs are not completely passed on to our users. Our users all pay a certain portion of a fee that is then pooled for one Oracle network. So any one user isn't paying all of these costs, it's shared across those users and also it's partly paid for by a kind of link reward that pays the node operators to properly operate the network as the user fees grow. And they are pretty much rapidly growing at this point. So I do imagine we'll be at a point where with the scalability of OCR, the scalability improvements of various chains and the growth in users, we'll eventually be at a point where user fees completely pay for specific Oracle networks that are sustaining and feeding the security of those users DeFi protocols. But the point is that we're pulling the security and the fees around a single network and a single piece of data that's getting put on chain.
03:37:46.220 - 03:38:47.410, Speaker A: That kind of security is once again the goal, right? Because your goal is not just to build some system that can do something scalably, but in an insecure way. Your goal is to build the most secure system you can and gradually scale it in a secure way while maintaining clear economics that work, which they clearly do, because the network operates properly both in environments where gas fees are high and low. So the chainlink network operates even in environments where the gas fees are high, because the economics of the chainlink network work properly, which is once again to be viewed not from a purely economic point of view, but from a point of view of security. Great. No, that was a very insightful answer and hope that the couple of people that ask questions along these lines have a bit more clarity now. So with that, I want to thank you, Sergey, for giving us your time today and kind of going in depth on how big the opportunity in crypto is and how we can make a lot of data sources integrate with the rest of the DeFi ecosystem. So thanks again.
03:38:47.410 - 03:39:08.760, Speaker A: Thank you for having me. Good to see you. You too. And next up, we have Amin Soleimani, who is going to be talking about Rye. And Rye is a ethereum backed stable coin for the DeFi ecosystem. And I'll let Amin sort of introduce how he got started with this project and how Rai works. So please welcome Amin.
03:39:08.760 - 03:39:42.192, Speaker A: See everything properly? Yeah. Cool. Great. Thanks for having me. Yeah. So. My name is Amin Soleimani.
03:39:42.192 - 03:40:04.168, Speaker A: I'm here to present Rye building a money god. The co founder of Reflexer Lab. So thanks for having us. ETHGlobal. So today I'm going to give an introduction about the project. I'm going to talk a little bit about what I mean by money gods. We're going to talk about control theory.
03:40:04.168 - 03:40:37.050, Speaker A: I'm going to explain the reflex index, which is what Rye is. It's a new kind of DeFi asset. And I'll talk about our forthcoming proto Rye innet demo launch. I want to start with why decentralization matters. And it matters because some things are more important than countries. So blockchain networks are global public utilities, and Bitcoin is a store of value vending machine for the world. ETH is a globally neutral financial system.
03:40:37.050 - 03:41:27.952, Speaker A: We want to keep them this way. There's a reason we build on ETH, and it's because we believe that it's going to be resilient. And decentralization is a tactical decision, maybe even a formation, something like a phalanx, where you eliminate the dependency on centralized leadership to reduce the payoff matrix for an adversary to attack. If there's one guy who can topple the whole thing, then it's like super worth going after them. But if there isn't, and then it might not be worth going after anybody at all. So the long story short, if you want your financial infrastructure or any infrastructure to outlast your country, you should think about decentralizing it. So what is rye? Rye is a new ETH backed DeFi asset.
03:41:27.952 - 03:41:56.940, Speaker A: It's stablecoin ish because it's a reflex index. It's not quite a stablecoin. It is volatility dampened index of its collateral. So it's designed to resist sudden price movements, but it can drift over longer timeframes. It is a fork of MakerDAO's multi collateral. Dai. We thought that was a great place to start because it's been formally verified, doesn't have external dependencies, has a network of experts that understand it in depth.
03:41:56.940 - 03:42:47.440, Speaker A: The system is governance minimized. So we're trying to remove governance as much as possible over the system. We want to have ungovernance meetings where the point is to stop having the meetings and figure out fully automating the system so it can run itself. One of the things that we have figured out how to automate is the interest rate. So we automatically set the interest rate that keeps the Rye asset stable and the asset is optimized to be DeFi collateral. So it'll be low volatility. And we think that because it doesn't have the same counterparty risk that, say, USDC or USDT have, or even Dai, if you think about the Maker governance system as your counterparty, might be helpful.
03:42:47.440 - 03:43:11.476, Speaker A: So rise being developed by Reflexor Labs. The CEO is a charming young man named Stefan Ayonescu. He's a 22 year old solidity wizard in the UK. The team is five devs, including Stefan. I'm a part time contributor. I just work here. We also have Nikolai, the technical co founder of Maker, as our advisor.
03:43:11.476 - 03:43:41.990, Speaker A: And we've raised $1.6 million from MetaCartel Ventures and Paradigm Standard Crypto variant. And Robert Rye was born of frustrations with multicolateral dai. So single collateral die in 2018 was pretty great. It had ETH as its only form of collateral. The governments didn't really do anything except set the stability fee, and the project cared deeply about decentralization. I'm going to play a little time capsule blast from the past.
03:43:41.990 - 03:44:34.788, Speaker A: But anyway, so the thing about this entire model as a whole, I don't think that it's possible for this model to scale at all in the same way that Dai can Maker can, right, because they're not decentralized. So it's just like a different product, essentially, because let's say, for instance, you're building a DAP. If you build it on top of something like Tether or True USD, it's no longer a DAP, right? It just became an app because you're actually building it on top of a bank. And underneath your product, like your product, there is a bank that is essentially the platform you're building on because they're the one to in a sense, they have to agree to everything you're doing. And if they don't, you're in trouble because they will actually I mean, they can and they will seize your funds or freeze them or whatever. Right? Yeah. So that was in 2018.
03:44:34.788 - 03:45:21.436, Speaker A: And now it seems that makers and Dai by extension has sort of become more of an app than DAP because more of the collateral backing Dai at this point is USDC than ETH. And the governance has extended its reach to do a lot. I love this meme of Mariano slapping all the tokens into Maker. So oh, yeah, one more thing. I mean, also note, like, Sanction had like 400,000 of the die at the time. We liked it because it was cyberpunk money. And then now it's a little harder to explain what it is and justify it.
03:45:21.436 - 03:46:06.620, Speaker A: So talk about money God thesis. So the idea of the money God is that it is possible to build a system that transcends human intervention and is thus treated with a sort of divine reverence, so to speak. You have faith in the system. And so one of the things that you have to have is a perception of control as liability. And so if you eliminate these points of control, you can reduce the possibility that insiders will exploit the system or outsiders will try to damage it or attack it through even regulation. And this increases its resilience. And then through minimum governance, you get social scalability.
03:46:06.620 - 03:47:00.076, Speaker A: So instead of needing to trust some group of people to make the right decisions about what the interest rates should be or the risk tolerance for various things, you sort of just trust that the algorithm will continue to operate as it was programmed. And maybe it's less flexible, but you don't have to worry about the black swan risk of the humans failing. You certainly can worry about the technical risk, but the bet is that it's easier to scale. And you can see this with bitcoin, right? Bitcoiners are willing to stake their lives on bitcoin because they trust the system not to change on them unexpectedly. There's no group of people that can go and just change bitcoin unilaterally, and they all basically enforce that norm. Another thing is to break the dependency on USD. USD is losing its purchasing power, and it might go away entirely.
03:47:00.076 - 03:47:50.060, Speaker A: It doesn't seem wise for a god to tether itself to such mortal systems. And the last is longevity, because you want to design the system to outlast its creators and have that kind of framework when you're thinking about the design. And the idea is that if you do all these things, people interact with the system differently than they otherwise wouldn't, and you get people to buy in and commit to helping grow the system because they know that the rules can't be changed by anybody. And you can see Vitalik's a fan too. So talk about control theory. Control theory is everywhere. It's the science of maintaining stability in this context.
03:47:50.060 - 03:48:30.376, Speaker A: The reason that we're interested in control theory is because we want to remove the control of governance over the system. So if we want to not have people voting on what the interest rates are, we have to have an algorithm that sets it, and we have to design the algorithm that it can sufficiently handle crazy black swan events and your sort of day to day without needing too much human intervention. Ideally, there get to a point where there's none. So a control system works like this. It has some output that you're trying to get to some desired state. It has some input that you're manipulating, and you sort of measure the output, and then you manipulate the input. And my favorite example of this for beginners is like a shower.
03:48:30.376 - 03:49:40.148, Speaker A: You get into the shower, you know how hot you want the water to be you have the input, which is the knob, and you're sort of twisting the knob to make sure that the shower eventually gets to be the right temperature. If you move the knob too fast, if your controller is too sensitive, then you're going to overshoot and you're going to get hot water and then have to turn it all the way back and then repeat the process. And so the whole science of control theory is to try to optimize the system to quickly achieve the desired target, but without overshooting too much. The most common form of controller is the PID controller. And the way the PID controller works is it combines these three terms, all derived from the error, the difference between what we want the system to be at and what it is currently at. So the proportional term is directly proportional to the current error. So if the temperature that we want, the water is like 100 and the temperature is currently 105, if it was 110, then that term would be like twice as big.
03:49:40.148 - 03:50:20.384, Speaker A: So that just points in the direction of what the error is. And you can think of that as like the sort of standard, okay, well, if it's hot, then I should oppose it. If it's cold, I should. The integral is different. The integral, it accumulates the error over time and it's typically used to deal with steady state error. So if there's a small amount of error that the proportional term isn't quite sensitive enough to pick up, it'll build and build and build over time until it is large enough that the integral term grows and responds to it. So you can think of this in the context of like cruise control.
03:50:20.384 - 03:50:58.904, Speaker A: Maybe your car is good at. If you have the set points, 80 miles an hour, if it's like 1 mph lower and it's staying there for a while, then there's something that will eventually bring it back up to 80. The derivative is based on how fast you are approaching or moving away from the equilibrium. I'm not going to talk too much about that. It's not as relevant for this, but it's another way to quantify there. It's typically used for more fast responses. So when we're building this algorithm, we're essentially tuning a controller.
03:50:58.904 - 03:51:17.648, Speaker A: And so each of these terms has a constant associated with it called the gain. There's a KP. The ki. The KD. So there's proportional gain and integral gain. And our objective is to determine what these parameters should be so that the interest rate responds and keeps Rye stable. And we're going to take a little field trip.
03:51:17.648 - 03:51:59.200, Speaker A: It's going to be a few minute video of watching a man stabilize his robot. So, yeah, let's start again and look at just proportional control and how to pick the gain and what it looks like if you go too high or too low. All right, so I've got the robot laying on its back right now. And if you look at the bottom, the bottom three charts, I took the integral and derivative part, the gains and zeroed them out. So they're basically not having any effect. We now just have a proportional control feedback loop. And let's take a look at how that performs.
03:51:59.200 - 03:52:43.970, Speaker A: Because it has the gain that I chose earlier, it's actually balancing all right, but let me try to get this all in frame so you can see it a little better. See if I can get that. This is the kind of thing we do at reflective all in frame. Okay. So that's stabilized about as good as I can get. Okay, so if you look at the bottom left chart, the p scalar or P gain chart well, first of all, we'll only drive it around, I guess, so you can kind of see that it balances okay, but not very well. You kind of see that whenever I give it an input, it kind of oscillates a little bit.
03:52:43.970 - 03:53:25.292, Speaker A: And that's even with the proportional gain set pretty well if you set it much lower. So if you can kind of see now on the TV, I've got the gain set at about 5000 and now it just really doesn't want to balance. I have to kind of manually balance it. It's just kind of all over the place. So, yeah, if your proportional gain is set too low, it's just going to drift. It isn't going to hold its position very well and it might even flip over. Okay, so if you raise the gain so we're going to bring it up towards about 12,000, which is where it was, you can see that it'll work all right.
03:53:25.292 - 03:54:08.120, Speaker A: It still drips quite a bit, but now it can get that in frame. Now it can reasonably well on its own perform, but it still drips a lot. And then if you set the gain way too high so you can kind of see right there, the gain is set to 24,000. It balances a little bit better, but then it'll oscillate and you can even see in the graph. Yeah. So that's one thing you got to be careful with. If you set it too high, it'll get kind of ridiculous.
03:54:08.120 - 03:55:00.990, Speaker A: So for my particular robot, a proportional gain. Cool. Yeah, that was it. So the point of that is that that is actually what we are doing, except instead of keeping a robot up, we're keeping the price stable. And we're not fighting gravity and whatnot, we're fighting market forces and our tuning process and what we'll try to accomplish with our main net demo and building the system over time is understanding the dynamics of the market to properly tune the parameters so that this thing can be stable in a variety of conditions. One of the interesting things that I learned in the process of this was that central banks actually sort of run on control theory. They just don't know it yet.
03:55:00.990 - 03:56:02.988, Speaker A: So they have these policy rules of thumbs. Most of them derive from this Taylor rule, where you've got this inflation gap Pi and the output gap y, and they determine the federal funds rate, the interest rate, R, and some of them have historical terms like the integral and so forth. And if you break down many of these policy rules, they actually all fit into the same terms that a PID controller would have in terms of forward looking and backward looking adjustments. So let's talk about what rye is as a reflex index. So, to understand what rye is, you need to understand these concepts. So the concept of the redemption price, it's different than in something like Maker, because in Maker, the redemption price is sort of always one die equals $1. That's the meaning of it having a peg.
03:56:02.988 - 03:57:09.184, Speaker A: In this case, the redemption price is the value of rye internal to the system used for the collateralization ratio, same as maker, but it's in dynamic equilibrium with the market price. So the redemption price can change over time, and it gets set by the redemption rate. And so the redemption rate is the current rate of change of the redemption price. The redemption price doesn't really matter what it starts at, it can be sort of arbitrary. And then the redemption rate feedback mechanism is what updates the redemption rate in response to differences between the redemption price and the market price in order to make those two reach equilibrium and keep the ultimately redemption, the price of rye stable. So here's the two sort of loops. So if the price of rye goes up, people start buying rye, then the redemption rate of rye goes negative, which means the redemption price of rye starts to drop.
03:57:09.184 - 03:57:49.948, Speaker A: And so, if you are a holder of rye, at that point, you are effectively getting a negative interest rate you are paying to hold rye. And so some of those holders might want to sell in order to avoid that negative interest rate. And in which case, rye would return to its equilibrium. And I say new here, because when the redemption price starts to drop, it'll continue to change until the market price reaches it. It won't go to what it originally was. It'll end up having drifted some from its original set point. And the same happens in reverse.
03:57:49.948 - 03:58:21.592, Speaker A: If the rye price goes down, then the redemption rate goes positive. Suddenly, if I'm holding rye, I'm being paid to hold rye. And if I am borrowing rye, then I'm paying extra interest on my loan. The redemption price starts to increase. And so rye borrowers who don't want to face that interest buy back rye to pay their loan. And then rye returns to its new equilibrium. I got a message in the chat.
03:58:21.592 - 03:59:11.976, Speaker A: How do I check that cool, right? So this is what that looks like in practice. So this is on the right and on the left, this is the same chart, the 2016 data science that MakerDAO did to try and simulate how the TRFM as they called it, target rate feedback mechanism would have worked. The market price, the terminology is a little bit different. So we renamed target price to redemption price and deflation rate to redemption rate. But ultimately it's sort of the same. You can see that this system introduces a shock between days five and 15. So on day five, the market price spikes.
03:59:11.976 - 03:59:57.396, Speaker A: And you can see it up here too. And in response to that, the interest rate drops a lot and it keeps going until the market price reaches equilibrium. And once it does, then the two sort of remain in equilibrium for another several days until the shock wears off, and at which point the market price rebounds. So the interest rate then rebounds in the opposite direction until it reaches equilibrium again. And note that the final redemption price, given that this redemption rate has sort of been between one and three, is positive this whole time, is slightly positive. And so it is not pegged to anything, it is actually increasing. So, yeah, the behavior of the reflex index.
03:59:57.396 - 04:00:59.516, Speaker A: So when you think about this in terms of a financial product, what do you expect it to do? Well, you expect it to resist sudden price movements and it's essentially using these interest rate based incentives to counter that and create its own little gravity well. But on the long term, the price should follow the demand for ETH leverage, with the assumption being that the demand for ETH leverage with the assumption being that ETH leverage is also correlated to ETH price. So on the long term, we expect this to sort of follow the ETH price. And the mechanism for that is when people are leveraging ETH, they leverage ETH rye. So they borrow rye, they sell the rye, they buy more ETH, they borrow rye. They keep doing that, and this pushes up the price of rye. But then over the longer term, this pushes the redemption rate I'm sorry, pushes the price of rye down, which pushes the redemption rate positive and over time increases the redemption price.
04:00:59.516 - 04:01:59.632, Speaker A: So you could see that equilibrium will shift over time. And then the other thing is we want to optimize rye in terms of shock recovery time. How long does it take the system to reach stability again, minimize overshooting and add an amount of manipulation resistance? And so that's like how expensive is it to somebody to introduce instability into the system by, for example, messing with the controller, buying a lot, pushing the controller one way and then selling and then moving it the opposite way and essentially doing Oracle manipulation. And another goal is of course, to maximize for rye ETH liquidity, which would reduce slippage to make it cheaper to enter and exit into rye as a system. So our progress thus far, we've been pretty busy. We converted multilateral dai to english, so it doesn't have weird names anymore. Built all the smart contracts, including the control system.
04:01:59.632 - 04:02:24.170, Speaker A: Built the subgraph, the keepers, liquidation bots, TypeScript, libraries. Developer. Docs did the historical data analysis on Maker. We calibrated our Cadcut sims and we are now preparing for our main net demo. This is what it looks like to calibrate our simulations with our solidity codes. At the top, you can see the python. At the bottom, you can see our solidity, and they look pretty much the same.
04:02:24.170 - 04:03:01.824, Speaker A: So the left you can see is y axis is the target price, and on the right, you can see that's interest rate. That's the redemption rate that's being set. This is important because if they didn't match, then our simulations would produce parameters that were not super helpful in production on real Ethereum. We've also made schematics like this in building this. If this kind of thing turns you on, please proceed to our documentation. We'd love to work with you. Proto Rye.
04:03:01.824 - 04:03:29.550, Speaker A: So we are launching our first main net demo in four weeks. There's going to be a 10,200 pry limit, about $2. So, like 20,000 ish total. It's just meant to be a game to see how people interact with it. We try to leverage long Etherei. We try to mess with the controller and test out our system. So if that sounds fun to you, please come and join that.
04:03:29.550 - 04:04:04.120, Speaker A: And if you're a control freak, please join us and help us taking Blockchain control theory from zero to one. We're proud to be working with Block Science with Michael Zargham, who made Cadcad our SIM software, and we are interested in working with anybody else who's interested in this as well. Yep. That's all I got. Amazing. Thank you so much, Amin. That was a great lesson in not just what rise, but also a good refresher on control theory.
04:04:04.120 - 04:05:22.208, Speaker A: That definitely takes me back to some of my college courses. There are a handful of questions that have come up, and what I'll do is I'll kind of ask you a couple of them here, but just to kind of keep everything moving along on time, I'll encourage you to kind of join the chat after this if you have time, and just answer those people directly. But the first question that I have is actually for me, and that is there's a lot of reinforcement and kind of information you need to do and kind of improve on for the control systems to work. So I'm actually just curious, are there any limitations on what you can do on smart contracts with respect to designing a perfect control system or feedback loop here? And is there anything that's not possible, or is everything just fine and works really well in kind of how you're envisioning ride to be? Yeah, that's a good question. So we're fortunate that most of the even more sophisticated control systems are mathematically efficient, so they're relatively easy to build on. Smart contracts. There is like gas thinking to do because you have to think about how often you update the system and how expensive it is to update it often.
04:05:22.208 - 04:06:28.104, Speaker A: And if you can, for example, update it less often, there's always a trade off when you're doing that. Right? Awesome. And the second question we have from our chat, and I'll just say this verbatim, what is the incentive to redeem rye when the redemption rates go negative? Shouldn't they just wait until it rebalances on its own or when they are ready to redeem? What is the incentive to redeem rye? So if the rate's going negative, so that means there's a lot the price of rye goes up, so the rate goes negative. I mean, like, part of part of it is arbitrage. I mean, you know, why do people redeem die when the price is up? Part of it is that if the price is currently like, I don't know, let's say 1.1 relative to its starting position and the interest rate is negative ten, then you know that it's going down. So you want to get ahead of that interest rate.
04:06:28.104 - 04:06:59.824, Speaker A: If that doesn't bother you, then you can hold. Anybody who that bothers can take that action. I hope this clarifies the question for the person who asked us on the chat. So thank you so much amin. We have posted amin slides on our chat, so if anybody's interested in looking at the deck, you can just click the link there. And for any other questions that you have for me, we'll either relay them to him directly or he'll join the chat and answer them directly to you. So thanks so much and thanks again for your time.
04:06:59.824 - 04:07:21.110, Speaker A: Thanks for having me. I'd like to introduce Josh Stark from the global team to officially take over from me. And I'll let Josh introduce our next set of speakers from here. Great. Thanks, Karthik. Hello, everybody. Hope you're enjoying the D Five Summit so far.
04:07:21.110 - 04:07:59.376, Speaker A: We've had an awesome morning or afternoon talk so far and we're just going to keep on going. Next, to continue the stablecoin theme, the next talk is going to be from the USDC team from Coinbase, and we've actually got Pete and Namil and Joel joining us. Namil and Joel are going to give a brief introduction to USDC and then Pete will give an overview of their recent upgrade to USDC version two. So welcome to the call, guys. I'll let you take it from here. Cool. Thanks so much, Josh.
04:07:59.376 - 04:08:24.696, Speaker A: It's super exciting to talk to you all. Let me just really quickly share my screen. Cool. Would you mind sharing your screen? Thanks. So thanks, everyone. It's super exciting to talk to you really quickly. I'm a product manager at Coinbase.
04:08:24.696 - 04:09:19.384, Speaker A: I'm here with my counterpart at Circle, Joao Reginano, and also Pete Kim, who's the lead engineer at Coinbase on USDC. We're super excited to talk to you about stablecoins, but also about what it takes to upgrade a token that has a lot of market value. So there's a number of, ERC, 20 tokens out there, and in a lot of ways, a number of them have upgradable capabilities. And we thought it'd be really helpful to show what our journey was to be able to move from our USCC version one, kind of the way we thought about feature development and how we got to USCC version two. But before we do that, I thought it'd be really quickly just to recap some of the growth. So USCC was launched several years ago, and over the course, for a long time, it was about a hundred million, 203 hundred and 400 million dollar market cap. And then slowly, with the growth of the ethereum ecosystem, especially with D Five liquidity mining, we've had just a tremendous amount of growth.
04:09:19.384 - 04:10:09.064, Speaker A: So USDC is the second largest stablecoin in the world, and it's almost at about $2.7 billion in market cap right now. Our core differentiator, and the thing that we focus on the most is to make it the most trusted fiat bank stablecoin. And you'll see that not just in terms of the discussions that we have today, in terms of what it means for our smart contracts, what it means for our deployment and the super user keys that we hold, but also how we think about auditability, putting money into the bank account, making sure that third parties are reviewing it. And if we go to the next slide, the core thing for us has always been that we should always want to be able to provide. If someone comes to us, gives us a dollar, we can provide one USDC, and vice versa is that you can give us one USDC and we can provide you back $1 in Fiat. And so that's just really critical.
04:10:09.064 - 04:10:51.800, Speaker A: And that trust for a stablecoin is a really basic key value proposition that we offer. And the idea is then a lot of DeFi protocols and other teams can build on top. Another core differentiator for USDC versus other types of stablecoin is a consortium. So initially it started with Circle Coinbase, will work with a number of different partners. And the goal over time is that we continue growing this similar to, let's say, a visa with a number of different members, all who can issue and hold and participate in USDC. And so I think this multi year share model is a big part of it. I think that idea that we have transparent and third party audited and that we're one of the fastest growing stablecoins.
04:10:51.800 - 04:11:24.820, Speaker A: Jod, did you want to go next? Sure, yeah. I think Pete is saying that for some reason he couldn't present his screen anymore. But I'll talk over what we had there and then hand it over to Pete to talk about the upgrade of US and CV Two. Another thing. Oh, it's back. Awesome. Namil, you want to pick back up from there.
04:11:24.820 - 04:11:59.200, Speaker A: Yes, sorry, I got kicked out for some no worries. If you go to the next slide. So I think the core part is that just a number of different teams are building on top of USDC. If you go to the next slide, a lot of the protocols that we use each and every day, they all use USDC. And I think the main plug I would maybe just give here for the group of anyone who's building an ethan mine on USDC is if you go to the next slide, is that Coinbase has a USDC bootstrap fund. And what we do is this is different from other venture capital funds. What we do is we put money directly in a protocol.
04:11:59.200 - 04:12:23.352, Speaker A: And so as a result, what that means is that if you have a protocol, you're getting started and you want liquidity in your protocol in the early months and weeks, it can be very difficult. There can be very little liquidity. So what the USCC team has done has basically been to put money in a variety of different protocols. If you want to apply, there's a bitly link right there. Cool. And I'll turn it over to you. Yeah.
04:12:23.352 - 04:13:38.352, Speaker A: So another thing that we are passionate about in the USCC front, and obviously myself coming from the circle side, and Namil and Pete have been working on this on the Coinbase side amongst a lot of other team members. If you can move to the next slide, Pete, is how USCC can be used as really an alternative money infrastructure. Right? For those of you, I don't know how many of you have built more traditional financial services, but if you have, you're going to be familiar with integrating with banking connectivity systems, banking networks around the world and payments processing around the world. That can be extremely difficult, time consuming, expensive, and quite cumbersome and poor from a technology point of view. We're passionate about seeing people beginning to use USCC as an alternative infrastructure for money, whether it is use cases around payments and payouts commerce, what we call digital dollar accounts, which is imagine every app on your phone that has a dollar balance, right? It doesn't have to be a financial service, it can be Uber, airbnb marketplaces and how you can basically reimagine all of those things built on top of this infrastructure. We are very passionate about that. On the circle side, we have actually pretty much bet the company now on this.
04:13:38.352 - 04:14:24.450, Speaker A: And we offer a number of developer tools, whether it is on Fiat, on and off ramps, custody, and various other types of APIs. And Coinbase also has obviously a ton of resources for that. So make sure you head over to the resources that those two companies have and there should be a ton of more developer tools coming out. And in that spirit of making sure that USCC is not only a stable Coin, not only the raw rails, but really a tremendous amount of tools for developers to build the next generation financial services. We have devised USCC v. Two, and I'll hand it over to Pete to talk about what we designed there and how we've done the migration. Hi.
04:14:24.450 - 04:15:02.110, Speaker A: So how was USCC v two developed? First, it started with proposals. Lots and lots of pages of text describing the motivation, technical design and the rationale. It was a lot of writing, and frankly, I don't really enjoy it as much as writing code. But I took it as practice for writing white papers for my future billion dollar blockchain projects. It wasn't so bad. Anyway, three different proposals were created and those were then reviewed by people at both Coinbase and Circle. And after a bit of back and forth, both Coinbase and Circle gave the thumbs up and it was time for building.
04:15:02.110 - 04:15:49.864, Speaker A: The first thing I had to do was modernizing the code base. USCC was first deployed in 2018 and it was really starting to show its age. It was using solidity 0.4. It used JavaScript as opposed to TypeScript, and modern tooling like Auto formatter and Static code Analyzers weren't used. It took a long time to update everything, but I managed to discover and fix quite a number of bugs, such as some tests passing only because some variables were being declared globally and accidentally being reused across multiple tests, things like that. So it was worth it. Once that was done, it was time to develop the Fiat Token v.
04:15:49.864 - 04:16:33.812, Speaker A: Two contract, which is the name of the USDC contract in our code base. USDC was designed to be upgradable. We do it by using this proxy contract pattern. So basically users can interact with the proxy contract, which borrows code from the implementation contract, in this case, fiat Token v. One, while keeping state data stored within the proxy contract. This is made possible via the use of the delegate call opcode. So to upgrade to a new version, we have to first deploy the new implementation contract and then update the pointer in the proxy contract to point at the new implementation contract.
04:16:33.812 - 04:17:35.548, Speaker A: That sounds pretty simple, right? But well, in practice it's not actually as simple as it sounds. There's one thing that you got to be mindful of that a lot of people are not aware of, and that is the storage slots. So Solidity assigns storage slots for each state variable within the contract in the order they appear in the code. So in this case, for example, alpha maps to storage slot of zero, bravo maps a storage slot of one, charlie maps to storage slot of two, delta maps to three, and Echo maps to four. And that's because this contract Buzz, which is a contract that I'll be deploying, inherits from Foo and Bar. So it first takes a look at Foo and then it maps the source slots and then Bar, and then followed by the variables within the contract itself. If I'm using the delegate call pattern, the contract state is actually stored within the proxy contract and not the implementation contract itself.
04:17:35.548 - 04:18:48.310, Speaker A: So later on when you actually update the implementation contract, when you replace it with a new one, it could potentially lead to the variables pointing at the wrong slots. So for example, here I added a new variable called Foxtrot and what ends up happening is Foxtrot will take the story slot of three and it already has a value much wow and it will just use that and delta instead of pointing at three, it will now point at four. And four used to be an address of type address but it's string so I don't know what's going to happen. It's probably going to take like the Unicode value of this binary data and echo will not point at five which doesn't even exist yet. It will lose the value, the existing value which was zero x cafe dude. And in this example, this is a different example where I make this new contract derived from another contract and in this case the same thing happens. The storage slots are now the variables are now pointing at different storage slots and it gets messed up.
04:18:48.310 - 04:20:10.300, Speaker A: So in order to prevent myself from accidentally messing up the storage slots, the first thing I did was to create a unit test that checks that all of the existing variables map to the correct storage slots. Now if you're building a brand new smart contract from scratch you might want to take a look at new patterns like EIP 25 35 diamond standard that makes management of contract storage much more modular. But that wasn't something I could use because I was upgrading an existing contract that didn't use that. With the test in place, I felt much more comfortable to make sweeping changes and I also made sure that all the new code added had 100% test coverage. Honestly, like way more time was spent writing the tests than the contract code itself and the ratio was probably 20 to one or more. By the way, USDC is 100% open source and you can find the code in the URL shown here and the code was then reviewed by Circle and merged. I want to give a huge shout out to Eric from Circle who really patiently went over and scrutinized every line that I changed in my gigantic pull requests that updated thousands of lines.
04:20:10.300 - 04:20:47.496, Speaker A: It was truly a massive collaborative effort between the two companies and really felt good, man. And then once that was done, we had our contracts audited by OpenZeppelin. We used Open Zeppelin mostly because of an existing relationship we had with them but we actually reached out to Consensus Diligence and Trailer Bits as well and they're all fantastic. You really can't go wrong with any of those firms. I must say that it wasn't cheap though. The audit was definitely not cheap. Maybe because we are Coinbase and maybe they overcharged a little bit, I don't know.
04:20:47.496 - 04:21:11.056, Speaker A: But it wasn't cheap. And sometimes it makes me question why I'm writing code when reading code can be far more profitable. Obviously. I'm kidding. Anyways, then comes the scary part. The deployment we decided to perform the upgrade on the 27 August USDC had then reached $1.4 billion market cap.
04:21:11.056 - 04:21:44.700, Speaker A: Now it's close to 3 billion. So we could not afford to screw up. We had 100% test coverage. We tested the deployment multiple times independently within circle and coinbase both on a testnet and a local main net fork. So using Ganesh, you can actually fork the main net and try simulating how things will go on the main net. And we did that as well. But even then, I wasn't feeling 100% confident about the upgrade.
04:21:44.700 - 04:22:45.170, Speaker A: The amount of damage a botched upgrade could do was unimaginable, and screwing up would surely be a career ending move for myself, and I couldn't afford that. And it's 2020 and anything is possible, right? So what did I do as an engineer? Write my code. I ended up writing an upgrader contract that performs the upgrade, runs some tests, and then reverts if issues are found, all within a single transaction. This ensures that there is zero downtime. And if the upgrade is botched, it'll simply revert and nobody would even notice because it's an atomic operation. As you can see, it updates the pointer in the proxy contract, initializes the new contract, and before it does that, it also copies some of the values from the existing contract. And then it runs some tests by reading the contract state.
04:22:45.170 - 04:23:10.436, Speaker A: And it also performs some ERC 20 operations like Approve. And then it checks the allowance. It then does the transfer from. It also does a transfer call. And if all of these checks pass, then the upgraded contract will self destruct and the upgrade will be finalized. And all this, again, are happening within a single atomic transaction. So there is zero downtime.
04:23:10.436 - 04:23:54.180, Speaker A: Now, was this necessary? I don't know. I think it was probably an overkill. But the peace of mind that it gave was definitely worth the extra code that I had to write. This is a snippet from the center slack. One day before the upgrade, we were honestly scared because like I said earlier, this timeline in 2020 proved that any disaster is fair game. And this is right before the upgrade. On the 27th, we started a war room in Zoom, and we then called the upgraded contract by calling the upgrade function within the upgraded contract.
04:23:54.180 - 04:24:23.740, Speaker A: And it was done within a minute. And as far as I'm aware, no animals or people were harmed. And more importantly, we managed to upgrade a $1.4 billion financial product with zero downtime. There's no way you could do that with traditional money or in traditional financial system. And that just shows how powerful this technology really is. And that's it.
04:24:23.740 - 04:25:11.596, Speaker A: That's it for the talk and thanks everyone. And I would like to remind you that we are sponsoring hackathon prizes, total of 8000 USDC in prizes. It's a lot of money. So all you have to do to qualify is to use USCC in whatever you are building. And if you want bonus credit, we'd really like to see the use of some V two features like metatransaction support and the use of L two, but those aren't required, but would love to see those being used. For more details you can go to htpsonline.org prizes and you can find URLs to the Faucets and testnet contracts, et cetera there as well.
04:25:11.596 - 04:25:42.104, Speaker A: So I would love for you all to participate and I'm really looking forward to seeing all the cool, exciting things that you build with USCC and Ethereum. And that's it for the talk and we'll now take questions. Great, thanks Pete, that was a great talk. We do have some questions from Chat. I'll just jump right into them. So, one question from a user. This upgrade great.
04:25:42.104 - 04:27:04.732, Speaker A: What are the next features you're excited about for future versions, future implementations? What's on the more distant roadmap? Yeah, so I took the question Nimil and Joao can just hop in time. But one thing that I really like to see is USCC on chain rewards. Unfortunately, that was actually one of the proposals that, you know, similar to Die savings rate today, if you have USDC deposited within Coinbase, you can actually start earning rewards. And we actually had to postpone that project just because the federal interest rate went down so much that there wasn't enough interest that we could then pass on to our users as rewards. But that's something that I definitely want to work on in the future and I want to make that accessible. Regardless of how you're using USDC, whether you're holding it within a non custodial wallet like Coinbase wallet or MetaMask or on a different exchange, it shouldn't matter. You should be able to earn the rewards.
04:27:04.732 - 04:27:49.648, Speaker A: And that's something that we wanted to work on but couldn't because of the current interest rate situation. So that's one thing that I want to work on. And I would love to see just USDC being used in applications like global Venmo type of applications. Obviously, Venmo is only available within the US and other countries like China. They use WeChat, which is not available outside of China for payment use cases. And there are other solutions like LinePay, et cetera. But what I really want to see is a global version and something that anyone can download from anywhere around the world.
04:27:49.648 - 04:28:35.088, Speaker A: And for that to happen, scalability is really important. So integrations with various L two protocols and side chains and maybe even other chains, that's something that we are actively working on today. I just would plus one what Pete said on L2 scaling, there's just been a tremendous amount of innovation going on in the space. I think one thing we'd say is, feel free to reach out to us. And Pete shared our Twitter handles, but feel free to reach out to any of us if you are a L2 solution, or even if you're a DAP and you're looking at a L2 solution would be really valuable for us as we decide which ones we might prioritize and when. But I think scaling is probably one of the top of mind things for us. So another question.
04:28:35.088 - 04:29:21.308, Speaker A: So one thing that's interesting about USDC is, of course, it's created by both Coinbase and Circle and there's kind of a consortium behind it. What does that look like from an engineering perspective? What is it like to collaborate across organizations on such a big financial product, as you explained? Yeah. So, Pete, I'll explain the context and would love to have you explain the engineering side of it, but I'd say the context has been the vision has always been something like a visa, where there's a lot of different banks that are all involved together. They have the brand and they have the security of the broader system and the adoption right. That they have availability everywhere else. And that's basically been our goal. And so the great things is that, for example, circle has a ton of different features that they're able to provide.
04:29:21.308 - 04:30:20.112, Speaker A: We have another set of features and basically community can pick and choose amongst all of that and they can still use the same USDC. Then I think on the end side, it obviously is much more challenging to have a consortium rather than one company. It's just a lot more coordination and I think Pete can share more in, right? Yeah. And I'll just want to add a little bit to like, we do want to expand the consortium and we do want to make it not just a Coinbases or Circles thing, but something that the broader ethereum ecosystem could use and influence. So if there are organizations that are interested in joining the consortium, you should definitely reach out to us. As for the development and the collaboration between the two companies, when it comes to engineering, it's very much like an open source project. We have a slack channel.
04:30:20.112 - 04:31:21.200, Speaker A: We just casually talk about different ideas and then we create proposals and we review each other's proposals and we make pull requests. And the pull requests then get reviewed by both parties. And we also coordinate how we get those new code audited by external auditors. But it's just like any other open source project or any other project. So even though USCC itself is sort of centralized, the way we do the development for it is very similar to how a lot of these decentralized applications and protocols are built. And actually, just to add on what Namil and Pete said and Pete mentioned this, right, USSC is open source. I mean, as far as the smart contract goes, obviously there's a ton of things that Circle and Coinbase built that is proprietary, but the smart contract source code and a lot of satellite things are open source.
04:31:21.200 - 04:31:56.608, Speaker A: We would actually love to see more suggestions from the ecosystem. Right. I think we have seen a few pull requests here and there from folks on the ecosystem, but we would welcome a lot more participation. Great. And then one last question, and then we'll move on to the next talk. But Pete, one thing you mentioned in your segment of the talk is the difficulty of doing audits. Paying for audits, obviously a challenge for Coinbase, but a much bigger challenge for small organizations who nonetheless have to audit very thoroughly before launching a product.
04:31:56.608 - 04:32:55.330, Speaker A: Curious if you have thoughts on how, as an ecosystem, we can address that problem, what teams that maybe aren't as well funded can do to get audits done or to release a secure product. I see, yeah. Similar to Gitcoin, if we could create some kind of, I don't know, some kind of marketplace is that the right word? Where people can submit contracts to be audited by the community and in return, maybe they earn some kind of tokens, that could be cool. But in addition to that, I think we should just invest much more heavily into all the tooling around ethereum development. There are lots of great tools already, like Slither was very useful for us, for example. But I think we can definitely do better. And that's something that I think we collectively should come together to collaborate on.
04:32:55.330 - 04:33:13.832, Speaker A: And with great tooling, I think we'll require less and less manual audits. Okay. Thanks, Pete. Thank you. Thank you. Namil for that great talk. So we're going to move on now to our next talk.
04:33:13.832 - 04:33:38.690, Speaker A: And so next we have Nick Fett from Teller. Let me just bring up the slides here. Hey, Nick. So we've got Nick Fett from Teller to give us the state of Oracle's. Sorry for the lag here, folks. The Oracle landscape. Oh, boy.
04:33:38.690 - 04:33:50.470, Speaker A: All right. The Oracle landscape in 2020. Nick, sorry for the clumsy introduction. I'm just going to turn over to you. Maybe you'll have better luck. No, thanks, Josh. Yeah.
04:33:50.470 - 04:34:18.840, Speaker A: All right, it's going to start sharing my screen. Can you give me a thumbs up or you guys can hear me? Okay. Everything's great. Looks good. Okay, awesome. So, as Josh had said, I'm Nick Fett and I am the CTO of Teller. So today we're going to kind of talk about all of the different Oracles in DeFi, but to tell you guys a little bit about Teller.
04:34:18.840 - 04:35:10.236, Speaker A: This talk is not about Teller, but we are a decentralized Oracle on, you know, if you haven't heard about Teller or you're looking to get data into your smart contracts, definitely go give Teller a look. Teller IO. We also are sponsoring the hackathon. So if you guys are doing a hack and need some pricing data into your DAP, definitely go give it a look. So yeah, now I'll just kind of get started on Oracles in DeFi in general. So kind of before I get into what's currently being used by DeFi, let's kind of get into the love story between Oracles and Blockchains and then really just how it all went down. So even before Ethereum, so these Glorified Escrow contracts, which we call smart contracts, realized that they actually needed a way to access off chain information.
04:35:10.236 - 04:36:11.712, Speaker A: So early adopters of Bitcoin Ethereum that just playing around with these digital ledger entries is just only so much fun if you can only reference these kind of self contained transactions. And so the dream of having access to off chain information began. They started on with the early visions were derivatives, stablecoins prediction markets, and basically gambling protocols that us in the crypto space all really like. And like any good community of entrepreneurs would do, people set out to build these things and it was great and it worked. So we have derivatives, stablecoins prediction markets and all those things. But now we're actually looking back and a lot of people are kind of examining those and they're wondering if this was kind of the dream all along. Is this what people had thought? As more money gets thrown at these protocols, we have to look and say like, hey, well, all along we needed the Oracles in order to make this possible.
04:36:11.712 - 04:37:08.420, Speaker A: And we knew that we needed the Oracle technology, but do we actually have the Oracle technology? Is it actually trustless like we had been originally promised? So, kind of stepping back from the DeFi in general, let's look at what an Oracle actually is. So before there was any differentiation between on chain versus off chain data, all you had were these databases. So the question a decade ago was very similar to the Oracle problem. How do you come to consensus on a piece of data in a decentralized way? As we all know, the answer to this question was Bitcoin and the blockchain. So regardless of what system you're running, all these layer ones have various ways of agreeing upon specified data. So in Bitcoin's case, it's who's sending what to who. And all of this is sort of built into the system.
04:37:08.420 - 04:37:47.712, Speaker A: You have a consensus layer that's built in, and Oracles are different. So Oracles are built on top of these layer ones. They don't have a pre specified consensus mechanism most of the time. So you don't really just have these sort of pre specified off codes. You need information on some event or state that's not at all related to your blockchain. So the big difference, I guess, between Oracles and normal data is that now the consensus layer is on chain. So namely, whenever I say consensus piece, it's just the pieces that determine, okay, who can push the data and who determines whether or not this data is correct.
04:37:47.712 - 04:38:20.504, Speaker A: And that's what an Oracle system okay? So now that we sort. Of know the basis of what an Oracle is. Let's kind of get into some of the designs. So to talk about what's the most simple Oracle design. And this would just be one person. So I think we all know this one, it's a centralized Oracle. So if your DAP needs an Oracle, you can just enter in the price yourself, so you enter it in.
04:38:20.504 - 04:39:02.804, Speaker A: For those that don't know, the biggest name for this method in the ethereum space is Provable. It's formerly called Oracleize and it works really well. It's obviously a completely centralized model, but it's sort of very open, very transparent, it's easy to see who's in charge. The obvious risk of centralization in your Oracle though is that A, they can either manipulate your price or if they, let's say they just shut down their servers for some reason you don't even get a price. So you're sort of left hanging. And that latter problem is what we actually call a liveness guarantee. So moving on to the second easiest design, this would be a multi SIG.
04:39:02.804 - 04:39:56.036, Speaker A: So for this design, you don't just whitelist one person, you would whitelist a bunch of people and they all place data on chain and then you take the median or average or some other transformation that you want to do. And as you can tell, so this is a little bit better, more like the V two Oracle. But to kind of get to the end here, if this is the V two Oracle, most of DFI right now is like between 1.5 and 2.5. We're really at the stage of we're just moving past the multi SIG wallet stage. So the next design, so there's kind of more designs and a lot of designs are sort of built upon complicated multisig wallets. A slightly worse version I would say is you have multiple parties off chain and they all sign the prices and then you have people who push on chain.
04:39:56.036 - 04:41:07.520, Speaker A: So you would have some exchanges sign it and then a centralized party will push these data, the data on chain. And it sort of just separates who can manipulate your prices versus who's in control of the liveness guarantee. So you may both have collusion and liveness issues and it may be separated, which may help, but it really just depends on the nuances of the design. And really a big question you have to ask yourself with these reputation based systems. So anything that uses like a multi SIG or known parties is whether or not more parties that are known make something more decentralized or censorship resistant. And that's really a big question that you have to think about in DeFi in general. So if you have Goldman, Deutsche Bank and Baccom of America setting your price, is that better than just Morgan setting your price? And maybe I think it's not quite the home run that the bitcoin OGS dreamt of, but some people will try and argue that yes, this is decentralization but that's for you to decide.
04:41:07.520 - 04:42:13.780, Speaker A: Okay, more designs quickly. So the next one kind of like if you assume that the multi SIG is like a POA system comparing them to layer ones, you could also do like a delegated proof of stake Oracle where you have them actually put some stake in and then they can sign the data and they lose a stake if they lie. This is maybe slightly better. You add a little bit of a crypto economic piece but usually this one you have a big problem with who the whitelister is. So who gets to say is it open for everyone to stake? Usually not. Can the whitelister just instantly take everyone out of the whitelist and put their own people on? There's a lot of details that even if it is like a delegated proof of stake you really have to look into it or else it's probably just no better than a POA Oracle. And kind of like the last ones for design, this is sort of a positive note would be like a prediction market Oracle.
04:42:13.780 - 04:43:10.032, Speaker A: They're probably not as popular. I think maybe they're making a comeback like Uma uses a sort of version of this and I think UMAS have right after me so you guys can talk about this, talk to heart. But anyway, so prediction market Oracles, you basically bet on what the outcome is going to be and as long as people want to make money and 51% of your system is honest, you'll get the right answer. And these guys were great. So this was some of the original Oracle design. So Auger and Gnosis they kind of wrote a lot of literature in the space about kind of crypto economic security of Oracles and I like it a lot unfortunately. So the big problems with this is sort of speed one, it can take a while and unfortunately I know we don't care about it a lot but regulatory concerns.
04:43:10.032 - 04:44:07.930, Speaker A: So prediction markets are kind of illegal here in the US and then just liquidity and cost concerns as far as the cost to actually get data out. So they've sort of become kind of untenable for a lot of the DeFi's needs. But yeah, you guys can ask hard about that next. But anyway that's kind of what's currently in use in DeFi at the know they obviously people are designing new things and lots of people are raising money for Oracle. So I think we're actually going to start seeing users starting to demand some better options here. Similar to how you saw first with crypto, centralized exchanges really took off or stable coins, you saw Tether really first just gobble up everything and it takes some time before people actually start to care about the points of centralization. But I think you had a little bit of an Oracle bubble this year and people should start realizing that this is a thing.
04:44:07.930 - 04:44:56.010, Speaker A: But despite all of these centralized designs, we've always sort of known how to decentralize something. Anytime you're trying to crypto economically validate data. We do this with Bitcoin and every other layer one so you have some way to pick some anonymous group of group to enter in your information. So some anonymous person or group of persons and then you add in. Some sort of maybe like some probabilistic finality. So that way the community in general can collectively agree upon whether or not to accept this answer. As long as you sort of make it economically expensive to pretend to be the majority, it's sort of good to go.
04:44:56.010 - 04:45:36.084, Speaker A: That's how all of the blockchains do it. That's kind of how Teller built our system. And I think others are starting to see the same thing. But there are drawbacks whenever you do this. So like any actually decentralized layer one chain, if you want to sort of make an Oracle that's secure and decentralized, it's not going to be very fast, it's going to be slow. So the Scalability Trilemma holds for Oracles and sort of securing data as well. And anyone who sort of tells you differently, they probably have a coin to sell you.
04:45:36.084 - 04:46:31.664, Speaker A: So we sort of get it when it comes to layer one. So if somebody comes up to you and says that they've solved the Scalability Trilemma and it's fully fast and decentralized, you sort of laugh at them. But then projects will try and build something and they're like, well, we need an Oracle that updates every block and it's just like, well, you're trying to validate data at the same speed as Ethereum, it's going to be really hard. So now that we sort of looked at the models and hopefully you guys get the framework, let's look to kind of see what's in use in DeFi. And I was going to go over to be honest, there's not a whole lot of projects in DeFi that actually use Oracles that have volume. So despite all of the Oracle buz and all of the partnerships, you may see people with real volume up there. It's like 20 projects.
04:46:31.664 - 04:47:24.872, Speaker A: Maybe if you look at real projects with volume on Ethereum, it's an amount that you can sort of go over them all. So I'm just going to over some of the big ones here and then you guys can sort of take their designs or some of these designs and do your test on the smaller ones on your own. Okay, so first on the list of course, probably the biggest DeFi project over the past few years, it's maker. So depending on how you measure it and how you measure its size in is Dai is huge and it's a great project. So Dai is a stablecoin for those that don't know and on their Oracle they have an Oracle for a lot of different pieces. For the multilateral Dai, mainly they used to just be ETH, US dollar and other projects use their Oracle as well. So notably like dYdX used to use them as well.
04:47:24.872 - 04:48:17.432, Speaker A: So just keep that in mind. But as far as what makers Oracle actually is, it's kind of a complex proof of authority model with a little bit of secrecy. So they have a model where they have a bunch of reporters who sign prices. You don't know who these reporters are and then people can relay these prices into a medianizer and then it goes into their smart contracts. So actually the only this, it's a relatively simple model, one that sort of goes with some of the design pieces that I showed. The only reason I wouldn't give them like a complete failing design is actually at the end there their Oracle security module. So this is a smart contract where they actually have an hour long delay to any Oracle updates and this is a phenomenal thing.
04:48:17.432 - 04:49:07.400, Speaker A: So kind of like I was saying, you don't want to expect your Oracle to be fast and final. They don't, which is great. So the token holders can sort of vote to stop anything that's bad that comes through their Oracle. So even though they have say maybe a slightly more centralized Oracle, the token holders and hopefully the decentralized voting aspect of it can shut it all down, which is good. So if you're using Maker or Dai or one of these things, this is the Oracle that you're relying on and then hopefully you guys are paying attention to it and you can sort of shut it down. So I know they did have some issues march twelveTH, so some of the issues may come with maybe like the liveness guarantee. So you have these Oracle reporters who are supposed to push the price to chain.
04:49:07.400 - 04:50:05.272, Speaker A: Well if the price of the collateral goes down by too much, well the problem actually happens is now you're actually going to kick off a bunch of CDP liquidations so a bunch of contracts are going to get closed out. There's not a whole lot of incentive that these guys have to push this to chain. They might not want to pay really high gas prices to push this through because it's going to cause their whole system a whole bunch of grief and that's kind of a bad thing. So I think maybe somebody who's trying to do maybe if one of them is trying to win at the auctions or something, but you definitely want to align the incentives correctly. But overall it's pretty good. I like the OSM next sort of very similar design would be Compound. Compound has it's a very similar system to makers except they have their own reporters.
04:50:05.272 - 04:51:17.516, Speaker A: So their open Oracle system kind of from last time I checked, I believe that their vision is to have a list of kind of known parties, whether know Coinbase's Oracle for instance. I know you guys just had a talk from Coinbase. So Coinbase would sign a price and binance would sign a price and Kraken would sign a price and all of these different very well trusted parties would sign a price. And then you have relayers who push it on Chain and similar to Maker, they also have a piece in there as well that they don't expect it to be super fast and final. So yeah, that's kind of the compound model, sort of a very similar structure to makers. And now kind of for the last DeFi projects with a bit of volume you have Synthetix, Aave, BZX set these guys all use. So I know Chainlink has a billion partners, but as far as DeFi with volume over the past more than the last few months, this is kind of the A list I'd say as a disclaimer though, this is kind of my best knowledge.
04:51:17.516 - 04:52:22.600, Speaker A: How Chainlink currently works, it's sort of hard to figure out. And I run an Oracle in the space so that's probably a negative. But Chainlink at the moment they have a centralized listing agency and they get various nodes to report price feeds, so they have a bunch of stuff on their roadmap. But what's live now is sort of a centralized reputation of chainlink based Oracle. They have a bunch of known parties so that is know, there's basically just a few structures that people are using for Oracles at the moment. And also just as I kind of went through this, just because you actually have a good method, even if you did have a perfect Oracle, just because you have a great method for getting data on chain doesn't mean that the data is even a good fit. So that's actually a different issue because Oracles and following some of the best practices regarding Oracles are like half the battle, the other half is like picking what data you should choose.
04:52:22.600 - 04:53:29.740, Speaker A: So the number of derivatives projects out there who use some last traded price on an exchange or some very illiquid auction for their settlement prices, it's kind of ridiculous and embarrassing here in the DeFi space because traditional finance has sort of written a whole lot of literature on what makes a robust settlement price and we don't really follow it too well. So hopefully that can change. But that's kind of for a different talk. Anyway, now on to I'll just kind of wrap up and then we can have some questions but why it actually matters. So I'm sure you guys have heard it like a million times. So we as a space are kind of having an identity crisis. Like what is crypto built for, what is Ethereum built for? And what's the purpose of DeFi? Are we making back end slightly more efficient or are we creating something that's actually resistant to the current power structures? So the big problem with using centralized Oracles is that there's a choke point, there's a squeeze that regulators can go after or people can do a rug pull and all this money is at risk.
04:53:29.740 - 04:54:13.710, Speaker A: I don't mind if one group voting on things isn't decentralized and token distribution isn't quite there. That's an issue for governance and it's sort of more transparent. And I believe we are talking about it. But the problem is whenever people are saying that Oracles are decentralized and there's actually just a handful of people that control the majority of money in DeFi and that's a big problem. You'll hear a lot of arguments that we rely on reputation and the fact that some of these people wouldn't want to ruin their reputation. But this is the same argument you could make for letting a consortium of banks set your settlement price. We want to move away from this in DeFi and hopefully we start doing that.
04:54:13.710 - 04:55:01.880, Speaker A: Lastly, just for the solution. I think the solution is going to come from a lot of the projects. So the current designs of Oracles are centralized for a large part because they're sort of shoehorned into products that don't work with decentralized ones. We're all into the crypto space and we're all in the crypto space. We know how to decentralize something. So if your budy has a finance application and it has a centralized server, and he wanted to know what it would look like on Ethereum, so what would you tell him? So first you would probably go to him and you would tell him that he really needs to think about whether or not he wants to do this. You would explain to him things like probabilistic finality, slow block times and congestion issues.
04:55:01.880 - 04:55:54.444, Speaker A: And if he still thought it made sense, you'd tell him that his users might have to wait a bit for confirmations that they're going to have to pay this thing called gas to do anything with your application. And mainly this just wouldn't be a sales pitch. It's not like a plug and play server. There would be edge cases, he'd need to handle new procedures. It would not be like this quick hack that he could just, oh, use Ethereum and he'd probably come back to you and say something, well, what if we progressively decentralize? Or we'll just move all of the price reads onto Ethereum or something and you'd tell them that you're only as strong or as decentralized as your weakest point. It probably wouldn't matter. It would be basically for a press release and I guess why do we build on top of Oracles differently right now? It wouldn't make any sense.
04:55:54.444 - 04:56:45.740, Speaker A: If you need sort of instant finality in your Oracles, it's just not going to be good right now. A lot of these Oracle projects and a lot of these kind of DeFi projects, they just kind of add lots of complexity in order to hide some of the decentralization, to hide the centralization components of it. So if you're trying to do something that's really fast or you're trying to do something that you're just trying to copy a centralized server and put it over here and you need an Oracle that does it, it's not going to work anyway. Solution supply, demand based. We need to supply and demand better. We need to just be more transparent about it. And that's what we're kind of trying to do at Teller.
04:56:45.740 - 04:57:21.848, Speaker A: DeFi in general tries to just build financial products that are just building financial projects, products just for the sake of it. If we keep this up, we're probably just going to get regulated out of existence or fail to scale because we aren't really going to have any meaningful differentiation. So it's okay to build things in an actual decentralized way. And yeah, thanks everyone for listening. To End the talk though, if you're building a project and need Oracle, give Teller a call. Josh, thanks for listening. Great.
04:57:21.848 - 04:58:44.956, Speaker A: Thanks, Nick. And if you've got a couple minutes, we can do a couple of questions here. So one know obviously we're very early in kind of the Oracle space and what this looks like in a couple years in a more sophisticated market is still kind of unclear. Do you expect that there will be a lot of specialization of Oracle services by data type or maybe by what kind of security guarantees a project might need for an Oracle? Or do you expect that this is kind of a situation where there's a lot of advantages to one protocol being used for Oracles? So how do you see that breaking down in the future? Yeah, no, I definitely think there will be so similar to maybe like layer ones kind of relating it back there where if you sort of streamline what data you're providing, you can make things faster. People can come to consensus faster if it's not this sort of generalized prediction, market type Oracle where your people have to manually go and check and answer everything that's like Teller. What we do is we only do numerical answers and you sort of have to specify it off chain beforehand so we know what you're talking about and then we can be slightly faster than everybody has to go figure out what API to look at and where to get these pricing information. So I definitely think it'll be much more specified Oracles.
04:58:44.956 - 04:59:23.068, Speaker A: And I think also there is some space for maybe a centralized Oracle or a decentralized Oracle and different kind of guarantees along the spectrum. So yeah, there's a world with multiple different Oracles. You just want to sort of be transparent about it. Everybody's going to have their compromise somewhere. So you want to be sort of transparent about where you're making your compromises. Okay. And I guess one thing I'm curious about, just a question from me is you mentioned that we need to demand and supply better.
04:59:23.068 - 05:00:32.724, Speaker A: What do you think is going to be the thing that pushes the ethereum space, the DeFi space, to demand more decentralized Oracle solutions? What is going to be the event or what is going to be the trend that causes the ecosystem kind of upgrade itself in the way you describe. Unfortunately, it's always like a hack or a regulatory event you saw with centralized exchanges. Like when do people want to move towards decentralized exchanges more? And it's like usually the reason decentralized exchanges in a lot of ways have had the success they've had is because the regulators sort of cracked down and forced all of the centralized exchanges to do KYC AML on all of their customers. And so people want to be able to trade without doing that. And that's why DEXs have sort of succeeded in my mind. And I think you'll see a similar thing with DeFi is if regulators start cracking down on centralized Oracles or pieces of DeFi where they're setting their own price, you'll probably see people start moving more towards decentralized Oracles. Great, okay, well, thanks Nick, really enjoyed your talk.
05:00:32.724 - 05:01:02.972, Speaker A: Thanks for joining us and move on to the next speaker. All right, so next up we have Hart from Uma who's going to give us talk on priceless financial contracts, building synthetic assets with Uma. Hart, welcome to the stream. We'll let you take it from here. Thanks. Josh, can you hear me? Okay, everybody, all good? All right, cool. Let's get this share started.
05:01:02.972 - 05:01:30.984, Speaker A: Okay guys, so thanks for having me as usual. I love these ETH online events. I love this community, I love these hackathons. So this is super fun. So I want to talk about priceless financial contracts and how we can use this design and this design philosophy to build synthetic assets with Uma. With Uma. And it's really a focus on what the hell this priceless thing.
05:01:30.984 - 05:02:24.232, Speaker A: So, okay, let's start with what Uma is. Uma is a protocol for building synthetic assets. So we let developers create priceless financial contracts, which I'll get into what that means, and other types of synthetic assets that minimize Oracle usage. And the protocol really has two interwoven components. It has these design templates that are again written pricelessly designed to minimize Oracle usage, and data verification mechanism, which is really like our version of an Oracle that's specific or purpose built for this design philosophy. And our view is that these two technologies combined are really what enable the creation of super fast, efficient, and very secure synthetic assets and other types of financial contracts on Ethereum. So one example that we have is this yield dollar product that we've had live on main net for a couple of months now.
05:02:24.232 - 05:03:20.650, Speaker A: And right now this product has over 40 million of total value locked in it the current iteration, and it's only expected to have two Oracle calls in a three month period. So I think this is very cool. I think this is a very useful innovation and I'll explain in more detail why, but this is like kind of give a high level flavor of what this priceless idea is. We can put a huge amount of value locked in these contracts. And we can use an Oracle extremely rarely. So how is this possible? How are we doing this? And the answer is this priceless framework. So our priceless contracts are designed to minimize Oracle usage by really framing the DeFi design pattern or design problem as a challenge response game.
05:03:20.650 - 05:04:10.968, Speaker A: What that means is that we're writing DeFi contracts that are designed to be executed or be looked at optimistically where the baseline assumption is that people are doing what they say they're going to do and we only use the Oracle in the event of a dispute. And I'll go into some more examples later on. But if you think about traditional legal contracts, they are also written know. If Josh and I write a contract, know our ETH global agreement, we hope that we are going to follow the terms of that contract without having to go to court. And the court is the enforcement mechanism. So keep that in mind as I keep going here. Because basically the idea here is we want to default to assuming people are doing what they say they're going to do.
05:04:10.968 - 05:05:05.470, Speaker A: And we want to use the Oracle as a type of enforcement mechanism to enforce or ensure that people do follow the terms of the contract or the agreement. And this looks a lot like L2 solutions for designing DeFi contracts. In fact, we actually owe a bunch of credit to the optimism team and a conversations we had with them a year and a half ago of thinking through optimistic approaches to DeFi contract designs. A lot of that thought process is what led us to this path and to kind of highlight why this is L2. Like it's like in a L2 game, things are happening optimistically and you only use the exit game if people cheat. Same idea. And incidentally, like I said before, this is very similar to how contracts work in the real world.
05:05:05.470 - 05:05:46.996, Speaker A: This is like how legal agreements are written. So let's go into a hypothetical example here. Let's assume Alice and Bob make a bet on Bitcoin and we have this contract with a million dollar payout. Alice gets the million bucks if Bitcoin is above 10,000. At your end, bob gets the million bucks if Bitcoin is below 10,000. So what should we use as our Oracle? How should we construct this? So it's like a bad joke but it's a trick question. The idea is, in the optimistic scenario, we do not need an oracle.
05:05:46.996 - 05:06:26.272, Speaker A: If Alice and Bob are in agreement on the outcome of their bet, if they agree that Alice should get the million bucks or Bob should get the million bucks after on deck. Any oracle call at all? No oracle calls, no oracle usage, no transactions to the blockchain. Super efficient. Everybody's happy. So what we do need though is we do need an enforcement mechanism to resolve a dispute. If Bob and Alice don't agree on who should get the million bucks. And so this is really the whole basis for our priceless philosophy.
05:06:26.272 - 05:07:11.588, Speaker A: Oracle calls are disputes and if we can write contracts that minimize disputes, we can minimize Oracle calls, which leads to greater efficiency, greater scalability, greater security, a whole bunch of problems fall away. We basically solve the quote unquote Oracle problem by minimizing Oracle usage. So let's go back for a second and just think of this again as a legal contract. Alice and Bob in the fiat world wrote a legal contract, says one of them is going to get a million bucks. The idea is that both of them will follow this legal contract optimistically in the real world. And if they don't, Alice can sue Bob or Bob can sue Alice. That's how the traditional world works.
05:07:11.588 - 05:07:50.048, Speaker A: And incidentally, that's how all kind of financial derivatives in the existing fiat world are enforced too. They're enforced with a court system. We want to take the same concepts, the same optimistic enforcement concepts and say, hey, we are only going to call an Oracle to resolve disputes. That's it. That's the whole idea behind this priceless thing. So let's go a little bit more complicated here because this Alice Bob example was pretty trivial. Let's review how synthetic tokens or how a contract like maker's dye system works today.
05:07:50.048 - 05:08:24.270, Speaker A: And I'm going to call these just for comparison difference. I'm going to call them price full DeFi contracts versus price list. And so on the left we have like so let's imagine we're talking about Maker Die and a CDP and we want to check whether it's correctly collateralized or not. We really have two cases. We have the good case which is on the left here where the total collateral locked in the contract is greater than the collateral requirement. And we're happy. What is enforcing whether we're in this good state or not is this price feed that's being pushed to the chain every so often.
05:08:24.270 - 05:09:26.110, Speaker A: On the right we have the bad state which is when a contract drops below its collateralization requirement, then the contract gets liquidated, penalty gets assessed, life moves on that liquidation. Whether this contract is in the left or the right state is determined by this price feed that's being pushed on chain. And this works, but it has some problems. So before we get to the problems, let's just actually jump ahead one slide and talk about what the priceless version of this looks like. And the priceless version means we have no on chain price feed, there's no price feed being pushed at all. And instead we have a same sort of contract where it's like, okay, we have a contract that's supposed to have so much collateral, it's got a required collateral amount and then it has the total collateral in it. But here we are optimistically observing this contract to see if it's correctly collateralized or not.
05:09:26.110 - 05:10:05.340, Speaker A: So the contract participants on both sides. Anyone in the ecosystem can look at the blockchain, can look at the ethereum blockchain and be like, okay, this contract, yes, it has enough value in it, or no, it doesn't. And we have no on chain price feed. If people think it's correctly collateralized, it is correctly collateralized. What would happen then? In the downside scenario, if somebody goes, oh, wait, shit, no, I don't think this is correctly collateralized, they then trigger a liquidation, and then, and only then, do we call an Oracle. And I'll go in a little bit more detail how we actually minimize Oracle usage further. But the idea here is that, look at it.
05:10:05.340 - 05:10:58.430, Speaker A: If everybody's happy with how this is collateralized, we're good. We only need to do anything if people dispute the state of the contract. Okay, let's go back and compare it again to our price full version. Our price full version is really enforced by this price feed. And one of the problems we have here is that the price feed doesn't happen that often. The performance and the efficiency of this DeFi contract is purely limited by how often I can get prices pushed to the blockchain and validate them. And so we sit here, and we keep having checkpoints, pushing transactions, making Oracle calls so that the contract can determine whether we're in the good or bad state.
05:10:58.430 - 05:12:07.156, Speaker A: And if you just think about this naively, this is hyper inefficient to start with. Like, we're pushing all these transactions to a blockchain that we don't use or don't need, because most of the time, there's no liquidation that happens. Most of these Oracle checkpoints will never actually be used to trigger a liquidation. It's very like an inefficient use case from a transactional perspective. But more importantly, because there's such a gap between these price updates, it also makes the contracts themselves inefficient, because we need to over collateralize our DFI contracts, since we will only be getting prices every 15 minutes, every hour, whatever it might be. And the bigger the gap between prices, the more we need to over collateralize our contract so things get really capital inefficient, and we have to have greater over collateralization with this design than we would if we could execute these contracts optimistically. So this goes to one of the advantages of this priceless design.
05:12:07.156 - 05:12:55.100, Speaker A: We can start doing things that are super capital efficient, because we can execute liquidations instantly. The moment that someone says, hey, this thing should get liquidated, we can go and execute a liquidation now, okay, one nuance to detail about how we actually do this with our current design is when a contract gets liquidated, we don't even call an Oracle. Then a liquidation happens instantly. But the rewards for that liquidation aren't paid out for a period of time, for 2 hours. And in that period of time, participants can dispute that liquidation. So we actually only send Oracle calls. We only make a call to the Oracle if somebody disputes the liquidation.
05:12:55.100 - 05:13:26.700, Speaker A: And you can call this a version of an escalation game where we are having the contracts optimistically enforced. We are having liquidations happen when people think that a contract deserves to be liquidated. And then we are only calling the Oracle. If somebody says, hey, that liquidation was invalid, that was a bad state. And in doing so, we go back to the first slide here. We can secure a huge amount of value with minimal Oracle calls. So it's hyper efficient and hyper fast, hyper performant.
05:13:26.700 - 05:14:35.056, Speaker A: Let's talk on another problem with this priceless design or the priceful design. In the priceful design, we also have a lot, a lot of brittleness. So we have this on chain price feed pushing prices, but any one bad price point and the whole thing, you know, here's a graphic from the BZX like flash loan attack. This is the older version of BZX, right, where an Oracle got manipulated. They were using Kyber as the oracle. And this one bad price point led to somebody stealing a million bucks worth of ETH out of the you know, you're sitting there from a DeFi developer perspective, and this is, like, utterly frightening because you get one bad price feed one bad price point and huge amounts of value can be instantaneously taken and will be taken if people can break this stuff. It feels very you know, you can think about another way.
05:14:35.056 - 05:15:53.736, Speaker A: If you kind of conceptualize these DeFi contracts going back to a court system where this is basically Bob and Alice have a contract and the Oracle call is a dispute, it's going to like the judge saying, hey, is this right or not? In the price full design, it's almost like we're asking a judge to make an instantaneous judgment, like what is the price, what is the price, right? And if you think about that, if we were to take our legal system and try to have instantaneous judgments, it wouldn't work. There's not enough time to gather facts. There's not enough time to see what's going on. It would be really dangerous and it would lead to all kinds of bad outcomes. The solution for the price list design is to slow things down. So when we frame this as a dispute resolution problem, as something where the Oracle call only happens when there's a dispute, what it lets us do is slow things down and asynchronously resolve this dispute. So when a dispute happens and it gets triggered, we can take our time, we can take our sweet time and understand, okay, who's right here is Alice or Bob, right? And we can slow down those disputes and it doesn't block the system from functioning because everything else is acting optimistically.
05:15:53.736 - 05:17:25.610, Speaker A: It's the other analogy to push on the legal kind of conceptualization. If there's a lawsuit happening about one financial contract, the rest of the world of finance doesn't stop or the rest of the legal system doesn't stop. All those contracts keep operating. So we're able to take disputes and solve them asynchronously, which means we can have a much slower, much more decentralized, much just more resilient solution to the Oracle problem when we do need those disputes resolved. So let's talk for a second then about practically what does this mean for ethereum DeFi developers or for people in the space? What can you actually use this priceless thing for? And so my point here is that it's more resilient, right? And it's more efficient, it lets us do more capital efficient things and this lets us build some really cool shit. Actually, I'll make another point here because we don't have an on chain price feed, we can actually support long tail assets, things that we wouldn't want to push a price on chain very often for. And so here are some examples of things just that pulled from recent hackathons and current development ideas of what we can build.
05:17:25.610 - 05:19:05.284, Speaker A: One thing that I'm super excited about is gas futures. So right now, if you were to join our discord, there's a bunch of people talking about how to build a synthetic token that will expire every month, so month of January, month of February, whatever, with the average price of gas paid, of the ethereum gas paid that month. And I think it's a pretty cool way where you could actually have people hedge their gas costs so big projects could buy this token to hedge their gas costs. And you could have speculators bet on how expensive gas is going to be in the future and actually have a whole curve, a whole futures curve of what we think the future price of gas and ethereum is going to look like. And we can do this because we can have this whole kind of difficult calculation, you can't really do this instantaneously on chain difficult calculation, happen off chain and enforce this with this priceless mechanism. Perlin is a really cool project based mainly out of Singapore, that is using the Uma contract and the priceless design to create their own synthetic assets that are collateralized with their own token. And one of the reasons why they can do this is because they can be quite capital efficient or they can secure the value of their token by using this priceless thing to not have a super robust price feed on chain of the price of their own token versus, say, ETH potion labs came out of a hack money hackathon.
05:19:05.284 - 05:19:58.836, Speaker A: The ETH global hack money hackathon earlier this year. And it's a pretty amazing insurance protocol that invented almost a new form of a put option that can protect against price drops in any asset. And the reason why they're able to do this is because they can make it a hyper capital efficient thing, because they're not pushing prices on chain all the time and they can also make it super extensible. So their design will let you ensure the price drop of any ERC 20 asset, which I find pretty fascinating. And then a couple of other things here that came up earlier, from earlier hackathons. Tom Schmidt came up with this idea of a barf token, which was a synthetic token that tracks the price of San Francisco Bay Area housing. And again, we can do that because we can use a price feed.
05:19:58.836 - 05:20:53.130, Speaker A: We don't have to push this price feed on chain. It's kind of hard to get this price data. And in East Boston last year, a group of three guys named Will came up with a token called Swandai that would allow to hedge against any dislocation in the price of dai from its peg. This also shows that we could create price identifiers or have a lot of flexibility around the design of this contract because again, we're just looking to only enforce or only dispute. We can have a pretty complicated contract in terms of what the payout structure would look like. That is all evaluated off chain and only resolved with a relatively rare dispute. Okay, so I've ran through this pretty quickly.
05:20:53.130 - 05:21:39.210, Speaker A: I want to throw a few links out here in terms of our channels that you guys can reach out to us and where you can get our developer docs. We are actively building and promoting various new ideas and we are trying to be pretty active with our community. We've grown our team quite a bit recently and we have a bunch of new community people that are very much interested in hearing your ideas and helping you guys build different types of synthetic assets. So please hop in our discord. And with that, Josh, if it's not too early, I will jump into some Q A kind of early on that is retard. We've got a couple of questions. I'm sure we can have an interesting discussion here.
05:21:39.210 - 05:22:33.352, Speaker A: So one question right out of the gate, and this is actually from Zubin. Who's going to speak next? And I'll just read this question directly. What are your thoughts or your research on how to make priceless oracles faster going forward? So for example, removing collateral or liquidating could be a multi day process even in the absence of a dispute, which might be too slow in some cases. Yes. So my answer to this would be to frame it as an escalation game. So if we basically say, hey, we need a price really fast or really instantly, you can't say, hey, I'll give you a price right now and say, hey, this price will stand if nobody disagrees with it in five minutes. And that'll give you a pretty fast resolution to this dispute game.
05:22:33.352 - 05:23:36.530, Speaker A: And then if somebody disagrees with it in five minutes, you can be like, okay, well, I'll bet you twice as much and give you another five minutes to disagree with it. And you can actually have a fairly quick escalation game in this process until you get to a point where you're like, holy shit, this really is a legitimate dispute. Maybe we should take it to the full dispute, the full kind of Oracle system. So it's like, think of it like a court system where you start with your small claims court and you can get a really quick answer and then you keep escalating it through an appeals process until you get to the Supreme Court, which might take a long time. And yeah, my intuition, Josh, is that this general type of approach is going to be the most efficient way to scale this. And it kind of, again, looks like L2 where we're going to say, hey, let's operate optimistically and then we have a funnel of how bad a dispute is. We operate optimistically, 99% of all things go through without any issue.
05:23:36.530 - 05:25:32.550, Speaker A: 1% goes to small claims court and then 1% of that gets appealed and so on. That actually segues nicely into the next topic. So just generally, as more and more L2 systems are coming online, what does that change for the synthetic assets marketplace with priceless design specifically? Does that open up a lot of new possibilities? Does it change the landscape in some important way for you? So I think if there's a few angles to that so we think if synthetic assets are ERC 20 assets, if we start there, then L2, or call it like other scalability solutions, they just have this base problem of like, hey, how do we move ERC 20 assets between different side chains, L2 shards, whatever else? And I think that's like a L2 problem of how are we going to solve that usability thing of moving these assets back and forth if the underlying contract though is just being written optimistically? It's like the financial contract that's created these ERC 20 assets that can actually live on any shard, any L2 system, any chain. And you can execute all of the same concepts of, hey, watch this thing on L2, on this shard, on that shard, on the base chain, and only trigger a dispute if something goes wrong. And because you slow down these disputes, it's like for example, if this whole priceless design was operating on a L2 system, if there was a dispute, it's okay. If it takes a while, it could go back to the main chain because it is all resolved asynchronously it's kind of like triggering an exit game. Okay.
05:25:32.550 - 05:26:38.650, Speaker A: And one, I think, last question, unless we have any other new ones in the chat and this is maybe an easy question for the answer, but what do you want to see get built at the ETH online hackathon? Whether that's on Yuma or that's on something else entirely, that's not an easy one to answer. Josh. Josh I have to do that too. What do we want to see build? I got this whole philosophy that I think what's going to be very kind of meta answer of what is so cool about DeFi. It's not bringing traditional financial assets onto DeFi or onto ethereum or even traditional financial concepts like put options or call options. I think it's fundamentally about innovating new shit. And by lowering the barriers to entry to create a financial product, I think it gives us a really big design space to innovate new things.
05:26:38.650 - 05:27:59.860, Speaker A: And you can think about it like, someone once told me that if you wanted to start a mutual fund, it basically takes like, $100 million of assets raised to make it possible to start a mutual fund. And so there's a lot of people that can't go and start mutual funds with whatever idea they have because they just can't raise $100 million DeFi. And this whole technology, the barrier to entry to actually create a new financial product is so much lower, I think, that it lays the framework. It's the foundation for an explosive amount of innovation in terms of what you can actually do with financial concepts. And Josh, actually, I think Jordy and the team from Potion from the Hack Money hackathon, which I am biased because they did build on top of us, but ignoring that entirely, they reimagined a way, at least at the time, and they've changed their thinking a little bit since then. But it was like a different type of put option that actually I'd never seen in traditional financial context, and it made my head hurt. But it was, I think, a really powerful concept of, hey, you give a bunch of smart people a new platform, they can build some really cool shit.
05:27:59.860 - 05:28:51.828, Speaker A: Yeah, that's very interesting. I think just to build on that, one thing that we're seeing, or that we might expect to see using platforms like yours are financial products derivatives of things that never had a market for them before. Right? I mean, like the barf index, obviously, real estate is a traded asset, but it's a different kind of market. And there's all these people out there who might have a lot of expertise in something, whether that's like culture or music or art. And there's going to be synthetic assets that track now a market that exists on that making a whole new set of people financial users where they never had access to convert their knowledge into financial speculation or bets before. Okay, one last question from sorry, go ahead. No, I could keep riffing on that, but you actually have an agenda you got to keep that is okay.
05:28:51.828 - 05:29:53.508, Speaker A: There's one more question that came in from Chat. If there is no cost for disputing, why can't you just spam disputes? How do you solve that civil problem? There is a cost for disputing for that exact reason. Right? And so we actually spend a lot of time I'm not going over it in this sort of high level talk, but we spend a lot of time analyzing exactly that problem. If you make things free, you will get spammed just because some asshole tries to be an asshole, right? So we spent a lot of time on the game theory of making sure that dispute costs are always unprofitable and it would be unprofitable to spam disputes, and very happy to go into a lot more detail on that in our discord or in our various other channels. Also, if the person that asked that question is asking, please jump into the Yuma discord. I'm sure that we can put the link into the chat for you so you can find your way there. Okay, thank you so much, discord.
05:29:53.508 - 05:30:02.100, Speaker A: Umaproject.org, so yeah, easy. Great. All right. Thanks so much, Chart. Really enjoy the talk. Enjoy the bright red background.
05:30:02.100 - 05:30:22.130, Speaker A: It's giving me life. We're going to move on to our last talk of the day from Alexis and Zubin from Open, and their talk is about DeFi options. So we're going to explore that topic. And Alexis, suba, I'll let you take it from hey. Hey. How's it going?
05:30:22.500 - 05:30:41.640, Speaker B: Awesome. Hey, y'all. Let me just share screen. Okay, cool. Yeah. So today super excited to be talking about DeFi options. So we'll talk a little bit about what options are and then how they fit into this whole DeFi landscape.
05:30:41.640 - 05:31:39.690, Speaker B: Okay, so the premise of this talk is we're going to chat a little bit about how one of DeFi's killer apps will be derivatives and then hop into options in particular. And not only are options going to be a big unlock for DeFi, but DeFi is also going to be a big unlock for options themselves. Options are these traditional financial primitives that have been around for so long, but DeFi has the potential to elevate them to the next level. So what are options? They're a derivative instrument, and we'll chat a little bit more about what a derivative instrument is in a second, but they can be used as tools for financial protection and insurance, also for speculation. And because they have this kind of wide variety of use cases, they create this massive market where we're seeing over $300 trillion of yearly volume for these options. And they're an extremely versatile instrument, which we'll get into in just a second.
05:31:41.340 - 05:32:51.730, Speaker A: Yeah, and so some of the incredible things that can be done with options are they're just so versatile and have so many use cases. One example is you can actually take any portfolio, and by using a set of options on those portfolios, you can create the risk free rate. You can completely and utterly remove all the risk from a portfolio, and you can also completely remove the risk from an option itself through something called delta hedging. So there's some really incredible things you can do in order to hedge risk using options, but also, options allow for the creation and expansion of an entirely new asset class, which is called volatility itself. Right. We in the crypto world know that sometimes cryptos go up, sometimes cryptos go down. But there's no way to kind of hedge yourself from this volatility, from this bumpy ride unless you have options where you can actually trade volatility itself without taking a directional bet on if ETH is going to go up and down.
05:32:51.730 - 05:34:09.636, Speaker A: And there's actually a theorem that proves that using options on any asset in the world, you can create any payoff structure. So any futures contract, any other derivative, you know, you can use options in a very interesting way to create any other payoff structure and that makes them the ultimate synthetic asset. So what is a derivative? I've just been talking about what can options do, but what are they? Well, a derivative asset, unlike an asset itself, is something whose value is based entirely on another asset, right? And so the asset that it's based on is called the underlying asset. And the derivatives that people peer probably are most familiar with might be futures and options. And what futures and options are, are they're based on a future trade that hasn't even happened yet, where you trade the underlying asset, like ETH for cash, right? And a futures contract is pretty simple. You have an obligation to make that trade in the future. And both sides are obligated to make a trade.
05:34:09.636 - 05:34:50.680, Speaker A: One of them is paying ETH, another one is buying the ETH with dollars or USDC. And since both people are obligated into this trade in the future, for one of the sides the trade is going to be profitable, the other side is going to be unprofitable. And so neither of them can back out of it. So one of the sides could make a loss when this trade happens in the future, when the future expires, essentially. And so because it's a fair trade, since both people are obligated, there's typically no initial cash flow. No one's getting kind of the better upper hand in this deal. Both of them could make a loss in the future.
05:34:50.680 - 05:35:42.836, Speaker A: But in an options contract, kind of like the name suggests, one side has an obligation, the other side has the option. And so the one who's selling the option, they essentially have to make the trade in the future. The person who bought the option, as the name of the option suggests, can choose if they want to make the trade in the future. And because they have the right to choose if they want to make that trade in the future, ETH for USDC, they could actually be flat or positive on expiry. They're never going to enter into that trade if it's costly for them if it causes them to have a loss. So options, just like real life are always helpful to have it's always helpful to have as many options as possible in real life. And that's why options in finance also cost money, why they're valuable.
05:35:42.836 - 05:36:11.872, Speaker A: You always want to have as many options as possible. And because options are positive in value, the person who's selling them gets premium for selling them. They get this initial cash flow. They're paid money. And the reason one way to think about it is they're entering into an obligation. The seller is obligated and they might make a loss in the future. So in order to put them into the situation of obligation, the buyer needs to pay them money.
05:36:11.872 - 05:36:13.520, Speaker A: They need to pay them that premium.
05:36:16.660 - 05:36:56.000, Speaker B: So now we can chat about a couple of the different kinds of options that exist. And so there are two main options, put options and call options. Put options give you the option to sell an underlying asset. So, for example, ETH for a specific price, which we call the strike price. And this is helpful when you think that the asset is going to go down in price. So, for example, say that we have ETH at $200 and there's like a Black Thursday type of event where ETH falls to $90. If you're the holder of this option, you can still sell your ETH for $200.
05:36:56.000 - 05:37:29.896, Speaker B: So this put is giving you this protection, this hedging against ETH price falling. Now, we also have call options. And call options are the option to buy the asset. So for example, ETH for a specific price, which again is the strike price. And this is helpful when you think the asset is going to go up. So say I have a call option for ETH at $300, and then ETH skyrockets to $1,000. Well, I can still buy ETH for cheap for $300 using my call option.
05:37:29.896 - 05:37:59.380, Speaker B: And so that's kind of the power of a call option. So one common misconception is that the opposite of buying a put is buying a call. But that is not the case. The opposite of buying a put is selling a put. So there are kind of four different types of transactions that can happen here. You can buy a put, you can sell a put, and you can buy a call, or you can sell a call. And each of these four are completely distinct with their own separate payoffs.
05:37:59.380 - 05:38:34.556, Speaker B: And then when you're buying an option, kind of like Zubin mentioned earlier, you have to pay a premium to get this optionality. In this case, you have the right to buy or sell ETH if it hits the strike price, but not the obligation. And so you have to pay the premium for that optionality. However, when you're selling the option, you are taking on an obligation. If the option buyer does exercise, you are obligated to pay them out. And so you get paid a premium for taking on that obligation. And we can look at a specific example with a put option.
05:38:34.556 - 05:39:17.884, Speaker B: So say we have ETH and this is a put option on ETH, we've got a strike price of 200 USDC and it's expiring on December 31. So here this option gives me the option holder, the right to sell ETH for 200 USDC anytime before December 31. But again, that's a right, it's not an obligation. So if ETH skyrockets to 1000, I don't have to sell my ETH for $200. I just have that ability in case we end up in a Black Thursday like scenario where we've got ETH at $90 or ETH below $200 at any point. So this $200 is effectively a price floor for me. $200 is the lowest amount that I can sell my ETH at.
05:39:17.884 - 05:39:57.400, Speaker B: And so it's kind of creating this asymmetric upside payoff, which we can see here. So as ETH price goes up, I continue to earn more on my ETH, but I am capped at $200, with $200 being the lowest price I would sell my ETH at. And so that's kind of what buying a put option looks like. Now, on the other side, we have selling a put option. And you might be thinking, okay, buying a put option seems like a pretty good deal. It can give me this hedging and this kind of risk management type of property. Now, why would I want to sell a put option? When you're selling a put option, you're earning this premium.
05:39:57.400 - 05:40:44.490, Speaker B: And many people kind of want to earn this premium for different reasons and different folks take different views on it. And so for some people, they think about it like they think that ETH is going to go up in price and the option buyer is only going to exercise this put option if ETH goes below $200. So they believe that ETH is going to continue to rise in price. And so if the option buyer doesn't exercise on them, then they just take their premium and leave. So that's one view that some folks will take for selling options. Another view that people will take is that they'll think about this as monetizing a limit order. So a limit order would be if I were to go to an exchange and I were to place an order to buy ETH at $200.
05:40:44.490 - 05:41:03.230, Speaker B: Here, if I'm selling an option, I'm earning a premium. And if a user or option buyer comes in exercises, then I basically have to pay them out 200 USDC. So it's like I'm buying ETH at $200. And that's another view that some folks selling options sometimes take.
05:41:05.860 - 05:41:47.628, Speaker A: So how are these options actually traded in traditional financial markets? Well, they're traded very similarly to the way that you could trade other assets as well. For example, centralized exchanges. So when you go and try to buy stocks, you would go to the New York Stock Exchange for options. Two of the major exchanges in the United States are the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange. And these work exactly like you would expect them to. They're run by a centralized operator and people come and buy and sell and place limited market orders as you would expect. But then there's another way which is even more popular to trade options and.
05:41:47.628 - 05:43:03.428, Speaker A: This is OTC, over the counter trading. And so people make literal legal deals, like literal legal contracts for large orders off the exchange. It never touches the exchange in the first place. And so a lot of people often talk about how DeFi is going to affect centralized exchanges with things like Uniswap and AMMS affecting CFI in a real way as a dex kind of renaissance is happening and a growth of DEXs. But how does DeFi affect OTC trading so well, one way to think about this is to first understand why people do OTC trades. Why would you not just go to exchange to make your trade when an exchange exists, why would you go find another counterparty and do it with them? Well, the reason know there are many reasons, but one of the reasons is slippage, right? So you can imagine that there are for any asset. Let's take Tesla, there's hundreds of different kind of potential expiries, there's hundreds of different potential strike prices for an option.
05:43:03.428 - 05:44:09.396, Speaker A: So there's thousands of different options trading on just Tesla and each of these options is a completely different contract. And so if I went to a single one of these options contract and tried to make a trade on the order book, there'd be a lot of slippage, as in there would be a big deviation on the price just from my one single trade if I was a large trader or a whale. So if I called up a counterparty and I told them that I wanted to make this trade, I could usually find a better price. We could kind of negotiate a more fair price than I would be able to get on an exchange. The other thing is customization, right? One of the reasons people like to do derivative trades, you have to remember they're legal contracts and so you can go into the terms and change them. And there's a whole class of options called exotic options, which are really advanced, which change different things about options. There's barrier options and there's vault budget options and there's look back options, Israeli options, there's all these number of different types of options that are trading.
05:44:09.396 - 05:45:01.972, Speaker A: And if I wanted to kind of get a bespoke contract, I would talk to a counterparty and we would come up with a legal framework and do that trade. The other thing is collateralization exchanges have very strict collateral requirements. Maybe I have a trusted counterparty, a friend, and we could say let's do this with lower collateral because we trust each other. That would unlock capital efficiency. There's also custody, maybe we don't trust the exchange to custody our funds. Well, an example of this is in CIFI, you would have to trust Derebit and maybe I don't trust Derobit and I trust this other counterparty, so I want to do a trade with them OTC. And then the last thing is regulatory arbitrage, right? The Derabit example I mentioned, americans cannot use derivative and so maybe they are still kind of sophisticated market participants.
05:45:01.972 - 05:45:51.076, Speaker A: They could call up someone else and do the trade OTC and that may be the only way that they could get the trade done. Now these are a lot of different reasons, but the main things to think about is that people don't necessarily trust the exchange. They trust each other and they want to create all these custom contracts. Now Ethereum is this incredible thing where you can create custom financial contracts and where you don't have to trust your counterparty, you don't have to trust an exchange in order to have a fully collateralized position. And settlement can happen through like a blockchain itself. And so you can imagine Ethereum being this incredible thing to replace 40, 50, 60 pages of legal paperwork that are required whenever an options trade is happening. And this is a massive unlock for the options markets.
05:45:51.076 - 05:46:54.130, Speaker A: It'll also allow smaller players to enter people who are maybe not kind of attached to the large OTC markets or the large exchange traded option markets. And it allows this entire geography of individuals to access option markets, which is also really exciting unlock. And then kind of the classic things of trustlessness, the massive legal overhead of having lawyers draft up these documents and pseudonymity are things that people really love and will make Ethereum incredible for the options world. So this was kind of an upload on how options work, why they're so exciting, and why DeFi options are such a large opportunity. But one thing that we would kind of love is to be a source of education for options because they're such an exciting market. So some different ways you can learn about options. The first is Khan Academy has a great overview on how options work.
05:46:54.130 - 05:47:42.590, Speaker A: Also you can get started at Open Co. We are a DFI options protocol that has options trading on Ethereum and number of different ERC twenty s. And as well as going to convexity Open Co, that's a white paper for Open which describes options as well as DeFi option spec in more detail. If you're interested in kind of chatting with us and talking about the ability to build on Open or even kind of get help from us in building your applications, you can join our discord. We're always happy to chat and talk about options and talk about DeFi derivatives. That's it for me. We definitely have time for questions if people are interested.
05:47:42.590 - 05:47:51.996, Speaker A: Great. Yeah. Thank you, Alexis. Thank you. Zubin. We do have a couple of questions as well, so let's just jump in. The first question is for you, Zubin.
05:47:51.996 - 05:48:11.720, Speaker A: What is that on your head that I see on the live stream right now? Oh, this is a zoom hat. They have filters and I like this hat because it's like hat seption. I have a hat on my hat which I like. Okay, got it. Yeah. We had a lot of eager people wanting to know the answer to that. But now that we have that out of the way, we can move on to the less important question.
05:48:11.720 - 05:49:04.200, Speaker A: Yes, this was important. Yes, this was very important. So what are the biggest challenges you see in kind of getting crypto options have been either in the past so far or in the future, kind of making this a viable product, people to use? This is a really great question and Alexis also has a lot of thoughts on this as well. But from my perspective, one big thing is capital efficiency. In traditional finance, there's a lot of crazy trust relationships and people know each other and there's a strong legal framework in kind of place there. And so sometimes you only have to put a dollar down for an options contract with a strike of $100. And so you can imagine that there's a lot of leverage.
05:49:04.200 - 05:49:30.432, Speaker A: You can be 100 X leveraged or even more. Right. And in DFI, where people don't trust each other, they don't know each other, it's much more difficult. And so that's been a big challenge. But for open V Two, we're working on some pretty crazy solutions that make options much more capital efficient in DFI. Alexis, do you have kind of also yeah, no, definitely.
05:49:30.486 - 05:49:49.990, Speaker B: Capital efficiency is a huge one. I think another big thing is education. Like Zubin was talking about for the first time, these products are going to be available to anyone, anywhere. And so a big part of that is also teaching people about what are the best ways to use these things and making sure that they're interacting with them in a safe manner and that they really understand what's going on.
05:49:51.000 - 05:50:24.828, Speaker A: That's interesting. I'd love to kind of dig into that for a second because that's kind of a challenge that a lot of DeFi products might face. These are traditionally heaven products for sophisticated investors, market makers, et cetera. And now there's this idea that anyone with a cell phone can use them. Should we expect the average person to actually want to use these sophisticated products or are they going to be bundled into a very kind of simple platform, simple product for the average person with complex stuff happening behind the scenes?
05:50:25.004 - 05:51:12.140, Speaker B: I think that's a really great question and definitely something that a lot of DeFi projects are probably tackling right now. I think one of the most powerful parts is that we have all of these protocol layers. Like we have this options protocol that anyone can build anything on top of. So you can have a sophisticated interface for people that are really familiar with finance and want that kind of experience. And then you can also have interfaces that are specifically tailored to folks that want to kind of gain the power of these instruments, but not necessarily wanting to be confused with all of the intricacies that are happening in the background. And there are some really powerful properties that this unlocks in terms of hedging and protection that just weren't available in DeFi before. And so those kinds of things would be really helpful for lots of people to be able to access in a way that is understandable, in a way that they do know what's going on, in a way that is easy to access.
05:51:12.140 - 05:51:20.660, Speaker B: And so I think with the protocol being available to everyone at the Smart contract there, we can really build applications for different audiences on top, which is exciting.
05:51:21.320 - 05:51:57.810, Speaker A: Yeah. And to add to that, I think it's very important that DeFi builders express that DeFi is still very kind of early. There's a lot of protocol level risk, there's consensus level risk, there's risks that exist in terms of regulatory. So I would say that as a user, it's very important to educate yourself and understand that there are risks in everything you use in DeFi. This still is the Wild West, I think, as many folks in DeFi like to say. And it's important that if you use these protocols, you kind of.
05:51:59.700 - 05:52:00.176, Speaker B: To a.
05:52:00.198 - 05:52:36.696, Speaker A: Certain extent, try to understand what's going on under the hood. And I think that's also, as Alexis mentioned, a big challenge is education. Great. And then so one more question we've got, and this is directly from Chat, it might require some disambiguation from you. How do these options get efficiently priced if they are all decentralized? This is a great question. So there's many different ways. But the thing is, for us, our options are ERC twenty S, and as such they can be put onto Uniswap, and then people can trade on Uniswap.
05:52:36.696 - 05:53:19.912, Speaker A: And Uniswap obviously has the constant factor function to come up with the new price after a trade, before a trade, et cetera. So the way we do it right now is that we seed pools on Uniswap, and then the market kind of will determine the price. From then on, we are working on a option specific AMM that responds to the market as well and reprices them. But our goal is like, we don't think any centralized entity should ever price these things. It should be the market and supply and demand forces that are pricing them. And that's what Uniswap functions for right now. Great.
05:53:19.912 - 05:53:31.630, Speaker A: Okay. Well, thank you, Alexis. Thank you, Zubin. Really appreciate you having you both on with us today. Great last talk to wrap up DeFi Summit. Really appreciate it. Awesome.
05:53:31.630 - 05:53:56.048, Speaker A: Thanks so much, everyone. Thank you. Bye. Okay, well, thank you everyone. That brings us to the end of Econline's DeFi Summit. Just to wrap up here, the next summit is next Friday. Every Friday of October we've got something happening, and the next one is about the future of Ethereum.
05:53:56.048 - 05:54:23.550, Speaker A: So on this day, we're going to hear from e two researchers. We're going to hear from E one point X researchers. We're going to learn about stateless clients, about the future of solidity, about the future of many kind of like key components of the ethereum protocol, really kind of get down to the metal here. So that's all happening next Friday. It's going to be a great day. You can learn more about it and about the schedule@ethonline.org future.
05:54:23.550 - 05:54:36.320, Speaker A: And then, of course, on the last Friday of October, on October 30, we have the finale day, but we can tell you more about that next week. So thanks for joining us and we hope to see you next Friday as well. Cheers.
