00:00:01.050 - 00:00:19.038, Speaker A: Hi everybody, my name is Vivek Singh. How's everyone doing today? Good. Awesome. Welcome to Devcon. We're really excited to be here. I work on a project called Gitcoin alongside Kevin here. Alisa Scott are in the back hanging out.
00:00:19.038 - 00:01:12.450, Speaker A: We're all here and are very excited to talk to you. So as I mentioned, I'm Vivek, one of the co founders of the project. Kevin here started Gitcoin in his basement about 18 months ago now and Gitcoin has been on main net for about twelve months. And we're excited to share a little bit more about how we think about Gitcoin and a new product that we have launched just today. So for anyone who doesn't know what Gitcoin is, it is a place to get coins. There is no gitcoin token, but you can receive bounties in ETH Dai or any other ERC 20 token for contributing code to open source projects. Our mission is to grow open source and there's no better place than the ethereum ecosystem to do that.
00:01:12.450 - 00:02:14.598, Speaker A: So we're really excited to be here and continue that mission. So growing open source has been the kind of rallying cry of gitcoin and we have a couple of other products that are coming into that space as time passes alongside the bounties product that we're most known for. So to kind of preface that, gitcoin is really a P to P network. As you can see on the left here, you have what a traditional corporation might look like. And really this room is something kind of like this mesh over here, which is a bunch of people working on different things that are kind of related to Ethereum, but also have their own specifications and interests. And the Gitcoin mesh network that you're looking at is developers who are working on projects like Metamask and Gitcoin and Ethereum and many others and are contributing to many different things. And we really think that this is the future of how work will happen.
00:02:14.598 - 00:03:13.210, Speaker A: And we're excited to be building out a suite of tools that's associated with this mesh network. So this is what we think it can look like, which is a little crazier than our mesh network. More edges, more companies, more open source projects and contributors working all across them and finding ways to deliver value. So the other important thing to note is that the network is, although we can show it in one way on the last slide, we can also show it as everyone in this room, we're all humans, we all have a lot to give and personalities, and we value more than just getting paid for working on open source projects, which is something that gitcoin is well known for bringing into the ecosystem. So we want to make sure to remember that along the way. This is just one last slide. The other thing that we think the network must do is provide value.
00:03:13.210 - 00:03:52.120, Speaker A: So gitcoin has been doing hopefully some of that along the way. We've done $375,000 worth of bounties. Last month we had 27,000 active users. If you post a bounty, you'll get somebody working on it within 6 hours usually, and within seven or eight days the bounty will be turned around. And we've seen 16 of those 3d humans hired into full time roles in usually the Ethereum ecosystem. So we're excited to have played a small part there. And with that, we'll talk a little bit about an experiment we're launching and I'll let Kevin talk a little more about that.
00:03:52.730 - 00:04:55.850, Speaker B: Thanks, Vivek. The one other thing I want to note on this slide over here is that we just added this new metric of about 30,000 monthly active users to our results page. And it is my dream to help Joe Lubin win his bet with Jimmy Song by being one of those five projects that has more than 100K monthly users within I forget how many years. So let's all help him do that. All right, so we are launching an experiment. Gitcoin is playing in a space open source software that has traditionally been sort of intrinsically motivated. Developers contribute to open source software for a number of reasons, because there is software that they want to see in the world, because they want to meet other people who are like minded, because they want to increase their skill set and they want to work on stuff that's aligned with their values.
00:04:55.850 - 00:06:10.846, Speaker B: Gitcoin is very extrinsically motivating right now because it's bounties. And so one of the things that we realized was that there's sort of a mismatch between our target community and why they do work in the getcoins products. So we are launching today a new product that's meant to be focused a little bit more on intrinsic motivation. And hopefully over the next year, Gitcoin will be known as less as bounties for open source software and more of a suite of tools that are for blockchain based developers. So it is with great pleasure that I will show you kudos, which is a non fungible token backed by the Ethereum blockchain that has beautiful art, which represents a sincere compliment that you got from a member of your team? I've been in software and entrepreneurship for the last ten years. I've built some really great stuff. But the thing that I'm really accruing over time is great relationships with badass developers and product managers and creators of all types.
00:06:10.846 - 00:07:16.600, Speaker B: And so representing that use case and that relationship with the people who are building web3 and the community, the mesh network of three dimensional humans that we're building at Gitcoin is the end game here. And hopefully we'll have a little bit of fun while we bootstrap reputation in web3 with these non fungible tokens. So if you know someone whose contributions are magical and you want to celebrate that, or you just like pretty colors, then you can send this magical unicorn kudos. If you know someone who is a Linux wizard, who's really good on the command line and is able to solve all of your problems on Linux, then you can send them a Linux wizard kudos. If you know someone who's a genius, then you can send them this genius kudos. I don't know why you would send this kudos, but I heard developers like memes. So we're going to see if meme kudos are a thing.
00:07:16.600 - 00:08:16.434, Speaker B: And let's see, this is by and large the weirdest kudos that we've made, I think. But Vitalik, if you're in here, I'm sorry that I'm so creepy, but he gave the world blockchain, so that's what that artwork is. Every kudos is created by an artist who has a crypto economic incentive to deliver more art to the ecosystem. Right now we're launching with 140 kudos in the marketplace that have all been bootstrapped by us. But because when you purchase a kudos and send it to your coworker, you're directly supporting the artist. Our hope is that the universe of kudos will be expanded to more accurately resemble the universe of compliments that humanity can send to each other, and that the liquidity on kudos will increase over time. And we also hope to integrate kudos into other platforms.
00:08:16.434 - 00:08:41.120, Speaker B: We think that compliments and fungible tokens are possibly a core primitive of bootstrapping reputation and stickiness on web3 platforms. So really excited to launch this experiment at Gitcoin Co kudos today. And I would like to say thank you to the Ethereum foundation, the ECF and the community for all of the support. Cheers. See you around.
