00:00:00.200 - 00:00:00.568, Speaker A: Hey, everyone.
00:00:00.590 - 00:00:19.558, Speaker B: So I've got a very special episode of the Daily Wave for you today. It's my first guest episode on the channel. I know that I've said previously that I wouldn't do guest episodes on the channel, but I feel like this person is worth breaking that rule for. And who I had on was Kobe. Actually, all of you will probably know Kobe from Twitter. He's very famous in the industry. And it was just a great conversation.
00:00:19.558 - 00:00:37.238, Speaker B: We talked about a lot of different things in the kind of like, wake of the terror fallout. Talked about things like, you know, Ponzi's in crypto, you know, back bad vc's. Kind of like having our most spiciest takes. Kind of like, put out there publicly and a bunch of different things. So please do enjoy the episode. It was really fun. It goes for about an hour.
00:00:37.238 - 00:00:49.654, Speaker B: And let me know if you enjoyed it in the. In the comments section or on the Discord channel. Thanks, everyone. All right. Hey, everyone. So something a bit different for daily Gwei viewers today, or listeners as well. Today, I've got Kobe with me now.
00:00:49.654 - 00:01:06.940, Speaker B: Kobe obviously doesn't need any introduction. He's very famous on crypto Twitter. He's been around for a long time. And kind of like, he hit me up, uh, on Twitter. On Twitter, on DM's after I put out my tweet saying, you know, I wish I had an a non kind of like alt. Because there's a lot of things I want to say, but I can't say due to things like reputational risk. Right.
00:01:06.940 - 00:01:23.882, Speaker B: And kind of. We got chatting and we're like, you know, let's record something in the wake of, like, the terror fallout. Let's kind of like, just get on record something and talk about, like, all the shady, I guess, stuff that happens in this industry and kind of like, everything that goes with that. So that's what we're going to do today. Uh, we're just going to talk. There's no real agenda. We're just going to, like, talk.
00:01:23.882 - 00:01:30.034, Speaker B: Talk about kind of like, what's on our mind, but, yeah. Thanks, Koby, for. For joining me for this. I think this is going to be. This is going to be good.
00:01:30.454 - 00:01:35.894, Speaker A: I thought I was just going to bait you into saying all the things that you get reputation risk for. I thought that was the plan.
00:01:36.054 - 00:01:44.274, Speaker B: You're probably wrecked. Me? Yeah. You might get it out of me, to be honest. I mean, I can be pretty honest if someone's baiting me for it.
00:01:45.494 - 00:02:34.124, Speaker A: When you say reputation risk, what is it specifically that you worry about? Because I know that, like, um, there were emails sent from particular people. I don't know specifically who, but the insinuation was big fund, and I've seen screenshots, but I don't know if the screenshots are real. And they did blur out the names, basically telling people where they should land on the UST issue in public. Do you mean like, if you go against, like, the powers that be, you are then unable to participate in things that are interesting and exciting in the future, whether it's like fundraising rounds or conferences or parties or whatever, or even unwilling to create content with you or something.
00:02:34.704 - 00:02:49.134, Speaker B: I mean, there's an element of that, and I think it's probably less that just because, I mean, I think some people would consider me to be a power that be. Right, just because I have a large following and I'm pretty involved with the ecosystem, but I think it's more. Brag.
00:02:49.174 - 00:02:49.998, Speaker A: Don't brag. Come on.
00:02:50.046 - 00:03:27.014, Speaker B: No, no flex on me. I mean, you're much bigger than I am, but I think, I think what it is really, and what the core of it is is that it's kind of like a funny thing in this industry where depending on what you do or depending on kind of like, what you say, you know, word gets around really quickly and you kind of, like, earn a certain reputation. Right. And for myself, I think kind of, like, my reputation at the moment is pretty good. I'm just known as kind of like this ETH maxi who talks about the merge a lot. Right. Um, not really known for kind of like, doing any, anything shady or kind of like trying to dump bags on people or anything like that.
00:03:27.014 - 00:03:44.638, Speaker B: Right. Um, and then, yeah, it's kind of like, just, it's definitely a weird thing. There's a lot of, like, first and second order effects to it, and I don't want to kind of, like, make enemies. That's, that's number one thing, right? Like, with the terror thing. I wanted to call out terror so many times publicly. Like, I didn't really call it out. Like, I would, I would mention it to people when they asked me about it.
00:03:44.638 - 00:04:16.272, Speaker B: I would say, guys, look, this is, like, not going to work long term. Like, this is so obviously not going to work. Um, and I talked to, like, close friends about it, but I would never call it out publicly like the bankless guys did because you saw what happened to the bankless guys, like, ruthlessly attacked by these kind of, like, lunar moon boys over and not just them, like do kwon, right. Obviously was, was in the trenches with them, kind of like doing the same stuff. And it's, it's kind of like mentally draining to do that. So it's kind of like negative ev to call these things out publicly. And then also a lot of the people involved with terror were legitimate.
00:04:16.272 - 00:04:47.397, Speaker B: Kind of like VC's and big names in this industry, right? And, and so they'll probably get to talking and be like, you know, these guys are like, you know, going against kind of like terror. They're saying all this stuff and. And kind of like, you lose some sort of reputation out of that. Now, whether you care about that or not is a different, different kind of, like, matter. But I think, yeah, there's a lot of kind of like, backroom chatter that goes on, right? And there's a lot of, kind of like, uh, I mean, it's like, in the industry, there's a lot of, like, inside baseball that goes on and you kind of, like, don't want to be on the wrong side of that. As you see, you put it perfectly once on Twitter where you say you don't want to be the main character of crypto Twitter ever. Right.
00:04:47.397 - 00:05:04.222, Speaker B: Because if you're the main character, they'll, they'll kill you off. Um, you want to be kind of like the comedic relief. And I think that's kind of how I try to position myself on Twitter. I am serious sometimes, but I do a lot of shit posting. And I think you may fall into the same category with that because, yeah, you don't want to be the target of all of that. It's just not fun. Right.
00:05:04.398 - 00:06:01.638, Speaker A: Yeah, I think especially because they're financial products, right. So you can take an opinion on something, and if the opinion, like, if you have extremely high conviction in the opinion, then I think you can be compelled to share even if it's unpopular. I wrote the thing about apecoin staking because I really believe that that is co opting a industry term for something turning into something else, which is just bad for the people that fall for it. With Luna, you can have a private analysis. You can think it's going to, um, USD will collapse. I think what I believed was that, like, in, in Lunas original pre bitcoin reserves form, um, it was likely to collapse at some point, but you just don't know when that is. It could be now, it could be in three years, it could be in five.
00:06:01.638 - 00:07:08.932, Speaker A: So you don't know. Um, and then when they started collateralizing it with bitcoin, I thought the game seemed to be. I thought they revealed what the plan was all along, which was build a layer one blockchain which has value, has an ecosystem raise a bunch of money and over collateralize UST which maybe could have actually worked if they maybe started earlier or if market conditions had been different or maybe just in a different parallel universe, that they could have pulled that off. But because it's a financial instrument and because if you have a bunch of followers being like, short this stuff now, short it, this is going to zero, this is going to break. I think also can just create bad outcomes as well. And I didn't have the conviction to know this is definitely going to collapse in the next however long. And also you become desensitized to it over time as well.
00:07:08.932 - 00:07:48.602, Speaker A: So you look at how it works, you go, that doesn't seem sound, that feels like it could collapse. And then it goes through harsh market conditions like May last year, and it does survive it and the peg is returned and you see all these people like these huge funds who you assume are smarter than you, bidding it and work on the ecosystem. So you just kind of go, well, I must be missing something. I'll leave that alone where it is. Who knows what happens next. I just think there's stuff where you have really high conviction and it seems obviously bad. You should talk about it.
00:07:48.602 - 00:08:31.154, Speaker A: And then in the stuff in this middle area, you probably should talk about it because it can help people out. But it's clear why people don't. No, why I didn't. I would have been talking about it collapsing way too early and then like bought the top going, clearly I'm wrong for some reason. Fuck it, I'm buying, buying in now. But like, a big respect to the people that were willing to put themselves out there on an ongoing basis against all the attacks from community members and stuff. They, like, they were just writing their analysis and they were right.
00:08:31.154 - 00:09:19.222, Speaker A: They were writing it in public and dealing with a bunch of shit like the Freddie Anand guy and everyone else. So, yeah, I do understand why it is like other assets throughout history where you just, there's no point really talking about them because you can't really add anything novel. Like people have done the analysis. Like you're, you can't really say anything. You might be wrong. And saying something just invites so much stress and drama and abuse into your life and it's just really not worth it. But then something like this happens and you go, yeah, shit, maybe I should have spent some more time writing something greatly in depth about how this mechanic works and the success cases and the failure cases for it and blah, blah, blah.
00:09:19.222 - 00:09:22.184, Speaker A: But, you know, only so much time.
00:09:22.764 - 00:09:46.492, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, no, and I think there's a lot that goes into kind of like pointing out things that you think are going to collapse and then they don't. Right. Look at the tether truthers as they're known. They've been talking about tether collapsing for like since day one, basically. Right. And by how shady it is, how no one can redeem how it's going to be a bank run and it still hasn't happened to this day and it doesn't seem like it's going to happen. And I mean, Tether just posted their kind of like new reserves report yesterday.
00:09:46.492 - 00:10:19.594, Speaker B: Uh, seems okay. People will harp on about certain things, but it seems like it's okay. So people, I think, looked at that as well when it came to UsT and they're like, you know, look at all these people that were wrong for all these years on, on tether. I'm not going to speak up about USt because like what if I'm wrong? Then I'm just known as this crazy conspiracy nut in the corner and like people will kind of like attack me for it, so, so to speak. And you mentioned like the funds and the VC's that are involved in this stuff. I mean they lended a lot of legitimacy to this project. And you're right, there's a lot of people out there who think that these people that like VC's and funds are smarter than them when in reality a lot of the time they're not right.
00:10:19.594 - 00:10:45.562, Speaker B: They just have the money. It's not necessarily necessary for them to have the intelligence. Like especially in the market we've seen over the last two to three years where there was so much money flowing, you know, that was easy to raise a fund, right. And then you just put money into anything really, and it would pump right for the longest time. But, and then, you know, especially retail investors will see that and just jump into it. They'll be like, well, if these guys are saying that this is a good thing, they must have done their research. You know, as you said, this is, this must be good.
00:10:45.562 - 00:11:17.330, Speaker B: And all these people who are saying it's going to collapse, these are like evil people and they just don't want me to make money. And especially when it came to Ethereum, people, people were just like, oh, they're just ETH maxis. They don't want terror to succeed because it's like a threat to their bags. And I think that's come a lot from the bitcoin account because like it actually I think was true for BTC maxes and probably still is. Like they spread a lot of kind of like just wrong information about Ethereum and it definitely is like a bit of a bag thing for them. So I think people just like take that and kind of like, well I mean it is for ETH Maxis too. Like I'm not trying to like in other ecosystems, like ETH Max is coping over Solana for example.
00:11:17.330 - 00:11:52.874, Speaker B: I mean that's definitely kind of like we feel a threat to our bags. But like, because I know that and because I'm conscious of that, I can see it from the other side too. I can see it from terror, people seeing, you know, the ETH Maxis as these evil people who just want to destroy our ecosystem. And then obviously the conspiracy start where it's like, oh, it was attacked, UST was attacked. It was like this grand conspiracy that it was going to kind of like they did this to kind of like destroy our ecosystem which, yeah, I mean, the way it played out, to be honest I didn't think it would happen that fast. Like within three days it went to like zero. And like I dont think weve ever actually seen a blockchain properly die and get halted and just completely destroyed ever before.
00:11:52.874 - 00:12:30.600, Speaker B: And it was just wild that that played out so quickly. But theres still a lot of people who are like oh lets fork, lets get Terra classic, lets put the other one as terra classic, lets get a new terror 2.0. And I think a lot of thats got to do with people lost money and they just want to get a free airdrop and sell. But yeah, theres so much to unpack with all of that. But I think what I would call out more, I guess if I was an a non, I'd call out the specific people uh, that were kind of like doing this and I'd call them out a lot more aggressively than, than I, than I normally would. Just because I feel like there's never any accountability in this ecosystem for the people who shield like just garbage. And it wasn't just uh like terror that they shield.
00:12:30.600 - 00:13:00.590, Speaker B: And to be fair, I don't really consider that terror was like built in bad faith, so to speak, or kind of like garbage. I think Doe Kwan's ego got ahead of itself because of the fact that it grew so quickly and he had like a loyal following behind him and he kind of like probably had a God kind of complex from that. But I think in general there are a lot of honest builders in that ecosystem. Uh, but there's a lot of other things that just kind of like, aren't honest and literally like these v season funds, they're literally pump and dumping on you. It's not a meme. Like they, they kind of like pump it up. I mean, look at the solana ecosystem tokens.
00:13:00.590 - 00:13:21.464, Speaker B: Like it was the same vc's in every round, high, fully diluted, kind of like value, right? And then FTx will list the perps and they just short the perp and then cover it with their vested tokens. Like people, like, oh, they're still vesting. They haven't sold, like, you know what I mean? Like, and that's the kind of stuff that I'd probably be more aggressive on. But I think that, yeah, as I said, like, I just don't feel comfortable doing it from like my docs account, so, you know, so to speak.
00:13:22.084 - 00:14:24.964, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the solana ecosystem, I think in summary, you, I started writing it, writing something about this. It's like a lot of the VC's, they've come for the regulatory arbitrage and the like, early public markets, rather than any high conviction belief in crypto or transparent financial systems or whatever. And they originally, if you go way back when, the original crypto funds, including some that these days have really lowered their quality of their thinking or their standards, I guess. But originally you had these like high conviction, directionally correct people who had to have a thesis that stood up to a lot of criticism because the space was dodgy. It was like Silk Road money coins. And the Ethereum ICO were like, icos were weird. Ethereum was weird.
00:14:24.964 - 00:15:27.054, Speaker A: You paid for Ethereum and then nothing happened for a year or something from the ICO. And some people never even got their coins. I know a guy who put one of a bitcoin into the Ethereum ICO and they got a wallet and it was empty. And then he asked for help and they just never helped him. It was weird, dodgy stuff in those days, but there were funds who went, I think these things are going to be important to the world for these reasons. And you had to believe that quite deeply in order to make that bet with your own money, or you had to stand up to a lot of criticism in order to raise money from LP's to make those bets. And over time, it seems like those VC's have either completely degraded their quality of thinking, like started drinking the Kool aid or whatever the term is, or we've been repopulated by VC outfits who are just coming because the markets are dumb.
00:15:27.054 - 00:16:43.042, Speaker A: There's high liquidity public markets on very, very, very far end of a risk scale. And because the SEC has kind of sponsored this anti retail model of prioritizing, allowing private raises from accredited investors and professional investors and enforcing against icos, because I know icos were all like mostly bad because 99.9% of the products failed and it was a fundraising tactic for felonious individuals. But as a model for retail investors, if the product is good, it's much fairer than what we have today, which is these low flow, high ftv models and in the short sightedness, or it sort of feels like they have an erection for the guaranteed gains, do you know what I mean? Like the Solana VC ecosystem have funded several. No product or no user, no metric tokens that are worth multibillions. They just go down. No retail user wins.
00:16:43.042 - 00:17:20.254, Speaker A: The products don't launch. Or if they do launch, no one uses them. And I think they've set back the ecosystem for the Defi retail ecosystem in Solana by a few years because they've done that. Because people see these products now and go that. I'm not touching that. Either the chart makes them think something might be wrong with that product. If you look at the chart and the charts, only down they go, is this safe? Or they just think anything in the Solana ecosystem is like, apart from the nfts, maybe they have quite a booming NFT ecosystem now, but apart from the nfts, it might be a scam because that this model has played out.
00:17:20.254 - 00:18:24.034, Speaker A: And then you had the Luna Vc ecosystem where I guess people just assumed the perpetual motion machine had been created and it just happened to be on the blockchain, right? Like weve discovered this infinite source of money and it just happens. The missing piece was the blockchain. And in response to like critical pieces about how this might play out, people would just get called poor, or they would get called names, or they'll get dunked on, or they would say jump, or prop it up, jump. Or maybe jump did prop it up a few times, who knows? But it feels like the critical thinking has been significantly reduced, perhaps because there's so much stupidity already. So it's just like, it doesn't even matter. You can just fund whatever. And people's short term focus has really, really, really increased.
00:18:24.034 - 00:19:12.284, Speaker A: People are very happy to fund something and then show up the perps straight away. I think the flip side of this, or the good side, is you do get to see a lot of much better active VC's who like don't do these kind of things. Like I'm not going to name names because I don't want to simp for VC's and they might do something weird in the future and then I'll be on camera saying they're great and they just might turn out to be all the same. But I know there are a couple of funds who raised funds in 2019 ish and they haven't sold anything. They might just suck like they should have sold shit, but like they haven't sold anything. They're waiting. They're on a ten year or whatever horizon.
00:19:12.284 - 00:20:00.886, Speaker A: I think people give a 16 z shit for not being crypto native. And I don't know if you saw the other day, but Chris Dixon, who's one of the gps there, was shitting on Polynya saying he was non technical or something. So maybe they're not very crypto native, but one thing that's good about them is they just diamond hand everything with a ten year old horizon. I don't think they sell very much either. Not a huge fan of them as a fund and I dont think I would recommend them to founders and I think you should go with someone much more crypto native and maybe theyll become more crypto native in time. But one good thing about them is they dont treat the crypto markets like a hedge fund does. They dont know how do we hedge our bags? Weve put a $100 million investment here, so we need a short perps or short bitcoin or short ETH comparatively to make ourselves neutral all time and win in every single situation.
00:20:00.886 - 00:21:01.540, Speaker A: They do take on the risk. And yeah, I mean it's not a huge risk because it's other people's money and they're buying massively discounted prices. But at least they're not dumping on everyone the same day that they're buying. And the other crypto native big names that have not gone so profit max, they still at least try and fund things that are successful or going to work in order to make money. And it's still a bit of a rigged game, rigged for VC's because of the SEC's rules. But so I think that's the flip side. A lot of these really low tier VC's, I think it's unlikely that in the future they will be able to get the same allocations and inclusion in rounds because people can just see how they behave, they can see times get difficult and the chart just goes straight line downwards and then your project struggles, your community starts fighting, the developers blah, blah, blah.
00:21:01.540 - 00:21:14.624, Speaker A: So I think people will want much more longer term ecosystem type partners. So I think that might be the good side of these. These things like those actors just gradually get washed out. But maybe I've been too optimistic.
00:21:15.244 - 00:21:58.174, Speaker B: No, I mean I think you're right and I think I could, I can know which one, which of the VC's you're talking about but I would actually, I mean I think it's a good thing that we still have those in the ecosystem. But I would argue that some of them are just being dragged into the low tier stuff, just forcibly at some kind of like point. Like, like the highest tier of VC's. Like they raise these massive funds but then their lp's are going to be like why aren't you funding this? Or why aren't you funding this? This looks cool, this course. And then they kind of like get forced into it just because like a lot of the other funds and VC's are doing it and they want to obviously keep the capital in their own fund. So they might invest in something that they probably don't have as much conviction on as something, you know, it's something that they would if they were you know, retained. Kind of like their high tier, kind of like VC status so to speak.
00:21:58.214 - 00:22:00.834, Speaker A: But I think you're just saying democracy sucks.
00:22:01.614 - 00:22:36.240, Speaker B: I mean it does suck. Believe it's the least sucky system, right, as they say. But no, I think that um, like yeah they do get forced into it but uh, there are you definitely um, some of them still out there that really care, but still the game is definitely still rigged. I mean as you said, they get discounted tokens, they get discounted allocations, they're there from basically day zero. But the thing is, people will argue and say look, they get preferential treatment, they're insiders. And it's like, look guys, we did the same thing with icos for the public and look how that turned out. It wasn't even, I guess it wasn't even a good thing.
00:22:36.240 - 00:23:13.364, Speaker B: It actually was worse than probably what we have now in terms of how many people got screwed buying these sorts of things. So I think when you kind of look at it from that perspective and kind of take all that into account as well, there's no good solution to these sorts of things. Everyone tries to bring up their own solutions, say, oh, if it was available to the public, would have been different. But I don't really think so. I mean there are other tokens that have been available to the public that just like they do liquidity mining, they get farmed by these same kind of like funds, right, and just dumped anyway. Like the funds will find a way into it regardless of kind of like where they have to enter. So.
00:23:13.364 - 00:23:41.076, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think kind of like on that note as well, like the low tier ones, the reason why they keep doing it is because it keeps working. Like, it's, if they can keep making money on it, then they're going to keep doing it. And that's another thing, as I was talking about, like, with regards to accountability, no one really cares or holds them accountable over the long term. It's kind of like a short term exposure. Like, you know, Zack, XBT on Twitter does like an amazing job exposing all of this. But like, does anyone remember after like a day? No. Like, everyone just forgets about it, right.
00:23:41.076 - 00:24:10.242, Speaker B: And there's no recourse. No, no. Kind of like accountability. These, a lot of these funds still get entrance into these projects, which may just be shit tier projects to begin with. And it's all just like a, kind of like a retail money fleece at the end of the day, which a lot of projects are. So, yeah, there's a lot of that going on, but yeah, I don't have a solution to it, unfortunately. And I don't think that the crypto ecosystem has a collective memory of longer than like an hour because it just seems like we forget about something, you know, even if it's the most scandalous thing ever.
00:24:10.242 - 00:24:21.940, Speaker B: I mean, no one's talking about the terror stuff anymore. And it just happened last week is the biggest event, probably one of the biggest events thing in crypto history, and no one talks about it anymore. And it's kind of like, it's kind of sad, right? Um, yeah.
00:24:22.012 - 00:24:49.630, Speaker A: Cool. Yeah, I. Yeah, I do. I mean, I hope that, um, it will disseminate through founders, I guess, like, you know, a lot of founders want other founders on their cap table and they often go to those people kind of earlier on to get the lowdown on funds. So I think it will hopefully disseminate through. I know there's a few people that I refuse to co invest with now. I don't do a ton of venture stuff I haven't in the past.
00:24:49.630 - 00:25:48.894, Speaker A: I've done bits and pieces and I'm not doing tons at the moment either. But there's a few people I will refuse to co invest with because I just know that if they have a decent enough chunk, it's a bloodbath or it's mercenary game. The project sort of struggles from day one or it gets set back at least a bunch. And I know that what advice I would give to founders if people hit me up and said who should I go with? But at the same time, we've gone from a very founder friendly environment to a very, to investors having all the power again in the last sort of six months. So yeah, for a while at the top of the bull market, you did see a lot of things start doing like icos again and just saying like fucking sort of populist attitude to VC's. And I do think that model is so much better. And I think a lot of this blame like the VC problem I think is a symptom of the SEC.
00:25:48.894 - 00:27:25.204, Speaker A: Because if you're a founder and you are building for the next 10, 15, 20 years something that you deeply care about and is very important to you to build your vision and realize that vision in reality, you don't want to do an ICO unless you're anonymous and you happy with your OPSEC, et cetera, because you don't want to incur that additional regulatory risk for your baby, for building the thing that you really want to care about. So you get a legal advisor or regulatory advisor or whatever and you figure out the safest possible way to get funding to build the thing that you want to build. And they will always tell you, go with accredited investors. Treat it as though it is a security. When youre selling your saft or your safe or your equity or your tokens or whatever youre doing straight token sale, just imagine they are securities and comply with security laws like professional investors only. And at some point in the future through decentralization, through whatever other people contributing to it potentially, then it becomes not a security and you can have public markets, but if youre a founder, thats the model you get pushed to go down because its the least risky for you actually building the thing that you want to build, which means retail is left on the sidelines. It means you can only raise money from these venture capitalists who have been set up almost with the purpose of funding these things and then trying to sell it when public markets come available.
00:27:25.204 - 00:28:10.484, Speaker A: And what I find difficult about it is that there is some stuff which is so obviously a scam, it's just a scam token, and then this stuff which is very, very, very obviously a legitimate project where people trying to build honestly and earnestly, but then there might be that it's an honest project, but they've got something wrong. So it's just going to be a failure. But they're all trying their best but they've made some mistakes and they believe the wrong thing. And then there's like things where, well, it might work, it might not work. We actually don't care. All we care about is like blending in the middle area so that we get tokens vested and we can sell something. It doesn't matter if the product works or not.
00:28:10.484 - 00:29:03.540, Speaker A: And there's this big spectrum of like from outright scam to like golden, like non financial projects like bitcoin, right? Like you cant say that Satoshi created bitcoin for personal profit because hes never sold anything as far as we know. And theyve probably died, to be honest. And then you have Ethereum, which is similar to bitcoin, but they kept some allocation for themselves and they did do an ICO for fundraising. So they pre mined 70% or whatever the bitcoin and Maxs talk about, and they sold it all for $0.04 or something. And those things, I think it's difficult to say that these things are not legitimate projects that are trying to build something important in the world. Then you get to uniswap, and I feel similarly.
00:29:03.540 - 00:29:33.354, Speaker A: Clearly they're actually trying to build a legitimate project. The token model might suck. They might not accrue value the same way Ethereum can accrue value. It might be a bad investment, I don't know, but it's definitely not a scam. And then you can keep going and you end up with stuff that's like, all right, I can't tell if this is fraud. I can't tell if this is a legitimate project that's just going to fail. I don't know how much they know about if this is economically viable.
00:29:33.354 - 00:30:39.824, Speaker A: And I think that middle area that obfuscated, unclear what's actually happening here area is the most dangerous because out of that you get some home run winners, you get something comes out of it, looks a bit shady, looks a bit dodgy, and it turns out to be a great project with great people. And they sold something you didn't think they could solve. But on the other hand, you have things that just go straight to like, okay, that was basically a scam type side. And I think that's where the SEC should be actually adding value to crypto ecosystem instead of just enforcing against people raising funds. Yeah. So I do think that the SEC just enforcing against really what they've done in the past is enforced against fraud. So there was a lot of icos that were just telling lies about what their product was or what their product was backed by or whatever, like the diamonds one, or there's one about Wade I can't remember.
00:30:39.824 - 00:31:44.874, Speaker A: And then they try to take down big stuff like bitconnect, and they're trying to take down ripple. It's not even clear that they will succeed in the action against ripple. Meanwhile, everything else is left in a state of uncertainty. And retail investors are actually losing because the SEC seems unwilling to force people to do basic stuff like disclosures. If you think about the big problems that have happened in crypto, like UST anchor, the wormhole exploit, Ronin Bridge exploit recently Bitfinex, Hat mount, Gox hack, token rug pulls bad investments down only perp type things, stuff where investors actually get harmed. Because these things are kind of complicated. If you're new, it feels like the right remedy is to address them directly.
00:31:44.874 - 00:32:28.158, Speaker A: So with Bitconnect and UST and these kind of projects, the SEC should just require these projects to clearly state where the yield comes from. So for UST it's like we invent it as a growth mechanism. It's printed, it's a growth mechanism in order to attract people to our ecosystem. It's not backed by anything. These usds are just created out of nowhere. And then some people might go, hmm, that sounds confusing, how does that work? And they might read more about the thing. And for Bitconnect, I can't remember where the lending yield came from.
00:32:28.158 - 00:33:00.154, Speaker A: You got paid in more bit connect? I think so. Maybe they were just printing more bitconnect as well. For Hex, it is like token inflation, its equity inflation. So you get paid with future emissions of the native instrument. For ape coin staking you get paid with dow treasury emissions. So the supply is capped, but they just pay you out of the treasury for staking. So thats where the yield comes from.
00:33:00.154 - 00:34:16.364, Speaker A: Eventually that will run out. So the yield is unsustainable, sustainable. But just having disclosures as to where it comes from allows you to realize that some things like ust inventing new dollars is very different to an AAve lending rate, which is a borrower paying the lender because they would think they can make more money in the short term. So someone pays a rate and probably have sometimes juices it with some token emissions as well. But having clarity around those things, I think protects way more retail investors than this enforcement action, which is after the fact and after everyone has already lost, because people would be able to read these things and make more informed decisions. Another thing is the Solana ecosystem you spoke about these down only perps where things open at a $50 billion fully diluted valuation and they have a four year vesting schedule and the chart just goes down forever. What could help here is a uniform and clear emission schedule graph on a per asset basis.
00:34:16.364 - 00:35:50.604, Speaker A: So if you, I think oxygen oxy is one of the ones that went like just straight down. If you thinking about buying oxy, you want to look at the price, you want to look at the market cap, but then you also want to know what is happening to the supply over the next three years. Because if the supply is tripling over the next year, you need to go is the demand going to triple to even just sustain the price? And then you should probably have token projects disclosing all private investment terms because theyre public markets, right? So if apecoin did a Dow treasury sale at a discount with some vesting lockup, all of the terms of that I think should be public because otherwise retail investors, theres information asymmetry. They cant make informed decisions about what even happens when these coins unlock because they don't know what their cost basis is. They don't know if these people are at breakeven, massively above water, massively underwater, they don't even necessarily know who is buying. So if you're lucky enough to be one of these VC's who gets a massively discounted round and then one of your other investments blows up, you saw hashed lost $3.5 billion in Luna.
00:35:50.604 - 00:37:34.810, Speaker A: I think it's useful for retail investors to know where else hashed has locked exposure. Otherwise there's massive information asymmetry there. And I think you can tick off on a case by case basis, what are the practical risks and how are people getting hurt and how can you inform the public better with extremely light touch things that also help people identify fraud? Because if people are not complying with where does the yield come from? You at least go why are they not telling me? And I think that if the SEC took this light touch regulatory path, more investors would be actually protected than them just post death enforcing against Luna or post death enforcing against bit connect or whoever. And sure they can still enforce against fraud like I think that they should, they can enforce against bad actors and blah blah blah, but if they want to keep innovation onshore and they actually want to protect retail investment, retail investors who are going to do crypto stuff anyway, they're going to do it. These light touches just seem like net positive for everyone. It's like a tiny bit of work for a project to do makes things so much more, uh, clear for retail investors to understand what they're dealing with, who they're dealing with, who the other token holders are, what price point they hold these tokens at. Um, and stuff and uh, and yeah, um, I, I'm very like anti regulation generally, but I think simple stuff like this that lets people, I hate when regulators tell people what they are and aren't allowed to do.
00:37:34.810 - 00:38:10.064, Speaker A: Um, like I don't like it if they say you're not allowed to release a stable coin, you're not allowed to build, Luna, I don't like that. People should be allowed to do whatever they want, but people should be informed sufficiently so retail investors should have the information available to them to make fair, good, well informed decisions. I think rather than just saying you're not allowed to build that building, that's legal, you should have to declare, I'm building this. This is how it works. And people should understand how it works before they put their entire life savings into a savings account that she's 20% that's printing it out of dinner.
00:38:11.164 - 00:38:46.072, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, I mean I pretty much agree with, with everything you said. Like I'm not a big fan of kind of like most regulations myself, but it kind of like all goes back to the proactive versus reactive and the SEC is really just being reactive. Right like that. As you said, they only come in when something blows up instead of actually forcing or not forcing, or at least kind of like working with these teams to kind of like do these disclosures and stuff and things like that. And there's been a bit of kind of like stuff uh, happening within the crypto ecosystem on that front. Like Masari has their disclosures registry. You know, before Coingecko was showing fully diluted, uh, market caps, uh, coinmarketcap wasn't doing it when coin market cap was much more popular.
00:38:46.072 - 00:39:38.744, Speaker B: So no one knew like you would see the supply of the coin and you would only see the circulating supply, you wouldn't see, and that wouldn't even be accurate. And you, you wouldn't ever see the fully diluted kind of like value and wouldn't see the, the max supply. So a lot of people would buy into something being like oh, it's only, you know, such and such market cap, but in reality if you take the kind of like rest of the supply into account, it was like much, much larger. So I think we've tried to do it within the industry, but it just doesn't seem to be enough because I think it's enough to the extent of people that are already crypto native and aren't totally new. Can navigate these waters and I've seen over the last twelve months a lot of people that have been in the ecosystem for maybe a couple of years are much more sensitive to this stuff. And they look at fully diluted market cap, they look at who's invested, they look at what the token emissions are like. But you're right like the average retail investor, especially newer ones, they don't learn this straight away.
00:39:38.744 - 00:40:49.814, Speaker B: They have to kind of like go through the pain to get to that point because there's no real kind of like I guess like authority telling them sort of thing. So yeah I mean the SEC like I mean as much as I don't want them too involved in the ecosystem, them just kind of like working with teams to disclose these things would add a lot of legitimacy to those sorts of things and get a lot more eyeballs on it I think as well. So it, yeah I mean it's kind of like a hard thing as well because the regulatory agencies depending on how they approach it they tend to overstep sometimes. So the worst case would be like the SEC making it so cumbersome for these teams to report these things that the teams either would just like not report anything or are they getting trouble for like not being accurate and then it just again leads to them being like well why would I report anything if I'm just going to get in trouble for it? Like it's like how Uniswap is so scared of the SEC that they're not going to enable the rev share on the unitoken because the SEC hasnt given him any guidance, Hasnt said whats going to happen if they do that. So theyre just like well were not going to do it. And that has resulted in the unitoken being down only I mean not the only reason but a major reason I think. So yeah theres a lot of things to think about around that but I agree with you that just those small touches as you said would be a huge boon to the industry.
00:40:49.814 - 00:41:08.468, Speaker B: And I think the small touches from inside the industry like Masari and Coingecko have already made a very positive effect but not for the newer people, more for the people who actually like have been around for a little bit already got burnt and then go looking and like why did I get so burnt? Why did I get so dumped on? Like why didn't I see this coming right so yeah I think yeah, yeah.
00:41:08.596 - 00:42:06.590, Speaker A: Maybe even rather than the SEC I think it would be good if it was self pleased like if exchanges forced themselves to or forced assets to like provide this information somewhere before listing or the exchange provided the information themselves. Is this asset, what are the key investment criteria you need to know? I think thats much better than the SEC getting involved because I dont think theyre a credible crypto regulator. I dont think theyre a credible organization. I think theyre doubling down on a strategy that theyve failed at. I think they havent protected retail investors at all over the last ten years of crypto. And so I think self policing is much, much, much better, which is why I was kind of happy to see the lunar proposal of paying back small investors first. I dont know if it actually works economically, I just saw it in a tweet.
00:42:06.590 - 00:43:27.214, Speaker A: But that was what happened with the Madoff scheme, the Bernie Madoff scheme, actually, if small investors ended up mostly whole from that, I think, and only like the big whales that took the 30 odd percent haircut in being paid back. So I do think that adopting those things before you're told to adopt those things is quite a good sign and hopefully will continue a lot. But we'll see. I wonder how you feel about in bull markets. I think especially towards the end, it's really easy to just lose all hope and faith of the point of the ecosystem or the point of the industry. I wonder how you feel about DeFi 2.0, which is a lot of Ponzi nomics on top of a fork of Defi one, a lot of the monkey picture type excess in nfts and bubble there, and the shiba inu doge meme coin response to the meme stock bubble.
00:43:27.214 - 00:43:39.634, Speaker A: How do you find yourself remaining focused if like that's all that happened the last couple, like last year or so is just stupidity. So did anything good happen apart from that?
00:43:40.054 - 00:44:19.618, Speaker B: I mean, the way I kind of like stay focused is I just focus on like ethereum. I mean, people call me an ETH max euphoric, but like the, I truly believe that the most interesting and non kind of like financial first things are happening within the ethereum ecosystem and specifically at like the core protocol layer and like L2s and things like that. Right. Like thats where I focus a lot of my time because its just, you barely hear about the prices of things or the financial aspect of it. Its all really about the technology. And thats why I focused my attention there. But I think what I hated most about something like the dog coins was I didnt hate that people could trade them and it was basically trading a meme.
00:44:19.618 - 00:44:55.596, Speaker B: I hated that big figures like Elon Musk gave legitimacy to these things. Dogecoin, for example, obviously is his pet project, and he gave a lot of legitimacy to it, and he basically got a lot of retail investors to go into it and to buy into it at the top especially, as well. And then they kind of completely wrecked on that. And a lot of people actually believed that Dogecoin was going to be the currency of the Internet and was going to be integrated with Twitter and all this sorts of stuff. And Elon Musk is still doing this. It's not like he's learned his lesson or stopped. You know, I think Elon Musk is a very divisive character these days, and I think he definitely has a God complex.
00:44:55.596 - 00:45:21.964, Speaker B: He's just kind of like, not a crypto native God complex. Right. So people don't really make the, make the kind of, like, connection, but I certainly do. But the funny thing about, like, something like Dogecoin as well, though, is like, Vitalik also lends a legitimacy. Like, he's all. But he's been talking about it forever, and I don't think he tries to lend legitimacy because he's trying to pump up the price or anything like that. He just interested in kind of like, dogecoin as a thing, right? Like, it's kind of like an intellectual kind of like interest for him.
00:45:21.964 - 00:46:12.092, Speaker B: But at the same time, like, to be fair, I kind of like, sometimes see that. I'm just like, is this really the best kind of, like, thing Vitalik could be doing? Like, yes, he's intellectually interested in it, but is it lending this thing too much legitimacy? And is it going to lead to people kind of, like, getting hurt? Which it probably does. Like, people look up to Vitalik and think, you know, wow, okay, if he's interested in this, then it must be legit. But, you know, he'll obviously never tell anyone to buy it or to, you know, he'll never like you to someone, this is more than what it is, right? He knows it's a mean, fun currency and that's it. But Elon Musk doesn't say that. He says, oh, we can improve dogecoin, we can make it the currency of this, we can integrate it with Twitter, we can do tipping, blah, blah, blah, right? And then you had the derivatives, you had the shib kind of like pump, and then you had all the other dog tokens that just kind of like, fall off of that, which we see with everything. It's like that euthanasia roller coaster, right? Like something gets really big and then you have it kind of like spirals out of control from the forks.
00:46:12.092 - 00:46:44.946, Speaker B: And that's nothing new. I mean it goes back to the early bitcoin days where people would just create forks and then it would just kind of like spiral out the same way. So I think that Im fine with people trading these things, but going back to what we were just talking about, as long as they know what theyre trading, as long as they know what kind of like it is, its a meme. Its like literally. I mean, I wouldnt even call it trading at that point. Id call it gambling because its really gambling on other people wanting to kind of come in and buy your bags off you essentially, which I mean you can argue that from any investment, but when theres something that doesnt really have any fundamentals behind it, its easier to kind of like argue about, um, and I guess like the DeFi 2.0 stuff.
00:46:44.946 - 00:47:07.314, Speaker B: I mean, I've been saying for a while that DeFi 2.0 was just a term used to mask Ponzis at the end of the day. Like it was just trying to let them kind of like take a legitimate term known as DeFi and apply it to something that is pretty branch illegitimate, right. In terms of kind of like there's not really much innovation going on there. There's a couple of things that fell out of it. But the biggest DeFi 2.0 projects are completely dead now, right? Like the frog nation behind Daniel Cestar.
00:47:07.314 - 00:47:22.924, Speaker B: Like everyone loved that. Like, oh, this is DeFi 2.0. This is awesome. But like it was all a massive kind of like Ponzi that required all this money to come in or as it would collapse. And it did collapse, we saw it collapse. And I think same is true for a lot of different projects there. So I didn't like that term.
00:47:22.924 - 00:47:44.932, Speaker B: I thought it was just a very heavy marketing term. I actually think that the projects known as DeFi 1.0 is where the innovation is happening. There's a lot of work going on there, but people don't pay attention to it because these projects are actually legitimate. They don't use Ponzi esque mechanisms to grow themselves and attract all that attention and capital. And they don't have shill armies. You don't see like an MKR army or a Uni army, right.
00:47:44.932 - 00:48:20.224, Speaker B: Like you would see like a lunar army or a kind of like frog nation for example, right. And that's because, and you've written about this before about kind of like the attention game and the meta game, you know, with attention being scarce and things like that. That's what it's all about, too. It's like people aren't really paying attention to kind of like these legitimate projects because they're boring at the end of the day. Like, yes, they're doing a lot of cool innovations, but that's only cool to people who care about the technology side. If you only care about making money, which is what pretty much all retail investors, especially the ones that come into this industry as a first cycle care about, then theyre going to be paying attention to the things that are making them money. And in a bull market, these things work really, really well.
00:48:20.224 - 00:49:01.274, Speaker B: I mean, weve seen this time and time again through all the cycles. Youve been through it more than I have, but its the same story every single time. So I really hated that kind of like Defi 2.0 term because of that. And I think that I dont see many people throwing it around these days, which is nice. And I think more people, especially in the wake of the terror collapse, are realizing the importance of security and decentralization and kind of like moving slower on these things and actually being boring for kind of like long term health instead of just being exciting for three months and then collapsing. Like that's all well and good if it's, if you view it as a gamble, but if you're doing it as an actual long term investment, which I think a lot of people do, that they kind of like take the three months of the end of the bull market and say, well, this is the way things are always going to be, and they, they wrongly assume that.
00:49:01.274 - 00:49:42.550, Speaker B: And then they get just fleeced. I mean, even like everything is down like 90 plus percent other than kind of like BTC and ETH at this point against USD and then even more against that. And these people, they get, they get burnt and they just think crypto is a scam and they, they leave. And that's why we have those ball bear cycles that are so violent because we just wreck everyone. When we have anyone coming into this ecosystem, we just send them straight to the slaughterhouse instead of actually onboarding them into like these legitimate things. But at the same time, it's kind of like the incentives, like people are going to go to where they can make money as a first cycler or where they think they can make money rather than to the projects that maybe you and I find interesting that are not making as much money and are kind of boring as well. So I don't blame people.
00:49:42.550 - 00:49:51.390, Speaker B: I don't blame the individual. I blame the structure of this whole ecosystem and how the incentives are just all just out of whack, especially during the bull markets.
00:49:51.582 - 00:50:20.690, Speaker A: Yeah, I think Defi 2.0 was maybe a little bit like we were saying. It's blending in with DeFi one because the products are kind of similar, but then they also end up as a game of chicken, an investment game of chicken, where everyone piles into the thing that's moving. It's late cycle, so everyone's capital floods into the same thing. They get really overvalued. I think Danny's project spell mim or whatever, I think it's held up pretty well. There was a lot of fud about it breaking peg for a while.
00:50:20.690 - 00:50:28.894, Speaker A: It didn't. I think it still operates and it's still fine. It just topped at the same time as the actual macro bull market top.
00:50:29.414 - 00:50:33.942, Speaker B: So it got wonderland though as well, right? That collapsed pretty specifically.
00:50:33.958 - 00:51:13.330, Speaker A: That was the Ohm fork. The ohmfork went below, down below the net asset value. But even ohmforks trading above net asset value is a sign of froth, right? Like there isn't tons of additional value. You can even argue they should often trade below because you can't actually claim the assets underlying. But I think he has done a decent enough job of reconsolidating all of those projects and he's still working on them. And I think the sifu stuff was like maybe bad judgment, but didn't help. But yeah, I mean there were a couple of maybe things that came out of DeFi 2.0,
00:51:13.330 - 00:51:58.314, Speaker A: and if anything good came out of it, that's like net positive. But I do think it became one of those everyone on the train type vehicles and then people buy the top of it and it's just hugely overvalued because it is the current narrative and trend. And I think a few of these DeFi 2.0 projects will probably survive over the long term, and most of them won't. The same way Defi one projects, a lot of them have formed by the wayside. Some have really stuck around because they were fundamentally important and some were trendy or got replaced by, didn't have, didn't have a moat, got replaced by better or more efficient protocols and stuff. And I think that's normal and healthy.
00:51:58.314 - 00:52:52.754, Speaker A: I guess one comparison is a lot of these things operate really early stage startups. So you have these protocols that are worth a billion dollars or something a year or so ago, or maybe two years ago even, and they're basically a startup. Success is not guaranteed. They get valued because it's a hot sector and a lot of people are using them, but then they just lose their position in the industry because a bigger protocol copies their product and then you don't want to use anymore. Compound was bigger than av for ages, and then ArV just kept shipping and outperformed them and is now bigger than compound, I think. And you have that happen quite a lot in the industry. Normally with startups, theyre not liquid, so they dont have retail investors speculating on them.
00:52:52.754 - 00:53:44.974, Speaker A: And when they fail, the people that lose money are the private VC's who cannot sell because theres no acquisition, theyre not going public. It just winds up and its over. So thats why I think retail investors in crypto get wrecked a lot more is because they see something working briefly and ive made it more real world startup investments. And I have crypto startup investments and I've seen things working briefly where there is a moment of magic and then they can't turn it into a product, they can't turn it into a business long term. They can't capitalize on that relationship properly. And that happens in crypto all the time too. And figuring out when something is hot or when something is like sustainable and long term as a product I think is very hard because they look the same at the time and people get excited about them and they develop cults as well.
00:53:44.974 - 00:54:22.034, Speaker A: The interesting thing with the cults is sometimes legitimate projects have them too. Like Chainlink has a really big one, which is out of the ordinary because a lot of the really, really, really big cults, I think, often mark the top and the asset goes to obscurity. But Chainlink, it feels like the importance of the project and technology is detached from token price. Maybe that just happens to every crypto project. Like the tokens are just trending down to their real valuations and not attached to real world metrics for them or something. Who knows?
00:54:22.894 - 00:54:42.920, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I think you're right. And I think, as you said, the problem is that liquidity is there for these things much sooner than it is there for a non crypto startup. On average, I think seven years to IPO for like non crypto startups. Right. Whereas in crypto it's like a year or less. Like probably like even, even less than that. Right.
00:54:42.920 - 00:55:27.024, Speaker B: So you don't have a product, and a lot of these tokens, as you said, like go live without like even a product, yet they kind of tease that there's a product coming, but they're like, oh, we'll put our token out there first. It's like well that doesn't make any sense. Like what, what's the, what's the worth of the token? Like it's just a future kind of like worth. And like the chance of this failing is really high. Like in the normal kind of like where it's like 90% within five years of kind of like startups fail. I think within crypto it's a higher percentage because there's just so much things that happen. But yeah, as you said, theres a brief period during a bull market where the token price will go up with everything else because its just a liquidity injection, especially because of liquidity mining, people will be like oh look at all the TVL on this protocol because its billions of dollars.
00:55:27.024 - 00:56:06.526, Speaker B: This protocol is doing so amazing. Im going to buy the token when in reality its because theyre buying the token and because the token price is going up that TVL is going up. And a lot of people that are new will not make that connection. And that's why I think a lot of the tokens end up going down only is because they get to these stupid valuations based on nothing and then the projects over the long term will just fade into irrelevancy and just fail to ever reach their bull market highs and people move on to the next thing. So I think yeah, it's very dangerous and I think there are some kind of projects in this ecosystem that have held off on doing a token for a very long time. I think the L2s fall into that bucket. Theyre like, lets not do a token until weve actually got like a product out there.
00:56:06.526 - 00:56:41.840, Speaker B: Weve actually got people using it, actually got a reason to do a token. But thats not the rule, thats the exception. The rule is put a token out there, get some kind of people involved because theyve bought into the token and then worry about shipping the product later. And nine times out of ten or 9.5 times out of ten that leads in ruin for pretty much everyone. And its kind of really sad that that happens because there are actually some good projects that if they just didn't have a token and they just tried to grow organically, may have actually succeeded because the token was a detriment to their project by launching it too early. But you could argue it either way.
00:56:41.912 - 00:57:21.140, Speaker A: That is interesting. It is interesting because a lot of people were launching tokens defensively. Even Uniswap was potentially even a defensive token launch because sushi was vampire attacking them. So they launched them with this like okay, it's like kind of defensive growth mechanism where if we don't have one, someone else will just clone our work and have one and they'll get all our growth because they'll be paid to go there instead. But the product will be the same because it's open source. And now that token model works in the opposite way where, yeah, it brought in a lot of people. It was a good growth mechanic, but it's unwinding because now the chart is only going down and people are less interested in that token.
00:57:21.140 - 00:57:56.582, Speaker A: So maybe they're even less interested in that product. And you have some products like Matcha XYZ or whatever it is, that haven't launched a token and have said they probably won't ever do one. I think, and personally I always use that now because I'm like, oh yeah, they like one inch, they're like their cunts, and so on, so on. And definitely not using paraswap. They did the airdrop for only ten people or some shit. I always use matcha. It reminds me a little bit of when Uniswap launched and Uniswap was Bancor without a token.
00:57:56.582 - 00:58:37.294, Speaker A: It's like, wait, we're just in a bear market. We just like the products without tokens. In a bull market. We love tokens. All right, yeah, but the projects and protocols that did the method you spoke of, which was launch the token after the product, I think like isomorphic, or if you categorize them, they often fit into these longer term, focused, more like less hyped projects. Arbitrum is very hyped. I'm sure they'll do a token some point this year or next year or whenever, but it's very hyped because it's low to scaling and people want ethereum to scale better.
00:58:37.294 - 00:59:15.430, Speaker A: But it's not hyped in the same way Defi 2.0 was. And a lot of these token projects are hyped, and they do in the product first method, because they think it's important to be around for a very long time, and that's the most sustainable way. So categorically, a lot of those products that do that end up in this similar category in my mind, where it's like they'll be around for a very long time, they'll be important parts of the ecosystem, or defi for ages. But also I observe that none of their price action is ever very good. It never goes insanely up. You never get a huge win out of them.
00:59:15.430 - 00:59:47.338, Speaker A: They always open much closer to their realistic valuations. Uniswap did a decent pump, but it would launch right at the very beginning of the bull market. So it just went up at market average with everything. It is interesting. Those ones are the legitimate ones. The speculators don't have much room within them to get what they really want out of the gambling game of chicken type investing. So it's interesting.
00:59:47.338 - 01:00:01.414, Speaker A: How do you feel about token project team members, like AV team members or whatever, selling their tokens? When should it be allowed?
01:00:02.234 - 01:00:29.516, Speaker B: That's a tough one because they all have like their own vesting. Right. Attached to it. And like some people would argue, well, if that's the vesting schedule, then they should be allowed to sell as soon as they've got like vested out tokens. Right. And I get that argument, but, you know, and some people will view it as well. Why are these people selling? Have they lost kind of like faith in the project? Have they have, are they kind of like bearish on it? I don't think that's, that's necessarily true because it's kind of like, well, these people joined, maybe they joined the team really early on, right? And they'll promise equity as part of their package.
01:00:29.516 - 01:01:10.960, Speaker B: And their salary maybe wasn't great because it was a startup. Um, and they're just like, well, you know, this is a huge win for me. Like I made my hundred x on my equity rather than my 100 x on, on something else in the public markets, so why shouldn't they be allowed to sell, right? Like if you make 100 x on something on the public market, no one's questioning you for selling that. So just what? Just because these people, you know, got it, um, as before being part of the team, like they've added more value than you have. Like if you buy a token on, on public markets and it goes 100 x, you've added like basically not no value to that. Maybe you added some marginal value because you made the price go up a little bit by buying. But the people who actually were part of the team building the thing and driving the most value, then in my mind, they should be able to sell whenever they want.
01:01:10.960 - 01:02:11.100, Speaker B: The vesting schedule is made by the executive team or whatever of the startup, so they should be able to sell. But in saying that if the vesting is really bad, where it's as soon as the token launches, everyone gets their tokens on day one, well, I mean, that's just going to lend itself to people selling, especially if it's a hyped up token launch and if the fluid, alluded value gets way ahead of the actual circulating value or kind of like the float value, then it can seem a little bit scammy where it's just like, well, did the team just vest out themselves so they could sell because they knew that it would go like it was so hyped and the value would skyrocket and then it would kind of like bleed out, which is there's been a bunch of those for sure. But I think for the generally legitimate projects where team members have been there for like potentially years, theyre getting their kind of like package. Like you would like. When something ipos, youre getting your kind of tokens or whatever are vested out, then I dont think theres a problem selling. And I dont think that means that theyre bearish on anything. I think that just means that theyre, hey, this money can actually improve my life.
01:02:11.100 - 01:03:02.044, Speaker B: Maybe they want to go buy themselves a house, or maybe theyve been living frugally because they were at a startup where their salary wasnt very good. I dont blame them for that at all. And you can argue it either way, but I think the argument that they're not allowed to sell because it's bearish is kind of like a really weak one for a lot of projects, especially for team members that have been there for a while. On the other hand, if there's a team member that joined a month ago and they're getting tokens because the thing kind of tokenized and they're selling straight away, I mean, it's kind of like, it can look a bit shady and a bit grifty, but you would kind of expect the actual team, the actual kind of CEO or the founders to see that and kind of like, be like, well, you know, if you're just kind of, like, here for money, then we're going to cut you off because there's a lot of clauses that say, you know, we can cut you off at any time. You're not guaranteed to get these things. Like it. Just because it's vesting out to you doesn't mean that it's going to be set in stone.
01:03:02.044 - 01:03:16.704, Speaker B: We can actually change this. We can fire you, so to speak, anything like that. So there's a lot of that going on. But generally, I don't think we should shame the team members for selling their kind of like, tokens and kind of like, you know, improving their lives from the work that they did and contributed to a project. Right?
01:03:17.194 - 01:03:55.818, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm very, very, I've been thinking a lot recently about, like, milestone based vesting for team members because, like, if, you know, curve's been out two years, right. Also, and curve is clearly an extremely important part of the ecosystem. It's fulfilled its role. It's permanently got the number one TVL, like super high volume, and there'll be people vesting for four years on the curve side. So they have to wait another two years. So they were not even really able to realize the peak of what they created. They built something.
01:03:55.818 - 01:04:51.064, Speaker A: It went absolutely insane, like a really crazy product in the times of peak bull market. And if we enter a bear market now that lasts for a couple of years, theyll fully vest at the bottom of the bear market, and that kind of sucks for them. But what they built was very, very, very important for a period of time. And curve having accelerated vesting from milestones makes sense to me because they've built something that is actually practically important. So they're not just dumping tokens of some vapor. They should be allowed to realize some of their net worth, which is illiquid to liquid in order to de risk working on it forever. I think founders should be able to de risk that net worth number that fluctuates, which can be distracting, which can be, you know, it can drive you insane if you watch it go up and down and you can't do anything about it.
01:04:51.064 - 01:05:33.884, Speaker A: They should be able to sell it, buy the house, be very solid, have money in the bank so they feel good forever. And that gives them the comfort blanket to go for the home run. Like, I'm going to build curve into the fucking biggest thing that's ever existed. Because no matter what, I've got my house and stuff, I'm supportive of founders selling in order to go big. What I get confused about is when you have the maps token, it was like, maps me. And it's like the tokens for a Defi wallet Maps app thing. And it's got an FTX perp that goes down only, and it was worth a billion dollars at some point or something.
01:05:33.884 - 01:06:53.720, Speaker A: And their vesting will complete and they'll be able to sell, but they haven't hit any milestones or the defi wallet. Is that a popular part of Defi now? Is maps fundamentally important to the ecosystem? So they'll just be able to dump tokens as they vest on a time basis, which maybe as and when curve are able to sell, even though the valuation is probably reasonably similar, and they haven't built anything that's that important to the ecosystem. So I struggle a little bit with when it should be okay for team members to sell, because I do think that team and founders should be able to de risk, and it actually makes them build better and more aggressively. If they're not trying to just maintain a valuation for two or three years, it allows them to take really risky, ambitious steps to go ten x upwards instead of just going, oh, let's just sit here and try and maintain market share and don't do anything wrong because I want to keep this number here so I can buy a house. I don't think they should be allowed to dump on public markets. I think these places should have secondary rounds with big funds that honor the original lock or even extend locks in cases like that. But I think it should all be milestone based.
01:06:53.720 - 01:07:49.984, Speaker A: If you create a DeFi project today and you have a team, you have a normal vesting schedule for them, and you have accelerated vesting based on milestones, and that accelerated vesting just kind of says you can participate x amount in a secondary sale if we can find someone to fund it. If we hit these milestones in this time, I think something like that would be much healthier for the ecosystem. So people are not just unlocking huge bags all at once, selling on public markets, other team members not selling on public markets because they don't want to be the one that dumps and then, you know, causing infighting. But a lot of these projects where they don't build anything I like, maybe they should get extended vesting. Who knows, man? I don't know. All right, so at the beginning, we promised people that you were going to release some of your anon account takes. So we've got to end with Sasol's spiciest.
01:07:49.984 - 01:08:07.924, Speaker A: I was going to try to alliterate the whole thing, but I don't know. So just like your spices takes, what would you say when you were drunk that you maybe wouldn't say, it's the daily gwain no one watches, so no one's going to hear it. No one's going to hear what you say. You're not going to get into trouble.
01:08:08.584 - 01:08:34.470, Speaker B: I think. Yeah, I think this might be the. Actually the one episode that does get viewed because you're on it. So I think I don't want to. I can give you. Yeah, I'll give you some spicy takes, but maybe not the spiciest, not the stuff that I would say that if there was no one listening. I think, as I alluded to at the start, like, I want there to be more accountability, and not just accountability from the community in this ecosystem.
01:08:34.470 - 01:09:28.494, Speaker B: I want some people to actually face legal repercussions for the things that they do in this ecosystem, I want the actual scammers to end up in prison, if I'm being honest. I want examples to be set because I don't think that if that doesn't, I think if that doesn't happen, we're just going to keep repeating the same thing over and over and over again because people come in and they say, okay, well, there's this scam and this scam and this scam, and nothing's happened to them. Why would I not scam as well? Right? It's just kind of like a merry band of scammers. And I think it's kind of like outside of the crypto ecosystem. If there was no law against doing, like, certain things, like, if there was no law against theft, people would just steal anything, right? They're literally, like, a lot of people think that people don't steal because it's like just a morally kind of like, wrong thing to do. No, I mean, a lot of people don't steal because they, they know that, okay, they'll get potentially caught and they'll end up in jail. So there's always that threat looming threat there of kind of like enforcement, but we dont have that in crypto.
01:09:28.494 - 01:10:07.333, Speaker B: Like even some of the biggest kind of like griffs in this ecosystem, I struggled to call it a scam, but like, the EOs ICO, for example, the year long EOs ICO that went nowhere, that block one did. EOS is obviously a dead project, but block one converted all of that ETH into BTC, and now theyre one of the biggest BTC holders. The SEC slaps them with a $24 million fine, which is fucking nothing compared to what they made, and they run away, you know, with their riches intact. Right. You know, Brock Pierce runs away to Puerto Rico and he gets to enjoy his life after having drained all this money, right. So if there's no enforcement at all, like, it's just going to keep happening. And what's even sadder is that you mentioned the ripple case with the SEC.
01:10:07.333 - 01:10:41.836, Speaker B: I actually think that ripple is going to win that case because they have unlimited money to spend on lawyers to start with. Right. Like, they have so much money from ill gotten gains to spend on lawyers, but also I kind of, like, want them to win it because of the fact that the SEC, to me, is such an illegitimate organization that if they can't classify XRP as a security, then good luck with anything else. But, you know, the security stuff is a different ballgame. I actually think the actual proven scam is that people who. That you can prove in a court of law actually scammed people need to end up in prison to set an example, because otherwise, we're just going to keep repeating the same stuff. And that might be an aggressive take.
01:10:41.836 - 01:10:58.896, Speaker B: But look, we don't tolerate scammers a lot of the time in the traditional world. Right? Like, there are some enforcement there, but at the same time, there isn't. Like, there's a lot of grifters. Like, a lot of grifters in the. In the kind of, like, outside of crypto that. That, you know, self help gurus who sell hopium. Like, just like people sell hopium in crypto.
01:10:58.896 - 01:11:21.034, Speaker B: But if there's, like, a verifiable scam that, like, everyone pretty much agrees is a scam, except maybe the people who got scammed or the people who kind of, like, are still in the scam, then there should be kind of, like, some enforcement. It should be jail time, like, actual jail time for these people to dissuade future scammers. Um, and, like, I guess that might be one of the spiciest things I can come up with, like, on the. On the spot. But I also.
01:11:21.114 - 01:11:33.938, Speaker A: I like the bit where you were, like, uh, you like, oh, I'd steal everything if I wasn't gonna get caught. I'm looking at your room now. Like, is all this ill gotten gains? Is this all theft? You running into stores and running away? No, no.
01:11:34.066 - 01:12:02.800, Speaker B: I mean, look, I wasn't talking about me personally, of course. Like, none of this is personally, but, no, I just think generally, people are a bit naive to think that the people don't do bad things because it's just, like, not morally right to do bad things, rather than there's a law against it, because in lawless places, people will do bad things, right? And they'll. They'll do them because they know they can get away with it. So I think that is what's happened in crypto for the longest time now. People know that they can get away with it, so they just do it. They just say, fuck it. Who cares? Like, I'm not going to go to jail.
01:12:02.800 - 01:12:15.688, Speaker B: I'll just make all this money, and I'll just exit, and no one will care because everyone forgets. Because within a day, everyone forgets. Like, there's no people make memes about it. Like, do Kwon. What people remember about do Kwon is the memes. Like, he's. He's shitposting on Twitter.
01:12:15.688 - 01:12:28.880, Speaker B: Um, and same with, like, bitconnect, right? What do everyone. What does everyone remember about Bitconnect, the Carlos whatever his name is on stage singing. Yeah, exactly. So no one ever remembers the bad bits. I just remember the memes. So I. Yeah, I just.
01:12:28.880 - 01:12:35.044, Speaker B: That's probably one of the spiciest things I can come up with. People need to go to jail for this stuff to stop, otherwise it's just going to keep continuing.
01:12:35.744 - 01:13:12.814, Speaker A: Yeah. So my take was going to be that a lot of these people, especially the VC's, I think they're not fraudsters, they're just stupid. I think some. There are a lot of obviously scam projects and I think eos have quite literally obfuscated which entity the money belongs to. And now they're doing this bullish exchange and I think they're trying to make sure that that money stays intact in their control or to build it into more money. And it's definitely not being invested into the EOS blockchain. Right.
01:13:12.814 - 01:13:46.118, Speaker A: So I think there's deliberate steps taken there. But I do think a lot of the VC's are extremely dumb. I think they're not smart. I don't think they can think critically, I don't think they can evaluate one project from the other. I think they rely on social signaling, like who's in this round or paradigm's in the round. That means it must be good. How much can I get? And they just see like, I can buy 66% discount, 66% discount, good.
01:13:46.118 - 01:14:15.754, Speaker A: That means token can go down 66% and I can still break even. Will it go down 66% in one year? That's quite a lot. Probably not buy. I think that is how they think these things through. And then instead of it being like malicious, I think that they go on twitter and go, I like this thing that I own. I think they just dumb and they don't really get it. And I think there's specific people in my mind that I can think of and you can tell because they haven't really done anything prior to this fund, this VC.
01:14:15.754 - 01:15:12.768, Speaker A: It's not like they had a reasonably successful career building something or contributed to like, you know, jobs that have a high bar to get those jobs or whatever. I'm not into credentialism, I'm just saying there is a trend where if the first thing that they've done that's had any success was to fund like insider guaranteed win projects, they might not be super smart, they might not be like, you know, excellent critical thinking individuals who are seeing the future. They might just be along for the ride on euphoria. I don't think they understand how most of their projects work. I don't think they've ever used them. And I think there's a concept in, I think it's mostly in Germany of a rat tail, which is a bunch of rats. They get their tails tied together and then they die.
01:15:12.768 - 01:15:50.924, Speaker A: And you find all these rats spread out with their tails tied in one. Normally it's hair or I don't know, gonk or something. Sometimes they just get tied together and I think it's going to end up looking a little bit like that when they realize they were following someone who was following someone who was following someone who's following the original person. And none of them actually know what they're talking about. None of them do due diligence, they don't think critically and 99% of stuff is going to zero because they funded trash. So I don't think they're all egomaniacs. I think there's definitely some egomaniac founders that these people can follow and, and riff off.
01:15:50.924 - 01:16:15.856, Speaker A: But I think a lot of the VC's are actually just extremely dumb and they have been caught up in the like I've got following people like me, I'm a genius, I'm making money type thing. And I think the actual people who are malicious, a need to be smart, to be malicious. And I think they're less frequent. They definitely still exist though. I do. That's fun. I gotta go.
01:16:15.856 - 01:16:18.190, Speaker A: Looking forward to future Cecil spicy takes.
01:16:18.312 - 01:16:22.654, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for the chat, man. This was good. I'll see you later.
01:16:23.154 - 01:16:23.634, Speaker A: Peace, dude.
