00:00:00.280 - 00:00:36.598, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news near the therm ecosystem. I'm your host and it is a sign onto the 30 August 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, obviously a lot of exciting news over the last 24 hours, and I'm going to go through it all. But just actually, before we get into it, just wanted to quickly say that tomorrow and Friday there will be no refuel. I've decided that I'm going to do a refuel on Saturday to make up for it because I'm pushing the podcast with Eric, the Delaware drive thru that with Eric, that was due this week to next week. So there will be a refuel on Saturday to make up for tomorrow and Friday, and I'll cover all the news that happens over the next couple of days.
00:00:36.598 - 00:01:10.366, Speaker A: But on that note, let's get into the news from the last 24 hours, the biggest of which was grayscale winning their lawsuit against the SEC. Now, of course, there was a bit of confusion around this, people not, not knowing exactly what the victory was for, what grayscale actually won here. You know, what the implications are, and I'm here to, to kind of run you through that. So basically, their lawsuit was basically for the SEC to review the grayscale's ETF application. So grayscale basically, basically said, the SEC denied our application, but it made no sense. They. They denied it based on basically nothing.
00:01:10.366 - 00:02:03.688, Speaker A: And the judge agreed with Grayscale here as well. The judge basically said that the SEC had no real merit to deny this ETF approved this ETF application and grayscale won in court. So now what ends up happening is that the SEC has, I think, 45 days or something to appeal or to kind of, I guess, like a hit back at this. And also they have to revise their, I guess, like, decision of the Grayscale ETF now, or the, the grayscale application to convert its trust, its existing trust, into an ETF now. I need to make it clear that this does not mean that the grayscale conversion for its trust into its ETF has been approved. That's not it at all. But the reason why this is very bullish and the reason why people got so excited about it is because it's just another signal to, I guess, like the world, that us based BTC, and I guess even ETH ETF's are coming sooner rather than later.
00:02:03.688 - 00:02:39.518, Speaker A: And as I've been saying on the refill for quite a while now, I believe that they're going to come maybe in Q one. Q I'm probably Q one next year at, or even maybe Q two, but it could even end up potentially happening later this year. I think it would be more bullish if it happened in Q one next year. Obviously, it's always good to start off the year with some, some really positive news there. But this is stuff that I've talked about for a while now. And it's funny, like about an hour after I put out the refuel last night, or not even an hour, I think it was like half an hour after I put out the refuel last night, this news came out and I was just like, okay, well, the refuel is now outdated. I have to wait 24 hours before I can, I can cover this.
00:02:39.518 - 00:03:24.114, Speaker A: But yeah, very, very exciting news out of, out of the US overnight. Now, of course, Jake Shevinski has a great thread covering exactly why this is a big deal from the legal perspective. You can go check that thread out. And also, James Seifrat here, who has been covering this stuff for a little while now, has also put together a thread going over the kind of implications, implications here and reading through the judgment. And he also shared a pretty amazing kind of, I guess, like excerpt from the judgment here from, from the judge. So the judge said here or the judges said here. We agree the denial of Grayscale's proposal was arbitrary and capacious because the commission failed to explain its different treatment of similar products.
00:03:24.114 - 00:04:32.736, Speaker A: We therefore grant Greyscale's petition and vacate the order. So the reason why this is so, like, cool to see is because it's very strong language. It's basically the judge saying, or the judges saying to the SEC, you had absolutely no reason, or no reason based on merit or based on fact to deny this application. And that's why they're basically reversing the decision, or I guess in this kind of terminology, in legal speak, it's vacating the order, which I'm not a lawyer, obviously, but I take it to mean that they're basically forcing the SEC to basically revise their decision and revise it all again and come to a new one. And the reason why I think that this is bullish and why people consider this bullish is because for the SEC to come back and just deny it again with the same reasoning would just open themselves up to another lawsuit. Now, if they came back and denied it for another reason, there's a chance that they're going to get sued again. And one of the reasons that someone, I saw someone talking about on Twitter would be that the SEC came back and said, oh, well, we're denying it this time because we're concerned about the custody of the BTC.
00:04:32.736 - 00:04:54.952, Speaker A: And as you guys know, the custody for pretty much all the ETF's is going to be handled by Coinbase and the SEC. Obviously, he's suing Coinbase, so there is kind of a conflict there. And it just depends how hard they want to go. It depends how hard Gary Gensler wants to go here. But as I said before, I think the ETF's are inevitable at this point. I think they're going to happen. And the reason why they're so bullish is because it's going to bring in a lot of fresh money.
00:04:54.952 - 00:05:29.340, Speaker A: But also the narrative, guys, like I've said this so many times before on the refuel, and I think that people are still kind of like mid curving this, as we call it. It's not about the actual reality, it's about the narrative. And when it comes to markets, right? And the narrative of the ETF's is huge. It is by far the biggest market related narrative, maybe outside of the harvening in crypto that we have right now. And of course, the ETF seemed to be lining up with the harvening, which just makes it even more bullish. And this is from a pure narrative perspective. If we're talking fundamentals, if we're talking reality, that's a whole different discussion.
00:05:29.340 - 00:05:56.524, Speaker A: Guys, I'm literally just talking in the context of narrative here. And that's what most people get excited about because that alone is going to bring in a lot of fresh capital. That is probably what's going to kick off the bull market, to be honest. Especially because the timing just is lining up so perfectly. It's uncanny how well the timing is lining up here with the four year cycle, with the harbinging, you know, all that stuff that's happening there, it's just great. And obviously, you know, the prices pumped overnight on BTC and ETH and a bunch of other assets. Look, don't be surprised if we sell back down.
00:05:56.524 - 00:06:23.014, Speaker A: As I said before, I didn't expect anything. Are really kind of like fireworks worthy to happen this year. You know, we could go to two k ethan and. And 30 plus K BTc again, but we could just sell down towards the end of the year. As I said before, I feel like we're going to be stuck in this crab range for longer than people think we are. Even though we have this hyper positive news, and even though a lot of the crypto natives believe that the ETF is inevitable. At the end of the day, it's all about the narrative.
00:06:23.014 - 00:07:10.424, Speaker A: And the narrative needs to permeate out into the tradfi world, out into the the distance. And I think once the ETF's actually get approved, that's when the narrative really kicks into high gear and everyone starts shilling it and being like, oh my God, you know, the ETF's are here. It's gonna be so much new money coming in. And even if the reality is different, where there's not that much new money coming in that that was anticipated, it doesn't matter because by that point the bull market is already going and the money's already coming in because prices are going up and it just feeds on itself until obviously we top again and go into another bear market. That's just the way of the world in crypto. But yeah, I just figured I'd explain the bullish side here because I saw some people just being confused and basically saying, you know, there are already products in Europe like ATP products, and they haven't seen that much demand. I think on that point I would also say that the US capital markets are absolutely massive.
00:07:10.424 - 00:07:33.218, Speaker A: They pretty much the biggest in the world. And there's a lot of money in the US, there's a lot of money in the US tradfi system. And there are also a lot of. There is also a lot of money that has already gone into similar products. If you look at Grayscale's products, GBTC and Ethi, there's already billions of dollars that have gone into those products. Right. And obviously once the conversion happens, people will be able to.
00:07:33.218 - 00:07:55.406, Speaker A: To redeem. But I don't really think we're going to see much redemptions there because the premium on these things will close. There's really no reason to redeem unless you actually want to sell the assets. And I don't think there's going to be that much selling. I think it's going to be very much like people fighting ethereum staking withdrawals. Right. So when you look at it from that perspective and you take it all kind of holistically here, that's why people are getting excited about these, these ETF's.
00:07:55.406 - 00:08:30.510, Speaker A: But yeah, the, the win against the SEC here is a big deal. It's the second major loss that the SEC has suffered in recent weeks. Obviously the first one being the ripple case. And I hope the next one or one of the next ones is them losing their case to Coinbase. That would just be the cherry on top. And that would be the best thing to happen for, I think, like, not just BTC and ETH, but the longer tail of assets as well, because it basically just gives the market more confidence that the SEC is not going to win their cases of being able to, of labeling the things that they say are securities as securities like that. But yeah.
00:08:30.510 - 00:08:53.070, Speaker A: Anyway, enough rambling about all of that. You can check out these threads that I referenced. I'll link them all in the YouTube description below. Speaking of Coinbase, they have teased something on Twitter, inadvertently, I think. I don't know if this is going to actually result in anything and maybe I'm putting on my, like, conspiracy theorist hat here a bit. But they announced today they have partnered with Twitter. I'm not going to call it x.
00:08:53.070 - 00:09:18.450, Speaker A: I'm never calling it x, guys. I'm just going to call it Twitter. I hate the branding, but I'm just going to. I'm going to call it Twitter for simplicity sake here. But they, they announced that they're partnering with, with Twitter on the launch of a shiny new hiring feature directly in Coinbase's profile. So you can explore drop opportunities while you scroll Twitter on mobile desktop and beyond and you can go to Coinbase's profile. And I don't know if this has rolled out yet because I'm not seeing it on my, on my screen just yet.
00:09:18.450 - 00:10:05.428, Speaker A: Maybe it's not available to people in Australia, maybe it's us only. But yeah, you can see it in the screenshot what this actually looks like. The roles basically end up kind of right on the Coinbase profile here, right above the fold, which is pretty cool. Now, the reason I bring this up and why I say I've got my conspiracy hat on a little bit here is because I think yesterday there was news that came out that Twitter had gotten a kind of, I guess, like approval for a money transmitter license, which means they can enable payments on the platform. Now, are they going to do crypto payments? I'm pretty sure that crypto payments will be part of that, right? They'll definitely do that. Just the trad five payments, like they're doing with stripe already for, for ad sharing and stuff like that. But does that include, you know, crypto payments as well? I think it will.
00:10:05.428 - 00:10:25.206, Speaker A: Okay, so what does that include? Well, people will say Elon loves doge, so he's going to do doge payments. I'm like, you know what? Maybe he does it for the meme, but I don't think anyone's going to use doge as money. I don't think it's going to go anywhere. So he's not just going to do doge. I think that, you know, he loves the meme, he loves just piss farting around with it. But I think they're going to go beyond that. So they'll probably integrate dose somehow.
00:10:25.206 - 00:11:02.478, Speaker A: I don't know how they'll do it, but they'll do, they'll, they'll probably do it, just as I said, for the meme. But I think they're also going to potentially partner with Coinbase on a payments platform and maybe even use base to do it, which would be very bullish and very cool. Now, as I said, this is pure speculation on my behalf, very tinfoil hattie here, very conspiracy hat. But I think that'd be really cool considering that Coinbase is already working with Twitter on other features here. It would make a lot of sense, especially when it comes to payments. So yeah, just something I'm keeping an eye on and something that I wanted to bring up with you guys, because if I call it now and then I'm right, I can, I can reference back to this video and say, hey guys, I told you so, and then collect a little bit of a clout. Right.
00:11:02.478 - 00:11:34.914, Speaker A: But anyway, moving on. So just one update out of the core dev ecosystem today. So Sam Wilson, one of the Ethereum researchers, shared that the official release of the Ethereum execution layer specification has now been published. So the TL doctor is that this, is this what they published today, which is Eels, is an execution layout reference implementation in Python. It's up to date with Mainnet, it fills tests and passes existing ones. And there's an example of an EIP implemented in eels below. So obviously it's supposed to be said eels.
00:11:34.914 - 00:12:03.204, Speaker A: That's why there's a picture of an eel here. But yeah, this is one for the developers out there. It's one for the people who are very interested in, obviously, working on core protocol stuff. This has been a long time coming, from what I can tell. It's been worked on for quite a while now. And as I said, it is a specification reference implementation of the execution layer in Python. So if this is interesting to you, if this is something that piques your interest, just generally, not even just as a developer, you can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:12:03.204 - 00:12:41.718, Speaker A: All right, so I figured I'd just remind you guys a bit about what off chain labs is building with stylus. So there is a criticism of Ethereum that kind of gets made from time to time that, oh, you know, Ethereum is only limited to the EVM, which is only limited to solidity, which basically, I guess, like, forces people to learn solidity. And all the other developers out there can't use it unless they use solidity. And that couldn't be further from the truth. It's true for Ethereum, l one, but when it comes to l two s, it's a completely different story. We already have l two s that alive today that aren't EVM. Stocknet, for example, is not an EVM chain.
00:12:41.718 - 00:13:47.730, Speaker A: They do not use solidity. They use their own language, Cairo, and it has usage. Right? And now with Stylus, or I guess like this was announced a little while ago from off chain labs, what they're doing in the arbitrary ecosystem is that they're upgrading their system to, to allow for support of any and all programming languages, including popular favorites such as Rust, C and C, while maintaining EVM equivalents. So the cool thing about this, and one thing and one big thing it enables, is potentially safer contracts, faster executing contracts, and as a consequence of that, lower fee, smart contracts across the board as well. So you aren't just limited to solidity anymore. And the really cool thing about this is that they're using webassembly to enable this, or Wasm, which was actually originally part of the Ethereum layer one roadmap, when we had execution sharding in the roadmap, and I've explained this before on the refuel, but the whole idea of execution sharding was basically the same as what we have with L2s today, where each shard would be a different kind of world. So you could have a shard for like, Wasm, and there was actually going to be a Wasm shard, and you can have a shard for something else.
00:13:47.730 - 00:14:23.368, Speaker A: No shot for payments, a shot for Defi. And it starts to look a lot like what the L2 ecosystem is today. Right? So we basically abandoned execution sharding because we believe that the roll up centric roadmap was a better path forward for this. And now off chain labs is taking that on board and basically saying, well, we're going to do not just the EVM, but we're going to do the WaSM VM as well, and we're going to make this all compatible with each other. So this is a huge deal, guys. This is something, as I said, it's a criticism of Ethereum that you can only use solidity, or, I mean, solidity is the main language. You can use other languages at layer one, but solidity is really the vast majority of the code that's written there.
00:14:23.368 - 00:15:06.560, Speaker A: But on L2, it becomes much more expressive, and you can pretty much use any language that you want, really, which is, which is very cool. But anyway, off chain Labs did a whole thread on this, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, an exciting announcement out of the polygon ecosystem today. So they've announced something called the Polygon CDK, or chain development kit. So I guess, like to use an analogy here. This is very similar to what optimism has with their op stack, where essentially you can build your own chain using polygons technology and connect it, and connect it to all the other chains that are built using the same technology for an interoperable design. You can see in this picture what this actually kind of looks like.
00:15:06.560 - 00:16:09.138, Speaker A: So there's these ZK powered L2s that live on Ethereum. They share provers, they share virtual machines, they share data availability and sequences, and that way they're interoperable. And at the heart of it, of course, is the new, I guess, like, not the new, but like the poll token, which is the, the token of the, the polygon ecosystem that's going to be converted from Matic. You guys know, I announced this the other day that Matic is going to be doing a one to one conversion from Matic to poll, and that's going to basically be responsible for staking on all these chains, and potentially, if the chains want to use them as gas fees and stuff like that. So that's all in there, and also, also restaking. So with this chain development kit, developers can do the same thing that they're doing with the op stack today, basically build their chain using polygons technology and connect it into all the other chains, including in the future, the Polygon PoS chain, the current Polygon ZkVM, the immutable ZkVM as well, which is built on polygons technology. So to create a unified kind of like interoperable ecosystem, very similar to the I guess, like optimism super chain that they're building now.
00:16:09.138 - 00:17:06.548, Speaker A: Right. So very cool to see that this is what the generalized platforms are focusing on. I've said it before, I think the generalized l two s need to focus on basically giving the tools and making the tools for people to develop their own app altos, because the, there's only going to be a handful of successful generalized l two s, and there's going to be a plethora of app chain l two s not sure how many of them will be successful, but the analogy I use is that a, a generalized l two, or is kind of like a big shopping mall, for example, right? Whereas an app layer l two is a single store, right? A single store, whether it's maybe a boutique store, maybe it's a chain store, right, where uniswap, for example, will have like an app chain. But Uniswap will also be deployed in all the generalized L2s out there. But then you have something like Dy DX, which isn't deployed on the generalized l two s. It's its own l two, right. So that's the kind of analogy that I use here.
00:17:06.548 - 00:17:47.170, Speaker A: And, and I think, you know, Polygon optimism, Zksync and a few of the other generalized l two s out there are going to go down this path and essentially enable this for people to build on, enable it for developers to build on, which I think is very cool. So you can go check out the Polygamy Polygon chain development kit for yourself. I'll link all the information in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of ZK stuff, there is a new Etherscan explorer explorer for scroll for scrolls testnet. So this is basically etherscan's answer to explorer for scroll itself. Obviously, just testing it right now. But this is one of the final things, I guess, before we to go live, before we see Mainnet.
00:17:47.170 - 00:18:26.804, Speaker A: Obviously this has happened for pretty much all the l two s out there, so scrolls Mainnet shouldn't be too far away from now. I know a few months back I said that it was potentially coming in August, but I think that may have been delayed or pushed back since we're at the end of August and doesn't seem like they're going to be launching mainnet anytime soon. But it could be coming in the next few months. And I know that scroll is one of the hotly anticipated zkvms out there. We already have a few others live on Mainnet right now, but scroll definitely has a lot of hype behind it. And I definitely should disclose that I'm an investor in Scroll. I mean, it's funny, I'm an investor in all these l two s, and I have to disclose it every time because I feel like I should, considering that I'm sort of shilling it here.
00:18:26.804 - 00:19:05.734, Speaker A: But I'm super excited for what scroll has been cooking, because as an investor I get unique insights into what they're building, what they're building, and I have close relationships, people who work there and it's nothing that you can't find publicly. It's not like I'm getting insider information or anything, but I basically get to get kind of like the inside look of essentially what's happening in the backend of what they're building. And the technology that they're building is very, very cool. So, yeah, definitely look forward to scrolls mainnet going live hopefully in the next few months. But great to see that etherscan put the block Explorer live here, which is called scroll scan. You can check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:19:05.734 - 00:19:39.214, Speaker A: All right, so Euler Labs is teasing a comeback story for Euler finance. So you guys will remember that Euler finance was unfortunately exploited for most, if not all, of its TVL back a few months ago. They did end up recovering a bunch of their TVL because the hacker returned the funds and then they returned it to people. I know there was a bit of drama around that originally, but I'm not going to go over the drama, but they are teasing a comeback here. So I guess this would be oil r finance 2.0 or something like that. So I'm definitely looking forward to seeing what they have cooking under the hood.
00:19:39.214 - 00:20:13.934, Speaker A: I know that people are going to be wary of putting money into their contracts just because they've already been exploited, and that's totally fair. I don't think anyone should be blamed for being weary here, and I think that people should let it bake for quite a while before putting money into really any contract, to be honest. I mean, personally, when I test out apps, it's with really small amounts of money. It's not like I'm putting my whole net worth into these things. And you know what? Even with eat staking, I was the same when I. So I set up one validator originally, when I originally deposited it before November 24, which was the final date to deposit. If you wanted to have a validator, go live at Genesis on December 1, 2020.
00:20:13.934 - 00:20:47.636, Speaker A: And then slowly, over time, I added more and more as I got more confident in it. I didn't just put all my money in it at once. And of course, now you guys know that most of my ETH is staked with, with both solo staking and rocket pool. And it actually took me a while to put money into rocket pool as well. So I'm very cautious, very conservative, and maybe I've missed out on gains by doing that. I mean, I've definitely missed out on gains by doing that, but I take the more conservative approach of, okay, I missed out on maybe this much gains, but I also saved myself from losing everything sort of thing in the potential worst case. So always good to keep that in mind when interacting with any contracts.
00:20:47.636 - 00:21:24.466, Speaker A: But I will understand if Euler Finance 2.0, I guess I can call it, will have a bit of a slower uptick just because people are more cautious since they. Since their original contracts were exploited, but still huge fans of the project. Obviously, you guys know I'm an investor in them, but I think they're building a bunch of really cool things, so I'm excited to see what they release when it's time to do so. All right, there is a brand new multi sig that has been announced today. So you guys know that the one and really only popular multisig in the ethereum ecosystem right now is the safe multisig from gnosis. And obviously, it's not great to just have one multisig.
00:21:24.466 - 00:21:46.330, Speaker A: There was another one back in the day, or the original one, the parody multisig, but that got exploited twice. Obviously. Once a multi sig has been exploited even once, it's pretty much dead. But second time, yeah, you're like. You're, like, more than dead. It's like you came back to life and you were killed again, basically. But no, there's a new one that's come out of the instadap ecosystem, and they're calling this the avocado multisig.
00:21:46.330 - 00:22:20.938, Speaker A: So they're advertising it as a secure and user friendly multisig, the ultimate solution for individuals, teams, and institutions alike. And you can see the nice little interface that they have going here for you and on all the description about exactly all the apps that they have and everything that they're supporting and their audits, of course. And you can go check that out for yourself. But I guess, like, the same stuff I was just talking about when it came to a general, generally putting money into smart contracts. Multi sig, same thing, guys. I mean, if anything in crypto is, like, the biggest honey pot for hackers and exploits, it is multi sigs. Besides bridges.
00:22:20.938 - 00:22:44.418, Speaker A: Bridges are a pretty big honey pot, but besides that, multi sigs, a huge honey pots, guys. Like, they're massive. And obviously, you need to wait a while for them to bake before you can even trust that they are secure. But there's always a risk with it. Now, I think with safe, with, I guess, like, nurse is safe. They've been around for quite a while now. I struggle to kind of, like, still trust these things.
00:22:44.418 - 00:23:27.930, Speaker A: I do have a lot of. A lot of addresses, a lot of multi sigs here and there. But multi sigs can be argued to be generally even more secure than hardware wallets because you can obviously set up multiple signers. So you can actually set up multiple hardware wallets as signers. So instead of, for example, splitting up your seed phrase with shamir secrets sharing or some other thing, you basically just split up your hardware wallets and then basically give those hardware wallets to different people. Now, of course, you run the risk of the hardware failing and then needing the seed phrases anyway, but it just adds another layer of security there, and it allows you to basically have better peace of mind. But the trade off is that, as I said, you need to wait for these new multi sigs to bake for a while before you can even trust them with money.
00:23:27.930 - 00:24:06.968, Speaker A: Because if they're exploited, that basically drains everything. And I actually do wonder sometimes that I think gnosis has like $100 billion in their multi sigs. If that was all exploited and stolen, would we have another, the Dow situation where the chain, the chain doesn't get rolled back, but we have another irregular state change where the entire theory comes together and says, well, okay, everyone is pretty much destroyed by this exploit. We need to reverse or at least like change this. This. What happened here? I honestly don't know. I said before that I think that in pretty much, like all cases, there would be no, I guess you could call it a bailout, whatever you want to call it.
00:24:06.968 - 00:24:48.900, Speaker A: But when it comes to something that is potentially systematic for the ecosystem, like a multi sig being exploited of significant size, then it becomes a different question, because essentially the community decides what the real Ethereum is. And if the community comes together and says, well, we need to reverse this or we need to change what happened here, because majority, the majority of the community is wrecked, then it makes a lot of sense in that. And that's what happened with the Dow, basically, because the majority of the community was wrecked, because they all put some sort of, some amount of ETH into the Dow. So that's what happened there. Obviously, it would be extremely messy. And I'm talking about something that has a very, very low chance of even happening. But at the same time, I wouldn't rely on that either.
00:24:48.900 - 00:25:23.510, Speaker A: Right. If you put money into these things and they get exploited, I definitely wouldn't rely on Ethereum social consensus saving you, because there is a chance that it doesn't as well, especially if it's a smaller scale thing, as we've seen in the past, there's been plenty of hacks and exploits on Ethereum and not one of them has been changed except the DAO. And that was so long ago now, and that was very early on in Ethereum's life. Ethereum was only one year old. It was only on live for one year at that point. When the Dow hack happened in 2016 or in 2023, it's been seven years since then. So, yeah, I think that when talking about that, you should, you should definitely consider all that.
00:25:23.510 - 00:25:49.260, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out at the avocado multi sig. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, just a shout out to Farcaster. Their daus have been going up only for a long time now. So daily active users have been going up only. They're exiting open, closed beta and entering the kind of like a public beta, I guess you could call it, very, very soon. I don't know exactly when that is, but it's going to be very soon here.
00:25:49.260 - 00:26:16.602, Speaker A: I don't have any invites left, so they disabled the invite. So please don't ask for an invite, you'll be disappointed since I have none left. But once it's open to the public, as I said, all new users will register and have to pay $5 a year, which as I discussed, I think yesterday or the day before. That's like a bargain. Honestly, guys like Firecaster is an awesome platform. I've been using it more and more lately. I've been enjoying using it as well, which is the main factor, of course, I've been using Warpcast as my main interface into it, but there are other ones out there that you can use as well.
00:26:16.602 - 00:26:47.834, Speaker A: But yeah, great to see that the DAU is, has been up only and I expect that to continue. Honestly, I could see far cast are potentially having hundreds of thousands of users daily active users relatively quickly once they open up publicly, especially in like a crypto bull market where we have all this influx of people that want to try out these, these new protocols. Yeah, so you can go check this out. Check it. Sorry, you can go check out Farcaster once it's open. But yeah, I've got no more invites left, unfortunately. But now, speaking of invites, you guys really got me to the top of the leaderboard here.
00:26:47.834 - 00:27:18.610, Speaker A: So besides the founder, Dan Romero of Farcaster, who sent out 3200 invites to users, I was number one by a long shot. I invited 146 people, all, I think, daily Gwei fans. So kudos to all of you who reached out for an invite here. But yeah, I invited 146 people to the Farcaster platform, which puts me at the top of the leaderboard besides the founder. And the second place was 96. So I was basically 50 invites ahead of a second place. And you can see it on the chart here.
00:27:18.610 - 00:27:40.340, Speaker A: I was just well and ahead in first place. But that's got really nothing to do with me. That's got to do with you guys. You guys being engaged on the platform, engaged on the, on watching the videos and reaching out to me and asking for an invite and then obviously redeeming it and getting on there. You won't have to pay $5 for the, I think the first year or something like that. Then you, then you'll pay that ongoing there. So you get that benefit as well.
00:27:40.340 - 00:28:05.344, Speaker A: And you're also an early pioneer and early user of a cool new, kind of like technology here with Farcaster. But, yeah, I do have to shout out and give you guys thanks here for, for this. I really appreciate you all. And, yeah, if there's any other stuff like this in the future where I have invites and stuff, I'll definitely be sure to shout that out on the refuel. All right. So I guess that's it for today. I'm going to go off and record a weekly roll up with Ryan, Sean Adams now for bankless.
00:28:05.344 - 00:28:13.256, Speaker A: I'm filling in for David again this week. He, I don't know what he's doing. I think he's at Burning man. Yeah. So he's not climbing mountains. He's like, at burning man. So I'm filling in for him with Ryan.
00:28:13.256 - 00:28:30.140, Speaker A: So that should keep you kind of, I guess, like tied over till Saturday because I think the weekly roll up will go out on Friday. But, yeah, just a reminder again, no refuel tomorrow and Friday. So Thursday and Friday, but I'll be doing one on Saturday to make up for it. So. Yeah. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet.
00:28:30.140 - 00:28:36.124, Speaker A: Give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Saturday. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
