00:00:00.120 - 00:00:53.212, Speaker A: Or attorney. My talk my name is Alyssia and I'm a software engineer at Espresso Systems. And today I'll be talking to you about the future of rollups. They will be interoperable performance and sovereign. So currently we have over 30 roll ups or scaling Ethereum and over 30 billion tvl across these roll ups and over 30 bridges trying to connect us together. But that means we can also say that there are over 30 sequences. So what exactly is the job of a roll up sequencer? So the sequencer takes the transactions that the user submits.
00:00:53.212 - 00:01:35.152, Speaker A: It selects them and orders them and sends them in a block on the roll up as well as the Ethereum network. So in order to understand how sequences work and why, we just started talking about sequences in L2 s let's walk through the transaction lifecycle on layer one. So a user submits the transaction, it enters the mempool and then the validator will select the transactions from this mempool in such a way to optimize revenue as well. So selecting the higher gas fees and priority fees and then submits that block. And then the other validators in the network will then verify this block based on the protocol rules. Finally, the validators agree and we can say that the blockchain state is final. So finality is a state that all blockchains try to get to.
00:01:35.152 - 00:02:08.154, Speaker A: And this is very important. So if we were to compare the transaction lifecycle in l two versus l one, we would see that the sequencer is doing what the validator does. So the validator selects and orders transactions and so does the sequencer. The sequencer also submits a batch of transactions to the L2 and also to the layer one. But the thing is, with the sequencer, even though we have the transaction submitted to the L2, we still have to wait for finality on l one. We still have to wait for those transactions to be confirmed on l one. So then you're thinking, okay, so L2 finality depends on layer one finality.
00:02:08.154 - 00:02:49.614, Speaker A: But L2 is meant to make transactions faster. So how does this work? So we have to now distinguish between preconfirmations and finality. How many of you have heard about pre confirmation before? Okay, cool, good. I'm glad it's not many of you because even for me, before working at Espresso, I never heard about it. But yet still we all interact with preconfirmations. When we submit a block to the blockchain, it takes about 15 minutes, twelve to 15 minutes on Ethereum for that block to be finalized however, when we're interacting with apps and metamask, we see that the transaction is confirmed within about two minutes. So therefore, what we get is not actual a final transaction, but a preconfirmation that this will definitely or eventually be finalized.
00:02:49.614 - 00:03:25.122, Speaker A: So similarly, in L2 s, when you're interacting with the L2, when the sequencer submits the block to the L2, you have a preconfirmation that this will eventually be finalized on l one. This is very important for the rest of the talk. So that's why I had to distinguish between the two. So today L2 s are isolated chains. And it makes sense in a way. Like the first time I had to use a L2, I had to bridge my assets from ethereum to the roll up. And that was really confusing to me because I'm like, why is it a separate network? I thought, I'm just meant to be using Ethereum, but faster.
00:03:25.122 - 00:03:55.854, Speaker A: So L2s actually have a completely isolated chain, which means they have a separate man pool, a separate sequencer. And that leads to some drawbacks, such as interoperability. We know that it's hard for us to communicate across these roll ups and we have slow bridging and centralized bridges as a result. And that is because the L2 chain, like, if we have two roll ups that want to communicate with each other, they can't do it directly. First, the transaction has to be submitted to l one. We have to wait for finality in l one, which takes about twelve to 15 minutes. And then the second roll up can read l one and then see.
00:03:55.854 - 00:04:30.438, Speaker A: Okay, I see. Now it's finalized, and then do some other action. So let's imagine that we now have a shared sequencer. Now we'll have one party that is able to verify transactions from multiple chains at the same time. So now we can say that I have a preconfirmation that something that happened in rollup one is also going to now affect something that happens in rollup two. So this can be very advantageous and we can start dealing with problems that we have around bridging and interoperability. And if you guys were here for the sequence to talk earlier, normally, if you have a shared sequencer, it tends to be a decentralized network, it tends to be a blockchain.
00:04:30.438 - 00:05:10.734, Speaker A: So therefore you can have more crypto economic security guarantees. The issue that we had, however, is that when we spoke to rollups and layer three s, they actually had an issue with sovereignty. They would still like to maintain sovereignty over their sequencer. So the solution that we came up with is the espresso marketplace, where essentially roll ups have the opportunity to sell sequencing rights on this marketplace. So it's a two sided marketplace. We have roll ups on one side, on the other side we have proposers, or we like to call them sequencers, and they're able to bid to sequence for one or many roll ups at the same time. Which means these roll ups will get many benefits, such as now they have value creation and capture.
00:05:10.734 - 00:05:36.074, Speaker A: So essentially we have a bunch of sequences that are bidding to sequence for one or many roll ups at the same time. These bids will now be given to the roll ups. Now they have a new revenue stream, and now they're able to attain sovereignty. They can choose when they would like their blocks to be sequenced. They may not want it to be sequenced by external parties every single time. Sometimes they may self sequence, sometimes they may not. They can also set a reserved price based on how much revenue they normally generate.
00:05:36.074 - 00:06:27.172, Speaker A: They can decide, you know what, I'm okay with having external sequences sequenced for my chain, but I know how much money I normally make when I sequence for myself. So if you are bidding to sequence for my chain, for the very least, give me this much. And we have interoperability increase, um, enhancements as well, like I described previously, because it is still a shared sequencer network. And due to decentralization, we now have this pre conformations. Because remember I said the sequencer gives you a pre conformation that you can now trust with a higher guarantee, because it's part, it came from a decentralized network versus a centralized sequence of pre conformation, which is what we're dealing with today. And fast finalities are not a concept you start hearing many blockchains, or not blockchains, but many protocols talk about as well. And that's essentially the idea that we can now trust these preconfirmations that we are getting from these sequences, because it comes from a decentralized network.
00:06:27.172 - 00:07:04.826, Speaker A: And this can be very useful for things like making bridging better and faster. So for example, at East Denver this year, we had our CEO, Ben. He showed a POC between a cross protocol espresso systems, showing that we were able to bridge in just 7 seconds. And two of those seconds was the fast finality achieved on the espresso hotshot finality layer. So, three things I want you to know about the future of rollups using espresso. The espresso marketplace will help rollups not only maximize value, but improve user experience, because they will not be able to attain things like atomic inclusion and atomic execution. Now this enhanced interoperability will become a non negotiable.
00:07:04.826 - 00:07:41.038, Speaker A: As users, we will get used to this concept and we will have more better bridging and faster bridging using the express, the fast finality gadget. And then finally, developers as well will want to build with roll ups who are interoperable or who make interoperable more easily. And they can take advantage of things like the fragmented liquidity, atomic execution, et cetera. So thank you so much for watching this lightning talk. And if you'd like to learn more about sequences and the espresso marketplace, check out espresso systems on Twitter. Myself and Melissa Tech, and also Verity, she's the head of partnerships. So if you're a roll up or a bridging protocol, definitely reach out.
00:07:41.038 - 00:07:50.314, Speaker A: Thank you. I don't have time for questions, but.
00:07:51.974 - 00:08:01.198, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe one question and yes, and then you'll definitely, I'm sure you'll be here to answer some curious questions later.
00:08:01.286 - 00:08:04.134, Speaker A: I think someone is saying no, no questions.
