00:00:00.240 - 00:00:18.790, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the led Way refuel, where I cap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is. I know it's the 2 April 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So it has been around 18 days since the den kun upgrade went live on the network. And as you guys know, it brought with it EIP 4844 or blobs.
00:00:18.790 - 00:00:47.160, Speaker A: Now, because it's been 18 days, it means the first blobs are expiring today. So as you guys know, blobs are set to expire by default. So nodes around the network will be expiring these by default. I assume that the vast majority of nodes have not changed that default and will be expiring these blobs. Now, you guys will remember that just because these blobs are expiring doesn't mean they are lost forever. What this means is basically there is a pointer on chain for these blobs. Essentially, I mean, maybe pointer is the wrong term, but essentially they're still there, right? The.
00:00:47.160 - 00:01:16.260, Speaker A: The commitment is still there. The blobs were there once upon a time. We're just expiring the corresponding data. Now. Why I say it's optional is because you can actually set a flag, or set a. It's a flag basically in your configuration file for your nodes that you're running as part of being a validator, being, you know, running a full node on the network that you can store the blobs past 18 days in for archival purposes. Now, you guys know, I am of course, storing my blobs for indefinitely, basically on my network attached storage devices.
00:01:16.260 - 00:01:51.728, Speaker A: I have about 100 terabytes of storage on that. That's going to be enough for many years to come, even as blob accounts and sizes increase there. And the cool thing about that is that restoring blobs is a one of n trust assumption. So what that means is that you only need one person to have the data for you to be able to kind of retrieve what the data was at that point in time. So let's say you want to go back and unpack the data from like two years ago. Once blobs have been out for two years. And let's say that 100 people stored this data, but 99 of those people's data got corrupted, is inaccessible for another for whatever reason.
00:01:51.728 - 00:02:35.650, Speaker A: And then there's only one person that has the data. That's fine, because that one person can just go send it to everyone else and that they can now store it and they've got cryptographic proof that that data corresponds to the pointer on chain because of the, the hash that's basically on chain because of the state root commitment. At least from my understanding, that's, that's how it works. Maybe getting some of the terminology mixed up here, but doing it on the fly, it can be quite difficult sometimes. But that's kind of how it works. And that's the coolest thing about blobs by far, to me, is the fact that we get to basically get this extra scalability without putting extra burden on, on full nodes because they get to expire it if they want to. And then people can just store it, whether they be hobbyists like myself or service providers like a lot of other, a lot of companies out there such as Etherscan and you know, and others out there, they can store it.
00:02:35.650 - 00:03:09.804, Speaker A: And then, as I said, it's a one of n trust assumptions. You only need one, you know, one of them to be kind of available. It's I guess like one of n trust assumption, but also a one of n liveness assumption too, where essentially you don't need, you know, 100 different, different kind of people to hold it. You only need one person to hold it in the world. And you have cryptographic proof that what they have, the data that they have has not been tampered with, has not been altered in any way. And it's exactly what was put on Ethereum when it originally was on Ethereum l one, before it was expired. And that's why we, you know, refer to Ethereum as a root of trust, because ethereum is the root of trust for that blob.
00:03:09.804 - 00:03:48.796, Speaker A: So that to me is the really cool thing about blobs. Blobs are cool for a number of reasons, but that is probably the coolest for me. But I saw this cast on, on forecaster from Zero x Rob here with a nice little chart showing that what it looks like in terms of like blob storage and showing what blobs have expired, what blobs have been posted and then a simulation of what this kind of looks like. Yes, and blobs that are expiring. So you can go check this out link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean you can see here that he's basically simulated out in the light shade of green and the light shade of, I guess what's the color here? Maroon or something like that. Light shade of that and simulated out two weeks from, from today.
00:03:48.796 - 00:04:06.892, Speaker A: And that's showing you what the, what it's going to look like. So because not a lot of blobs were used initially for the first kind of ten days of Denkun. There wasn't, we weren't, we weren't at the kind of target. Blobs weren't at three and six. We were basically below that. But since then it has uptick. That's why you see, since like March 26, 7th ish, it's gone up.
00:04:06.892 - 00:04:35.840, Speaker A: And then you can see here that that corresponds to what blobs are going to expire. And basically that will go up, you know, as that comes into view, as that rolling 18 days comes into view there. So just a really, really cool chart here. So kudos to Xerox, Rob, for putting this out there. It's from Doon analytics, I believe. And then you can see he's also got a thread here with a bunch of other information and also keeping track of who's storing the blob. So he kind of cast it out here saying that myself and Tony here are storing the blobs as personal providers.
00:04:35.840 - 00:05:10.246, Speaker A: And then you've got a bunch of data providers such as blobscan, dune block, native rated covalent, and I believe etherscans in there as well, all storing the blobs. So, yeah, I mean, we have a lot of redundancy here, but at the same time, as I said, like, you don't, in the worst case scenario, you don't need that redundancy. You only need one person to have the data. And as long as it, obviously, as long as that data hasn't been altered or anything, it's going to match what's on the ethereum. L1, no matter how far back you go. And that's the real powerful thing about blobs here, and everything could be recreated there. So I'm sure there's lots of hobbyists out there that are probably storing the blobs right now.
00:05:10.246 - 00:05:50.570, Speaker A: They're not too heavy to store. I believe that based on, I guess, storage Xerox, Rob tweeted out saying that nodes currently hold around 25 gig of blob data. This number will continue to rise and reach a Mac of max of 50 gig in about two weeks. So essentially, like when we're at the max blob accounts, because blobs are obviously a target of three, a max of six. Once we reach that and have that consistently being reached, essentially, I think the most a node will hold for that 18 day period is an extra 50 gig. So if you kind of extrapolate that out and then you say, okay, well, if you're not expiring the blobs and you're just storing them long term, what's that going to look like? Well, you know, 18 days. I mean, I have to do the math here.
00:05:50.570 - 00:06:19.806, Speaker A: 365 divided by 18, you got like 20 slots there times 50 gig will give you a terabyte, essentially. Yeah. I mean, I could have done that in my head, actually. So, yeah, an extra terabyte or so of data to store. And as I just said, I have 100 terabytes of NAS storage. So if the blob size and count remain the same as it is today, which it won't, but if it remained the same as it is today, I could store these things continuously for 100 years without upgrading anything. And obviously, you know, you can add more storage over time, and there's going to be advancements in that over time as well.
00:06:19.806 - 00:06:53.650, Speaker A: Uh, um, but I'm storing them on hard drives as well, so it's very, very cheap to do this. I think that the provide data providers would be storing them on solid state drives because if you want to, um, essentially service them, if you want to basically have a service running where people can go there and instantly look up what's. What's a part of those blobs, it would need to be done on solid state drives because hard drives would just be too slow here. But for archival, archival purposes, when you're not actively serving it to a network or serving it to people, then you can store it on hard drives. And that's what I'm doing here because it's just being stored on there long term. I'm just doing it as a hobbyist. I'm not trying to monetize it or trying to set up any service for it or anything like that.
00:06:53.650 - 00:07:26.714, Speaker A: I just thought it was something cool to do there. But, yeah, I guess going forward, guys, we're going to be expiring blobs pretty much like every, every epoch now, which is really cool. I think that, you know, this really shows that the blob expiry is working as well. You know, that was something that I guess was we needed to see kind of tested on Mainnet, and it's working just fine. People are either storing it or not. And, yeah, that's the way it's going to be going forward there. All right, so there's been a lot of chat about layer threes lately, and I know, I remember, I think I said this like a year ago or a little, you know, maybe, maybe like ten months ago or something like that.
00:07:26.714 - 00:07:51.304, Speaker A: I remember saying that the ethereum ecosystem, if we use the term layer threes. We're going to be made fun of. And of course we've been made fun of. Everyone's like, why do we need layer threes? We haven't even finished L2s yet. Or layer threes just sounds stupid. What about layer fours and layer fives and so on and so forth? Like, that was obvious to me that would happen because people just make fun of L2s anyway, for whatever reason. But, but the reason I'm bringing it up today is because Vitalik actually put out a post about one and a half years ago on layer threes.
00:07:51.304 - 00:08:42.164, Speaker A: And he says here, the summary is that layer threes don't magically improve throughput even more, though they can reduce some fixed costs of batch publishing and deposits and withdrawals. So the blog post that he published in September of 2022, two days after the merge, actually here was titled what kind of layer threes make sense? So you can go give this a read for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But there seems to be two camps right now where there are people that are very much like against layer threes, two camps within, like the L2 or roll up kind of ecosystem. So there are people in teams that are very much against layer threes and feel like that they're redundant or are basically a failure of L2s to scale, essentially, and that more work should be put into L2s rather than going to layer threes. And then there are teams that are basically all in on layer threes and saying, you know, this is a growth vertical for specific use cases. We think that we should be putting effort into this, so on and so forth.
00:08:42.164 - 00:09:13.136, Speaker A: Now, I think that in terms of the most vocal teams, I would say that the polygon team seems to be very much against layer threes, or maybe just they don't see the point of them or they don't see the value in them. And the arbitrum team definitely sees the value in them and is pushing it quite hard as part of like, the arbitram orbit ecosystem. And they're not just pushing it within the arbitram ecosystem. You can run l three s on other l two s. So for example, Dgen chain is an l three using arbitrum orbit, but it's run on base. So it settles down to base, and then base settles down, obviously, to ethereum l one there. And base is built on the op stack.
00:09:13.136 - 00:09:45.188, Speaker A: So this is really the definition of modularity, guys, essentially, where you can like, pick and choose which parts you want to use. And in this case, you know, Degen chain is even using off chain da. So they're using any trust da, which is arbitrum's off chain da, or the arbitrary ecosystem's off chain da. They're using orbit, which is the layer three tech that arbitrum has developed there or that off chain labs has developed there. And then they're settling down to base, which is built on op stack, but base is built at Coinbase. And then the data is being posted to l one ethereum of base. And then obviously l one ethereum is built by all of us.
00:09:45.188 - 00:10:28.242, Speaker A: So you can see kind of the way the modularity works here. And some people will look at this and be like, oh my God, there's so many extra trust assumptions here. You know, there's so many points of centralization so on and so forth. But that is really the whole point, isn't it, is that we can actually explore this whole design space and we can basically make things that makes sense being, you know, semi centralized or makes sense being not like super decentralized. And I discussed this late yesterday, so I'm not going to rehash my points around that there. But that really is, I guess, the discussion right now about like, you know, are layer threes actually, you know, worth it? Is there a point to layer threes? Is there value in it? Or essentially, does. Does it mean, you know, does it mean nothing? Does it, is it going to fizzle out? Is it a fad sort of thing? So we're going to see more and more discussion about that as time goes on.
00:10:28.242 - 00:10:51.144, Speaker A: But I definitely recommend going and reading Vitalik's post. It is a year and a half old now, but I think it's still relevant. I just skimmed through it before. I didn't have time to read the whole thing, but it definitely seems to be quite relevant still. So, yeah, you should definitely go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so obviously, as we have all seen over the last 24, 48 hours, the crypto prices have not looked too good.
00:10:51.144 - 00:11:06.038, Speaker A: They're down a bit. And honestly, this is just short term noise. I think. I think the market got way overheated with like the meme coin stuff and the meme coin speculation and everyone talking about, oh my God, you know, it's up only super cycle. It's all about the meme coins. Meme coins are gonna go up forever. Whatever, whatever.
00:11:06.038 - 00:12:00.062, Speaker A: I'm not gonna comment on that in particular, but that prompted me to kind of put out this cast today where I said, you know, crypto prices may be down, but L2 activity just hit another all time high. And as you can see here, this is the l two beat activity page, where they're showing that the scaling factor of l two s right now is at 11.02 x, which is an all time high. And it's even higher than that really kind of crazy spike we saw with inscriptions, as you can see in the chart in front of me here. And guys like this is obvious to anyone paying attention that L2 is just having a moment, so to speak, like they're just absolutely killing it right now, very much led by base, I think, you know, base is having its own moment with meme coins and nfts and far caster and stuff like that. But arbitrum is also just continuing to grow, right? Arbitrum has been one of the strongest growing l two s for quite a while now, and they're continuing to grow in a really big way. And you can actually see here that on the chart, essentially, that ethereum l one TPS, or.
00:12:00.062 - 00:12:39.084, Speaker A: Yeah, TPS basically is flat, and that's because ethereum l one, we haven't increased the gas limit or anything like that yet, even though there has been discussion about this, we haven't actually increased the gas limit yet. So the TPS is quite flat here. And that's by design, because essentially what we've done is we've basically said, okay, well, ethereum l one's, you know, through port and TPS is going to be low. And the only way we really increase it is via the gas limit, at least for the foreseeable future. But on l two s, they also have a concept of gas limit, but there are many different Altus, which, you know, you combine them together and you get these TPS here. So essentially, I think that the TPS is at about, like, what, 150 tps across all these l two s right now. And this is an average over the last kind of seven days.
00:12:39.084 - 00:13:03.076, Speaker A: This isn't counting the, I guess, outliers. It's definitely averaged out here, but that's really cool. But you guys know that I don't think TPS is like a huge signal in terms of a metric. I mean, you guys know, I don't really think any metrics are good within crypto. They can all be gamed in some way. But what I like to look at is trends. And as you can see here, the trend of l two s, even before this recent spike that happened over the last, I guess you could say, couple of months, it was up, right? It was up only, essentially.
00:13:03.076 - 00:13:26.846, Speaker A: And this is not a cumulative chart. This is a chart that can go down. As you can see, there are some periods where it went down a little bit, but over the longer term it has gone up. And that's exactly what we want to see. We want to see the capacity of these l two s continuing to increase over time. And that means that their scaling factors increase over time. And I guess, speaking of capacity, this is a perfect segue into the other thing I wanted to talk about, which was that base increased their gas target to five mega gas per second today, as promised.
00:13:26.846 - 00:14:12.350, Speaker A: So once again, they've increased the, I guess, the capacity of the base network by around 50%, which means that fees declined very quickly here and they're expecting them to stabilize, as Jesse Pollack cast it out here. So you can see chart that I showed the other day in, you know, the different lines here, the blue line being the gas limit going up again. Then you've got the purple line being the used gas and the base fee, which is the yellow line going down. As soon as they kind of increase the gas here. Now I will expect this yellow line to go up again because of the fact that, I mean, we haven't, you know, the concept of induced demand here. But it's good to see that we, you know, as I said last time when base did this just a few days ago, it's really, really good to see that they're able to very kind of like easily do this while remaining stable. And they're not doing it in a cowboy way.
00:14:12.350 - 00:14:52.196, Speaker A: You know, 100% increase is not really that, that much of a, you know, an increase in the grand scheme of things, especially because they were already being very conservative with their gas limit here. And as Jesse reiterates in his cast bases, long term goal is to achieve one giga gas per second, which is a 400 x from here. And I think that they will achieve that honestly. And I know that there's going to be not just a gas limit that goes into this, but there's going to be a lot of improvement on the EVM side just generally. And there are projects working on this that are going to benefit these evm L two s. So for example, Monad, even though it's a layer one, they're going to benefit the entire EVM ecosystem. And then you have mega ETH, which is doing basically what Monad's doing, but at L2 as well, that's going to benefit the ethereum ecosystem.
00:14:52.196 - 00:15:29.880, Speaker A: Then you got the L2s themselves going to be improving it. And arbitrage is doing their stylus thing, which is going to increase scalability because they're dropping costs across different aspects, such as compute and individual kind of costs that are tied to the execution side of things. So it's all happening in parallel, guys. And this is again, the magic of the L2 roll up centric roadmap, is that we have all of these innovations, all these, all of these developments happening in parallel. No need to go through the ethereum l one governance process. And yes, there's a trade off here of the fact that these l two s, you know, are centralized and they have to go through stages to get to stage two, where they essentially become, you know, quite decentralized. But at the end of the day, that's a trade off, I think, worth taking.
00:15:29.880 - 00:16:15.286, Speaker A: You know, we need to scale, but we're not going to be able to scale, you know, quickly through layer one because of the fact that layer one has a slow process, slow governance process. And we actually realized that that's why we put blobs into the network, because we essentially said, well, let's, you know, let's put blobs into the network view, let's future proof them and then let's make it so that we can add das to them, you know, data availability, sampling and sharding as well to that. And that way we can keep increasing the scalability at layer one, even with the slow governance process, while the L2s can keep increasing their own scalability on the execution, execution side. So this really is that holy grail that I've been talking about for years when it comes to Altoos, when it comes to scalability on Ethereum. And we are finally realizing that over, especially over the past few weeks since blobs went live. So I'm super excited to see all that playing out there. But you can go check out all of that.
00:16:15.286 - 00:16:46.338, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of blobs, I think I've got a couple more things to talk about with regards to L2s, and then I'll move on. But speaking of blobs, so because there's been a lot of demand for L2s lately, blob prices have started going up. Now, I covered this, I believe, yesterday by showing Hill Dobby's blob dashboard, where you can basically see the inscriptions taking up a lot of capacity on here. So it's not just l two s, it's also inscriptions. But obviously l two s are contributing to it as well. And I'm going to bring up Hill Dobby's dashboard so I can illustrate this to, to you guys.
00:16:46.338 - 00:17:13.862, Speaker A: You can see here blobs posted over the past five days is what Hill Dobby's dashboard tracks around. Half of the blobs being posted belong to l two s, and the other half is inscriptions. And it's actually been quite crazy how, I guess, how stable inscriptions has been, because I actually am not seeing anyone talk about inscriptions at all. But they're there. They're taking up a lot of capacity right now with blobs. And you can actually see that inscriptions are the single biggest user of blobs right now. The second is base, of course, because they're seeing the most activity.
00:17:13.862 - 00:17:32.896, Speaker A: But then you have Linnea coming in as well here. Oh, wait, no, I should say. Sorry. Yeah, so I was sorting it here. You have linnea in the, in the blue here being a recent entrant you can see here. But then, yeah, it goes base, arbitrum, optimism, stock net. So basically, the more usage they see and how they post blobs will dictate their blob usage here.
00:17:32.896 - 00:18:08.404, Speaker A: But what I really wanted to kind of point out here is the fact that we're at capacity right now. We are, like, you can see on this chart, actually, here, we are at capacity in terms of blobs, in terms of the, the target of three with a, with a limit of six. And that has been true for, I guess, like at least a week now or something like that. And now because of that, it means that the gas prices go up for blob. For blobs, because of the fact that it follows a priority fee market. And as you can see on, on the, on the screenshot here, I took from the ultrasound money website, we have burned almost $2 million worth of ETH over the last seven days. And I think it's less than that over the last five days from just blobs alone.
00:18:08.404 - 00:18:42.992, Speaker A: This does not include the actual l one, you know, normal l one fee markets. Because if I go to ultrasound money and actually look at the normal l one fee market, you can actually see the difference here. It's quite a big difference stills. But if I go here and I look at the last, last seven days, we have burned 21,000 ETH, whereas for blobs, if you go and look at my screenshot, we've only burned 520 ETH. But still, it's, it's something, right? Like, it means that the demand is outstripping the supply for blobs already, as was pretty much expected by, like, pretty much everyone. And that's playing out in the fact that we're burning ETH because of this. Now, inscriptions are basically helping us, uh, to burn Ethiopia.
00:18:42.992 - 00:19:15.008, Speaker A: But, you know, that's absolutely, that's actually crazy. The difference between blobs and the normal fee market, I mean, 21,000 compared to 500 ethya. But, you know, over time, you would expect those things to get closer and closer. But also, the gas limit of l one is not going to be increased at the same rate of the, the blobs at l two. Right, where essentially the blob size and the count can go like two x in the next hard fork, for example. Whereas the gas limit, I would struggle to think it would go two x by the next hard fork. Maybe we do that 33% increase that some people were advocating for, but a double.
00:19:15.008 - 00:19:41.592, Speaker A: Yeah, I don't know about that. I think that that would be a tall order, that's for sure there. But anyway, just wanted to highlight that one for you guys there. And the last thing on the l two front is Peter here tweeted out that base cleared 7000 transactions a minute at one point, which was over 100 tps. That's crazy, guys. The fact that, like, base is already doing over 100 tps alone here, which is just, just insane. And that's simply because of the fact that they're increasing capacity.
00:19:41.592 - 00:20:10.056, Speaker A: And every time they increase capacity, it gets filled up. People are hungry, guys. Like, the demand is there when you reduce the fees, demand comes in. And this is the cat and mouse game that I keep going on about is when it comes to scalability and the fact that we have base to basically stress test all of this stuff. And then arbitrum as well. On arbitrum, one is doing a lot of activity, too, and the other l two s are continuing to grow as well. Like, we're just stress testing everything here, like, from blobs to the execution side of the l two s to how much tps we can do across all l two s collectively with blobs.
00:20:10.056 - 00:20:49.438, Speaker A: So it's really, really great to see that. But as I said before, you know, TPS isn't, you know, the be all, end all. It's not the holy grail, really, to me. The holy grail is, at the end of the day, just what the users being able to do transactions on these networks in a cheap way and being able to do them with kind of deep liquidity as well, like, if they want to do defi stuff on all of these l two s, they should be able to do them with, you know, deep enough liquidity for them to do it. There should be all the apps that they want to use on there. And that's just the short to medium term problem, I think, because as I discussed, I think last week about the AG layer and shared sequences, those seem like a way we're going to be able to solve a lot of these issues around fragmentation at the protocol level. I've said that we can solve a lot of the fragmentation issues at the UX level, the wallet ux level.
00:20:49.438 - 00:21:31.460, Speaker A: But if we can do it at the protocol level first, and the wallet Ux level only has to do a little bit of extra work to abstract it away even more, then we get to like more of, I guess, like perfect solution here. So I think, yeah, that's only a short to maybe medium term issue there. But I'm getting more and more confident as time goes on that the AG layer, which is being built by Polygon, but is being built as a credibly neutral thing, it's being built as a public good. It's not supposed to be just for Polygon chains. It's meant to be for like everyone. So there's the AG layer and then the shared sequences, which I think that the winning shared sequencer will probably be an AV's. So an Eigen layer AV's, which means that it will be secured by Ethereum's crypto economic security, which means that you will have more guarantees around liveness as well, because ethereum node operators will be running them.
00:21:31.460 - 00:22:22.370, Speaker A: So you'll have liveness guarantees, essentially resistant guarantees, and you can probably plug them into the same mev boost or PBS pipeline that we're going to have in the end state of Ethereum L1 there. And then on top of that, we also have based sequencing on or base boosted sequencing that Tyco is very involved in, and then pre comps as well, which Justin Drake has talked about a lot. There is so many things happening across every kind of area you can think of right now, guys, when it comes to scaling Ethereum and everything in between there. So just great to see all that happening there. But you can go check out this chart from Peter, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, I've left a bit of time because I wanted to talk a little bit about something that John Wang put this tweet out where he said the stuff that people talked about two to four years ago, such as L2s, ERP 4844, account, abstraction, t bills, all actually got implemented. This is a reminder that it's not all talk.
00:22:22.370 - 00:23:02.626, Speaker A: Shit actually happens. And I quote, tweeted this, and I said, one of the most rewarding things for me as an educator is talking about awesome things that are coming to Ethereum years in advance and then seeing them delivered on Mainnet. The Ethereum roadmap is the most robust one in crypto by far, and will continue to be delivered on. So, you guys know, if you've listened to the refuel from like, day one, I mean, I'm sure there's a few of you out there. I'm not sure how many people listened since day one. But you will know that I've talked about, like, all of these things at length for years in advance, like multiple times, and I'm talking about things today years in advance. And as I said in my tweet, like, it's incredibly rewarding for me to be able to talk about this stuff for you guys and then see it materialize eventually on the network.
00:23:02.626 - 00:23:37.918, Speaker A: And the only reason why I have so much confidence that it will materialize is because I have a lot of confidence in the Ethereum's ecosystem's ability to ship the Ethereum roadmap, not just the layer one roadmap, but the respective L2 roadmaps and everything in between. I have no reason to doubt the ability of the Ethereum ecosystem to ship. And I. This is my main thesis for the Ethereum ecosystem, and by an extension, for the ETH as an asset, is that the Ethereum attracts the best and brightest minds, and it continues to do so. It is the ultimate nerd. I know there are other ecosystems out there that have smart people working on them. I'm not trying to deride them or, you know, bring them down or anything like that.
00:23:37.918 - 00:24:03.564, Speaker A: But when it comes to just like, what is the epicenter of crypto? It's Ethereum. All the innovation happens on Ethereum. All the things that are, that, that get traction on other chains started on Ethereum. Ethereum is the breeding ground of innovation for the entire ecosystem. It births the, you know, the kind of biggest deal. Things like, for example, with recently with restaking with Eigen layer that is in the Ethereum ecosystem. Guys like Defi is in the Ethereum ecosystem, like L2s.
00:24:03.564 - 00:24:27.926, Speaker A: Bitcoin tried to do it with lightning, network failed, and then Ethereum did it and successfully delivered on it. And we basically invented roll ups, you know, on top of plasma as kind of like a successful successor to plasma. And then all the, and then the ZK stuff, it's all happening on Ethereum. Like, I could keep going on for ages about this, but it's all happening on Ethereum. But in terms of, like, the Ethereum l one roadmap itself for the core protocol. I mean, this is the latest updated version. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:27.926 - 00:25:01.490, Speaker A: But I look at each of these items and I don't look at these as moonshots. I look at these as really well defined roadmap items that have active research happening on them that don't seem to have, at least most of them don't seem to have any real blockers on them in terms of getting them shipped on Mainnet. And then you've got a lot of things that have already been shipped on Mainnet or are close to shipping on Mainnet here. Even things underneath the splurge where you can see that basically the splurge is a stretch goal. Essentially. We're like, okay, well, the items in the splurge, you know, they're nice to have, but they're not critical. We're still delivering on them.
00:25:01.490 - 00:25:23.936, Speaker A: And Vitalik defined AIP 1559 as one of the things in the splurge and we delivered that. And then you've got things like EOF, which seems to be delivered in, you know, it's going to be delivered in Pektra. We've got VDF's in end game 1559. Like those things are still being researched and worked on. Maybe they don't make it in eventually, but they're there. Right, but then you have all the other roadmap items here and we see them all. 48, 44 was, was implemented.
00:25:23.936 - 00:25:45.286, Speaker A: I mean, Vitalik hasn't updated this yet, but it's been implemented. And then peer Das, it's being worked on. We, we have a design for it. We know that we can probably get it in to a hard fork, you know, relatively soon. Same with like full dank sharding as well, the mev stuff. We're doing inclusion lists, right? We're doing epbs. All that stuff's being worked on like very, in a very detailed and kind of like hardcore way.
00:25:45.286 - 00:26:12.336, Speaker A: Same with the verge with vertical trees. We have testnets for that, right? The purge state expiry stuff. Like all of this stuff is just being worked on in parallel across the ecosystem. And this is what I'm betting on. Like this whole roadmap just basically encapsulates my entire thesis for the Ethereum ecosystem is that we can deliver on pretty much not. Maybe not every single one of these items, but pretty much like most of these items, the important ones, at least the critical ones, that we need to get into the Ethereum layer one network. And this is only the Ethereum layer one roadmap.
00:26:12.336 - 00:26:43.092, Speaker A: This is not counting all the L2 roadmaps. This is not counting all the other research happening outside of Ethereum. L1 on things like, as I mentioned, shared sequencing, restaking right things within deFi, all that sorts of stuff. It's all happening on Ethereum. And I have no doubt that Ethereum is going to continue to be the epicenter of all that innovation and continue to be the epicenter of all that growth and those cambrian explosions that we see. And I have no doubt that all the other ecosystems will continue to copy Ethereum, because Ethereum is that breeding ground. Ethereum is that infinite garden, and, and ETH sits at the center of that as well.
00:26:43.092 - 00:27:11.604, Speaker A: So I have no doubt that it's going to keep accruing value based on that over the longer term. And when I say longer term, guys, like I'm talking, you know, decades here. Like, this is not a short term game at all. I've always had a decades long mindset for Ethereum, and it may sound like a long time, but at the end of the day, like, we all know how time works. By the time, you know, a decade passes from now, we'll be like, oh, where did the decade go? Right? Like we always do that, do that at the end of the year where we're like, oh, my God. Can't believe it's like 2024 already when it was New Year's last year. And then by the end of this year, we're going to be like, oh my God, it's already 2025.
00:27:11.604 - 00:27:50.982, Speaker A: Where did the year go? Is because our perception of time, especially as adults, is quite warped, right? It's not something we really think about. We don't actively think about time passing. We don't actively, like, log every minute of our lives. You know, some crazy people may keep, like, journals, like very, very detailed journals, but most of us don't do that. So time is just like this abstract thing that we don't really think about. And then when we do think about it, it becomes this thing of, oh, my God. Like so much time has passed and it's kind of the human condition, right? But outside of that, it's a bit philosophical for this discussion right now, in terms of Ethereum's roadmap here, I would say that to get most of this roadmap completed from, from here, it's probably another six to eight years, I would say, which is fine because that includes the stretch goals as well.
00:27:50.982 - 00:28:23.774, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that this isn't the only thing that we're going to be doing. Like there's still going to be other things added to Ethereum here as we discover them. There's still going to be other things that we want to do and are far into the future. But over time, changes to the layer one protocol will slow down once we've delivered the major things. Layer twos will definitely be the, you know, the main hub, the main epicenter. Layer one will be kind of will maybe transition into something like a maintenance mode where clients, you know, teams optimize their clients, where if there's any bugs on main net, we fix those. Maybe we do like an upgrade every two years or something because it's, you know, it's something that we want to get into the network, but it's not a rush to get in.
00:28:23.774 - 00:28:45.842, Speaker A: So that's kind of how I envision these things playing out over time there. But anyway, enough of me ranting about that. That has actually been a quite a bullish episode today. I didn't mean for it to be bullish. And I think that the sound is probably low on my voice yet because I just see it coming up on my obs here. The recording tool that I use that it's a little bit low, so apologies for that during the video. You probably just have to put your volume up.
00:28:45.842 - 00:28:57.474, Speaker A: I'll have it fixed for tomorrow's episode, but I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
