00:00:00.360 - 00:00:34.890, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 8 October 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So something that Brantley put out today on Twitter, he put a, put an interesting tweet, throw it out here that I just wanted to go over today. He basically starts this tweet off with something noobs need to understand is that Ethereum is actually delivering on the priest's 2016 promises of bitcoin. Then he goes on to say programmable money, smart contracts, NFts, etcetera. All of these concepts were widely discussed in bitcoin circles for years, with a few attempts but little progress.
00:00:34.890 - 00:01:06.166, Speaker A: That's why Vitalik made Ethereum to try another way to do it. And it has succeeded, obviously, right, this idea that bitcoin is just digital gold, in quotes, got going circa 2016, relatively late during the block size limit wars. Previous to that, bitcoin was programmable money. With all the ideas that are now actually happening with Ethereum, the pre 2016 bitcoin community arguably has more in common today with Ethereum than bitcoin. So a little bit of, I guess, like a fun story here. I was actually into bitcoin in 2013. That was my first kind of like foray into crypto.
00:01:06.166 - 00:01:32.726, Speaker A: I think it was maybe April 2013 or something like that. Around that time, I remember, you know, shortly after I got into it, Silk Road got shut down and then kind of like the bubble started and it went up to like over $1,000 bitcoin back then. Then it crashed due to the Mt. Gox drama. But back then, the community was very, very different to what it is today. There was the bitcoin community, there was no talk about digital gold or anything like that. There was no, you know, crazy maxis on Twitter and stuff like that.
00:01:32.726 - 00:01:59.936, Speaker A: There was, there was none of that. It was literally pretty much like the Ethereum community today. There was open discussions of all these really cool ideas of really cool things that you could do with bitcoin and what you could do with smart contracts, all these sorts of stuff. Um, and, you know, there were, there were a few forks and stuff that were kind of trying to do things that couldn't be done on bitcoin. But like people said, okay, well, you know, let's just try them on these forks. And then once the technology proved itself out, we'll just kind of like put it into bitcoin. And then I got out of bitcoin, like 2014.
00:01:59.936 - 00:02:23.080, Speaker A: Once the market crashed, I just, you know, left the crypto ecosystem. Stupid mistake on my part, but I did. And then when I came back in early 2017 and I discovered Ethereum, the bitcoin community was very different to what I remembered it as. I didn't find myself aligning with kind of most of that community. You know, bitcoin, maxis were kind of pretty much a thing at that point. And it was just like super, super weird for me. And I saw Ethereum and I'm like, holy shit.
00:02:23.080 - 00:03:08.932, Speaker A: Like, this is amazing. Like, where Ethereum is doing all this really cool stuff with smart contracts and all these kind of ideas about like, decentralized social media and stuff like that. Obviously, a lot of it was early, but they were openly being discussed in the Ethereum community was incredibly inviting. And then throughout 2017, you had, I guess, like the block size wars, right? They started in 2016, I think, as well. But the block size wars are basically this kind of like, warring factions within the bitcoin community where, you know, one faction wanted bigger blocks, so they wanted to kind of remove the 1 mb hard kind of cap on the blocks, make it at least two megabytes and I think up to four, ideally, to basically scale bitcoin's base layer. And then was the other camp who said, no, no, what we have, we have to keep it at 1 mb. We're going to scale via lightning network and L2s and all this sort of stuff.
00:03:08.932 - 00:03:50.220, Speaker A: And those kind of camp split off when the bitcoin cash fork happened. Right? And the funny thing is, is that the bitcoin cash people, a lot of them I see in the Ethereum community today, bitcoin cash is obviously fizzled out. There's not really anything going on there. But I think that's because they basically just, the people kind of like, migrated to Ethereum. That community migrated to Ethereum because they kind of like shared the same set of values and they shared the same kind of views at the, at the end of the day there. So, yeah, I mean, I just went, when I saw this tweet from Brantley today, I was like, this just had my kind of like, drug my memory. And, you know, I remember going back to old Bitcoin talk forum posts, like really early ones, like, I'm talking like, even 2011, 2012, where even Satoshi was talking about things that Ethereum is doing today.
00:03:50.220 - 00:04:32.713, Speaker A: And it's just amazing to me how I guess, like the bit, you know, what the bitcoin community turned into, which is essentially, I mean, I don't even know what the bitcoin community really like holistically is these days. There seems to be a bunch of, you know, different warring factions between them. There's obviously the bitcoin maximalist, but then there's the people who say, oh, the maximus don't represent bitcoin. Then you've got like the kind of like more, I guess, like libertarian bitcoiners who are not necessarily maximalist, but they're like very hardcore bitcoin. Um, and, you know, they say, oh, nothing can usurp bitcoin. Nothing's better than bitcoin, but they don't think that every other project's a scam. And, you know, then you have people in there that are still trying to fight the good fight and trying to kind of, I guess, like bring more features to bitcoin and build more stuff on bitcoin.
00:04:32.713 - 00:05:28.272, Speaker A: Well, and, you know, they're also involved in the Ethereum community as well, from what I've noticed. But you know, all the innovation, all the kind of like experimentation, all the really cool things are happening on Ethereum. I mean, I don't have to tell you guys, you guys follow along with the refuel every day, you know exactly what's happening, but it's just amazing, kind of like how communities can shift. And that's actually been one of my biggest fears for Ethereum over the years, is like, can we keep the community as good as it was when I first got into it? Like, can we keep a decentralized community that just keeps growing over time? Open, decentralized, kind of like retain the same values and ethos and mission? I think we have to this point, which has actually surprised me because as communities get larger, they become harder to scale. And I'm going to talk about that in a sec. And, you know, at that point, you kind of have like sub communities that form, and there already are sub communities within Ethereum. Obviously, you have like people that are really interested in Defi or people that are really just interested in nfts and.
00:05:28.272 - 00:06:14.170, Speaker A: Yeah, and then you have people who are just like really interested in Ethereum itself. And each of these cams may or may not care about Ethereum's core values or mission or ethos, but I think that the overwhelming majority of ethereums basically care about what at least what I think is the most important thing with Ethereum is how open it is. Ethereum being open permission, you know, decentralized, allowing anyone to build whatever they want on it, allowing anyone to use it in any which way they want, and no one, no one kind of like imposes kind of like any technical limitations on that. I think that is kind of like the core of what, what Ethereum is. And because of that, you have all these communities blossoming. But I know plenty of people who like Defi, but hate nfts and vice versa, which, you know, might seem bizarre, but that's just the way it kind of plays out there. And I know plenty of people that don't.
00:06:14.170 - 00:06:55.170, Speaker A: They don't necessarily agree with the way Ethereum is scaling. They think that Ethereum should scale at the base layer instead of violet twos. They're not big communities, they're small communities, and they have good arguments and bad arguments too, at least subjectively, in my opinion. But still, it's, you know, the community is never going to be like all kind of like, like a hive mind, for example, in any kind of like, form. There is never going to be 100% agreements on things. People are going to be, you know, fighting, debating all this sort of stuff. I mean, look at even EIP 1559, I still see people talking about it today, trying to get, I guess, like FUDd it and say, oh, 1559 was the reason gas prices went up when it has been, you know, irrefutably proven that it's, that wasn't the reason, but people will still go on about it, and that's fine.
00:06:55.170 - 00:07:20.614, Speaker A: People can keep saying that. But for me, I just look at the hard facts and I look at the truth behind things. But I don't think, you know, generally, when you're trying to scale a community, I don't think you're going to be able to keep everyone, like, in sync, to be honest. Right. We can keep the blockchain in sync, we can keep nodes in sync and in consensus, but doing that with humans is pretty much impossible, so. But yeah, I guess, like, thanks to Brantley for triggering my kind of like, brain today with this. It was an interesting kind of thing to think about.
00:07:20.614 - 00:07:50.276, Speaker A: And obviously, you know, I shared it with you guys on the refuel. And yeah, I'm just really glad Ethereum is in the position that it is in today with regards to kind of like its use cases. All right, so this is a tweet that I put out yesterday, and I also wrote yesterday's newsletter about it where I said, ethereum is a mega city and ETH is its native currency. It scales vertically with L2s. It scales horizontally with sharding. It scales socially with decentralization. And bringing this all together scales, ethereums mega city to the world and beyond.
00:07:50.276 - 00:08:30.398, Speaker A: Now, by beyond, I mean to space. Like Ethereum will be in space eventually, right? I think there is already an Ethereum node running in space, or at least in the atmosphere, with, with what is it, our space chain or something like that. I think you can google it and find, find some more information on that. But what I wanted to focus on here, because I've already talked about scaling a lot lately, is scaling socially with decentralization. And because I was obviously just talking about how communities get bigger, it becomes very hard to scale them and to keep them in sync and all those sorts of things. But on the flip side of it, I think that Ethereum scales its social layout. So basically the people layout, the layer zero that we talk about, that I talk about sometimes in the refuel, and you hear bankless talk about it a lot.
00:08:30.398 - 00:09:39.872, Speaker A: But basically that, that kind of like final layer, that is, I guess, like the bedrock of, uh, this entire ecosystem or the entire ethereum ecosystem. Because if the technical stuff fails us, we have to fall back to the social layer. Like if there is a critical bug within the, um, within the Ethereum kind of chain and clients flat, a consensus, which we've seen happen before, the social layer kicks in and kind of like repairs the damage. Now, how do you scale that? Right? How do you scale kind of like the social layer to millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people? And I argue that you do that with decentralization, because if you don't have decentralization and you're trying to scale a social layer, what ends up happening is that you have a top down approach where the centralized entities at the top, whether that be kind of like one person, a group of people, or kind of like a company or something, will set the ethos, mission, goals and everything for everyone else underneath the kind of like the top there, whereas Ethereum is the opposite of that. Ethereum is a bottoms up approach. It doesn't, it doesn't kind of like, impose any laws on people, doesn't impose any kind of restrictions, doesn't tell people what they should or shouldn't do. It forms its kind of like ethos and its mission as a collective, as a kind of like social collective.
00:09:39.872 - 00:10:39.364, Speaker A: And that by doing so, it leads itself to decentralization, because there is no dictator at the top saying that, okay, well, to be involved in this community, you have to do this, this and this. It's the other way around, where everyone says, okay, well, I want to be involved in this community, but I want to do it my way, there's, there's no one telling you exactly how to do it. And Ethereum allows you to do that because Ethereum is an expressive and permissionless platform. So when you take that kind of view, I think it really shows the strength of Ethereum's kind of like social scalability, which I think is the most important thing. Technical scalability, as I mentioned yesterday to you need two things for decentralization, technical and social decentralization. You can't have just one and expect your kind of like, network to grow to kind of like, essentially grow to like, worldwide scale, because you can be technically decentralized. But then if there's no social layout, when something goes wrong, technically, well, who you gonna fall back to? Well, you fall back to this decentralized social layer at the end of the day, right? So it might just be like a foundation that has all the core devs within it.
00:10:39.364 - 00:11:18.042, Speaker A: Um, and I, you know, I explained this yesterday, so I won't rehash it now, but I think it's just something that is just not discussed enough. The fact that ethereum social layer, at least right now, is so good that we could actually defend against these sorts of things. You know, we have a, have a kind of like culture of running full nodes and, and monitoring the network and making sure that we build things right. Like we, instead of kind of like sacrificing decentralization at the base layer to achieve scale, technical scale, we will scale vertically with L2s and horizontally with sharding involved. We're retaining decentralization and security. And one thing I forgot to mention in this tweet, actually, is how ethereum scales its culture. And it scales its culture via nfTs.
00:11:18.042 - 00:11:44.570, Speaker A: NFTs are cultural objects. They come in many different flavors and forms. Anyone can create an NFt. Anyone can attribute value to an NFT. Any community can form around any NFT. Like, it doesn't matter, it's all subjective. But that's how we scale Ethereum's culture to the world, because we basically say, well, you know, if you want to get to know Ethereum culture, if you want to be involved with Ethereum culture, well, these are our cultural items, right? Our cultural totems as kind of like, I think David Hoffman refers to these things as.
00:11:44.570 - 00:12:08.850, Speaker A: And these things come in the form of like a crypto punk, right, or a Fidenza or an art blocks or something like that. That is Ethereum's culture. It kind of expressing itself. And there's plenty of other nfts out there. I'm just naming a few of them, of course. And, you know, if you have your favorite NFT, well, you just show someone that you go, okay, this is like my favorite NfT because of this, this and this. You know, I have mine on display behind me on the, on the mural thing here right now it's displaying kit as kind of like block explorer piece.
00:12:08.850 - 00:12:43.756, Speaker A: And I have the ERP 1559 NFT and I have a bunch of other ones that are ethereum lore and I love those kind of nfTs. So that's, and I know people who have come over to my house, I've showed them this. I've been like, you know, this is basically kind of like what this is and what this means and stuff like that. And they think it's cool, right? That's kind of like how we scale Ethereum's culture to the world. So, yeah, that's just one thing that I missed here. But still, I think it's like pretty interesting to think about these things because scaling is not just the technical side, it's also the social side and definitely something that needs more discussion. But I'm going to leave it at that because there's some merge updates get through now.
00:12:43.756 - 00:13:18.504, Speaker A: I think this is the last day or second last day of the merge interoperability event, but Ben Edgington kind of like screenshotted the milestone tracker here and milestone four seems to be going really well, if you remember that. Milestone four is the, I think, many to many kind of like testnets or it's even updated again. So these are all the clients that have able to kind of like do the merge and kind of stay in sync with each other. And milestone four was the many to many interop. So two or more ETH one and ETH two clients interoperating with each other. And then m five, milestone five will probably get some updates on tomorrow. And that's the all to all persistent devnets.
00:13:18.504 - 00:13:47.866, Speaker A: So already execution layer, consensus layer, ETH one and ETH two layer clients will be staying in sync and doing the merge together. So I mean, there's a bunch of other merge screenshots here, which I'll link in the YouTube description. And also Adrian Sutton put together a video demo. So Ethereum merge local testnet demo. It's about a ten minute video and he goes through and explains exactly what's happening in it, which I thought was really, really cool. There's a few other screenshots here. Basically Besu and Lighthouse have, have kind of like done the merge and staying in sync.
00:13:47.866 - 00:14:20.440, Speaker A: You have, what is it? Geth plus Taku and Basu plus taku doing it as well. So again, like ETH one and ETH two clients or execution layer and consensus layer clients. Sages put out an update of Besu and Lodestar running together in M four. And I mean, and then Adrian put another tweet where he said, now we're getting serious. Gethsemane, Besu, taeku, Geth Lighthouse and Besu Lighthouse all running the full merge transition and staying in sync and finalizing the chain. Validators shared evenly across all four. This is actually pretty insane.
00:14:20.440 - 00:14:55.480, Speaker A: And to give you some context here, they're not just doing the merge transition, they're staying in sync and also finalizing the chain, which is exactly what we want to see because in proof of stake with the beacon chain, we have finalization every twelve minutes and justification happens every six minutes. Every epoch or epic. You need two epics to get the chain finalized. So the fact that this is happening is really, really cool. And then you have the validators shared evenly across all four as well. So the funny thing is, I've talked about kind of like client diversity before. If only we had validity shared evenly across all the clients on Mainnet, that'd be really cool and be a really, really awesome, healthy network.
00:14:55.480 - 00:15:17.140, Speaker A: Obviously on these devnets you can do this very easily. You don't have to rely on anything. It's just like totally centralized, of course. But yeah, I mean, as Adrian said, we're getting serious now and we're going to see what happens with milestone five, either probably tomorrow or the day after. And then after that. I've been, I've been saying like the test nets are coming and things like that. I'm not sure how when the test nets are going to come.
00:15:17.140 - 00:15:51.328, Speaker A: It could come like this month, it could come next month. And I don't know how they're going to, how long they're going to last. Like we could have a three month test, never could have a six month test net with. It just depends on what the core researchers, researchers and engineers want to see. Like do they want to see this thing running smoothly for three months before attempting it on main net? I err on the side of let's take longer to do it, let's make sure everyone feels comfortable about it. Because I mean, the merge on Mainnet, as I've discussed before, it is the biggest upgrade in Ethereum's history. It is, you know, it's, it's kind of like a very unique thing where no network of Ethereum scale has done this before.
00:15:51.328 - 00:16:17.786, Speaker A: There have been other networks that have changed their consensus mechanisms. I actually think Cardano, Cardano did it back in the day a few years ago when they were, like, very, very smart. I mean, in terms of, like, economic activity, they're still kind of, like, small, the actual network. But a theorem itself, I mean, it's a 400 plus billion dollar network. It is. And that's just the ETH one network. Then you have the ETH two network, which has, like, a bunch of ETH securing the beacon chain, tens of billions of dollars worth.
00:16:17.786 - 00:16:43.566, Speaker A: You have all this economic activity, economic activity happening. You have all of these stakeholders within the ecosystem as well, all these things connecting into it, bridging in and out of it. This can't go wrong. Like, I. I can't emphasize enough how, like, I don't know. I mean, I think we could recover from something going wrong here, like, if for some reason we had to roll it back. But I can't emphasize enough how disastrous that would be and how many different stakeholders would get affected by this.
00:16:43.566 - 00:17:21.410, Speaker A: People may lose money if this goes wrong. Like, seriously, it's a nightmare scenario if something screws up here. And maybe I'm. Maybe I'm being too kind of like a harsh about that, but, like, I don't know. I've run through this scenario in my head many times because people keep asking me, it's like, hey, you know, if this actually breaks and if something goes wrong, you know, what's the worst case scenario? Well, the worst case scenario is the fact that, like, everything breaks. And I don't think that, you know, I don't necessarily think that will happen because I think leading up to the merge, what's going to end up happening is that things like exchanges are going to pause the positive withdrawals just like they do for normal hard forks. The bridges may pause things if they're centralized bridges and stuff like that.
00:17:21.410 - 00:17:49.948, Speaker A: The L2s may pause things. There's going to be a, you know, a bit of centralization there, but there's going to be a lot of bridges and L2s and other things that can't actually be paused, and we'll just keep continuing on. And, you know, it's just, I don't know. Like, I really do think that the risks of this happening are very, very low, like a catastrophic event. But the problem becomes is that if it does happen, then we need to have a plan in place for how we recover from it. And I don't think there's a plan yet. I think there's bits and bobs in different places.
00:17:49.948 - 00:18:33.614, Speaker A: But in terms of like, a concrete plan, I don't think it exists just yet, but it will, of course. But in saying that, we obviously just want it to go smoothly and that's it, we don't want anything else kind of like breaking there. And maybe I'm wrong in saying that everything will break if this goes wrong. I'm not, you know, 100% across the technicals and what could go wrong? What, what can't go wrong? All that sorts of stuff. But, you know, just taking a kind of like, high level view here. If there's a bug where the, kind of like the blocks can't get processed, well, then the ethereum chain basically halts and it just stays in place. Now, what does that mean for the rest of the ecosystem? Well, it, it's not very good, depending on how long it's down for, because what ends up happening is that, let's say the ETH price deviates 20%, let's say the ETH price dumps 20% while the network's down.
00:18:33.614 - 00:19:05.508, Speaker A: Well, then once the network comes back up, there's going to be all these defi positions that may have to be liquidated, right, based on, I guess, like the old price and, and, you know, they may not get liquidated. And there's going to be a lot of stuff going on with amm pools. There's a lot of stuff that can go wrong. And I, you know, I talked about this when Solana went offline for 18 hours, how they kind of like, was saved by the fact that the price stayed around, that stayed around, the same kind of like price it was when it went down and when it went back up. But in ethics case, yeah, it'd be interesting to see what happens there. But yeah, we'll have to keep monitoring this. I'll keep you guys updated.
00:19:05.508 - 00:19:27.136, Speaker A: If, if I do see any documents covering like what's the worst case scenario and like, what do we do in this scenario? But I think that we want to obviously avoid that at all costs and actually think that the chance, the risk of that happening is extremely low. But yeah. Great to see more updates around the merge here. This will all be linked in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. So, optimism. Have their new website live now.
00:19:27.136 - 00:19:49.694, Speaker A: I think I discussed this a few weeks ago that they were teasing that they were going live with a new website. So you can now use it to browse the dapps that alive the bridges and tooling supported within the optimistic ethereum ecosystem. So you can see on your screen here, the new website, it looks awesome. I love this website. Like, I mean, this is like a really, really clean site. You can see here the bridge is front and center deposit now. So it'll take you to the bridge page, the gateway page, which is their bridge page.
00:19:49.694 - 00:20:08.814, Speaker A: It gives you some quick stats here. Then you can see which apps are supported. Right now, uniswap, Synthetix, Lyra, Rubicon, Quinta, and one inch are currently supported. I think maybe there's more supported. Yeah, okay. Those are kind of like the star apps. And then you have, like, the tooling and stuff like that, like metamask and Coinbase wallet and the bridges and all that sort of stuff.
00:20:08.814 - 00:20:24.944, Speaker A: And Zappa support. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That makes sense. Definitely. There's. This is obviously going to just keep growing over time. And you scroll down, you can kind of, like, see an introduction, how it works, documentation, frequently asked questions, and kind of, like, more information about optimism, a Twitter feed, all that good stuff there.
00:20:24.944 - 00:20:57.110, Speaker A: So really, really cool to see this website refreshed and live. I mean, I love this because, you know, as techies, people, team, people kind of, like, sometimes think, well, you know, we're tech focused. We don't need to have, like, a really nice flashy website when in reality, I mean, it doesn't have to be flashy, but you want to have, like, a modern website where people kind of go there and they can trust that you got, you know, you kind of know what you're doing. I remember a few weeks ago when Arbitrum launched their bridge site, it was like, super basic, didn't have any styling to it, really at all. People kind of looked at it and like, oh, God, this looks like a scam site. Like, there. It looks like it looks dodgy.
00:20:57.110 - 00:21:09.432, Speaker A: And that is just kind of like the subjective trust that people kind of put on these things. So. And obviously, it wasn't dodgy. Like, it was. It was all fine, but. But once arbitrary updated their bridge website, it looked a lot better. And people stopped complaining about it, of course.
00:21:09.432 - 00:21:38.164, Speaker A: So I just. Yeah, same goes for, like, any kind of, like, I guess, crypto based tool. You know, you definitely want the website to look good, and it doesn't mean that, like, it's trustworthy just because the website looks good, but it does add an extra layer of trust for the legit projects that maybe otherwise wouldn't be there. So, yeah, cool to see this update from optimism here. So, Mahalo. The co founder of Polygon put out a really exciting tweet where he said, I'm on a regular weekly call with our ZK teams or zero knowledge teams. Thrilled to see all the great people who are with us now and all the exciting stuff that are in the works.
00:21:38.164 - 00:22:11.552, Speaker A: Can't wait to share more soon. I mean, the thing is, is like, I'm so excited for what all these teams are cooking right now, like, all these scaling teams, because you may think that what they've deployed so far is like, what we're kind of like, going to have for a little while. I don't think so. I think we're going to, you know, see these kind of things evolve much faster than, than we expect. And especially on the zero knowledge front, which people thought was going to take years. We saw the other day, Starkware announced that Starknet's going live in November in an alpha capacity on main net. And then on top of that, you have, like, Polygon working on ZK staff.
00:22:11.552 - 00:22:52.414, Speaker A: ZK sync, of course, with their ZK Porter and Zksync 2.0. I'm sure arbitrary and optimism are looking at this sort of stuff as well. And there's just so much. I mean, and scroll tech, which is another team, there's just so much research and development going into this sort of stuff. So when I see tweets like this, I get so excited because, I mean, as an advisor to Polygon, I know how hard these guys are working. I know how close they are to these teams and how hard they're working on zero knowledge tech, because even the Polygon team knows that the POS chain that they have right now, it has a lot of great adoption, but it is not the end game they really want and believe that ZK technology, zero knowledge technology, ZK roll ups, all that sort of stuff is kind of like the, the current endgame. It could, there could be something else in the future, but that is what we need to work towards, and that's what they're doing.
00:22:52.414 - 00:23:09.626, Speaker A: They're working really hard towards it. They're not just sitting on their hands saying, okay, well, you know, we have this pos chain. It's cool, it's growing. Let's just leave it at that. We'll kind of like, take a break now. No, I mean, honestly, I haven't seen a team. I mean, there's a lot of teams that work hard, but, like, the Polygon team, they've been going at it for years at this point.
00:23:09.626 - 00:23:27.906, Speaker A: I mean, we know a matic network and stuff like that. Like, really, it's just a great team and they work really, really hard. I'm not trying to shield them too hard here. But honestly, like, as I said, I'm close to them because I'm an advisor. I talk to them a lot. They just work, like, all the time, essentially, because they really want to scale ethereum to the world. And, I mean, I can't blame them.
00:23:27.906 - 00:24:14.784, Speaker A: So do, I mean, I do the same thing as them. I mean, I don't work for, like, a company or, like, I don't, I'm not a, you know, founder of a company or whatever, but I spend all my time in the Ethereum crypto ecosystem as well, and I'm trying to educate all of you by spending time doing that. So, yeah, just an exciting tweet from, from Mahalo here that I kind of, like, just wanted to give some extra color to. So, Adrian Furia, hopefully I said that your, your last name right there, Feria, I think Adriano put out a tweet, kind of like, referencing this article where a german company has announced they will be using Ethereum to facilitate automobile financing. The system will also handle payment modalities, calculations, fees, and all important credit scoring. Ethereum is the backbone of a new era of finance, is what he kind of, like, tweeted this out with. As I said the other day, we're going to see more and more of these corporates and enterprises adopting Ethereum.
00:24:14.784 - 00:24:42.134, Speaker A: This is no surprise to me at this point. I saw this, I was like, yep, just another check mark on Ethereum's kind of enterprise adoption here. Uh, there, there's going to be much more of these coming out, much more of these not just doing kind of like, I guess, trials or experimentation, but actual kind of like full end to end products and experiences and kind of like production kind of, um, uh, kind of things. With Ethereum now, I don't know if they're using kind of like L2. I doubt so. I doubt it. I think they'd be using layer one here.
00:24:42.134 - 00:25:27.638, Speaker A: Maybe they don't care too much about the fees, but I think, you know, as time goes on, more and more of these enterprises will start to look into L2. I mean, they're very new to the ecosystem, a lot of them. So imagine trying to explain to them, oh, well, yes, you can use a theory, but then you can use these other things that kind of like a built on Ethereum, but fees are cheaper. Like, and, you know, maybe don't even use the L2 terminology, right? Like, you just basically say to them, oh, you can use arbitrary, and they'll be like, oh, what's arbitrary? Well, you know, you still get ethereum security, but, like, you get cheaper fees sort of thing. So I'm sure those conversations happen. But, you know, we really have to think of ways to explain it probably more simply because it's kind of like, can get complicated pretty quickly. I don't even know if I'd be able to explain it very simply for people because I tend to get ahead of myself and just like ramble on for hours about these things.
00:25:27.638 - 00:25:59.878, Speaker A: Like imagine, like, I'm just imagining myself explaining Ethereum and its L2 ecosystem to kind of like a completely new person. I would probably inundate them with things. Like, I remember doing it actually once a few months ago. I was describing the difference between proof of work and proof of stake to someone. And then I caught myself at the end of the conversation talking about like, the triple harvesting and how I think that, like, the 90% reduction in each issuance is going to lead to ETH going to this, this price and such and such. And, and then I, and then I rambled on about like, deflationary ETH and ultrasound money. It was actually quite funny.
00:25:59.878 - 00:26:31.198, Speaker A: And then I just looked at the person, they were interested in what I was saying, but I looked at them and I'm just like, oh my God, like, this person knows absolutely nothing about Ethereum. And I just gave them like the whole kind of like, bull case. And they probably don't have any understanding of what I'm talking about outside of the words that I'm kind of like telling them. So, yeah, I'm not sure how I would explain these things in simple terms. And the refuel or the daily way generally is more of like, for the advanced Ethereum, it's not really for beginners, even though I tried to keep things as simple as possible. But, yeah, anyway, that's another tangent. See, I just go off on these tangents, right.
00:26:31.198 - 00:27:20.144, Speaker A: I'm gonna leave it at that for now. I'm gonna go through the rest of these updates really quickly. Another thing that I've been seeing lately, and I've discussed this on the refill before, but the total value locked, or TVL metric has become the very, very definition of Goodhart's law. And what Goodhart's law is, it's basically this law where when a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure. The total value locked as metric or measurement has become a target. Everyone wants to have their TVL go up in value, right? You want to see hundreds of millions of dollars or billions of dollars of TVL because it can be used as a very nice and kind of convenient marketing tool or narrative tool where you can say, especially all these l one s right now, where they do liquidity mining programs and they say, oh my God, this l one has $5 billion of TVL and this l one has x and x amount of TVL. But, but this l one's valuation is this, and this one's this.
00:27:20.144 - 00:27:47.558, Speaker A: That means this one is going to go up in price. So it's just all like being used to paint a narrative for different tokens. And that's fine, whatever. Like, I mean, I, you know, I remember ethereums when TVL was kind of like being used as a measure of defi growth. We were using it in similar way because we wanted to paint ethereum as like a, as like a legit platform, as like a growing platform. And we were hoping that would translate into the ETH price going up. But that was, I mean, that was back when TVL was just like, just started to come onto the scene where it actually was a good measure of things.
00:27:47.558 - 00:28:30.284, Speaker A: These days, it is a terrible measure because you have liquidity mining and you have a lot, you have a lot of liquidity mining. And we can see how quickly liquidity can kind of like move between different chains, whether they be l two s or l one s. So the better metric, and I wrote about this in one of my newsletters that you can find in the comment section here called temporary value locked. The better metrics to track are things like volume or trading volume for something like Uniswap, for example, or an Amm, loans originated, fees being generated by the protocol. TVL is just like such a naive measurement. And I also like the metric of unincentivized TVL. So that is TVL or capital that is not being incentivized to be kind of like, as part of.
00:28:30.284 - 00:29:02.016, Speaker A: To be there, essentially. And the index cop actually popularized this metric where essentially, I think 90% plus of the TVL of the index cop products are not incentivized by any token, kind of like liquidity mining programs. So what that means is that people are actually buying the products or kind of like investing in the products because it has value to them. It's product market fit. They're not just doing it so they can earn some token rewards or do some farming and then just dump the tokens and earn some money. That there's nothing wrong with, with people doing that. But the point is, is that we're trying to measure actual fundamental usage of these things.
00:29:02.016 - 00:29:21.140, Speaker A: And I just think TVL has become a complete garbage measurement of this sort of stuff. I don't look at TVL anymore. Whenever I see people pumping up TVL as a measurement on Twitter, inevitably they're just trying to pump a token. And as I said, that's fine. I have no issue with that. People were going to do that. But just as like a new, if you're a newer person to the ecosystem, just be wary of that.
00:29:21.140 - 00:29:41.992, Speaker A: If someone is shilling you a new coin or a new ecosystem every few days and trying to paint narratives with TVL and stuff like that, um, just be, just know that they're trading the momentum here. They're trading the narrative. They're not actually investing in these things long term. So I think that's one thing. Yeah, definitely the new people should be aware of. And you won't see me using TVL that much as a measurement of things. For the l two s.
00:29:41.992 - 00:30:13.558, Speaker A: I kind of have been a little bit lately because we don't have any great measurement metrics around l, two other metrics around l two s just yet. But also like, I've kind of like talked about optimism and arbitrums, uniswap volumes and things like that. And they've been actually quite large right now. But things get messy because like are those volumes high? Because there's other incentivizations going on, on the, on the same chain and there usually is. So it kind of becomes hard there. But as I said, I don't think um, liquidity mining is bad. I don't think that incentivizing, uh, uh, incentivizing people to come there with their capital is bad.
00:30:13.558 - 00:31:01.130, Speaker A: What I think is bad is trying to, trying to measure kind of like fundamental growth and long term sustainable growth by using the TVL metric. That's just, in my eyes, not the way to do it. Um, but yeah, anyway, moving on, um, Sina here from the Ethereum I think, foundation, uh, put out this kind of like post on Mirai describing this thing called zeitgeist. So what zeitgeist is, is basically a new program where they're coming together with a small group of talented teams building new projects on Ethereum and doing a collective sprint until the end of the year. So if you're a builder, you have until I think Sunday to get in touch with, with the team kind of behind this. You can go to this kind of like link here. It'll be linked in the YouTube description and you'll be kind of like working alongside a bunch of different developers to build out things that are going to kind of, I guess like help out the Ethereum ecosystem from October 18 to December 17.
00:31:01.130 - 00:31:18.762, Speaker A: So about two months there. So just wanted to give a shout out there. If you're a developer, definitely go check this out. Looks very interesting. I think, you know, if you want to build things within Ethereum at any kind of layout, whether it's apps or layer one stuff or L2 stuff, tooling, whatever, I'm, you know, I think this could be interesting to you. So definitely go check that out. Quick shout out here.
00:31:18.762 - 00:31:55.722, Speaker A: I know gas now is shutting down soon, or maybe has already shut down. And I've given a shout out to block natives gas estimator extension before, but if you're looking for a replacement, this is, this is great. I mean, the only thing I think block native is missing on their website, which actually has the gas estimator and website form as well. Well is the historical gas prices, which is what gas now had and which allowed you to kind of look at them and say, okay, well I can put my transaction in on this date because it's like off peak and I can get my transaction in for cheaper. I'm sure they're probably working on that or getting something like that. But right now, I mean, what you see on your screen is basically what you see on the extension. It'll give you kind of like the base fee, which is on the bottom left here.
00:31:55.722 - 00:32:24.824, Speaker A: It'll give you kind of, I guess like the max fee and the priority fee, like suggested max fee and priority fees. And it'll give you a probability of getting into the next block for most of the time under 1559, you don't have to worry about this sort of stuff. But for people who are just trying to compete with things like NFT drops and stuff like that, this is an invaluable tool. So definitely go check this out, download it. If you're using chrome, I think they also support kind of like other browsers here, maybe brave as well. Or firefox, I can't remember exactly, but they definitely support Chrome. I've got it installed, as you can see on my screen here.
00:32:24.824 - 00:33:00.924, Speaker A: And lastly, a really great, kind of like a tweet thread from AB Kothar pull here where he got kind of goes through all the kind of like Ethereum projects that are hiring interns and apprentices plus offering mentorship. So check out this thread. You know the Ethereum foundation is hiring though, those kind of people, nevermind Ethan or dow, trail of bitch, trail of, trail of bits, sorry, the securion and kind of like you can check out weekend Ethereum news for job listings as well. So I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check that out. But I think that is going to be it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching.
00:33:00.924 - 00:33:09.524, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
