00:00:00.680 - 00:00:20.670, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. Today I like to go over Defi kingdoms and their expansion to the avalanche ecosystem. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So we knew this was gonna be happening. Defi kingdoms, they mentioned that, you know, they want to be a cross chain, cross trade game. And they mentioned that they will be expanding to four EVM ecosystems, I believe. Right? So they have to be EVM.
00:00:20.670 - 00:00:44.256, Speaker A: Right? So avalanche was one of the most obvious bets, right? Low transaction fees, lots of hype, you know, avalanche rush. And then I believe the next three is going to be phantom matic and binance. Smart chain in no particular order. I mean, I'm just speculating, right? But it would kind of make sense for games. There has to be low transaction fees. So, you know, ethereum is definitely not an option. I don't think arbitrum optimism like Boba.
00:00:44.256 - 00:01:27.820, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think these ZK roll ups are ready yet. So phantom matic PSC makes sense. So I think every quarter they might be expanding. I'm not really sure on the timeline, but I mean, Crystalvale is coming in Q one and I'm going to assume that, you know, every quarter there's going to be expanding to new ecosystems and it'll be a cool one. So let's kind of first go over the Eva labs announcement of this expansion, right? So, you know, the avalanche land, I guess, is going to be called crystal Veil, right? So every EVM chain that they expand to, it's going to have their own name for the city, I guess. So defi kingdoms, it's gonna be Serendale on harmony, right? So crystal veil on avalanche, it's gonna have the snow theme. It makes sense.
00:01:27.820 - 00:02:02.472, Speaker A: You know, avalanche mountains, it's cold snow, whatever. And essentially the gameplay is gonna be exactly the same and there's gonna be new Gen zero heroes introduced. People are kind of worried about, you know, this new token called Crystal and these new gen zero heroes. Like, is it gonna dilute the value of Joule? Is it going to dilute the value of gen zero heroes on harmony? And to be honest, I'm not going to give a straight up answer like yes or no. I think the fundamental catalyst of cross chain expansion might outweigh. Right. And the incremental demand that's going to bring is going to outweigh whatever dilution is going to happen.
00:02:02.472 - 00:02:35.298, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, we can't predict the markets. And for me, I'm just really comfy forming my jewel. That's what I've been doing for months now, and that's kind of how I'm thinking about it. So no, jewel is the native token for Defi kingdoms, and crystal is navy and native token for Chris for Crystalvale. And they're going to try their best to not dilute the value of Joule, right. And actually accrue value to Joule. For example, if you want to form Crystal, you're going to have to take Joule that we've been forming and then stake it for crystal air drops.
00:02:35.298 - 00:03:15.176, Speaker A: So maybe this is going to create more demand for Joule because maybe, you know, someone that's super bullish on maybe like an avalanche, Maxi, right? That's kind of ignored Defi kingdoms because it's on harmony. They might be like, okay, I can finally play defi kingdoms. And, oh shoot, that means I have to buy jewel, right? So that might be happening. And there's gonna be other, other things as well. So, you know, you can earn crystal through single staking of Juul. And the tokenomics is gonna be the same, right? So the farming tokenomics, the 5% is unlocked, right? 95, 95% of your farm token gets locked, and then every week it gets the unlocked value increases by 2% every single week, right? Or every single epoch. So 5%, 7%, 9%, etcetera.
00:03:15.176 - 00:03:43.368, Speaker A: I mean, if you want to learn more about tokenomics, then, like, read the documentation and the heroes. It's gonna have new design, right? You know, they're wearing jackets because it's cold in avalanche land, crystal veil, whatever. So there's that. So you know me, I like to, you know, I like to troll on Twitter. Twitter, right? I like to wildlife some controversy. So I'm like, hey, like Luigi, you know, like, win avalanche rush rewards for Defi kingdoms, right? Because I think it would make sense. It's one of the most hyped up play to earn games.
00:03:43.368 - 00:04:18.370, Speaker A: Defi cross chain. I think it would make sense for avalanche rush or for Ava labs to incentivize, maybe providing liquidity, maybe a single sided staking crystal or something, right. I'm not really sure how it's gonna go, but I think it would make sense if, you know, they help Defi kingdoms out, right. I think one of the things that's really confusing me is that why harmony is not incentivizing Defi kingdoms. I feel like Defi Kingdoms is native to harmony or was native to harmony. And they really should be, you know, focusing their efforts on, you know, keeping, I guess, excitement and like, hype. Around Defi kingdoms on harmony.
00:04:18.370 - 00:04:55.452, Speaker A: Because without Defi kingdoms, what does Harmony have, right? They don't really have much. So, you know, I feel like Ava labs, they've done a pretty good job of, you know, creating hype right there. You know, they spend a lot of money marketing whatnot. And I in response to, you know, this tweet, you know, you got Luigi here with this gif. Now I don't really know how to interpret this, right? You got this kid who has a very, you know, he seems very tired of like, what's, like, what's happening? But he has a gun, he has a shotgun. And it's like maybe, you know, maybe Luigi is saying that like, they're locked and loaded, right? And they're ready to throw Avax rewards on Defi kingdoms. Or maybe he's just saying like, taiki, I'm tired of your shit.
00:04:55.452 - 00:05:26.136, Speaker A: Like, stop saying shit like this and I'm going to fucking kill you. Maybe that's what he means. But, you know, maybe it's a double meaning. Maybe it's a little bit of both, but it is what it is. And at the end of the day, if this does come, right, and even if this doesn't come, it's just like bullish for jewel holders, at least in my opinion. Because yes, sure, there might be some dilution, but the incremental value of expanding from harmony to avalanche is going to be super bullish because harmony has, I believe, like roughly $500 million in TVL. And like over half of that is going to, is in Defi kingdoms.
00:05:26.136 - 00:05:55.630, Speaker A: Whereas for avalanche there's, let me actually check. I think there's roughly like $14 billion in TvO. Actually, let's, let's double check here. Right? Like $13 billion in TvO. So there's actually going to be a lot of incremental demand. And, you know, if you're telling me that, you know, these avalanche maxis are going to be buying up the farm tokens that I've been farming for months, then there's only one thing that I can say. Alright, sorry, I had to make that joke.
00:05:55.630 - 00:06:28.726, Speaker A: I feel like, you know, I feel like I had to make that joke. Sorry. That might have encouraged. But let's go back into the more fundamental catalysts coming for Defi kingdoms. The tokenomics and how we can expect crystal and I guess those rewards to come when Defi kingdoms does expand in Q one. So this is a screenshot of one of the messages that I saw on discord from Frisky Fox, who's the founder of Defi Kingdoms. And he mentioned that the pools in Crystalvale is going to start with a quarter of the emission rates that Juul saw, right.
00:06:28.726 - 00:07:03.516, Speaker A: Because there is much less risk to invest in Crystalvale for a tried and true product than there was to invest early on in Serendale. Which makes sense, right. They don't really have to give out super inflationary rewards because Defi Kingdoms is a proven product. So this is from my private discord back in September 14. And I think I entered like the second week of launch or something. But just looking at the apRs, it was like roughly like 30,000% or something, or 24,000%. So you know, even if the emission rates are roughly a quarter that of Defi kingdoms, you can expect in the first week maybe 5000 to 10,000% APR, which is still good, right.
00:07:03.516 - 00:08:01.808, Speaker A: I mean most of those rewards are going to be locked. However, if you're bullish on the game then it would make sense that there's going to be a lot of hype and there's going to be a lot of TVL initially because I mean, I mean, TVL in September was like 20 million, right? I mean like Juul was like, not like there was like no fundamentals backing this. But you know, obviously if you want to be a farmer, you have to take on risk, even if you know, the, even if, like, even if you don't really see the fundamentals on day one. So one of the questions I've been receiving is, is this going to dilute, I guess, the power of Trader Joe, right? Or like is it, is it going to dilute the value of the Joe token because Defi Kingdoms is going to launch their own Dex. I don't really think so. I mean, of course some TVL is going to leave Joe and enter Defi kingdoms, right? That's inevitable. However, if you look at most of the farms on Defi kingdoms, they're paired with jewel, right? So they don't, I mean Trader Joe has like a bunch of farms, right? Incentivizing all sorts of pairs.
00:08:01.808 - 00:09:13.416, Speaker A: But Defi kingdoms, they only incentivize like jewel pairs, right? So if they, even if they do expand to crystal veil, I'm assuming that like, like maybe like 80% of the emissions is gonna be for like Crystal Avax, Crystal USDC, crystal BTC or something like that, right? So I feel like, I guess what I'm trying to say is that like it's not really gonna steal TVL from Trader Joe just because these aren't pools that Trader Joe has. In the first place. And of course, you know, if you scroll down, they're gonna, of course, have, you know, simple stuff, like one USDC, which might be like Avax USDC, and that's going to steal TVL, avax eat bitcoin, eat, et cetera. But no, generally, I wouldn't think that it's, you know, they're going to be stealing that much TVL, right? Maybe like 10% of the TVL from Trader Joe leaves for Defi kingdoms. But, you know, the goal of Defi kingdoms and their dex is to create this in game market, right? They're not really trying to be this $10 billion TVL with, like, a bunch of long tail assets. It's only going to be for, you know, like for Juul, right. They game currency and for other assets, like, you know, for the forging of fishing quests on certain day.
00:09:13.416 - 00:09:44.940, Speaker A: People are like, you know, fishing like fish and whatnot, right? So it's. It's essentially like an in game economy, and the Dex serves to serve that in game economy. So let's kind of go over this ama that frisky Fox had. I believe this is from the discord, and I was there for it. But, you know, this. This guy Sammich punch was quickly kind, fully shared this with the public and going over, you know, like, I guess, like a documentation of, like, what everything was said. So q one of 2022 and, yeah, so let's kind of go over what I've highlighted.
00:09:44.940 - 00:10:30.396, Speaker A: So not a new token quarter of the supply of Joule. Each expansion will follow the same model. Supply of the power token will be quarter to supply of Joule. New lands, new quests, new gen zeros. And, you know, dilution isn't going to be that much. So, of course there's going to be dilution, but always, like, price is dependent on supply and demand, right? So, yes, supply might go up, but think about the incremental demand that comes from this cross chain expansion, right? I mean, Defi Kingdoms was able to succeed with such minimal TVL from Harmony, right? I mean, Harmony has what, like, $500 million in TVL, and they're so successful. Think about what happens if they expand it, you know, avalanche with $13 billion in TVL, right? So, yes, higher supply, but the incremental demand should outweigh the increase in supply, if that makes sense.
00:10:30.396 - 00:10:52.154, Speaker A: Okay. Everything we try to do is to increase the value of our current assets. And, you know, the team has a fat war chest of Juul, so, you know, they're not gonna like, you know, dilute it. Right. They're gonna look for ways to, you know, maintain or increase demand for Joule. And the, the cool thing about the game, gaming aspect, so I'm not really a gamer, so I haven't really play the game unfortunately. Right.
00:10:52.154 - 00:11:12.058, Speaker A: I don't even own a hero. I should, right. I mean, I gave away the one hero that I had, which is now worth like 50 grand. Right. But Crystalvale, it's going to be in the mountains. So, you know, the fish that you can fish in Sandale, that might have a lot more value in Crystalvale because crystalvale, you know, it's snowing there, right. So it's going to be hard to get fish.
00:11:12.058 - 00:11:42.412, Speaker A: So it's going to be like an international marketplace, which is kind of an interesting proposition, right. And no, it's gonna scroll down. So what is this? Yeah, so this airdropping crystal. Right. To pre existing holders. I think the team, like the team actually bootstrapped this product by themselves, right? Like they didn't, they don't have a vc, so I guess they pre minted some jewel for themselves, right. Because, you know, that's their incentive.
00:11:42.412 - 00:12:22.682, Speaker A: But, you know, they have enough money now, they have enough jewel now where they don't have to pre mint these tokens. And it's going to benefit current jewel holders because you can earn crystal through single staking jewel. And if you think about the price, I believe before the announcement the price was roughly at $7 and now it's up like roughly 20%. So I would say that the market has interpreted this expansion announcement to be bullish. Okay, so airdrops specifically towards current gen zero holders, right. So congrats to anyone that minted it in like mid September. What is this? And, you know, I believe there are going to be some airdrops for extra holders, right.
00:12:22.682 - 00:12:36.386, Speaker A: So. And there's going to be arbitrage opportunities on avalanche just because there's not enough liquidity. Right. People are. Maybe, maybe bots can do that as well. Yeah. So anyone staking at least some extra will get some of the new tokens.
00:12:36.386 - 00:12:56.290, Speaker A: Tricky to work out, but, you know, just trying to maintain demand for holding Juul, which, you know, we like to see. We like to see. I think that's it for. Yeah, for this. And I'll be providing a link in the description for like this, you know, quick crystal veil faq just in case you have any questions. I mean, I already kind of went over a lot of things. I'm not going to spend too much time on this, but, you know, I would interpret this to be bullish.
00:12:56.290 - 00:13:29.320, Speaker A: I mean, yeah, defi kingdoms, it's one of my highest conviction forms. I've been saying that for, you know, for some time now. And, you know, just. Yes, you know, people are always worried about dilution, but, you know, you have to think about. Yes, you have to think about the incremental demand, right? Like, if Defi kingdoms expand to avalanche, it expands to phantom, it expands to Polygon, right? Or, like, BSc think about the incremental demand that's going to bring to the game. And, you know, I think Defi Kingdoms has a lot of the bull market narratives going for them. They're cross chain play to earn games.
00:13:29.320 - 00:13:52.026, Speaker A: NfT defi, you know, I just think that it makes sense. And as long as this bull market is, you know, is still alive, I would expect this to do well. And like I mentioned, you know, I think people still underestimate the Defi kingdoms farm. Just look at these farms, right? I mean, these farms are still good. If you want Avax exposure, maybe you just farm it up at this yield. At these yields. BNB exposure.
00:13:52.026 - 00:14:08.560, Speaker A: Farm it up here. One exposure here, like phantom exposure down here, right? I mean, there's so many ways, like, so many different ways to farm on Joule form with Defi kingdom. Is Luna right? I mean, Luna is doing really well, right? I'm super, super bullish. Luna Eid doing really well, et cetera. So thank you guys for watching and have fun farming out there.
