00:00:00.240 - 00:00:37.078, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where we cut the latest news, the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is Sino, 30 November 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today's episode, we have a handy little guide here from Samsung, who is a very, I guess, like, infamous person within the Ethereum and crypto ecosystems. He's a security researcher, but his post today is all about how to secure your Twitter account. So he shared this by captioning it on Twitter with if you're reading this, then you have 15 minutes to follow this simple guide and protect you or your protocol's Twitter account from being hacked. Because it is really hard to get a stolen Twitter account back unless you're literally Vitalik.
00:00:37.078 - 00:01:22.430, Speaker A: And this has been a common thing, I think, not just within crypto, but within Twitter or I guess like x and you know, generally, especially since Elon took over, where their support staff seem to be a skeleton crew. And if you lose your Twitter account in a hack or anything like that, it is really, really difficult to get it back unless you're potentially like a big account. Like, if you're a smaller account, it's just going to be near and possible to get it back. So how do you prevent this from happening? Well, you follow this handy little guide that Samsung has put together all about how to basically secure your account. Now, I'll link the guide in the YouTube description below, but basically, I guess the biggest thing is just get rid of your phone number. Like remove your phone number completely from Twitter, and this guy tells you how to do that. Because that is the, that is where these kind of like hackers and scammers usually get people.
00:01:22.430 - 00:02:15.790, Speaker A: They do a port of the phone number. And if you're using the phone number as two factor authentication or as a password recovery mechanism, then because they've done like a sim swap of your, your phone number, they've got access to those codes, and then they get access to your Twitter account, not to mention anything else that has your phone number attached as two Fa. I think generally you should remove your phone number as two FA from everything important. I mean, you can leave it for some things if you want to, but generally for, from as much as you can, you should just remove it and use a different authentication kind of method for that, like an on defy on device authentication method, like Google Authenticator or something like that. Because using a phone number for two Fa, as we've seen countless times before, is very bad from a security perspective. Because it's unfortunately way too easy to, to sim swap people. And that doesn't seem to be, to be something that would be changed anytime soon because of the fact that it doesn't seem like phone carriers or carriers generally care about that sorts of stuff.
00:02:15.790 - 00:03:20.872, Speaker A: So that's, that's kind of like the first thing there. But then there are other things like revoking access from unnecessary apps, revoking access or logging out of sessions on old devices, all that sorts of stuff, and obviously changing your password, things like that. But yeah, you can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And even if you think that you've got like everything sorted just through this guide at least once, just to make sure and check all the relevant things on your own Twitter account, because I actually thought that I was completely secure because I don't use SMS, two fa for basically anything. But I went on Twitter after Vitalik got hacked, right, or got kind of exploited there, and I saw that my phone number was still being used as a recovery mechanism for my account, which means that if someone was to sim swap me at the time, I've since removed it, of course, but at the time, they could have gotten access to my Twitter account through that, which is just insane to me, that that was there and just buried there and it's still there, even though I had removed it from the two fa thing. And you know, Twitter doesn't have like a security kind of checkup tool, I think, like, I know Google has a security checkup tool that you can use and they run you through all the different things.
00:03:20.872 - 00:04:07.096, Speaker A: So yeah, Samsung created this guide in order to basically act as that tool. So you can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so ethwave has created a second version of his breakdown of the Ethereum supply. Now, all the ETH token supply supply, I should say. Now, I mentioned last time when I showed his v one chart that it's kind of very, very difficult to get an exact kind of breakdown of what the ETH supplier looks like because of the fact that there is ETH in wallets, like centralized exchanges. There's Ethan deposit contract, and then they get split out into different service providers, such as liquid staking, centralized exchanges, so on and so forth. And you can actually see here that ETH wave has done a great job of kind of breaking this down and trying their best to break it down into different entities and different parties here.
00:04:07.096 - 00:04:47.014, Speaker A: So you can see at the top it's got the l two s, right? All the ETH bridge to l two s and which l two s they have bridged to. And you can see a list of them at the top there. Then you've got the beacon chain deposit contract, which is obviously the contract that ETH needs to be sent to in order to be activated on the beacon chain. And then that's split out into things like liquid staking, centralized exchanges, unidentified, you know, staking pool, solo stakers, et cetera, et cetera, and then split out even further from there. And they even go further than that and split out. Okay, well, if ETH has gone into Lido, has it gone anywhere else after that? And you can see here it has. It went to Eigen layer and it went to blast as well, because Eigen layer, obviously, people are depositing to be part of Eigen layer once it goes live and to be restaking their ste.
00:04:47.014 - 00:05:11.170, Speaker A: And then with blast, as we discussed, you know, as I discussed the other day, people are just doing it really to farm an airdrop. Right. But then, yeah, I mean, it continues on. Breaking this out in this sankey diagram here, and I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But 8th wave also has like a v one of their chart as a kind of comparison, which is, which is cool to see. So in v one, they still broke these things out. And you can see here how they've broken them out, but it was just less detailed.
00:05:11.170 - 00:05:40.250, Speaker A: Right. And there was, it was, it was kind of, um, less lines here and less kind of break, uh, less, uh, less entities that they've broken it out in. But as I said, it is quite difficult to actually get an accurate picture here because a lot of the time ETH is commingled, uh, you know, it belongs to this entity. But. But the thing is, is that that entity may be borrowing it from another entity or may have a liability to another entity. So technically, it's not that entities ETH, it's this one. And so it is quite difficult to obviously get that full, that full breakdown there.
00:05:40.250 - 00:06:19.526, Speaker A: And what I enjoy about this, this diagram as well, and a new addition to the Sankey diagram, is the total amount of ETH burned at the bottom here. As you can see, they've also split this out into different things, like, you know, how much ETH was burned due to defi activity or an NFT activity or l two activity. Obviously defined NFT activity are the top two. You know, it's kind of funny because Nfts have been quiet on Ethereum for quite a while now. But because we had such a huge surge of NFT activity on Ethereum during the bull market, it accounts for, like, a huge amount of ETH burned here. And if you remember, I think the highest ever daily fear of a new for Ethereum was because of an NFT drop or mint. I can't remember exactly what it was.
00:06:19.526 - 00:06:45.888, Speaker A: I think it was the board ape kind of other side mint or whatever it was. It ended up being like, close to $100 million in a day worth of fear revenue, most of which was burned, of course. And then, of course, Defi is number one here. But that's only natural because even today, most of the activity is just defi related, right. People doing arbitrage, people doing mev, generally, like front running and sandwich attacks, you know, the toxic mev stuff like that. But also people just moving ETH around, right. People just speculating on chain, all that good stuff there.
00:06:45.888 - 00:07:33.506, Speaker A: But, yeah, it's always fun to me to see, like, just how much activity nfts did on Ethereum during their kind of, I guess, like, peak there. And it remains to be seen if it's going to come back. You know, I am bullish nfts as a thing, generally, but I think a lot of the NFT activity definitely gets pushed to L2s, which means that it's going to burn less ETH because it's not going to be done on layer one. But I still think in the bull market, we're going to see some crazy stuff going on. But I guess I'm talking about, like, sustainable ETH burn and what, what kind of gets led to from that there. But anyway, you can check out this sankey diagram from Ethwave. I hope they continue to work on this and continue to, to kind of, like, identify different entities here and maybe make a v three of this, this diagram, because I think it's quite important to see just how distributed ETH is and the ETH supply is and where it actually sits and kind of what people are doing on chain.
00:07:33.506 - 00:08:07.010, Speaker A: I mean, for anyone paying attention, we already kind of, we know what people are doing on chain, right? There's a large amount of Ethan staking, there's a large amount of ethan l two s and on centralized exchanges. But beyond that, like, if you're breaking it down even further than that, it's kind of difficult to get a good picture of it. And this, I guess, diagram acts as a really great picture for that. So, yeah, you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below as well as ETH waves little tweet thread here with a bit more information, which I'll also link for you guys. All right, so Rockapool has a brand new website today, so you can go to rocketpool.net and see this new website.
00:08:07.010 - 00:08:34.308, Speaker A: Honestly, I love the design of this website. It is super cool. It reminds me a little bit of the ethereum.org website with all the. All the different kind of artwork here and just the general overview and design of it. And it looks. It looks a lot more professional as well, while still keeping with the Rockapool branding, you know, the kind of patented or trademark orange that Rockerpool is known for, but it just looks more professional, looks more polished, looks like something that I guess is more of a business rather than like a hobby project.
00:08:34.308 - 00:09:09.054, Speaker A: Because obviously Rockerpool started off as a startup and I could, you could still consider it a startup, right? But they're quite big these days, right? And they're trying to be taken seriously as a staking protocol, of course. And I think they are. But the website or the previous website, and I don't have it handy here, I don't think reflected that. And I think the new website definitely reflects that and just makes it easier for people to get started with rocker pool staking. I mean, there's this launch button in the top right here, which basically brings you straight to the rocker pool dashboard here, which is still the old dashboard, by the way. I'm hoping they will update this as well. But essentially, you can just immediately stake your ethan receive.
00:09:09.054 - 00:09:42.198, Speaker A: Receive our ETH here, right. So just very, very, very quickly. And that's what we need to, I guess, like increase rocket pool's market share, because this is the sort of thing that Lido does. Just making it, like, obviously super simple. But I think, you know, getting people to navigate towards that by clicking just the launch button at the top here, the top right. And making it like it's two or three clicks to get started. Staking is the holy ground because, I mean, I talk about user experience a lot on the refuel and I talk about how I think that we need to get to the world where it's really two to three clicks to do anything within crypto for us to reach mass appeal.
00:09:42.198 - 00:09:59.614, Speaker A: But that doesn't just go for things like. Like wallets, for example. It also goes for websites. You know, at the end of the day, like, this is the first thing that people see when they come to your website. They see something. It's called above the fold. So they see this part, which is, you know, before they scroll down, there's obviously more information if you scroll down, but this is what they see.
00:09:59.614 - 00:10:33.142, Speaker A: Every single user, every single person that comes to rockapool.net, this is what you see. So if this is the first thing that they see, and this is the top of the funnel of kind of, I guess, potential customers, you need to basically state what you are and then make it easy for them to get involved. So obviously they're stating what they are. Stake your ETH, earn rewards and help secure Ethereum. Really nice tagline right there and a couple of links for more information like liquid staking and node staking and some nice artwork to, to go along with it, which I really appreciate. And then you have the menu items at the top, obviously, but then you've got the big launch button, the big orange launch button, which is that call to action.
00:10:33.142 - 00:11:15.844, Speaker A: It's the way to get people to get started with rocket pool, I think. Oh, I think, you know, the web two world looks a lot like this if you go to a lot of web two websites. I mean, I think this is also why a lot of websites consolidated, because Shopify, for example, the e commerce website, I mean, there is so much e commerce just running on Shopify alone. And I would say that, like most of the sites that I ever go to that are run on Shopify, they look pretty much the same. And I don't think that's a bad thing because once you have consistency, you have predictability for customers where the customer comes and they basically expect it to be like that. And then because they expect it to be like that, it's very easy for them to navigate around it and very easy for you to land that customer. Same is true for crypto or anything, really.
00:11:15.844 - 00:12:06.588, Speaker A: I mean, if we can make the crypto websites look more like the web two counterparts in terms of ease of use, usability, in terms of user experience, then we stand a much better, I guess, chance of getting these people or converting these people into, quote unquote customers. Right. Or users of the system. So, yeah, just, just figured it was great to see rocket pools new website today and kind of dive into a little bit about why I think that it's critically important for websites within crypto to look like this and to make sure that they're targeting customers in the right way and make sure that they're making it obvious to customers exactly what they are. And I think Rockabool has nailed it here, so you can go check out this new website for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Gitcoin grants round 19 has finished and a total of $600,000, or just over $600,000 was donated.
00:12:06.588 - 00:12:47.484, Speaker A: Part of this round, over 300,000 donations were made by 44,000 unique donors with a matching pool size of 1.1 million. So just great to see more stuff being funded here. You know, I think that it's funny because while it's great to see more stuff being funded here, the more money that goes towards these things and the more attention stuff like bitcoin grants gets and optimism is retroactive, public goods funding gets, the more, I guess, questions start being asked about what is a public good, you know, or what deserves funding. And this is a huge question and it may seem simple. You may say to yourself, okay, well, a public good is something that is basically open source. It's free.
00:12:47.484 - 00:13:31.606, Speaker A: You know, the people that are creating it or maintaining it haven't gotten like vc funding or independent developers, right? Or independent people and they're just doing it for the public good. But that's so I guess, like binary and lacks so much nuance. And I'll give a few examples here. This is actually a broader topic that I wanted to talk about today, so I'm going to spend a little bit of time on this and you can skip ahead if you don't want to listen to me talk about public goods. Again. There's timestamps, of course, but the broader discussion here comes to the fact of, okay, well, if we agree that public goods can also have private funding, right? So for example, if you agree that something is a public good, so let's take l two beat as an example here, just because I've actually got an l two beat tab open. So l two beat has taken private funding before.
00:13:31.606 - 00:14:17.910, Speaker A: I mean, I participated in one of their funding rounds as an angel investor. Now for me personally, I didn't invest in them as a kind of thing where I was like, I invest in this team and then I'm going to make 100 x, I'm going to make so much money. No, for me it was actually a donation. I honestly invested in them because I think l two beat is an incredible resource and I think it's critical for l two beat to exist. But some other people will say, well, because l two beat got private funding, they shouldn't be eligible for funding from gitcoin grants or they shouldn't be eligible for funding from the retroactive public goods funding from optimism. And I push back on that because I don't think that that should be the case. I think that you should be able to, as a potentially non commercial enterprise, get money from wherever you can get money from, especially if you're a non commercial enterprise.
00:14:17.910 - 00:14:56.570, Speaker A: Now, it remains to be seen if l two b does, you know, doesn't later commercialize and start making products that they sell to customers, so on and so forth. But at the end of the day, it should be on the individual to choose which projects they actually want to fund. Right. And which projects they consider worthy of their money to donate to. And I think that the happy middle ground here may be, and it already happens a lot of the time, but the happy middle ground is for projects to actually stipulate what funding they've gotten historically, whether that's been funding from Gitcoin, whether that's been private funding, whether that's been donations from elsewhere. That way the user is fully informed before they make their donation. And if they still make their donation, then that's on them.
00:14:56.570 - 00:15:57.208, Speaker A: Like we shouldn't be gatekeeping what is a public good and what isn't. Now, of course, again, like it's more nuanced than that, because you go even further and you say, okay, well, is there a limit here? What if a project comes along and the project has raised $100 million in private funding and they're very obviously a commercial enterprise and they're very obviously not something that would be considered a public good by any definition that you use. And I'm not going to name names here because I don't want to pick on any projects in particular, but there are projects like that. And then you can kind of say, well, the same thing applies here. You should have to disclose that on, you know, if you are on git coin or if you are on, if you are, if you do apply to optimism's retroactive public goods funding, that you receive that funding, and then from there, again, it just falls onto to the person to make the informed decision whether they should be donating to this project or not. Right. I personally would never donate to a big commercial project that has raised a ton of money that I know is a for profit entity and that I know is not struggling for funds as well.
00:15:57.208 - 00:17:19.360, Speaker A: But the thing is, I won't like, I know that for a lot of projects because I pay a lot of attention to projects, but for most people, they don't know that. So for most people, they actually need that information provided by the project themselves or provided by someone else to stipulate, hey, this project is a for profit enterprise. They've raised a lot of money from private investors, you know, and then from there the user can make the decision of, okay, well, this isn't worth donating to. This isn't something that I should donate to. I should donate to one of these other projects that are potentially underfunded, that are actually, you know, closer to public goods than this other project, and then it just becomes a user choice thing. Because I think if we start gatekeeping at the, I guess like application level, so not the user choice level, if we start having a council of people who review the applications and then gatekeep based on that rather than gate, there is some gatekeeping that goes on because obviously you have to filter for spammy applications or for scams and fraud and optimism. Had to do this recently with the retroactive public goods funding and there was still over 600 projects on there, but still you kind of like have to have to filter, right? But if you start filtering for legitimate projects that have huge private funding, then you start gatekeeping and then it starts getting real messy from there and you start involving a lot of human governance and you start taking agency away from the user and you've just given all the agency to some council or some DAO, which probably has only a few engaged people to make these decisions.
00:17:19.360 - 00:18:31.158, Speaker A: So I think that the happy middle ground, or at least like the least worst solution, I love using that term, because there is no best solution to hard problems. I think there is always the least worst solution is to basically allow people, if they, even if they've been privately funded, even if they're commercial enterprises, allow those projects to still be on these platforms, but require them to disclose their previous funding and require them to disclose things like, hey, we're a for profit entity, so that the user can make, can make that informed decision to donate to that project or not. Right? So at least that's my general view on things. Maybe you agree or disagree, love to hear your thoughts on it in the daily gray Discord channel or in the YouTube comments. But I think we can all agree that if you've received previous funding, whether that's been donations, private funding, whatever it is, you should definitely have to disclose that so that the user knows that, you know, you're a project that received $10 million in funding, maybe you aren't struggling, right? Maybe you're doing okay and then go from there. And then there's also a whole nother side to it, which I won't discuss today because I've got a bunch of other things I want to talk about. Today, but there's a whole other side to it, which is basically the person, the individual take making the decision of, like a, what deserves my money, even though they've gotten a lot of funding.
00:18:31.158 - 00:19:01.314, Speaker A: Because, for example, the protocol guild, for those of you who have been paying attention to the grow the pie website that's tracking the retroactive public goods funding on optimism, I'll actually bring it up here for you guys. If you see here, protocol guild is number one. And it is. It is number one by a little bit, by quite a margin. I mean, it's got 29 badge holders that have, have voted for it so far, as opposed to second, which is revoke cash at 26. Now, the reason I bring up protocol guild is because the protocol guild has received a lot of funding in the past already. It's over.
00:19:01.314 - 00:19:36.248, Speaker A: I think $12 million has been donated to the protocol guild, and you can see that on chain. And then over 500,000 op has also been donated to protocol guild in the previous two retroactive public goods funding rounds. But the thing is, is that you have to actually unpack what this project is, because the protocol guild, as I'm sure all of you know, is not one entity. It's not one person. The protocol guild is an entity that distributes funds to over 100 Ethereum core developers and researchers. I can't think of anything more public good than that. And I can't think of anything more deserving of as much money as we can give it than that.
00:19:36.248 - 00:20:23.138, Speaker A: I mean, I'm not even kidding when I say that we should be giving the protocol guild billions of dollars, because there's no one in Ethereum, in my mind, that adds more value to the Ethereum ecosystem than the researchers and developers, the core developers, because without them, without them building the thing that we all build on, that we all use, we wouldn't be where we are today. We wouldn't have had the merge, right? We wouldn't have had all these upgrades that are coming. The roadmap is not going to get executed on, and we're not going. Ethereum is not going to be a chain that people were going to want to build on. It's not going to be something people have confidence in, and then everything else falls apart. So I can't think of anything better than protocol guild to give money to, but then you can look at other projects or look at other things. So, for example, I'm going to use myself as an example here.
00:20:23.138 - 00:21:09.310, Speaker A: I. I mean, I thought about this for a long time, but I ended up applying to retroactive public goods funding, round three here and I'm eligible now I, to be eligible for, for funding you need at least 17 ballots. I'm in 18 right now and I am number 25 out of the over 600 projects into ranked by ballot count here. Now I'm using myself as an example because I've got my reported funding here, right? So this is basically the, the donations that were made to me on Gitcoin when I had the deliquare git coin grant there. But this does not include my individual net worth, right? This does not include the amount of money I have or the amount of money I expect to get in the future or anything like that for obvious reasons. Right. I don't want to put my net worth there or docs maintenance my net worth, but it doesn't include that.
00:21:09.310 - 00:21:55.882, Speaker A: And it's not just me, right? It's, it's basically all the individuals on this, on this list, they're not going to report their net worth. So that opens another can of worms of people asking the question of, okay, well, is Anthony Cesar? No. You know, even though he produces the daily way for free and he does a lot of stuff for free in the ecosystem, does he deserve to get rewards from, you know, optimism's retroactive public goods funding? Does he deserve to get rewards from gitcoin grit and honestly, I don't know what I deserve and I don't know how much I deserve and I don't like thinking about it in those terms, obviously, because I'm biased towards myself as well. But, but generally, as I said, like it opens another kind of can of worms there and it opens another subjective thing there. So it's very difficult. That's, that's kind of the point of my entire reasoning of discussing this with you guys today. It's just, it's very difficult to know what to fund.
00:21:55.882 - 00:22:42.076, Speaker A: And again, it just comes back to the individual and I'm humbled that I am in, you know, the top 25 right now here and I think I'm the only individual in the top 25. I think there's Rick Moo here from ethers JS, but I think ethers JS is not maintained just by him. I think it's a team and then the rest of them are teams, right? I think it's so in the, in the, in the top 25 here or in top 30. I mean if I keep scrolling down, I think that Apollyonaya is the next individual and they're number 34. So I'm very humbled to be there. But then you have individuals versus projects, because as I said, like projects, I mean, protocol guild is 100 plus people. I don't know what the size of these other teams are, but they're more than one person for sure, right? And it's, and for a lot of these people, it's potentially their livelihood as well.
00:22:42.076 - 00:23:18.146, Speaker A: So, and they rely on this funding for their livelihood, whereas, you know, for me, I don't rely on this for my livelihood at all. Like, I could get zero and I'd be fine. But then people say, well, you should be rewarded for your work. And then it's like, okay, well, then we come to the big meta discussion of, like, how do we value people's time and how do we value people's work? And then again, I think the least worst solution is still just reverting to what the individual believes and what the individual wants to donate and how the individual wants to allocate resources. And, you know, groups can allocate resources as well. But I think when it comes to this stuff, it's very individual based. And that, to me, is the least worst way to do it.
00:23:18.146 - 00:23:58.994, Speaker A: I can't think of a better way to do it. We can keep iterating on that and we can keep giving more information for people to make more informed decisions. But it's a difficult thing to discuss because there's so much subjectivity around it and it's not something that can be objectively measured. But anyway, I spoke about that for a good ten minutes, but I thought it was important because it's definitely something that is, is very important in the ethereum ecosystem and something that I figured was worth discussing with you guys. But anyway, gonna move on from that. So there was an update from Zora today, which is a, basically one of those art marketplaces, or I guess on chain NFT marketplaces, or does a bunch of stuff with nfts. And today they announced that they're making it even easier to get started on Zora.
00:23:58.994 - 00:24:32.526, Speaker A: So now all you need is an email and your imagine imagination. There is no wallet or crypto required. So you can go to Zora Co. You can, of course, connect your wallet. So if you click connect up here, it'll prompt you if you want to connect your wallet, whether it be metamask or something else, or you can enter your email and then just log in and sign up like that. So again, this falls back to what I've been saying about crypto Ux, rapidly improving over time and basically becoming much more like the web two ux, where no seed phrases, no private keys, none of that stuff. Just a very easy way for people to sign up, log into things and get started.
00:24:32.526 - 00:25:01.998, Speaker A: We don't need to complicate things. We don't need to show people seed phrases because that to me is never going to catch on. And also it's a bad security practice because I don't think that most people would be able to secure their seed phrase and they probably wouldn't even understand the importance of securing that seed phrase. So, yeah, I mean, I think that just having it. Having it as like ease of onboarding with email and even phone numbers, which I'm not a huge fan of, but still. All right, things like that, making it look more like web two is the way here. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself.
00:25:01.998 - 00:25:36.720, Speaker A: If you haven't yet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I've got the l two beat website up today because I just wanted to quickly mention something that I think gets overlooked a bit in the crypto ecosystem because, I don't know, people are so focused on other things. I mean, there's so much to focus on. Right? But what I want to talk about was if you look at this list of projects on l two b, you can see that most of them, I mean, it doesn't tell you on the front page here, but it tells you if you click into it, you can see that most of them are EVM based, right? They're EVM compatible or EVM equivalent. And that's fine. Like, there's nothing wrong with that.
00:25:36.720 - 00:26:07.736, Speaker A: And that's. That's also a consequence of the fact that these l two s wanted to make it really easy for developers to just port their apps over from L1. So if you go down the list, you can see arbitram, one op, mainnet base, zksync era I believe, Mantool and then Polygon, ZkvM. I'm just going down the list as I'm reading this scroll. They're all EVM based, right? But you'll notice that like at least half of them on the. On the page are not EVM based. So dy dx v three is not EVM.
00:26:07.736 - 00:26:18.744, Speaker A: It's built on StarQuest technology. Starknet, not EVM. Immutable x, not evm. Right. Linei, I think is EvM as well. I should have mentioned them. Loopring has their own custom tech there.
00:26:18.744 - 00:26:41.476, Speaker A: Metis I believe is EvM as well. Right now zksync light is not evM. I don't think it's just a payments chain there. And then you can keep scrolling down the list here. But the point I want to make here. And then also, I should actually say that arbitrum is also doing a bunch of stuff that's not EVM with their stylus suite as well. And people can build arbitrary chains that, but are not evM.
00:26:41.476 - 00:27:14.544, Speaker A: But arbitram one definitely is EVM. Right. Or even compatible. But the point of what I'm trying to say here is that the magical thing about Altoos is that they give developers expressibility, expressability here. They give developers, and they give people who want to create Altoos the choice of, okay, you can be EVM or you can be something else. And the reason why this was done was because with Ethereum layer one, even if you were to scale Ethereum layer one, even if we were to do sharding and things like that, it would still be limited by the evM. You would still have to interact with the EVM and do things with the EVM.
00:27:14.544 - 00:27:48.324, Speaker A: You wouldn't be able to have an expressive playground. And as a consequence of that, before l two s came to the scene, we saw a lot of these other l one spin up, right? And they actually used technology that wasn't the evm. And then we had the wave of EvM l one s, of course, but. And they ended up being the biggest, funny enough. But, you know, we had these other l one s out there, and we still do today, that aren't just copying Ethereum, that aren't just EVM, right? Things like Polkadot and Cardano and obviously Solana. And then I'm just going down the list here, a bunch of others out there. I mean, aptos say sui all these things, right? They're not like EvM first.
00:27:48.324 - 00:28:08.192, Speaker A: They're trying to build their own thing. And that's great, and that's awesome. But I think that what Ethereum has done over the past couple of years is basically said, okay, well, people want to do this, so let's just get them and allow them to do that. At l two. It can't happen at l one because l one is not being optimized for this sorts of stuff. L1 is trying to be a sentiment layer. It's trying to be reliable and secure, and it's very, very slow moving.
00:28:08.192 - 00:28:37.654, Speaker A: Okay, so let's push this to l two, and then an l two people can do whatever they want. And that's what's actually been happening. There are so many l two s now. There are so many different l two stacks as I said, like arbitram, one is EVM, but arbitram has an entire stack dedicated to other things that aren't EVM. And there's new projects coming online all the time that are targeting things that aren't EVM. And not to say that the EVM is necessarily bad, I mean, it's not the best tech out there, and it has a lot of, a lot of issues. But at the same time, these l two s can also improve on the eVM.
00:28:37.654 - 00:29:31.692, Speaker A: They can actually make the EVM better than what it is on l one through things like, you know, doing things like local fee markets, doing things like parallelization. These things have been discussed for years in the Ethereum community, but we didn't do that at layer one because we pushed everything to L2. I mean, to implement local fee markets on layer one, Ethereum would be a massive lift, and it would break things, to be honest, because Ethereum has been alive for a very long time without local fee markets, and it will potentially break a lot of things. And then also parallelization is a huge engineering and research effort, which is much better done on L2. And those are both really, really great features. And, you know, to Solana's credit, it has those features, and I'd love to see those features implemented on L2s, on Ethereum and even other layer one evms, like Monad, for example, they're building a layer one evm, but they've made it, they paralyzed it. Now, there's no reason why this can't be ported to L2s either.
00:29:31.692 - 00:30:22.750, Speaker A: So all of this effort collectively allows us to do things with, you know, creating an evm that's better than the layer one evm, but also creating other ecosystems that are non evm, which I think is pretty exciting. And I, and I, and I think it's like the biggest draw of the l two ecosystem is that we get like a cambrian explosion of developments. We get to keep it in the ethereum ecosystem, and we get to eventually, once these roll ups and l two s decentralized properly, get to a point where they actually inherit ethereum security and decentralization, and they just act as an extension of Ethereum block space, rather than just more l one spinning up and being insecure and not being great for the user generally there. But yeah, hopefully that resonates with you guys. But just something I wanted to discuss today. All right, last up here was a tweet that I put out just before, actually, where I am not going to read the whole tweet out. I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:30:22.750 - 00:30:57.904, Speaker A: But the gist of it was that, and I'm not going to talk too long about this because I'm going to go into rant mode if I do. But the gist of it is that people always ask me, it's like, why don't you talk about other crypto ecosystems other than Ethereum? The simple answer is that it takes me all of my time, really. I mean, most of my day is dedicated to keeping up with just Ethereum because I don't just keep up with Ethereum, right? I keep with the L2s. I keep up with all of the developments happening on as many of the apps that I can. I talked to a lot of people in the Ethereum ecosystem to be able to do that, and that is a huge time sink for me. And it's all being done for free. You know, the delegate is free.
00:30:57.904 - 00:31:15.944, Speaker A: I have no team. It's literally just me, right? And I try to be active in the discord channel. I try to do, you know, I have a fiance as well, right? I try to spend time with her. You know, I have other things that I enjoy doing. So that is really the reason why I just focus on Ethereum. At least the main reason. The other reason is that I enjoy the shit out of Ethereum.
00:31:15.944 - 00:31:57.526, Speaker A: And honestly, like, ethereum is the most exciting thing in crypto to me. But the main reason is just I don't have the time. Like, I can't go into other ecosystems and start from the ground floor on those and still be able to keep up with Ethereum and still be able to do the daily. So if the choice is between doing the daily and keeping up with other ecosystems, I'd rather just do the daily Gwei. It's just so much easier for me to do and so much simpler and also so much more fun. And I also said in my tweet here that I find it insane that I even have to explain this to people because no one calls like an Apple engineer an Apple Maxi just because they spend their time working on Apple products and services and don't focus on other, you know, tech ecosystems, for example. That's just what they spend their time doing.
00:31:57.526 - 00:32:20.610, Speaker A: That's what they enjoy doing. And no one faults them for it. No one calls them that. But in crypto, for some reason, you're called an ETH Maxi or a XYZ chain Maxi or whatever, whatever it is, if you're just focused on one ecosystem and it's, and I think that it's really a crypto Twitter thing, it's definitely not something that I really here in real life, to be honest. I think crypto Twitter is just. Just a whole kind of other thing. You guys have heard me rant about that enough.
00:32:20.610 - 00:32:56.514, Speaker A: Um, but, yeah, just generally find it insane that I even have to say these things to people. I think for you guys, watching and listening to the refuel, I probably don't have to spell it out for you, but for so many people on crypto Twitter, it's just insane to me. And I get these replies all the time. So you're an ETH, Maxi, because you don't cover anything else. And, you know, if we take that to its logical conclusion, you know what would happen? Let's just say I started covering this chain, right? Or chain y. Okay, I start covering chain y, what happens? Well, the ETH people are going to be angry at me because they're going to be like, why are you covering other things? Right? I thought you didn't believe in these other things. I thought you only believed in ethereum, or you only found ethereum exciting, which is actually the truth.
00:32:56.514 - 00:33:36.544, Speaker A: But let's just humor it for the example here. So I start covering that chain. Those people on that other chain may be happy for a little while that I started covering them and paying attention to them, but then they will turn on me as well, because they'd be like, well, you're still covering this other chain. You're still covering ethereum. And then in the midst of all that, I would get people from chain X and chain Z saying, hey, you're covering chain y now. Why don't you cover our chains? And then I start covering those, and then chain y starts being really angry at me because they're like, you know, I'm getting mixed up with the letters here, I think. But they stop being angry at me because they're like, hey, why are you covering these other ecosystems? Why aren't you covering us more? And then it just becomes a whole, like, shit sandwich of opinions on what I should and shouldn't cover.
00:33:36.544 - 00:33:49.336, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm at this, Maxi. I'm at that, Maxi. And the end state is just not good for anyone. So I'm just gonna keep focusing on Ethereum. It's gonna keep keeping up with Ethereum. I believe in Ethereum. I think Ethereum is going to be here for decades to come.
00:33:49.336 - 00:34:07.448, Speaker A: I enjoy Ethereum. I get the most excitement out of the Ethereum ecosystem, and I just love doing it. I love keeping up with it. So if people are going to call me an ETH maxi for that, then I guess, like, so be it. But I don't think it really makes sense. I don't think it really gels with reality. But if anything I've learned over the last few years is that crypto Twitter doesn't care about reality.
00:34:07.448 - 00:34:23.104, Speaker A: All they care about is narrative and dunking and being toxic. That it is what it is. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
