00:00:19.960 - 00:00:33.060, Speaker A: Hello, everybody, can you hear me? Yes. Good. Well, my name is Andres Jungen. I come from Chile. I'll also work for the consensus. Amazing people. Well, I'm going to talk about reputation systems.
00:00:33.060 - 00:02:00.528, Speaker A: I'm working on this for almost five months. So this is what I have discovered. Okay, why do we want reputation system as a society? Basically to answer questions, right, and take decisions faster. Like if I need to know something about somebody or something, then I try to gather all the information that is available and make a decision like is it worth it or how it's going to behave? It's like, is this person going to behave? Well, if I gave him some money, is he going to give it the money back to me or not? Well, let's gather all the information I have on his payment history and see how it goes. Or for example, if I have a lot of different products or movies or something and I need to decide which one to choose. Well, let's leverage on the information that's available from other people that says, okay, this movie is good, or this other movie is good, right? So first question you need to address here is if, does my app really need a reputation system? Because one really nice thing about Ethereum contracts is that enforced behavior. If you have a game, for example, or you're developing a game on the Ethereum system or Ethereum platform, and you want a reputation system so you can see if your players are going to behave well.
00:02:00.528 - 00:02:37.528, Speaker A: Well, ask you first, can the player cheat on your game? Because if he cannot cheat, because the contract enforcement, there's no way to cheat on the game. So why do you need a reputation system for that? Right? People are never going to misbehave. I found this book, it's very interesting. One building web reputation system by Dr. Randall Farmer. He used to work at Yahoo. And he does a very good definition of reputation systems and also drains all the reputation system in single modules.
00:02:37.528 - 00:03:34.460, Speaker A: So basically the most basic thing about reputation system is a reputation statement. Reputation statement is something that somebody says or something says about someone or something, right? So we have three main concepts here, the source of the reputation statement, the target of the reputation statement, and the claim. Basically what he says, right? I have some examples here of reputation statement. Like Joseph seems a good developer, or Daniel told me that James Bond's movies are the best action movies ever. We gather all this information and try to make a single aggregated score or number to help us make this decision. But there's one thing missing, and I think it's one thing that's really important, not to miss is context. Context is very important in reputation systems.
00:03:34.460 - 00:04:40.860, Speaker A: If I do a reputation statement on something or someone that is in a context, I can say that Tim is a good developer. But I can say that Tim is very bad at killing spiders, for example. You know what I mean, Tim? And does it does make him a bad developer? No, in the context of spider killing, he's really bad, but in the context of developer, he's still very good. So the first thing is never ever mixed context. It's not a good thing, never. We have a really bad problems in society with this where I came from, and I guess this is everywhere, if you lose a job and you have loans to pay, it's hard for you to pay those loans, right? So you get a bad payment reputation because you didn't pay the loan. But at some point somebody think that was a good idea to mix your credit score or your payment reputation with your working or worker reputation or your reputation as a worker.
00:04:40.860 - 00:05:10.684, Speaker A: So you go to a job interview and they say, well, you are okay, but you have a very bad credit score. So you don't get a job. If you don't get a job, you don't get money and you can't pay your loans, and you get in this circle that is really hard to get out. And it's a very, very complicated problem. So please don't ever mix context. I know it's tempting to have a single score that can help us measure people in some ways to say, okay, you have a 5.2 score or 3.3
00:05:10.684 - 00:05:44.964, Speaker A: score as a person, but that makes no sense at all, really. Please. Okay, how does the reputations process goes? First we collect and store reputation statements for a context. Specifically for context. Then we aggregate those claims for a target to try to make a single score, right? And then we take a decision or make a decision based on that reputation score. Collect and store reputation statement for a context easily in a contract. We are Ethereum developers.
00:05:44.964 - 00:06:09.890, Speaker A: Everything goes in contracts, right? So we can collect and store information and store it on the contract. But take this in consideration. How to code the claim. You can code it in a one to five number. You can code it as an integral number. You can code as a one or zero. Like the reputation system for like or don't like or star or don't star.
00:06:09.890 - 00:06:47.528, Speaker A: Privacy. Privacy is very important. Be ethical on this. If you are putting something in a permanent system like Ethereum platform is, you might consider them that maybe you are saying something about someone that will be go public. So be aware of that aging is another problem. You are almost all young, but when I was young, I was really wild and crazy. And does that affect my reputation now? Can I not change as a person? If you put something permanent in the web, that will stay forever.
00:06:47.528 - 00:07:45.132, Speaker A: So consider how this is going to be aged. Do you have a time limit on your contract that after that your reputation claims will vanish or something? Ownership. Ownership is very important. Who owns your reputations? Do you own him? Somebody else? That source owns it. It's a very complicated subject because the owner can do something with if you're programming the contract, like erase or not. And the cost, this is very important in some reputation system I have investigated, there's a cost on putting a reputation statement because you want to try to make it hard for people to make bad reputation statement or false reputation statements about someone. But please take in consideration that cost for the source, for the target is mostly that you want to have good reputations in some way.
00:07:45.132 - 00:08:18.970, Speaker A: So try to balance this because you want to have a lot of reputations, but also you don't want to have false reputations. Okay, we have all these reputations collected and stored in the contract. Let's make an aggregate function for this. In a contract easily. It's a contract that reads all the information and makes a score, right? Well, here we have more problems. Which aggregate function do I make a sum of all the numbers? Do I make an average? Well, that is not the worst problem. The worst problem is that aggregation functions are personal.
00:08:18.970 - 00:09:10.010, Speaker A: It's like if somebody says, this is a good movie and somebody else says, if this is a good movie or a bad movie, maybe I will trust him more or I will use his information and not that one, because I know I have some kind of like hood with him, or he's my friend. I know he likes the same things I like. So it's that I use that source better than that other source. So we have some kind of weighted by source function, right? So my weights are very different than your weight. So it's a personal function. So does a general function make sense at all? You have to think about it really well and also always consider or make it very transparent for people to see how that function is calculated. Because then you can decide if that function supplies to you or not.
00:09:10.010 - 00:09:32.432, Speaker A: I have done this little experiment yesterday night to see. Let's try to buy an action camera on Amazon. Okay. I've chosen a lot of presented with a lot of options, all with a number from one to five or 3.8 or something. Okay, I see this one to five stars. And then I see, okay, this system has 3.8
00:09:32.432 - 00:10:22.460, Speaker A: out of five stars, but well, Amazon figured out that doesn't help too much people. So you need to also add how many people have rate that thing because it's different to have a five star with two persons rating it and have five stars or 4.8 having 100 people rating it. Right. But also they say, okay, maybe you need the information based on how many people choose each kind of rating, right? So they put this histogram so you can decide it well. And after that, well let me see, which are the people that choose five stars and why? And then I go to see every statement and I found out, okay, Sharon Johnson, for example, says my twelve year old son is very pleased. Well, I'm not a twelve year old kid, maybe I don't care about that statement.
00:10:22.460 - 00:11:04.780, Speaker A: So that is not good information for me. So maybe I will say, okay, this is a good product for twelve year old kids and not a good product for me. Well then the last step is to make a decision based on the reputation score. Well, let's make a contract that reads the score and take the decision. Well, I don't recommend that at all. Why? As I have pointed out in the last example, it's a very human thing to make this decision. I don't use just the score, I use a lot more of other things.
00:11:04.780 - 00:11:40.520, Speaker A: I basically first started with the score, then go to the histogram, then go to each single statement and then decide, this statement is not useful. This statement is useful based on source, based on the content. I don't think that is very easy to program on a contract. I think this more in the area of artificial intelligence or something like that. So in my recommendation it's more leave the human to make the decision and not try to make the contract. Made the decision. So a little recap.
00:11:40.520 - 00:12:25.636, Speaker A: First think about does my DAP need a reputation system or not? It's really important. Ethereum enforces behavior, so maybe you have users or things that doesn't misbehave. So you don't need a reputation system at all. Again, don't ever, ever mix context. It's not a good idea. It makes a lot of problems for society. Aggregate functions make sense or not? Do I need to present the user all the statements so he can make an aggregate function or a score? Or can I make a general function as a recommendations for the user? Right.
00:12:25.636 - 00:12:39.530, Speaker A: And last, leave decisions to the human, at least disk decisions that are very hard at some point. Don't leave it to contracts, gracias yeah.
