00:00:00.480 - 00:00:28.366, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 7 April 2021. Alright, let's get into it, everyone. So yesterday I mentioned on the refuel that Coinbase's earnings, Q one earnings were going to drop, and they certainly did. So let's walk through this. So, as I said, this is the earnings and outlook kind of report for Q one of this year. So January, February and March, and Coinbase had $1.8
00:00:28.366 - 00:00:58.002, Speaker A: billion worth of revenue in just Q one of this year, which I'm pretty sure is a record quarter here. Net income of $730 to $800 million. 56 million verified users, which is 13 million million more than last quarter, and 6.1 million monthly transacting users, which is plus 3.3 million from last quarter. So doubling their kind of monthly transacting users here. Growth over the last quarter in revenue was 200%, net income 300% and traded volume 272%.
00:00:58.002 - 00:01:50.160, Speaker A: So obviously a lot of growth here for Coinbase and, you know, to be expected for sure. I don't think, you know, we could see what was happening in the crypto markets right now and not think that Coinbase had such, like, spectacular growth here. You know, I'm actually wondering at this point, like, how much growth did binance have if Coinbase had this much? Because binance obviously services not just those in kind of like the western countries with finance us, but they also service a lot of the, I guess, like asian countries, the european countries, and there's just like, people double dipping because you can't get a lot of the coins that you can on binance, on Coinbase. So I would imagine that binance is kind of growth is just as spectacular as this as well. And it's definitely, you know, new investors coming in, maybe returning investors from the 2017 boom. Definitely some spectacular growth there. And you can see this chart here that illustrates it quite well in terms of, like, the growth from last quarter.
00:01:50.160 - 00:02:43.536, Speaker A: Just absolutely insane. And, you know, I'm going to be curious to see if this growth keeps up right through, through the next kind of quarterly quarter through Q two. But obviously, Coinbase is listing on the stock exchange in about a week from now. So getting these kind of like, kind of quarterly report out before the listing is very smart, because if you actually kind of, I guess I saw just before, look at kind of the market cap, I guess that Coinbase is trading, I think it's like over $100 billion right now but there was a financial institute, I can't remember which one said this, but they basically upped their target of Coinbase's share price to over $400 from like $200 or something like that. So basically, you know, people are expecting Coinbase to open out a 200 plus billion dollar market cap, which is absolutely insane. That's going to capture a lot of headlines. It's going to become one of the most valuable companies in the world basically overnight.
00:02:43.536 - 00:03:19.644, Speaker A: Right. One of the most valuable public companies, that is, which is going to bring a ton of attention into this space. And as I said on yesterday's refuel, it's going to legitimize this space a lot as well, I think, because you're going to have so many different people who, you know, might think that it was super risky to invest in bitcoin or ethereum or any of the other kind of crypto assets now seeing. Well, you know, I can invest in Coinbase, which is. Which is obviously, like, fully regulated on a. On a regulated kind of platform, and I can invest in that safely with kind of like a retirement account or, you know, or any kind of other brokerage account that people have sort of thing. So, yeah, that makes a ton of sense there as well.
00:03:19.644 - 00:03:50.134, Speaker A: A bit more kind of information here, I guess, from Larry is. What did he say? What did he say here? He added something here where projecting revenue forward by assuming constant volume growth makes no sense. Coinbase's volume is incredibly cyclical, and if markets slow down a bit, it's totally possible we even see a decline. Just watch the volume. And I totally agree with that for sure. I mean, you can see here that usually q one, q two is pretty good, but then you go into q three and q four, and the volumes kind of taper off there, as you can see. See, but it is volatile.
00:03:50.134 - 00:04:09.134, Speaker A: I mean, last year it was different, right? Last year you had, like. I mean, in 2019. Sorry, you had May, June, and July being like the standout months, whereas in 2020, you had March, May and August being the standout months here. Now, obviously, March was. Was a lot of volume because of the crash. I guess. It wasn't actually.
00:04:09.134 - 00:04:23.902, Speaker A: I guess, like, buy volume. It was majority sell volume. And then, you know, in August, obviously, we had, like, the Defi run, of course, and. And that. And like the. I guess, like an Ethan bitcoin run as well, which attributed a lot to that. So, yeah, definitely not a constant kind of thing.
00:04:23.902 - 00:04:54.574, Speaker A: It's not like we're going to be seeing Coinbase break kind of record volumes every month sort of thing. You know, if the market's quiet, then Coinbase's volumes are quiet. It's simple as that. I mean, you know, it's pretty easy to kind of draw that conclusion. But anyway, this is going to be huge. You know, I can't wait to see what kind of all the headlines around this and kind of like how crazy the traditional markets go over Coinbase and how much they bid it up, because this, this growth is seriously insane. You know, there are not many companies that post this kind of growth and obviously it's because the rest of the crypto markets growing.
00:04:54.574 - 00:05:40.056, Speaker A: But you know, maybe, you know, we have like another few months left of this craziness in us and yeah, it's gonna be pretty insane to see how kind of like Coinbase goes here. So the Ethereum cat hurdles put out their latest update here on number 41, going over a bunch of different things. So I think the highlight of this update was that there's an updated roadmap for stateless Ethereum. So for those who don't know, stateless Ethereum is an initiative that's being undertaken as part of the ETH two roadmap to essentially make it so that we can fix the state bloat problem of Ethereum, where Ethereum becomes a stateless system where you. Where kind of like people only retain the state that they care about sort of thing. So that is in heavy develop, heavy research and kind of like, I guess early development at this stage. But yeah, a bunch of other updates here.
00:05:40.056 - 00:06:00.912, Speaker A: And for those who don't know what the Ethereum cat herders updates are, they're basically a way to keep on top of all the ETH one and ETH two stuff that's going on at the protocol level. It's very comprehensive. It gives you links to basically everything you need. It's, it's the best kind of up, best kind of like overview of the ETH one and ETH two systems that I've come across. So definitely go check that out. But yeah, a lot here. I mean, so much.
00:06:00.912 - 00:06:26.780, Speaker A: And some of its technical, some of it's not. But if you want to keep up with everything that's happening within the ethereum ecosystem, and this is the place to do it, definitely. So yeah, go check it out if you haven't already. I'm just kind of scrolling down to, I can't remember where I saw it, where the, the stateless kind of like roadmap. I think it's like the first thing here. Yeah, there's a bunch of information here around that. That's the most interesting thing I think right now outside of like the merger, sharding 1559, stuff like that.
00:06:26.780 - 00:07:28.638, Speaker A: I think stateless Ethereum is the most interesting thing, you know, which you can kind of see the updated roadmap here sort of thing. So definitely go check that out if you haven't already. Speaking of protocol, kind of related updates here, proto Lambda tweeted out that the alpha three e two kind of spec release for the first upgrade coming to ETH two or the first hard fork called, called Altair was kind of released today and there's new merge and sharding R and D specs now as well. So yeah, this is obviously very kind of technical, very protocol level stuff. You, most of us are not going to be kind of looking deep into this, but it just shows that there's a lot of progress being made, you know, on ETH two right now. Like the Altair upgrade I think is still scheduled for, for mid this year and the merge is obviously taking like a pretty, pretty good priority priority now where a pretty high priority now where we could expect to see it by, you know, the end of this year if they do the minimum viable merge path. And sharding is also kind of top of mind for a lot of, a lot of kind of researchers and developers here.
00:07:28.638 - 00:08:20.976, Speaker A: So great to see that kind of like, and great to see progress coming out of there. But as I said, I think that this and a lot of the similar stuff is covered in like this Ethereum cat herders update as well. So definitely go check, check both of these things out if you're interested in learning more. So Gnosis has released this new product called the Gnosis auction platform. Basically it's a new platform for fair, transparent and decentralized token price discovery on ethereum. What is it is essentially aiming to do is basically be a platform for fair token launches from, from kind of like what my reading is here, they have tried to do this before with platforms like Mesa and if you remember one of, I guess like the couple of high profile launches happened, happened on mesa such as Mstable and D hedge in terms of like token kind of sales there. A lot of people use balances, kind of like LBP platform now.
00:08:20.976 - 00:09:17.718, Speaker A: But what this platform tries to do is basically, essentially, I mean as they describe here, notice auction facilitates batching a much larger set of orders which cater specifically to the initial Dex offering use case, as well as other large auctions such as token buybacks or protocols collateral auctions. Now this is supposed to be, you know, I guess, like, done in such a way where people can't, like, front run people or whales can't just buy up everything during these sales. It's supposed to make it, like, very fair for people to be able to participate and also make it transparent and also make it a really great price discovery mechanism as well. So. Yeah, and, you know, I saw a bunch of people talking about this, and I think there's kind of like, wide agreement that this is the best and fairest way to do a token launch. But, you know, the mesa platform had a bunch of issues, I think, with it where it was kind of buggy, bit slow. Like, I remember back, like, I was kind of like, you know, I'm staying up and watching the M stable sale at the time.
00:09:17.718 - 00:09:50.554, Speaker A: And I remember there was like a kind of like, thing where they had to find the solver and delayed the sale by a couple of hours, something like that. So there were some, some kind of hiccups with that. But with the, the gnosis auction here, they seem to have, like, I guess, rebuilt it, you know, and come out with like, a new platform here where they've come up with a kind of, like, more innovative and new way to do this. So, yeah, I mean, this kind of release post is quite lengthy and it will explain it in much more detail. And it's live on the Ethereum main net now and Xdai side chain, too. So you. Yeah, can, you can check it out on both of those platforms.
00:09:50.554 - 00:10:30.676, Speaker A: So I think some of the most exciting news to come out of the last 24 hours is that DyDX has released their L2 perpetuals exchange to the public. So no more waitlists, no more kind of, I guess, caps on how much you can deposit, how much funds you can deposit into the L2. It's now live for everyone, and you can put in as much money as you want, which is awesome, because they only kind of launched the alpha in like February. Right? It's only been a couple of months, and they're already basically at the point where they've launched a public main net now, you know, live L2 using star quest technology on ethereum. You know, I know it's become a bit of a meme for me, myself and a lot of other people to say things like, you know, L2 is coming. You know, it's coming. Just wait.
00:10:30.676 - 00:11:01.120, Speaker A: Just wait. I mean, and I've been trying, I've been trying to be very clear that L2 is not only coming, it is definitely here. It's just not evenly distributed yet. We have a bunch of different kind of like isolated things going on, right. That definitely harness the power of L2, like loop ring, you know, like DydX, like diversify, like some, some kind of other projects out there, like synthetics on optimism, right, and things like that. But as I said, it's not evenly distributed yet. There are no, I mean, Kinect is in its early stages of building bridges between these L2s.
00:11:01.120 - 00:11:27.640, Speaker A: Same with hot protocol and stuff like that, but still very, very early stages. So it's not like the technology isn't real and that it's not live. You know, there's a lot of stuff on testnet as well. It's just that we need to give it time to kind of permeate throughout the ecosystem. We need to give it time to build network effects and we need to give it time for people to kind of get used to this kind of L2 world, I think, at the end of the day. So from that perspective, L2 is here. It's just, yeah, it's just going to take a little bit time to get there.
00:11:27.640 - 00:12:15.790, Speaker A: And, you know, I think there's another update actually here that I wanted to talk about from gods unchained, where they put out, I guess like a blog post saying that people will be getting early access to immutable x, their decentralized kind of like NFT exchange here. And they've put a post here explaining like here's, you know, everything that we all need to know to prepare ourselves for the future of NFT trading. So if you've got gods unchained cards, which I'm sure a lot of you do, I mean, I do. I bought them a long time ago, you'll be able to kind of trade, trade them on this kind of exchange here very, very soon. I mean, I think their release is basically imminent at this point. As I, as I mentioned previously, they're using star quest technology as well for this exchange and that's live in a, in a very public kind of main net way with dy DX here. So, you know, I think this is going to be live.
00:12:15.790 - 00:13:38.838, Speaker A: Like if I had to kind of give a guess, maybe in the next, within the next couple of weeks sort of thing. It's definitely not very far away at all, which is really, really bullish and I'm really, really looking forward to that for sure. But just on the, on the kind of L2 case here as well. And kind of, I guess some of you might know why it takes so long to get these things right. I guess like the top reason is that a lot of these teams, a lot of this tech is very new, very novel, and you don't want to launch something and then it, and then somehow people lose money on it, right? Because not only would that shatter confidence in L2s in general and Shatter and lead to like, really bad narratives as well, but it would mean that you basically, as a team or as like a project building this sort of stuff, you start out on a really kind of like crappy foot, right, where you've essentially launched something and then it's just broken from day one, right? And we've seen that play out, like where kind of like with the project Faye protocol that everyone's been talking about lately where they launched. And obviously the protocol is not working as a, I mean, it is working as intended, but it's not working the way that people thought it would work, right, or people thought that, you know, it should work where whereas like, FaE is basically at its peg and things like that, and people can kind of withdraw their money and stuff. So, you know, if you've seen what's happened with that and how much kind of like, I guess, you know, drama that's caused and how much hate is being directed towards the project, no project wants to go through that.
00:13:38.838 - 00:14:12.628, Speaker A: And the easiest way to avoid that is simply not launch something until it's kind of like ready, right? And I'm not saying that the FAE protocol team did this or anything like that. I'm just using that as an example. But at the end of the day, I've been a part of many different kind of project launches, whether as an observer or as like a directly involved. And I can tell you that the number one thing, you know, that I found in common across like, all different types of teams is that they really, really care about security. They really care about user funds. They really don't want to launch a product that can put user funds at risk. And if they have to wait to launch it, then so be it.
00:14:12.628 - 00:14:54.292, Speaker A: And that's why you see, especially in the L2 space, things are just slower. And that's why, you know, you've seen things like optimisms, public mainnet get delayed. They do not want to release something that they feel is either insecure, is not ready, is going to lead to a poor user experience, because that's just not good for anyone at the end of the day. And I think, and I've said this before, yes, there's delays for a lot of different things, but like, the delays are forgotten about at the end of the day. I mean, if you really think about it, you know, ETH to the beacon chain itself took forever to launch from when people thought it would launch. And it's been live now and everyone's kind of like, okay, what's next now? Right? Like when merge, like people just move on to the next thing. It's like they, people get over the fact that there was all these delays.
00:14:54.292 - 00:15:15.934, Speaker A: No one even cares about that or remembers that anymore. People are like, well, you know, ETH two is live. The proof of stake chain is live, right. At least the first phase of it, right? The beacon chain, it's working. It's doing what it should be doing. And the reason it's doing what it should be doing and it's working so perfectly is because of that. All those kind of like delays to get the testing done right, all that kind of time to make sure everything was fine.
00:15:15.934 - 00:15:45.406, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I think, you know, a delayed project is not a bad thing. I think it's a very, very healthy thing. And I applaud projects that kind of like do that instead of just rushing to launch due to, you know, I guess like either it be ecosystem expectations or internal deadlines that they don't want to kind of skip out on. Yeah, I just don't see a problem there. I know short term it sucks, but in the long term it's going to be, it's going to be better if more teams do this. So, yeah, very excited to see immutable x go live. Anyway, as I said, I expect it any day now.
00:15:45.406 - 00:16:13.630, Speaker A: I'm sure they've been working very, very hard on it. They've been teasing it for quite a while. And as I've said before, it's a, it's a decentralized exchange for nfTs, which is something that doesn't. Sorry. A L2 decentralized exchange for nfTs, which is a use case that is absolutely massive. So if they can get this right, if this can work, I think this is going to change the game for NFTs on Ethereum. So set protocol announced today that they're going to be deprecating v one of the robo sets on the platform.
00:16:13.630 - 00:17:05.884, Speaker A: Now, this is kind of like an end of an era, I think, for set protocol I was involved heavily with all of this, kind of like building out these robo sets and social sets and stuff like that when I worked at set as kind of like full time marketing, but as the ecosystem has evolved over time and as kind of like gas fees have gotten higher since kind of like the robo sets were a thing, you know, and then set v two was released. It's basically come to the point now where it's not worth it to keep these kind of, I guess, like, sets going, essentially. And that's what they kind of describe in the blog post here on, on medium. And they basically kind of, like, describe the history. And, like, these robots have been out since, like, 2019. And, you know, it's, it's, it's actually kind of nostalgic when I look at this sort of stuff because I was involved in this since mid 2019. And I'm just remembering back to, like, the gas fees back then, right? Like, you know, one way up to, you know, ten way sort of thing, gas fees.
00:17:05.884 - 00:17:35.466, Speaker A: And it was just like, nothing. Like no one cared, right. Everyone would just pay gas fees and it'll be fine. Right. But that's not the case today. And also the infrastructure and kind of like the smart contracts that these sets used were based on the v one of the protocol, which was actually, you know, based on kind of like old code that hadn't been updated in a while because it was from, like, 2019 and it hadn't been optimized for, for the kind of, I guess, like high gas fees on Ethereum. So it was actually very expensive to, to kind of rebalance things.
00:17:35.466 - 00:18:24.306, Speaker A: And, you know, and now the gas fees being expensive in general makes it expensive for market makers to participate in things like rebalances and stuff like that. So, yeah, that's why kind of like, v one's being deprecated here. If you do have these robots kind of like sets in v one, this, there's a guide here on how to redeem it and basically how to sell out of it sort of thing. You know, I know that for some users it's painful because the fees are quite high on, on selling these sorts of things. It can cost sometimes like a few hundred dollars to do this, which is unfortunate. But, yeah, if you want to kind of get out of this position, you know, this is how you do it because these sets will no longer be rebalanced into the future. But the positive thing is, is that the set v two infrastructure has been built up from the ground up to be very gas efficient to, you know, avoid all of the problems that kind of, like, reared their head with v one.
00:18:24.306 - 00:18:51.962, Speaker A: And, like, I'm personally extremely bullish on what v two is doing. Obviously, I have a bias here as I'm still an advisor to set. But, you know, I think it's just like a better path forward and this is the kind of stuff where it's like short term pain for long term gain sort of thing. So I guess like kudos to, I guess like the set team for pulling the plug here. I know it wasn't easy for them. Like I've been following kind of the conversations definitely wasn't an easy decision to make, but it was one that had to be done. So yeah, if you've got any old sets, definitely go check out these posts.
00:18:51.962 - 00:19:19.614, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So NFTX has launched their new interface which allows people to create mint and trade NFT backed tokens here. So you can go to app dot nftx.org here and you can kind of see there's a new interface. I'm not going to connect my wallet here, but basically they've kind of refreshed the UI. For those who have used NFTX in the past, you'll see kind of like how this differs from the old UI here. But yeah, I mean, this is one of my favorite projects in the space still.
00:19:19.614 - 00:20:05.410, Speaker A: And for those who don't know what this is and actually disclaiming how I own some NFTX tokens, of course. But basically what, what this is, it's a way to create like indexes of different nfts and give them liquidity. So essentially the most popular one, I think is the punk index, where basically all of the quote unquote floor punks or like the least rare punks I've kind of put into this index. And you can trade this and it acts as like a kind of like benchmark for what the floor is on crypto punk. So you could speculate on crypto punks by just buying and selling this kind of index. Now this is just like the, I guess like one of the first apps you can use NFTX for. There's obviously other nfts you can put in, into this and anyone can kind of mint their baskets and, and create these indexes here and stuff like that.
00:20:05.410 - 00:20:27.862, Speaker A: So, and like with this new interface, it's even easier to do. So yeah, if you're interested in doing that sort of stuff, definitely go, go check this out. But I think this is, this is really, really cool. I really think that this is, was a solely needed kind of thing. I think that they're working very hard right now on like upgrading the protocol as well, not just the UI. I think there's like a v two coming at some point as well. So I'm definitely excited for that.
00:20:27.862 - 00:21:07.960, Speaker A: But yeah, and I'm curious to see kind of like how this lends itself to the immutable X platform as well. Will we see NFT indexes trading, you know, on immutable access platform? We will see. So I put out this poll today, and, you know, I left this for last year because I think I'm going to be talking about this for a few minutes here. But I put out this poll where I asked, do you care about decentralization? And as you can see here, the overwhelming kind of response was yes. So there's about 83% was yes, about 5% was no, 6% was indifferent, and 6% was show results. So I was surprised by this, if I'm being honest. And obviously, this poll isn't going to be representative of the entire space.
00:21:07.960 - 00:21:45.166, Speaker A: I have a very kind of, like, ethereum based following. You know, most of my followers are obviously interested in ethereum, and if you're interested in ethereum, you obviously care about decentralization. But, and I wrote about this in the Daily Gwen newsletter today, I actually think this question is, like, very, very simple. It doesn't have enough nuance around it, because when you say the word decentralization and when you actually say to people, okay, you know, is this thing decentralized? Or is this thing, people have their own definitions for it. It is not a strictly defined term. It is not something that you can just say, you know, okay, well, this is decentralized, and this isn't, or, you know, or like, people will say, you know, this is decentralized, but really it isn't. And sort of thing.
00:21:45.166 - 00:22:26.986, Speaker A: And there's, there's a piece by Balaji called quantifying decentralization. And it kind of breaks down, like, what, what kind of, like things you have to measure to, to get to something that's decentralized. So, you know, the number of nodes in the network that are validating the kind of, like, network and can validate the network, how concentrated the mining or staking is in terms of, like, pooling and stuff like that. You know, how decentralized is the core development? Is there multiple teams working on the, on the clients? Right. How decentralized is the exchange infrastructure and just general infrastructure in general. So all of this sort of stuff culminates into kind of, like, measuring and as Balaji puts it, quantifying this decentralization. Now, that is, that nuance is completely lost here.
00:22:26.986 - 00:23:09.750, Speaker A: So I think with this poll, a lot of people do care about decentralization, but there might be people who think that the, you know, the things that they care about, or like, decentralization that they care about is a platform that's not actually decentralized at the end of the day. So I'm, you know, and it's hard to tell because obviously this is just a poll, and I had a bunch of replies here as well that I was kind of reading through. And, like, I actually like the replies here. And I like that some people said, you know, you know, they like money more. So they care about decentralization, but they like money more than decentralization, which, I mean, I expect, you know, this person says here, yes, but, yes, I care about decentralization, but I still buy BnB if it goes up, for example. And I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. I mean, I don't blame people for doing this.
00:23:09.750 - 00:23:54.422, Speaker A: You know, just because something is not decentralized doesn't mean you can't speculate on it at the end of the day. But I think the fundamental kind of, I guess, like, question here that I was trying to answer is that, you know, yes, you can make money on these things, but, like, like, outside of the money making stuff, what you actually care about. Do you care about decentralization? And I think a lot of people do. But I do think a lot of people sometimes mistake certain platforms for being decentralized when they aren't, you know, not just platforms and like, other blockchains, but also kind of like apps as well. Because if we really kind of look at it, there's a lot of apps on Ethereum today within the defi ecosystem that are definitely not decentralized because they still have admin keys, which is a feature for those apps because they're early stage. They want to be able to upgrade the protocol, and that's fine. Like, I I don't have an issue with that.
00:23:54.422 - 00:24:40.124, Speaker A: But you might get a lot of people saying, well, this protocol is decentralized because it's on Ethereum. It's like, well, okay, you know, that I can get why people say that, but that is just like, you know, if the base layer is decentralized but the app isn't decentralized itself, well, then it's not decentralized just because it's on Ethereum. It could be on any other base layer, but as long as there was admin keys that controlled it, it's not decentralized. Right. So the point is here is that, like, the base layer, you know, in this case, Ethereum, being decentralized is critical because it works the other way, too. If your base layer is centralized, but the apps, you know, maybe on top of it, are decentralized and don't have like admin keys or whatever, it doesn't matter because at the end of the day, you're still at the mercy of the centralized base layer. So that's why the base layer being decentralized is the most important thing.
00:24:40.124 - 00:25:27.614, Speaker A: And that's why I don't mind defi apps being kind of centralized and then progressing to being decentralized over time because it makes a lot of sense. And, you know, it's actually easier to do that for different defi apps and apps in general than it is to do that for an entire platform. So, and that's why I'm unconvinced that a lot of these other platforms that claim that they're going to be able to decentralize over time, like all these other blockchains, I just don't think that's going to happen. I've seen that kind of claimed for many years in this space, and it's just never materialized as people kind of thought it would. Especially in systems that are based on distributed proof of stake or deposit, they devolve into cartels very quickly, and then the cartels don't want to give up their power. And yeah, essentially it's just a dissentalized system at the end of the day. So, yeah, maybe I'll put out some more follow up polls to this.
00:25:27.614 - 00:26:09.000, Speaker A: I don't know. I don't know if Twitter polls is the kind of best thing to do here. I think just simply educating people more about what decentralization is, why, you know, a theorem is not sacrificing decentralization. You know, even though it's more expensive to use Ethereum, people still don't want, you know, the community at large doesn't want to these, doesn't want to sacrifice it to achieve kind of like, you know, cheaper fees and scale or whatever. But, you know, and I guess, like, the last thing I wanted to talk about here, and I was thinking really kind of deeply about this because I actually saw a comment here from someone. There was, I don't know where it is now. I can't remember if it was a comment here or somewhere else, but essentially people can say they don't care about decentralization until they do.
00:26:09.000 - 00:26:35.292, Speaker A: Because when you really think about it, right, people are like, well, you know, this thing has run centralized for quite a while. It's fine. Like nothing's ever going to go bad with it. And then you kind of look at history and like, that's never been the case. Like, even the biggest banks in the world in the US, right, were doing kind of shitty things leading up to 2008. And the only reason why some of them survived was because they got bailouts from the governments. The government isn't going to bail out any of these blockchains, right? Right.
00:26:35.292 - 00:27:20.086, Speaker A: If something goes wrong with them, no one's coming to bail them out. Like, and if it's centralized then the only person bailing it out is kind of like the people running this system. But if they're out of money and there's something that requires money to kind of bail it out, then I don't know, I just, I just see that kind of just blowing up in people's faces. So at the end of the day, we are building these systems to get away from centralization as much as possible. And that's why I personally always fight back against these other platforms and I get that people want to use them because the fees are cheaper and all that sort of stuff, and that's fine. I don't blame people for doing that, but don't call it decentralized. You know, understand that what you're using is at risk of centralized control and also understand that the whole point of this ecosystem is to decentralize as much as we can.
00:27:20.086 - 00:27:39.642, Speaker A: So, and I think a lot of people do, and I think everyone kind of watching and listening this definitely understands this. But, you know, and this is why I keep doing this, this is why I keep doing more education around this is because I want people to understand this. And I think during a bull market it's easy for people to lose their heads and not really care about this sort of stuff. And that's fine. You know, people want to make money and I don't blame people for that. Right. Everyone wants to make money.
00:27:39.642 - 00:28:12.102, Speaker A: I would be lying if I don't, if I said that I didn't want to make money either. But you know, at some point, this stuff kind of like means more to a lot of people than money. You know, for me and a lot of people that I kind of know in the ecosystem, we, we care a lot more about kind of like seeing this technology succeed in the way that we want it to. And the way that we want it to succeed is it being, you know, as decentralized and as secure as possible. So for me, I'll keep supporting ethereum as much as I can. I'll keep supporting scaling via L2 because it's the only way to scale a system and retain decentralization. But that's not to say some of these other platforms won't get traction.
00:28:12.102 - 00:28:42.808, Speaker A: Like, personally, I'm, you know, looking at some of these other platforms and being like, okay, well, you know, what they're doing here is pretty cool, and what they're doing there is pretty cool. You know, not, not the very centralized ones. Like, I obviously have zero interest in following what's happening on BSC. Um, you know, there are, there are other platforms, I'm not going to name any right now, but there are other platforms that I can see kind of like maybe carving out value over the long term. But obviously, most of my focus is still on a theorem here. And, you know, I mean, if you're, means where all the excitements happening anyway. So if I want to keep entertained, I just stay in the ethereum ecosystem.
00:28:42.808 - 00:29:25.998, Speaker A: But, you know, at the end of the day, a theorem is the only platform, and I believe will only, will be the, the only platform that appeals to everything that I want to see in, in these platforms and to myself, deeply held beliefs and kind of ideologies. And I'll freely admit that it's an ideological thing, and I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. I just think that, you know, not everyone is like that, which is fine, but I think being honest about it and being honest about what, you know, you care and don't care about is better than just lying and saying, yeah, I care about decentralization, when really, you know, you kind of don't. Yeah, because, like, honesty, I think, is kind of everything in this space. And, you know, I'm glad to see actually a lot of people being honest, right. A lot of people just straight up say, I care about money more than I care about decentralization. I'm fine with that.
00:29:25.998 - 00:29:53.556, Speaker A: You just straight up tell me, and I'm fine with it. What I don't like is when people kind of lie, right? And, you know, when people kind of mislead others by saying, you know, they really care about decentralization, but, but they're just profiting off centralization at the end of the day. So I think, you know, I think from that perspective, it's just, like, good to kind of, like, take stock here. And I think I've rambled on about that enough for today. And we're up at 30 minutes, so I think I'm going to end it there. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching again. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:53.556 - 00:30:00.804, Speaker A: If you haven't yet. Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
