00:00:00.170 - 00:00:39.450, Speaker A: Creating a new way for creators to monetize their work. And that really flows in nicely to NFT royalty payments. And that's why I spent some spare time trying to build out this NFT royalty standard. So I particularly like this XKZD comic. It's about how standards proliferate. And in many cases there's like, okay, there's 14 competing standards, and then some smart ALec comes along and says, I'm going to create a new standard to universally unify all of these into one. And then you've got 15 competing standards.
00:00:39.450 - 00:01:42.374, Speaker A: So we kind of did go down that route originally, but definitely we've found that we're converging on some solid ideas. The community has really put a lot of work in here, and that's what I'm going to talk to you today about. But first, what do I want you to walk away with today? Well, there's three things. The first one is I want you to have a better working knowledge of what the royalty landscape today in nfts looks like and how we can do better and how it's not great. Number two, I want to have you get an idea about how it's evolving, the ideas that we're converging on and how it's definitely a step in the right direction. And then kind of how can you be part of that evolving future? And that's really spoiler alert. It's implementing EIP 208 one into your ERC 721 contracts or 1155 contracts.
00:01:42.374 - 00:02:50.930, Speaker A: And it's really easy. I was originally going to talk about the rationale of the EIP two, and I need one today, but I kind of changed the talk pretty last minute on more of the context around NFT royalties because I really think in the long run, if I talk about that, it will actually be more persuasive to get product managers, engineers, everyone in this room building something to actually want to implement EIP, turning it one into their NFT projects. So a little context, kind of back of the envelope calculation here. I took two collections off of a large marketplace, looked at the volume, and then done a quick calculation on kind of the amount of money we're talking about here for some collections. So you can see one of the creators, and this is probably an ideal number. There's $30 million in just NFT royalties alone. Now, it's important for large creators to also get their payments, but also arguably even more important for smaller NFT creators to be able to extract their payments.
00:02:50.930 - 00:03:22.970, Speaker A: So the goal here is to make sure that the royalty market isn't fragmented with respect to royalty payments and that people do get the payments that they're owed and deserved. Right. So let me set the scene. We've got five kind of actors in this scenario, and I'm going to describe what the current NFT royalty landscape looks like. Not in every case, but this is the kind of common case. So we've got Alice, Bob, and Charlie, and then two marketplaces. Alice is an NFT creator.
00:03:22.970 - 00:04:07.590, Speaker A: She mints her NFT on, say, the Ethereum main net, and she lists it on marketplace one. In doing so, she's also set up royalty information for that NFT collection. And marketplace one takes that information and puts it into some centralized database, SQL, NoSQL, what have you. Bob likes the art, as we all do, and he purchases the NFT. This is recorded as a sale event on the marketplace side. And Alice gets her royalty payment. So that will be some percentage of the total sale amount, and that will go into her Ethereum wallet.
00:04:07.590 - 00:04:44.390, Speaker A: Sometimes this is kind of asynchronous. It's batched payments, which is great. So Bob realizes that he can make a profit here, and he lists the same NFT on marketplace too. The problem here is that Alice is kind of unbeknownst to Alice, so she never set up royalty information on marketplace two for this NFT collection. So marketplace two is just going to facilitate that trade. But when Charlie buys this NFT, marketplace two doesn't know who to send the royalties to. So there might be some platform cut.
00:04:44.390 - 00:05:38.310, Speaker A: But Alice ultimately won't get paid her royalties, which she should. And you're starting to see the bigger picture here, which is siloed royalty information. It's, it's fragmented. And the idea that we want to move towards is to remove this fragmentation and silos. So just the things that jump out siloed information, if she did put it across marketplaces, it might be duplicated and inherently inconsistent. She might have had a fat finger moment and typed the wrong numbers in for another marketplace and received less royalties. There's no real accountability for marketplaces to pay these royalties because a lot of this information is opaque.
00:05:38.310 - 00:06:32.770, Speaker A: And just all in all, it's kind of confusing and painful to manage. Number two, this is where we are converging on. So the ideas here are what the evolving landscape looks like. So from a high level, we want to basically move that royalty information from these databases, and we want to put them into our on chain in a gas efficient way. And you'll find out we've actually come up with some really good methods to do this, and in addition to that, we kind of want to democratize that data. And we've built a royalty registry, and this is really in collaboration. And Manifold XYZ, they built this royalty registry in collaboration with all these other large marketplaces like Opensea, Nifty Gateway, wearable foundation.
00:06:32.770 - 00:07:33.180, Speaker A: Zora this is one of the first times we've kind of seen all of these marketplaces come together and agree that this is a problem in the NFT space. So there's already been a lot of great buy in here. This is kind of governed by safe. I think that the more people sort of catch on to this and start realizing that this is the way the royalties information should be managed, you'll see this kind of like thought, I like to call it death of siloed royalties by a thousand cuts. If you get your NFT creators to opt into this model, it kind of twists the arm of large marketplaces to start accepting this as the gold standard for how they read royalty information. So I want to talk about the royalty registry in particular and why it's great, basically. So it's a bunch of on chain smart contracts.
00:07:33.180 - 00:08:15.512, Speaker A: It's deployed on a bunch of different roll ups. It's mainnet, Robson, rank B, polygon and nfts that exist on those chains will have their own version of the royalty registry. The idea here is that you would ask the royalty registry for the royalty information for a given NFT. So you can imagine the three parameters there. You'd have the contract address, the token id, and the seal price. So the reason the seal price is passed into the royalty registry is because we get the smart contracts to perform a percentage calculation on that sale price. So the result of the percentage calculation is undisputable.
00:08:15.512 - 00:09:00.970, Speaker A: You can't argue with it. So I guess if we're going to move towards this new way to represent royalty information, I've kind of identified three key flows here and the three key actors that are going to have to change their behaviors for us to realize this. So first one is NFT creators circuit 2019. So this is kind of like before this NFT royalty standard, before we thought about NFT royalties on chain. Then we've got new NFT creators circuit 2022 and marketplaces. So those are the kind of three people I think we need to get buy in from here. Flow one is really just about supporting older nfts.
00:09:00.970 - 00:10:16.894, Speaker A: So again, manifold have created an amazing way to do this. So if you've already created an NFT collection and you want to opt in here, well, they've basically made like a very gas efficient way of deploying royalty information for your nfts on chain, and it uses something called EIP 1167 which is minimal proxy contract. So basically you are able to deploy tiny amounts of code on chain and then just some the necessary information and then your nfts can make use of this open royalty democratization of data. So definitely check that out. If you've already made nfts and you want to get your nfts registered in the royalty registry, this defaults to using EIP 2981, which is the royalty standard. Flow two is supporting newer nfts and this one's like really simple. So when you're writing your 721 or 1155 contract, just implement a new interface and this is the royalty standard.
00:10:16.894 - 00:10:44.766, Speaker A: In essence it's really simple. I can talk about the function signature here. Basically it takes a token id and the sale price, and it returns an address and an amount. The address is who gets it, the amount is how much they get. And that's why the percentage calculation actually happens on JN. You can see that this is a view function, so it's free to invoke. So you don't have to penny information or penny gas or anything to actually make use of this.
00:10:44.766 - 00:11:41.034, Speaker A: So the royalty registry invocations are free for marketplaces. This is like the call site of the royalty registry and it defaults to EIP two. So if you take away anything here, if you want to get involved in the royalty registry, add EIP 208 one to your smart contract, because it defaults to checking for this, which is really useful, really useful. This is an example implementation of the function itself. And I would imagine most use cases are going to look very much like this, like 99%. So you'll notice here that I do the multiplication first. That's just a kind of quirk of solidity.
00:11:41.034 - 00:12:02.402, Speaker A: It keeps the precision. If you had done the division first, then you would have lost some precision. But essentially this returns the two values. It's the who gets it and how much. And it's also at the token level. You can have it at the global level. So all NFTs under this smart contract can have the same royalties or you can have per token.
00:12:02.402 - 00:12:46.466, Speaker A: So that's useful as well. The final flow was how would marketplaces really have to change their behavior? And I can kind of see this as a fees rollout. They weren't going to switch over to the registry straight away because I can't imagine everybody getting their NFTs involved in this registry from the get go, but they should definitely integrate with the registry as soon as possible and make an invocation to the registry. Check if the NFT royalty information is there. If it is, use it. If it isn't, then maybe go back to the database and see if it's there. This would just be a matter of you wouldn't actually have to use like a rest API for anything, by the way.
00:12:46.466 - 00:13:36.650, Speaker A: It's just a matter of normal using infura to invoke a smart contract function, something as simple as that. I guess this was one of the final points then it's like how do you opt in? And I've kind of already alluded to it, it's just implement dip two and in it one in your contract. I've given a longer talk on the rationale behind EIP two eight one. How long? We were kind of discussing this on GitHub discussions. It went on for a year and a half. It got really down to the fine details of grammar and sentences, which was kind of painful at points. But this YouTube video is a good overview of kind of if you're a developer or a product person, kind of like looking to put this into your project.
00:13:36.650 - 00:14:36.376, Speaker A: And yeah, there's some solid reference implementations to use out the gate. Summary of EIP 2981 the receive address is a single address, so some people might be like, well, why isn't it an array? Well, it could have been, but we were kind of like wanting to keep it as simple as possible, because you can always use that single address as a contract. Openzeppelin have some nice libraries for this, a payment splitter library, so you can have the address be a contract, and then it's got like a pull payment method. So that's really great. Again, the calculations done on chain, so it's undisputable. We don't define the units of the seal, and this is kind of for flexibility. Could be a future EIP, and it's an optional kind of opt in model here.
00:14:36.376 - 00:15:26.924, Speaker A: And we did talk a lot about in the discussions of this EIP, how do we enforce royalties? Because we're all here, because blockchain is great and we can codify things and make sure the rules get enforced and people should get their payments. But kind of some of the standards that came before I eip seven two one. The ETH or token for the seal never touches the contract. And in that you can never really tell if it was a simple transfer event or if it was an actual seal. So they're indistinguishable. A seal is just kind of like an abstraction that a marketplace uses to denote a transfer event. So a transfer could be a person consolidating their nfts to their cold wallet, and we wouldn't know if that was a sale or not.
00:15:26.924 - 00:16:22.832, Speaker A: So there was a lot of kind of hassle and really great discussions around enforcing royalty payments. But we believe that the opt in model, along with more transparent reporting of sale events, can hold marketplaces and people accountable to pay these things. So this is kind of like a call to action, I suppose. So. Everyone kind of sitting in this room watching online. Those of you are engineers, product managers, anybody building anything relating to nfts, just spread the word, implement EIP 2981. And if there's any marketplaces in the room today, be great to have a chat with you guys around adding this to your kind of fees, rollout of royalties, you.
00:16:22.832 - 00:16:26.780, Speaker A: Yeah, thank you so much. That's NFT royalties.
