00:00:07.360 - 00:01:40.214, Speaker A: 30 years ago, Martin solved the problem for finding maximum value revenue auction with one item with independent distributions. And after that, for many years that people have been interested in the case when one wants to sell multi items, and it's a difficult problem and still a lot of research going on. And in this talk, we are going to address two questions. The first one is there a simple mechanism that can achieve constant approximation of optimal revenue? And the second question, can the bayesian incentive compatibility revenue be much higher than the dominant strategy, incentive compatibility? And we'll give some solutions to these questions under the assumption of independence of the different input distributions. But otherwise they can be arbitrary. And we made progress by introducing a particular way of reducing an end buyer multi item auction into n disjoint one buyer k item auctions. And the results in this paper were presented earlier in the year at the soda conference.
00:01:40.214 - 00:02:47.576, Speaker A: And let's start with some background. In the simplest case, you have n equal to one and k equal to one. And the seller has partial knowledge of the buyer's interest and captured by a distribution f. And how does the seller maximize the revenue? And now there's a natural solution is just try to maximize the x, the price which maximized x times the probability of the price being accepted. And now how about the multiple items and multiple buyers? And now for k equal to one item and n buyers. As we mentioned, Myerson solves the problem completely. And when is greater than one? It's more complex even for one buyer.
00:02:47.576 - 00:04:48.440, Speaker A: So let's look at the one buyer case under the assumption that the distribution of the items are independent. And so, let's use this notation to denote the revenue that can be obtained by two simple algorithms. One is to sell separately and the other is to use bundling. And in a seminal paper by Hart and Nissan in 2012, they asked some really interesting questions about the structures of the multi item auctions, for example, whether the revenue is sub additive, namely that if you have two auctions, it's not possible to obtain much, much more revenue by combining them into one. They apply the structural results obtained to study really concrete questions. For example, if you use simple mechanisms, how far can it be away from the optimal revenue? And they proved that setting separately will achieve off at most by a factor of log k squared, and the bundling can be off by at most a log factor if all the distributions are identical. And later it was shown that these bounds can be improved so the setting separately can be taken one log factor off.
00:04:48.440 - 00:06:00.994, Speaker A: And now for the IID case, then the bundling actually achieve the optimal revenue. And these bounds are tight. And now what about the so, but this doesn't give an algorithm that obtained a constant factor for the general case. And so finally, baby F et al. Proved a very elegant result, showing that if you look at the setting separately and debundling then is off by at most a constant factor. And so now the question is that, what about the case when you have n buyers? Is it possible to have a simple algorithm to achieve a constant factor of the optimal? And that was exactly the question one that we were we raised. And so, to answer that first question, we'll prove a theorem, one that shows that there's a simple and truthful mechanism that achieves a constant fraction of revenue.
00:06:00.994 - 00:07:05.294, Speaker A: And the approach is to reduce the problem to n, disjoint one buyer problem, and using that insight to obtain a constant approximation for this problem. And now this reduction actually is useful not just for answering question one, but for answering question two as well. It shows that the Bayesian can be at most a constant factor of more revenue than the dominant strategy. I see. And there are some other consequences as well. And let's start with looking at this program in solving theorem one. So we'll kind of combine the reduction and the other steps together to show you in one package on how this simple algorithm would look like.
00:07:05.294 - 00:08:14.454, Speaker A: But the reduction will become pretty clear and they'll be useful for other purposes. And before showing you the concrete reduction and implementation, we'll make a remark about the motivation for this n to one buyer reduction. And now, in general, for any mechanism, if you put the constraint that every item has to be assigned to some buyer and you furthermore, you can assign them only to the highest bidder. If you put this very strong constraint, then it's clear that the mechanism must sell each item separately using the second price item victory auction. So you cannot do anything better. But how about more? How about relax, relaxing those constraints a little bit. Let's say that any item, if assigned, can only go to the highest bidder.
00:08:14.454 - 00:10:23.284, Speaker A: So the question is, can such mechanism, any of such mechanism, if you take the best of them, can you achieve our purpose, namely to achieve a fraction of the optimal revenue? So the thinking is that instead of just blindly trying to find a good simple algorithm, let's say that let's search within a limited domain of a particular type of mechanisms and see if it's possible to already get a good solution from this class. And the reason why constraining the class is a good idea is that, as in our case, it turns out that when you make this constraint. It's very easy to characterize the kind of mechanism in this class, and it actually consists of decomposing the general problem into n one beta problem. And so that's how it comes about. And we are going to see that any mechanism in this class is naturally decomposable. And now, if you think about it, what is the structure of a mechanism in this class? Because you can only assign the items to the highest bidder. So it means that when I look, if you look at buyer eye, and if all the other values have been fixed for the other buyers, then if you look at the maximum value for every item, then you will not assign the item to buyer I unless its value is above that value.
00:10:23.284 - 00:11:51.864, Speaker A: So that gives you the notion of something called a, a particular type of one buyer auction, as we will see. So let's go to notation. This is standard notation. Devaluation of buyer I and item j is xi. J is drawn from a distribution over deposited numbers, and the payment is denoted by s and the allocation is noted by q. The qijx is the allocation of the jth item to buyer I when the input is x, and the mechanism is just defined by the allocation and the payment. And so now, as we said, that the decomposition of the in buyer auction into one buyer auctions have a special nature, namely that they are, we are interested in one dimensional auctions where there is a threshold beta, and this beta, when we apply it to our case, would represent the maximum value of the bids from the other buyers.
00:11:51.864 - 00:13:18.316, Speaker A: And so we will say that a mechanism, so now we are considering the one buyer k item auctions, and a mechanism is called the beta exclusive if no allocation can be made, if the bid is less than beta j. And now, so what do we want to do with our, how should we design our mechanism? Well, we would want to design the best beta exclusive mechanism that gives you the maximum possible revenue. And now if you can do that, then that's the best you can do. To design a simple mechanism. We would like to design some simple beta exclusive mechanism that are a good approximation of the best beta exclusive mechanism. So let's look at some examples of the possible beta exclusive mechanism. The first one is selling separately, and we'll just pick a vector that is point wise greater than the vector beta.
00:13:18.316 - 00:14:37.876, Speaker A: And we sell each item at gamma, at gamma j. And another example is sort of an extended version of the bundling, but this time with a surcharge. So basically what we would like to do is for the buyer to pick up those items which their valuation is bigger than the beta j and they should pick those items will give that bundle to them, but they have to pay in addition to the beta j altogether there is a surcharge w that they need to pay. So you can see that in both example one and example two, these are truthful mechanisms and they are beta exclusive. Nobody wants to pick something which for which their true valuation is less than that. Are you summing in the sum, you summing positive and negative numbers or you link to oh, so you will not. So we are offering this price saying that you can pick any subset but you have to pay those beta j and plus an additional w.
00:14:37.876 - 00:16:38.374, Speaker A: So if your valuation altogether, excess valuation is less than w, then you will not buy it. Okay, and now let's look at both example one and two and let's try to combine them saying that let's define the beta bundling as the better of these two possibilities. One is to sell it separately for any pricing gamma greater or equal to beta, or it is one, this bundling with surcharge for any surcharge value. So you can see that what we are doing is trying to extend the barbie f et r, the maximum of the selling separately and the bundling for the standard one buyer k item case to the case when we have these beta exclusive mechanisms and not armed with that. So it seems that if the maximum of setting separately and the bundling is a constant factor approximation of the one buyer k atom case, then the mechanism we define, the beta bundling that we define probably would also be a good approximation of the best beta exclusive mechanism. So we work under that conviction. And so now with that we can just put the pieces together and define the very natural mechanism in the following way.
00:16:38.374 - 00:18:07.916, Speaker A: That I'm given a m by k bit matrix and where the items are independent, and the step one is for each bidder. For each buyer, the seller would conduct a one buyer k item auction where the bid is just a bid from the ibuyer and the seller would use the beta bundling for the distribution, assuming that you have already seen the valuations of all the errors. So conditional on that, you look at the distribution and you design the best beta bundling method for that. And now clearly this is a deterministic and truthful mechanism. And what we would like to show is that this mechanism, DBG, achieves a constant factor of the optimal revenue. Now in order to show to do that, let's assume that you have any magnitudes of m. We will show that each revenue is bounded by a constant times what can be achieved by the DBG mechanism that we have mentioned? And now.
00:18:07.916 - 00:20:01.492, Speaker A: So the idea is to compare the revenue obtained from M with that obtained by DBG in a reduced dimension, namely that we would like to actually compare each buyer. And we, ideally we would like to show that the revenue contributed by buyer I is approximately the same in both cases. But of course in real algorithms this may not happen, because it is quite possible that one can assign all the items to one buyer, whether they are big or small, and we get an enormous large revenue from it. So what we would like to do is to do some accounting trick, namely that we'll do the accounting by redefining the revenue contributed by the I's buyer in such a way that the total revenue remains the same. But one can show that in this adjusted revenue, the buyer eye would have at most the amount that the DGB mechanism case. And so let's do it in formulas. The revenue from DBG is the sum contribution from all the buyers and the expected value of that, the beta I bundling coming from the appropriate distribution.
00:20:01.492 - 00:21:35.620, Speaker A: Now the revenue coming from the mechanism m will rewrite it so that we are going to take away a portion, which we call it a dumping tax. And this portion is defined to be the sum of the value that is coming from selling the items at below the threshold price. So in other words, we are trying to discourage, so if somebody, if some buyer contributes a big revenue, we'll try to kind of discourage the loading up of that amount by just dumping a lot of the small items to them. And so we subtract that off because that, in our view, is not a good way of doing business. And so let's rewrite it in that fashion. And now what we can see is that one can call the total revenue is written as the sum of the adjusted revenue and plus a total tax coming from all the buyers. And now the total tax actually turns out to be small because an item can only be sold once in terms of the total fraction.
00:21:35.620 - 00:23:04.384, Speaker A: So if you just add all this together, if some buyer sold a lot for some item, then the other buyers would have to sell very little, would get very little from that. And so it's easy to see that the total tax is bounded by the expected value of the second maximum for the item. So in other words, it's really bounded by the revenue that can be obtained by a victory auction. So it's small according to our considerations. And now once we have taken care of that, it remains. And it suffices to show that the adjusted revenue is bounded by a constant times the corresponding revenue coming from the beta I bundling. And so, in other words, this means that if I, in terms of the adjusted revenue, you cannot do much, much better than just doing the beta bundling.
00:23:04.384 - 00:24:17.374, Speaker A: And so let's just put them in symbols. The revenue x is the optimal revenue by any beta exclusive mechanism, and the revenue a is the optimal adjusted revenue. And we want to achieve the constant factor inequality by the following two lemmas. One is that if you compare the optimal adjusted revenue by any mechanism and compare it with the optimal value by any beta exclusive mechanism, it's at most a factor off. And the second lemma says that beta bundling is a pretty good beta exclusive mechanism. So if you put these two things together, then it gives the desired inequality that we like to have. And I would mention that lemma one is really the hardest part of the, technically the hardest part of the proof.
00:24:17.374 - 00:25:26.334, Speaker A: So let me just say a few words about the proof of lemma one. And in essence, to prove this lemma one need to prove something of the following nature. You have two distributions, f and f prime, where f prime is obtained by relabeling some of the points in the support of f. So it becomes a different distribution in this fashion. And we need to prove that despite this relabeling, the optimal revenue for this distribution will still be a constant factor of the original one. Now, so in order to do this, one need to, to do the following. Take the optimal mechanism for f, and we want to transform it into a mechanism, m prime, for the new distribution, such that the m prime on f prime will have a constant factor of the revenue of m.
00:25:26.334 - 00:26:17.254, Speaker A: And now, in general, taking m prime, what do you mean by relabeling? And so I look at the original support, and I would just relabel some of the, for example, if originally is 3.5, I would just relabel it by adding two to both of them so that their value has been increased. So in other words, it's sort of a changing the values. Yeah, changing the values, not all uniformly, but some of them. And so it's a particular type of profile changing, but it's a very specific one. Are you preserving order when we label? Yes, yes, yes. Yeah.
00:26:17.254 - 00:27:13.394, Speaker A: I mean, it doesn't work in general. It just works for the relabeling that we need in order to prove this. But I think the quality feature that I'm going to mention, I think it's a general principle that if you take, if you say that since the relabeling is not. That doesn't change that much. If I just use the original mechanism, how does it, would it work? That will not work. And because the revenue would be sensitive to relabeling, because you might, because we are interested in the revenue and just a small change in my opt find it advantages to go to an option where the price is much lower. So we want to prevent people from defecting.
00:27:13.394 - 00:28:07.494, Speaker A: And instead what we did was to modify the manual original by the following two things. One is to throw away the lower yield entries, the entries where the price is small. And then for the remaining items that we would for the remaining entries, we will lower the price of autos by a constant factor. So we kind of give a discount. And so you can recognize this probably is a good business practice for some company that wants to really keep its customer base. And now, interestingly, after this modification under the new manual for this new distribution, it's more stable. So essentially, the customers usually doesn't want to change its option, and if it changes, it's going to go for a higher price.
00:28:07.494 - 00:29:30.940, Speaker A: And now the reason being that, that by lowering the price, you are increasing the difference between the utility of the buyer compared with the other options. So unless you go for a higher price, if you go to a lower price that previously is not attractive, then it will still not be attractive, and the difference is enhanced sufficiently so that if you do some relabeling of the points, you cannot overcome this. And so that's the. And now let's come to the about question two. Now, the question of whether the bayesian notion of IC is a much gives you much stronger revenue than the dominant strategy. One, it's an interesting question that I think that in Myerson's work, it shows that actually for the one dimensional case, debation is the same as the dominant strategy. And the relation between the Bayesian and the dominant strategy has been a very consistent of interest for researchers.
00:29:30.940 - 00:30:49.552, Speaker A: And even in the last few years, I think there are quite a number of papers about the equivalence of the Bayesian and the dominant strategy in the one dimensional case with various refinements. It's not just revenue, but other structures. However, for the multi item case, I think there has been not that much known about it. So we would like to answer it in the case when all the NK distributions are independent in our setting. Now, I'm just going to give you a kind of high level steps of this proof. Now, recall, in the proof of theorem one, we said that any mechanism m can be written down this revenue as the sum of a bunch of just the revenues and plus a dumping tax. And then we showed that the dumping tax in that case is bounded by, by the victory revenue.
00:30:49.552 - 00:32:21.120, Speaker A: And therefore now the fact that the adjusted revenue is bounded by some other things, it's another ingredient. But that's already done. And so in the proof of theorem two, we would like to follow the same sort of outline. We want to show that any of the bayesian icing mechanism would satisfy the form that the revenue can be written down as the sum of a bunch of adjusted revenue and plus a bic dumping tax, and that the adjusted revenue is exactly the same adjusted revenue as in the original case. And so the fact that one can make a decomposition of the, the oxygen into n separate disjoint one dimensional oxygens give us so much structure that is possible to show that even for the Bayesian case, it's possible to manipulate the expression so that you can write in this form. But admittedly that in the proof of theorem too, this step, this step, writing it down, these two parts takes more imagination than the first one. I think that in the proof theorem one, this part is completely trivial.
00:32:21.120 - 00:33:36.134, Speaker A: It's just minus the term and the plus a term. But in this case, you have to do more in order to do it. And the interesting thing is that one can show that even though the division ic, the dumping tax, is not bounded by the victory, you can no longer write it down as the expected value of the second max. But fortunately, you can bound it by the value of the selling item separately using the best. And so that's the essence of what you need to do. And there are other results, because after we have gone through theorem one proof, we have known so much about the if we are, if we only care about constant factor approximation, then we have known so much that it's even possible to write down explicit expression for the auction. In particular, if all the items are IDF, then you can write down the revenue explicitly up to a constant factor.
00:33:36.134 - 00:34:58.936, Speaker A: And furthermore, it's possible to simplify the mechanism for achieving this bound by something called second price bundling. So instead of having a bundling with surcharge that varies depending on other inputs, you can just have chosen a uniform parameter w. And you say that I'm performing this bundling with the surcharge w for audibiers. So it's a very simple description that can achieve that. And so in conclusion, we have seen that it's possible to decompose it into n one dimensional auctions and the inside allow us to construct a simple constant factor approximation, and also other results such as knowing the relation between Bayesian and the revenue. And of course, it would be very interesting to have much improved solution because the constant is still very large, and I certainly cannot believe that that's the only solution we can find. But I think the most interesting problem in this is really about some bigger things.
00:34:58.936 - 00:36:11.844, Speaker A: I think that the heart and the Nissan showed that for the one buyer multi item case, the auctions are additive. But for the n bar case, and I looked at it pretty hard, but I just couldn't find a way to make it work, although I believe that must be the case, namely that if you have two auctions that you want to do, is it possible by combining them into one auction and get more than a constant factor that you can obtain by doing it separately? I think just philosophically it's a tremendously intriguing question, and in fact, I believe that if one can solve questions of that kind, you'll have to get a lot more insight into the multi item auction problem. So thank you very much, we have plenty of time for questions.
00:36:13.464 - 00:36:24.816, Speaker B: You showed that the exclusive, the beta exclusive mechanism, achieves a constant factor of the adjusted. But do you know of a distribution and mechanism where there's a gap between the adjusted revenue and the adjustment?
00:36:24.840 - 00:36:48.734, Speaker A: I do not know any. I think that as far as I can tell, there could be that the, the beta exclusive is the best way for doing that. Yeah. So it would be very, very interesting to have a counter example. Yes.
00:36:48.854 - 00:36:55.390, Speaker B: Can I ask the same question for the evasion revenue and the dominant strategy revenue? Do you know of an example where the Bayesian is strictly better?
00:36:55.502 - 00:37:25.240, Speaker A: I don't know. I think it's quite interesting. I think that in the literature people have constructed multi dimensional type of auction for which that Bayesian is different. However, they are for a more general type of auctions and for the natural options that we are considering. I don't know any such example. I don't know. Maybe one should do a computer experiment.
00:37:25.240 - 00:37:34.914, Speaker A: I think it's just simply that somehow the instances, the numbers get so large that it's hard to write it down and check it manually.
