00:00:00.280 - 00:00:28.022, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Wave refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so sino it has the 1 July 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So today begins the new cadence of the daily refuel episodes. As you guys know, I announced last week that I will only be doing episodes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays going forward. So it's going to be like the semi daily Gwei or the every other daily gwei, right? It's not going to be the daily Gwei for the foreseeable future.
00:00:28.022 - 00:00:58.354, Speaker A: As I said last week, though, I will probably at some point in the future bring it back every day, every weekday, I should say. Sorry, but for now it's going to be Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays. But without further ado, let's jump into the news. So a lot happened over the weekend, actually, and a lot with regards to regulatory stuff. And there's some really exciting stuff and some kind of stuff that I was thinking about over the weekend. I was like hmm, I should be excited about this, but I'm not, and I'll get into that in a sec. But first off, I want to kick off with some ETF news.
00:00:58.354 - 00:01:30.734, Speaker A: So nothing groundbreaking here, just more news around timelines of when these ETF's are actually going to start trading. So Nate Jurassic here basically said we got some additional detail on the approval timeline. Issuers have been asked to submit s one amendments by July 8. There would still be one more round of filings after that before ETF's can start trading. So it seems like the ETF's will probably not be going live early in early July as I originally predicted. Certainly not on July 8. Yeah, at least it seems like unless something changes, unless they want to, I guess.
00:01:30.734 - 00:02:13.406, Speaker A: I guess what's the word I'm looking for? Speed track these things or speed up these things. And I think that that's probably a low probability probability of happening because of the fact that they've just been dragging their feet on this for quite a while now. But I've seen some people say that maybe it happens in kind of late July. As I've said to you guys before, I don't think it really matters. I actually prefer late July because I think that the later it happens, the better because of the fact that the market is just generally in a slump right now. Like it'd probably be more bullish if the ETF's launched when the market was hot again and eats price was like over four k and people were beginning to really fomo back in like that would be a more bullish period of time to launch the ETH ETF's into. But as I've said plenty of times in the past, I don't think it really matters over the long term.
00:02:13.406 - 00:03:04.574, Speaker A: The ETF's generally are a long term passive vehicle. It's not going to be something that is going to do or die based on the first few weeks of trading or anything like that. And the first few weeks of trading are probably going to be very volatile anyway because we don't know what those outflows look like from ETH. And that's the big question. You know, the Grayscale ETH trust, that's a big question right now, what, what those outflows are going to look like. But in terms of inflows, Nate actually had another tweet here where he said that the spot Eat ETF's will be second, the second most successful debut in ETF history, only behind spot BTC ETF's, which is a pretty big call because obviously the spot BTC ETF's were, was the biggest ETF debut in history. And for east to be the second most successful debut or the second biggest in any, for him to say this in the face of so many people thinking that it's not going to get many flows, it's going to be quite bearish for ETH, so on and so forth, is a pretty good and pretty bullish signal.
00:03:04.574 - 00:03:43.412, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know, Nate is involved in the entire ETF eco ecosystem. He was one of the only ETF pundits calling for the ETF to be approved using the same logic that I was using for months. So I really like his takes on on things, and I really like following his tweets here. But there is an episode that bankless actually did with Matt from Bitwise and Alex, I believe, from galaxy all about this. And I think it's probably still available for early access. I mean, they had it in their early access for subscribers, but I think it's actually probably available for everyone to listen to right now. And that's a really bullish episode because it basically breaks down what the inflows to the ETF's are probably going to look like.
00:03:43.412 - 00:04:25.216, Speaker A: And I mean, the TLDR is that they're going to look like a market cap weighted. So essentially you can expect 30% of BTC inflows in ETH. So if BTC got 10 billion inflows within like the first month or something, you can expect $3 billion for each sort of thing. So essentially market cap weighted here, which is pretty obvious that it's going to look like that. And Matt and Alex give their reasoning as to why it's going to look like that. So I highly recommend listening to the episode, but I don't see the flows being bearish. Like, even if for the first few weeks the net flows are essentially zero because you have a lot of flows coming in, but you also have things passing out because of Eth selling off and people just redeeming that because maybe the fee is still too high and so on and so forth.
00:04:25.216 - 00:05:03.000, Speaker A: But I think that if you look at a few months out from here, these ETF's are going to bring ETH to all time high and beyond. I really don't have any doubt in my mind about that, especially as we entertained q three and q four, where I believe that we're already in Q three, right. July, August and September q three, which, I mean, November, December is Q four. But especially as we kind of enter the later stages of Q three into q four, I do expect the market overall to be picking up and to be very hot. And ETh obviously is the only asset besides BTC that's going to have a live ETF trading. So that's going to be interesting to see what the flows look like there. But as I said, definitely go recommend listening to that episode on bankless with Matt and Alex.
00:05:03.000 - 00:05:36.162, Speaker A: You can go find that on bank lists, YouTube channel. It got me quite bullish. I usually don't listen to too many podcasts these days, but I do try to make time for ones that I think are going to be unique and insightful, and it definitely was. So definitely go check that one out there. Now, in terms of my own speculation around what the flows are going to look like and the timing around the ETF launch at this point in time, the launch timing, I think, is mostly irrelevant. It's going to happen the next few weeks, you know, when the exact date is doesn't really matter. In terms of flows, I totally agree with the analysis of it's just going to be market cap weighted.
00:05:36.162 - 00:06:22.802, Speaker A: Like, if you think about how tradfi or how people like to generally structure their investments, especially investments into things or allocations into things that they may not have deep knowledge of, it's usually market cap weighted. Like if you're in a crypto investor or, sorry, if you're an investor and you're thinking, okay, well, I'm going to put 5% of my total, total portfolio, which is probably on the higher end, but just for sake of argument, I'm gonna put 5% of my total portfolio into crypto ETF's. Okay, well, what's available to me? Well, ethan BTC. Okay, well, how do I actually structure this? Like, I don't know what Ethan BTC are like in depth. I've heard of ethereum, I've heard of bitcoin, but how do I actually structure the allocation here? Well, market cap weighted 70 30 as it stands today. Maybe that changes to 60 40 in the future, or 50 50, depending on the market cap changing when, when the rebalancing happens there. But that is the way that most investors look at this.
00:06:22.802 - 00:07:03.138, Speaker A: You just do a market cap weighted thing because it's the easiest way to do it, and it's the safest way to do it. It requires very little thought to be put into it for those passive investors, which is what the ETF's are for. That's, you know, it's a product made of people who just want a low risk, conservative, you know, easily managed passive investment vehicle that they can grow their wealth over time and they can chop and change where they want to put their allocations into, but generally, they're playing it rather safe here. So, yeah, we're going to see what the inflows look like as a percentage of BTC. It's probably going to take a few months to get an accurate picture here, but I do think that's going to be the case. And as well, there's going to be ETF's launched that are going to be baskets of just BTC and Ethan, and they're going to be market cap weighted. There's no other way to wait it.
00:07:03.138 - 00:07:35.310, Speaker A: Like, unless you're some bitcoin Maxi, who for some reason launches a BTC ETH ETF, and then your allocation is like 100% BTC, 0% eth. It just doesn't make any sense. Like, if you're launching a product like that, you're just going to do it as a market cap waiting, because that's just the easiest path of least resistance waiting to do it. And then you're going to rebalance at some period of time depending on what the market caps look like at that period of time. That's, that's as simple as that. So I fully expect that to happen. Fully expect that after a few months, it's going to level out to a 30 to 70 split, and we're going to see changes in that split as the market caps change.
00:07:35.310 - 00:08:04.630, Speaker A: So if ETH goes up against BTC, it could become a 60% BTC, 40% eTh split there. And then eventually, maybe it's 50 50. I, in an ideal world, I would like it to be 50 50, or at least I would like to see it be 50 50. But at the same time, I would also like it to see it be, you know, heavy in eats favor. Like, for example, imagine if it becomes 70 30, but in eats favor, you know, 70% ETH, 30% BTC. That would be really cool to see. But I really do think it's going to be a market cap weighted thing for these vehicles there.
00:08:04.630 - 00:08:38.406, Speaker A: All right, moving on. So, unfortunately, I think I mentioned this last week where I basically corrected myself and said that consensus beat the SEC. With regards to the SEC going after consensus in relation to Ethereum 2.0, or ETH becoming a security, because it moved to proof of stake. They withdrew that case against, or, sorry, they didn't withdraw the case against consensus. They basically said they weren't going to pursue that case anymore against consensus. Now, there was another separate thing that they filed that Wells notice towards consensus for, and this was for a bunch of different things.
00:08:38.406 - 00:09:19.304, Speaker A: In particular, it was for metamask as a wallet, but also for the staking service that Metamask has, which actually uses rocker pool and lido in the background. Now, in the lawsuit that the SEC lobbied at consensus over the weekend with regards to this, they actually specifically called out, um, Rockerpool. They called out Lido. And it was really weird, because the whole lawsuit made very little sense, and I'm not going to go into detail about it, but some of the really weird stuff was that apparently the SSE was making it out as if you got audits on your smart contracts. That makes it so that you, what you're doing is more likely to be a securities offering, which was bizarre logic. And I saw that, I was like, okay, that makes no sense. And they were also arguing that rocker pool wasn't, you know, was a.
00:09:19.304 - 00:10:03.028, Speaker A: I don't know if they're saying it was a custodial staking service, but they were essentially saying they're staking through Rockerpool was like a security or some kind of securities transaction or something like that. They listed a bunch of tokens in there that metamask allows people to swap using the metamask swaps feature and saying those tokens are securities, you know, nothing new here from the SEC, them just doing what they do best, which is not really much. They don't really do anything best. But you know, what they do best, I guess, is bullying, if you can call it that. But, yeah, that was a lawsuit, lobbied at consensus over the weekend. Here. Now, my tweet that I put out with relation to this was that, you know, I thought I already hated the SEC as much as I possibly could, but, hey, I found a little bit more hate for them when I saw the consensus lawsuit, especially because it just seems like they're continuing this scattershot approach where it makes no sense what they're doing.
00:10:03.028 - 00:10:35.108, Speaker A: They're not protecting anyone, they're not helping anyone, no one. Like, I very much doubt there is anyone, literally anyone, any, I should say any good faith person that has gone to the SEC and said to them, hey, consensus is doing this bad thing via metamask. I feel aggrieved by it, or I feel hurt by it. Can you please do something about this? Like, I highly doubt there's anyone that's doing that, at least any good faith actor that's doing that. So at the end of the day, the SEC is not protecting anyone and is just being a bully. Like, go after the actual scammers, go after the actual grifters. There's so many of them within crypto.
00:10:35.108 - 00:11:09.112, Speaker A: Literally all the SEC has to do is go to Zack XBT Twitter profile, and there is a laundry list of scammers on there with proof. Like, he's already doing their job for them. All they have to do is enforce against these people, enforce fines against them, make them pay back the money that they've scammed. Put them in jail if you have to. Like, the thing is, Zak doesn't have these enforcement powers, right? He's just a freelance guy who calls out scammers and does an amazing job of it. I'm not trying to water down what he does, but he doesn't have the power to do enforcement. He can report these people to law enforcement, but he doesn't have the power in him to do this.
00:11:09.112 - 00:11:23.592, Speaker A: He can't arrest people. He can't send them to jail. He can't force them to pay back the money. He can't find them. But he's doing a much better job than the SEC. And SEC has billions of dollars in funding, mind you, to do this, whereas Zack doesn't. He relies on donations to continue this work.
00:11:23.592 - 00:11:36.274, Speaker A: So from that perspective, the SSE should just be going after those people. Like, go to Zack's profile, and there you go. Right? And you'll get crypto on side by doing this. But I guess that that's not that. That's not their goal, right. They go is to bully. The goal is to be a mafia.
00:11:36.274 - 00:12:24.758, Speaker A: And that's exactly what they're doing here. But as I said, with all these other cases that the SEC has gone at, are gone at crypto companies with, I really don't think they're going to win any of these cases, or at least most of the case. As I've said in the past, they may win on staking in some scenarios, like, for example, Coinbase's staking offering, as I've argued before, it can, using certain arguments, meet the four prongs of the Howie test. But I really don't understand how you could say that that was the same case for something like rocker pool especially. But even Lido, you know, most of Lido's note operators aren't even in the US either. So it's just a very weird thing that the SEC has done here, but not really surprised by this either. But in other regulatory news and in, I guess, more, more positive regulatory news, is that there was actually a big win for clarity over secondary market sales of digital assets.
00:12:24.758 - 00:13:36.636, Speaker A: So Eleanor, says here, District Judge Amy Berman Jackson has just dismissed the SEC's claim that secondary sales of Binance's BNB token qualify as securities under the Howie test, citing Ripple's Judge Annalisa Torres opinion that the economic reality of the tokens transactions mattered when applying Howie. So essentially, the reason why this is a big win is because you'll remember obviously, that ripple won this part of their case against the SEC where the secondary transactions that were happening for the XRP token and in this case for the BNB token aren't considered securities transactions. Now the reason why that's a, that's an even bigger win, is because this is the second judge to say this like this is a different judge to the one that was in the ripple case. And the way it works, at least in the US, I don't know what it works, like, everywhere, everywhere else, and I'm not a lawyer, so this is just my understanding here. But the way it works is that essentially the more judges that rule in a certain favor with the same facts and circumstances, the stronger that case is and the more precedent gets built here. So that's why it's a big win for clarity. Because now any future cases, the judge will reference these two different judges ruling on the same thing and most likely go in this direction rather than another direction.
00:13:36.636 - 00:14:23.958, Speaker A: Because there is now case law built up here, there is now precedent built up here that the judge can point to and going against that means that that judge would go against two other judges, and obviously that would not be a very, you know, I guess, like, pragmatic thing to do here. So a huge win there overall. And as I said just before, the SEC's cases against these crypto companies like Coinbase and Binance and Kraken, I really do think, and consensus now and Uniswap labs, I really do think they're going to lose most of what they're trying to go after them for. But they'll win on some things here and there. There'll be, there'll be some concessions on some things. And I think that maybe their overall goal is just to slow these things down, slow these companies down, get them bogged down in, you know, in court, get them spending money on this bullshit where the SEC has essentially, like, free funding from the government. They don't have to worry about these, these sorts of things here.
00:14:23.958 - 00:14:51.804, Speaker A: And it seems like Gary Gensler, no matter what he does, is completely protected by his party. I mean, the only hope we have at this stage of Gensler being replaced is if a change in administration happens, if the Republicans win the presidential election. It's not far now. We've got a November happening here. You know, obviously we had the debate last week, the us presidential debate. I'm not going to make any comments about that, but you will have seen everyone's comments on Twitter about this and what that's looking like right now. So really, there may be a real chance of the administration changing here.
00:14:51.804 - 00:15:22.864, Speaker A: But as I've said in the past, I don't think that that should be something that we necessarily rely on. We should definitely build up our wins across not just the, you know, the congress side of things and in the Senate and the legislative side of things, but also in the courts and also with the regulators. We should definitely just try it from all angles. We shouldn't just rely on one thing and, you know, pray to pray that that thing is what saves us. I don't think that's the best path forward here. But yeah, that was a big win there on that front. But then also there was another big regulatory win over the weekend.
00:15:22.864 - 00:15:52.972, Speaker A: And Justin Slaughter here has a really great thread on this. He's the policy director at Paradigm. I'll link his thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But this isn't directly related to crypto. This was a pretty big change within all regulations in the US. So essentially what happened was that there was this Chevron deference case that was a 40 year old Supreme Court case that I literally just heard about over the weekend. So I'm not an expert on this, but this was overturned by the Supreme Court in able, I believe, a six to three vote or something like that.
00:15:52.972 - 00:16:42.502, Speaker A: But regardless of the vote, it was, it was overturned. Now, from my understanding, what this basically means is that the SEC, or I guess, regulators generally, not just the SEC, but regulators generally, is basically much more constrained in what they can do. And as they typically have been in the past. Now, what does that actually mean in practice? Well, essentially what this means in practice is that these regulators can't have their own little insider court systems, or they're kind of like inside, you know, inside the agency court systems where they decide on things or decide how things are going to go and basically make up their, for all intents and purposes, their own regulations and their own laws and their own interpretations of these things. Um, they can't do that anymore. What it now happens is that essentially the courts have that power. The actual, you know, the actual courts, the lower courts, the Supreme Court, whatever court it is, they have that power instead of the regulators.
00:16:42.502 - 00:17:40.060, Speaker A: So the reason why I said this is big news is because it does constrain the regulators, does constrain the regulatory regime from taking advantage and of their power and power creeping, but it does shift this power to the courts. So essentially in there, I guess, like most pessimistic case, is the courts now dictate everything. Now, of course, the courts have been relatively good with crypto for taking, if we're talking about crypto here, relatively good with crypto up until this point, they've definitely sided in favor of crypto most of the time, which has been good to see. But again, like, when it comes to where power lies and interpretations of laws and where enforcement happens and things like that, I would rather not see just one side of the government be given all the power and the other sides be constrained. Even if those other sides have been negative towards crypto in the past. I would rather there be like a separation of powers here. I'd rather there be a balancing of powers here.
00:17:40.060 - 00:18:21.370, Speaker A: I know that this is wishful thinking. I know that things just do not work out like this in reality. But when I look at this, all I can see is that, okay, well, the courts are in our favor now, but what if in the future, the courts aren't in our favor anymore and now they have all the power? So essentially it's like a hot potato of power here. Now, that's my very uneducated, very naive assessment of the situation. As I said, I highly recommend giving Justin's thread a read here. But this goes beyond crypto. This applies to all regulations in the US, to all regulatory bodies in the US far, and, you know, far more important than, than crypto, I think, like, if you want to talk about things like aviation regulations or food regulations or, you know, pharmaceutical regulations, right.
00:18:21.370 - 00:18:54.212, Speaker A: This applies to all of that as well. So this is going to be something that I think results in change over the coming years across the entire regulatory apparatus. We're going to see how the courts treat things versus how the regulators treated them. But I do think it is a big win for crypto, at least for the foreseeable future, because, as I said, the courts have generally been in Crypto's favor, generally been much nicer, much less hostile towards Crypto, whereas the regulators have not. Especially the SEC. Obviously, the SEC has been incredibly hostile towards Crypto. Now, by overturning this, they are constrained in what they can do.
00:18:54.212 - 00:19:23.562, Speaker A: It's not going to happen overnight, maybe it's not going to happen over the next few months, but over years, this, this kind of stuff pays dividends here. But it's definitely a big, a big announcement here, a big thing that happened in the US. But you can go give Justin's thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on from the regulatory stuff of for now, we got some tech stuff to go over. Now, George was who works at Paradigm, you guys will know. He works on the RET Ethereum client execution layer client, but he works on a bunch of other things.
00:19:23.562 - 00:19:49.526, Speaker A: He put out this really great tweet that I thought was really timely. So he basically said, I started off this tweet by saying, guys, the roll up roadmap is simple. L1 maxes out data availability. That's it. From the l one perspective, I've been saying for a while, we've effectively done with the research on scaling beyond data availability, or DA, and the progress on peer Das. Such vid makes me think that is also a solved problem. Let's code something for production and cut the alpha research.
00:19:49.526 - 00:20:02.978, Speaker A: So that's it. You know, don't overthink it. That's it. This is what l one is for the roll up roadmap. L1 is maximizing DA. It's not supposed to be doing anything else for the roll up roadmap here. Yes, there are things like based roll ups.
00:20:02.978 - 00:20:39.548, Speaker A: Yes, there are things like pre conformations that's orthogonal to this. The l one itself is maximum is being optimized for DA for roll ups. Now, of course, there are things outside of this that the l one needs to optimize for outside of just roll ups, such as making sure that we constrain mev as much as possible, making sure that we improve the proof of stake mechanism on ethereum to enable certain things like single star finality and so on and so forth. But when it comes to the roll ups, it's just da. That's what l one is trying to be. It's trying to be the best da layer for roll ups, through blobs, through peer dust, through things like, like vid as well vid here. And that's it.
00:20:39.548 - 00:21:07.328, Speaker A: And I think that what's happened lately, for some reason, at least on crypto Twitter, is that people just don't understand this. And they seem to be thinking that Ethereum is in, in dire straits and he's in dire need of like an intervention when that couldn't be further from the truth. Ethereum is thriving. It's firing on all cylinders. L1 is thriving. It's in its best place ever been in from protocol development perspective, right? We have like all the clients just working in sync just beautifully. We have the biggest upgrade coming with Petra early next year, hopefully.
00:21:07.328 - 00:22:03.202, Speaker A: And then of course, I don't have to say anything about the Altus. They're thriving in all in their own right, like not just on development side of things, but also on the adoption side of things. And they got a huge boost through blobs and that's, they're going to keep getting these boosts through, potentially increasing the size and count of blobs, doing things like peer Das and basically everything related to Da generally, right. Data availability generally on Eth L1, in conjunction with all the other upgrades coming like verkle trees, you know, like PBS and stuff like that, right? Like single slot finality within proof of stake and so on and so forth here. So, yeah, I just really like this tweet from Georgios. It really just hit home exactly what l one is trying to be for roll ups. It's just trying to maxing it, max out the DA, the data availability, because the bottleneck is da really, at the end of the day for the, for the roll ups that use l one, they're not using l one for anything but Da essentially, and for putting their proofs on there, which is just extremely cheap to begin with.
00:22:03.202 - 00:22:21.192, Speaker A: But da is their main bottleneck. And once we solve that, which we pretty much have at this point, until it hits the limit, obviously the bottleneck then falls to execution, which is also being sold by the l two s themselves. So don't over complicate it. That's it. That's been part of the roadmap for like four years now. This is not new. Ethereum is executing on its roadmap.
00:22:21.192 - 00:22:44.116, Speaker A: This is not bearish. If you don't believe in the Ethereum roadmap or the roll up centric roadmap, there are plenty of other l ones out there that you can go, you know, you can go be in. And you know what? This is actually the positive case of other l ones existing. Because if you want to be into crypto and you don't like Ethereum's roadmap and you don't like bitcoin, right? Because I'm not gonna say bitcoin's roadmap because I really have one. But you don't like bitcoin, you don't like Ethereum. You don't like Ethereum's roadmap. You don't like the roll up centric roadmap.
00:22:44.116 - 00:23:04.348, Speaker A: You can go to Solana, Solana is doing the monolithic approach, right? Or you can go to another l one that's doing a different approach, such as Polkadot. They're doing their relay chain approach. I think there's been a bunch of changes there. I haven't really followed too closely with that. You can go with Nia that's still trying to do sharding on l one. Right? Like execution sharding. But I think they pivoted recently to DA as well being a data availability layer.
00:23:04.348 - 00:23:33.588, Speaker A: But generally there are other ecosystems that you can go to. If you don't care for the roll up centric roadmap on Ethereum, if you want to be in a theorem, then this is the roadmap. Guys like this, as I said, it's not new. This is four years at least of what Ethereum is trying to be with this roadmap here. And that's what we've been delivering on and executing on for that time now. So at this point in time, if you no longer buy into the Ethereum vision, then yeah, that you basically have to go to some, go somewhere else. Ethereum is not changing what it is.
00:23:33.588 - 00:23:53.266, Speaker A: It's not going to stop being a roll up centric network. It's not going to stop trying to be a settlement layer. It is not going to stop trying to be the best money in store value on the planet. Like it's going to keep doing those things. That's what you buy into when you buy eth. That's what you buy into when you're part of the Ethereum ecosystem. And that might be a bit of pill to swallow for some, but that's what it is at the end of the day.
00:23:53.266 - 00:24:31.698, Speaker A: And it's not trying to hide that either. It's not making any attempt at hiding that at all. It's, it is what it is. It wears its heart on its sleeve, and that's basically it. But yeah, I just wanted to point out that there, but there is a related tweet to this that comes from Dan Robinson, who works at Paradigm here, where he said ethereum researchers get a lot of unfair process criticism when they publish ideas in progress, that people say the roadmap is constantly changing when they try to iterate or iterate on it before publishing. People say protocol development is happening in secret, and I quote, tweeted this and I said, you know, this is simply the consequence of everything being built out in the open. Everything Ethereum does is being built out in the open.
00:24:31.698 - 00:24:51.372, Speaker A: Yes, there are private conversations that happen between researchers, but once they get to a point where they feel comfortable sharing their research, they share it. And it's just research. It's not an EIP, it's not something that's going to go into the network. It's not something that anyone's going to adopt. It's just research that they're putting out there. And it's all done out in the open. Ethereum's roadmap is defined for the next ten years, completely out in the open.
00:24:51.372 - 00:25:32.782, Speaker A: Open to be scrutinized and criticized. But imagine how much FUD would be thrown at Apple, Microsoft, Nvidia and all those other companies if their ten plus year roadmap was being researched and executed on out in the complete open. Right? And we don't even need to imagine this, because I remember back in the, the early iPhone days, there were leaks everywhere about the iPhone and everyone was criticizing it, being like, oh, it's not going to have this, it's not going to have that. Or what if it does this? What if it does that? This makes no sense. So on and so forth, right? It just gets criticized because it's out in the open. It's being iterated on, and people don't, don't understand that. Now, on top of this as well, these companies, their R and D departments are usually their most secretive departments where it's completely locked down.
00:25:32.782 - 00:25:53.402, Speaker A: They use code names for everything. Any leaks are dealt with with the full force of the law. Everyone signs an NDA, and it's usually for many years. Like, game companies do this all the time. Like, for example, one of the most hotly anticipated games of all time is Grand Theft auto six. There was a leak, I believe, last year that someone. Someone hacked in and basically leaked the.
00:25:53.402 - 00:26:16.176, Speaker A: Some of the files and show people what. What it was and basically confirmed that it was in development. But no one knew for sure if it was in development. No one even knew what was going on with it for like, eight or nine years before this leak happened, since GTA five came out. Now, that's the level of secrecy that you're dealing with here. When it comes to the R and D departments of these companies, Ethereum has none of that. Ethereum is the complete opposite of that.
00:26:16.176 - 00:26:29.152, Speaker A: There is literally none of that going on within Ethereum. No one is sitting on something for eight years, let alone like a month, let alone eight years. Right. And then publishing it and being like, this is what we're doing now. That. That's not. That's not what's happening at all.
00:26:29.152 - 00:26:51.356, Speaker A: Everything is iterated on. Everything is researched out in the open. Everything is developed out in the open. And that is how it is supposed to be. That is a theorem superpower, but it also brings FUD, it also brings distractors, it also brings stupid takes from people who are just not informed, but they want to have their opinion anyway. You know, it's kind of a sad fact of life that the people that are the least informed seem to have the. Seem to have the loudest, loudest voices.
00:26:51.356 - 00:27:15.150, Speaker A: But hey, that's just the fact of life that we have to deal with. And if you're listening to the refuel, you're more informed than, I believe, 99% of people on Ethereum. But that's my. My kind of take on that one there. Now, to finish up today's episode, have something related to Farcaster. So Dan Romero tweeted out, funny, it's always ironic when he tweets out something about far costar, right? Because he's obviously building a competitor here. But there is something that he.
00:27:15.150 - 00:27:44.992, Speaker A: That has been introduced on Farcaster, well, technically on what the warpcast client called pay on warp cast. So you can pay someone with USDC in under 10 seconds. It's mobile first with your existing wallet, no having to look up or remember an address close to instant confirmations and zero fees on base. So essentially, there is a video here showing what this looks like. You bring up the interface here, and basically you type in what you want to pay. It goes to your coinbase wallet, you confirm it, or any other wallet that you have, you confirm it and then you pay the account that you were on in USDC. This literally took 8 seconds for him to do.
00:27:44.992 - 00:28:37.794, Speaker A: And this is all done on base with zero fees using USDC natively through Wopcast. This is again, stuff that leads to mass adoption, guys, this is the kind of stuff that I love seeing integrated into things like social networks where essentially, because it's built on a on chain social network, you can just do this natively. There is no need to essentially, you know, bolt on things or to require the user to install anything or anything like that. It's done natively here with what the user already has, a wallet and the warp cast client. So very, very cool to see this. And once again, that is something that I think is inching us closer and closer towards the adoption that we want to see of real use cases on Ethereum and within crypto generally, obviously, stable coins are the biggest product, I think, within crypto. So anything revolving stable coins always gets me excited, even though I like, you can't speculate on it, right? You can't buy a stable coin and hope that it goes to like $2 or something.
00:28:37.794 - 00:29:08.452, Speaker A: Oh, I mean, you can, but like, it's a highly unlikely that it's going to happen. It usually happens the other way where essentially you buy a stable coin, then it goes down. Um, obviously we all probably know about what happened with uh, with Luna stable coin, right? Ust that, that went to zero, but even USDC went to $0.90. There was a dpeg, stuff like that. But hey, that's why I think a lot of people don't talk about stable coins is because there's not really any way to speculate on it besides maybe buying eth as like a kind of ecosystem bet on stable coins continuing to grow, especially on l two s. But yeah. Anyway, enough rambling about that.
00:29:08.452 - 00:29:18.020, Speaker A: I think that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Wednesday. Thanks everyone.
