00:00:19.560 - 00:00:32.270, Speaker A: Great. We're live. So we have Raman here from Babylon Finance and he's going to give a session on how to start your DeFi investment on dao. Raman, I'll let you take the page.
00:00:33.040 - 00:00:35.710, Speaker B: Thank you. You can see my slides, right?
00:00:36.720 - 00:00:37.576, Speaker A: Yep.
00:00:37.768 - 00:00:59.290, Speaker B: Perfect. Hi everyone. As he said. I'm Ramon, one of the founders of Babylon finance. And during this session, we're going to explain a little bit what's Babylon, what can you build using Babylon and how to do it. So, let's get started. First of all, Babylon Finance is a decentralized protocol that helps people invest in DeFi together.
00:00:59.290 - 00:01:47.130, Speaker B: Through Babylon, you can create investment clubs, DeFi investment clubs that you can also call on chain investment DAOs. And the goal of these investment DAOs in the end is to provide deal to investors. And they invest together through these investment clubs in different DeFi strategies. And through those different DeFi strategies, they build wealth together. So you can see Babylon as this conglomerate of different investment clubs that we call gardens. And they are all united by the bubble token that is the governance token of our protocol. And they are all united by this shared goal of creating wealth for people.
00:01:47.130 - 00:03:00.912, Speaker B: And every garden can have a different investment thesis, different risk criteria, different investment time frame. For example, you can have some gardens, some investment clubs that are formed around finding yield with a really low risk tolerance, for example, just lending dai or lending stable coins. And you can have some other gardens that are going to be really high risk and they're going to take leverage positions on several farming protocols to achieve the highest yield. So, Babylon Finance started from a desire, a personal desire to share all the things that I was seeing in DeFi with my friends and family, because there are a lot of benefits of investing together versus going alone, going solo. First of all, right now and for the last few years, it has been really difficult to invest in ethereum because every DeFi operation costs several hundred dollars. For example, if you want to deposit money into curve and then stake the LP tokens on convex, that will cost you like $300. But now imagine that you are pulling together with 99 other friends, so you are 100 people investing together.
00:03:00.912 - 00:04:01.024, Speaker B: So now the garden or the investment club will execute this operation just once for all hundred of you, and then the whole operation will still be $300. But then the cost for each one of you will be $3. So it would be like 100 X gas savings for each of you. Of course, this depends on the number of members on each investment club. Another good benefit of investment investing together through these investment clubs is that users will be able to consolidate taxable transactions, because when you do it on your own, every transaction is potentially taxable. This depends on your tax jurisdiction and you should go on the details you should research the details with a tax expert. But what investment clubs on chain can do for you or what Dows can do for you is like they can execute hundreds of operations on your behalf.
00:04:01.024 - 00:05:19.880, Speaker B: But the users, they just care about depositing into the investment club and then withdrawing because it's when a taxable transaction happens, because it's when you change an asset like Dai to get in and you receive the tokenized share that represent your participation in the club. And then when you exit, the opposite, you give back your participation in the club and then you receive back the original asset. Another benefit is that crypto and DeFi is a market that never sleeps. It's 24/7 so it's really impossible to keep up with it even if you stay all day glued to the screen. So by investing with others you get to split the fees, split the gas costs, share the profits and also learn from each other and share the load of keeping up with all the things that are going on. So now that we know a little bit what is the vision behind Babylon and what are these investment clubs that we call garden? Let's go a little bit deeper into how they work mechanically. So these gardens are tokenized ERC 20 funds where people deposit assets like stable coins or ethereum or bitcoin and they get a token, an ERC 20 that represents their participation in this club or this investment.
00:05:19.880 - 00:06:33.440, Speaker B: So once people have the token that represents their participation they can suggest a strategy and this strategy can be, for example, lending Dai on compound or investing in this year bond. Once this person suggests a strategy, only the other members in that club or in that garden that have the ERC 20 token can abode or downboat this strategy. If this strategy gets approved by enough members then it will receive capital from the garden or from the club so it will receive capital from all the members. So gardens in effect, they don't need to have a single manager that manages everything and then needs to take all the decisions where to locate the capital. This is different than nontraditional hedge fund. We are reinventing funds on chain from first principles. At the same time all the participants have skin in the game because from the person that creates a strategy to the people that vote those strategies, depending on how the strategy performs, what the profits are, depending if you voted for it or you rejected it, then you will get rewarded.
00:06:33.440 - 00:07:17.148, Speaker B: And same thing for the person that created the strategy. If the strategy did well, the strategist is going to get rewarded and if the strategy did really poorly, the strategist is going to get penalized. The same time gardens are noncustodial. This means that not even the managers or the strategists, the people that create the strategy, they don't have access to user funds directly, only strategies. When they get approved by all the members can receive funds from the club. Finally all the information and all the transactions are available on ethereum scan and on ethereum blockchain and it's permissionless. Everyone can create an investment club and everyone can create strategies within an investment club.
00:07:17.148 - 00:08:09.452, Speaker B: Although some investment clubs can be set up so only some addresses have permission to do so. Another feature of the gardens is that the gardens can create the strategies using an OCUL UI that plugs into more than 15 DeFi protocols like convex car, ave compound, uniswap pico, yarn or lido. So now that we know a little bit how gardens work, let's go deeper into the architecture and how the protocol is structured. Don't get overwhelmed by this graphic. Basically you can see that there are two main entities here. One is the garden and the other one is the strategy. One thing to take into account is like the garden, that is the investment club is where the funds are a pool.
00:08:09.452 - 00:09:25.076, Speaker B: So you have the LPs that are the people that deposit capital and they receive the garden tokens in return. And the creator of the garden that is the one that is also a contributor on LP because needs to deposit to be a normal member and is the one that sets the initial thesis of the garden. And then the LPs when they want to exit they will return these garden tokens and receive the capital they deposited plus the profit and the performance fees if any. And then any within a garden. Like we talked a little bit before, people and strategies can suggest these strategies and then all the other members in the garden can vote to approve these strategies that are what we call stewards here in this graph and they will need to stake and be a member of the garden to be able to vote on them. Then finally these strategies, once they finish they will return the capital to the garden with the potential profits or the losses. And then when a strategy finalizes we'll also return and allocate bubble rewards to the members of the garden depending on the performance.
00:09:25.076 - 00:10:39.264, Speaker B: Because every strategy receives like an stake of the protocol depending on how well it performed. Because the goal of the bubble token and the mining rewards, that is 50% of all the token allocation, all the total supply is designed to reward the people that create the most wealth for others. So the more capital a strategy receives, the more mining rewards it will receive depending on the profits. The higher the profits, the higher the rewards, the longer it lasted, the higher the rewards and the more capital it receives, the higher the rewards and the treasury of the protocol receives also like half a percent management fee and 5% of the profits if any. And that's how the treasury of the protocol accrues value and becomes self sustainable for the long term. So from a data perspective, these entities that we mentioned the gardens. The Babylon Protocol is this collection of gardens that are the investment clubs and their goal is to pull capital from a bunch of different LPs or members.
00:10:39.264 - 00:11:30.828, Speaker B: And these gardens can be created from the UI or from the smart contracts directly. It's totally permissionless as we said before. Then at the same time every garden can have one to end strategies. And these strategies basically allocate capital from the garden to the investment ideas that were approved by the members. And the strategies can be created from the UI, from our local UI or from the smart contract target. Then every strategy can have one or more operations. For example, a DeFi strategy can be as simple as just lending Dai onto compound, but can be more complicated than for example be a strategy that lends ethereum on Abe, then borrows Dai and puts that Dai into this curve pool and then uses the curve LP tokens to stake them into convex.
00:11:30.828 - 00:12:27.092, Speaker B: So that strategy will have effectively four operations. And these operations are created through the UI as part of the strategy builder, or can be created again through the smart contracts. And then every operation has an integration that is basically the adapter to connect with each DeFi protocol. So now we're going to see a quick demo of the UI to see how you can create a club in just a few minutes using our UI. Because it's a lot easier to understand all these things if you actually see them working. So once you go to our website you will see the list of gardens that are verified by governance and you will see all the other gardens that we have. So far we have around 100 investment clubs, around 22 million in TBL, and we release publicly this month.
00:12:27.092 - 00:13:24.150, Speaker B: So here at the top you will see that there is a button so you can create your investment dow in just a few minutes. So here are a few instructions, but then basically you will be able first to say my loan LFD. So you can set the name of your investment club, then you can set the symbol of the token that people receive when they deposit capital. Then you can also set which one is the reserve asset. This means which asset users will need to deposit to become a member. And also this asset will be used to measure the performance. Then you can say what is the thesis of the garden that is like what is the time period, what is the risk criteria and other time preferences for the investors so they know if this investment club fits their preferences or not.
00:13:24.150 - 00:14:55.552, Speaker B: Another thing you can do is you can also set an NFT membership and you can also set like a minimum time in the garden. So then for people that have stayed within your investment dow or within your investment club, for example, for ten days you will set something like ten days on it and then they will be able to mint the NFT. After that time has passed, then we will have a lot of other features regarding what is the minimum amount to deposit, what is the maximum amount you can deposit, how long you need to stay in the garden before you're able to withdraw that? Is this deposit hardlock? Then some protection measures like how much can the share price of the garden change. This can protect against Oracle manipulations and make the two apps even more secure. Then you can also modify what is the performance fee on top of the 5% that the protocol is getting. You can control here how much for every strategy the strategies will get of the profits if any and the same for the voters. And you can also do things like okay, you can make the whole garden private or you can make the garden public so everyone can deposit and then you can make the votes public which mean that everyone can vote on strategies to approve them so they receive capital.
00:14:55.552 - 00:15:58.964, Speaker B: And then finally you can also set open strategies. So then that means that anyone that is a member would be able to suggest investment ideas or strategies. Finally we have a few more settings that control like the garage for the garden that is like okay, how long the strategies can last, how many people need to vote for a strategy to make it happen so it gets approved and raised capital and a few more risk settings. Finally this will give you the review of all the things that you set up and that will be it. Then you will need to deposit the amount and you will be able to create a garden and in 1 minute you will have your garden created on chain. And right now it costs like at the current gas prices it costs only like $100 or so to create to have your investment down chain. So now quickly I'm also going to show you how the strategy no code UI works once you have a garden.
00:15:58.964 - 00:16:45.232, Speaker B: This is a test garden that we created a while ago to test things. It has just a little bit of capital. In this case you see that there is only like 0.3 ether. You can see the share price, you can see the rewards, you can see which strategies are active, that in this case it's nothing. There is only idle capital. You can see the performance in the past, the thesis, this just test all the criteria and then which people are in this garden? But let's create a new strategy, a new investment idea sample let's do we want to do we want to enter a car pool and then stake the LP tokens onto convex? So in this case we will select an operation that is adding liquidity.
00:16:45.232 - 00:17:49.324, Speaker B: We will select curve and then once curve we will find the curve that we want. In this case tripool and we see that then we're going to be able to chain and stake the LP tokens in convex carve on pickle. In this case after this we're going to add a new operation and we're going to say, okay, we're going to stake it, we're going to stake it onto convex and select it and that's almost it. Then we will set a few more parameters. That how long we want this strategy to run, how long I'm willing to, how long I'm willing to put my stake and how much stake I'm willing to risk to be able to qualify for getting the 10% of rewards that the strategist gets. And then a few more settings regarding the slippage and gas to make sure we don't spend much of the capital allocated to a strategy on gas. And that's it.
00:17:49.324 - 00:18:41.224, Speaker B: Basically you will be able to submit the strategy on chain and this will be like pretty cheap at these current gas prices. $240 right now because it has a spike a bit and then you will have this strategy created and other members will be able to vote on it and if they approve it then it will receive capital. So now that we got demo then let's go a bit further. Let's go back to the presentation. So now we see that it's really easy to create this DeFi investment from the UI. What Babylon offers also is basically a new primitive. So you get this tokenized on chain funds as a primitive and it's a new primitive on DeFi and you can use them as a legal block.
00:18:41.224 - 00:19:58.420, Speaker B: And from your contracts you can react to market events or to things that happen on your protocol or on your application. And for example create the strategies on demand and have them running based on market events to hedge your positions or create an investment automatically whenever a hack happens or the sky is the limit. So some ideas of what can you build using the garden and this actually have relation to communities that are already created. For example, this is the Fountain of ETH that is one of our bigger communities and is all focused in accumulating ether without being exposed to the fear price. And we have a bunch of active strategies, one of them for example right now is lending St ETH on abe, then borrowing from it and then the borrowing wealth and then getting more St ETH and then three times to achieve like a leverage position. Right now today St ETH is a bit depicted versus ether so that's why it's down. But as soon as it recovers the profit will show here and you can see that there is another strategy that is lighting the fuse that is lending ether and then you can see the performance over time, the thesis, the properties.
00:19:58.420 - 00:20:58.170, Speaker B: This garden showcases really well how you can have an investment goal that in this case accumulate ether and then use different protocols, connect to different protocols to achieve that goal. Then another thing you can do is create an index of the offerings of a protocol using a garden. And one garden that we launched last week is the pickle field. Right now Pickle has like 30 or 40 yards available but you will need to spend gas to get into each one of them. But using a garden, you can just deposit die and get exposure to all the top pickle jars in a single dye deposit that actually also our deposits are gas free because we have done a bunch of work to make it happen. And then you will get exposure to all of these jars at once. And these jars are actively managed to make sure that you always get the top jars managed by the community.
00:20:58.170 - 00:21:45.844, Speaker B: So you can use Babylon to create like an index offering of a DeFi protocol. Finally you can also use Babylon to create like a staking mechanic and a staking mechanic that you can use. So then members will need to deposit that token in the garden and then basically the garden will use that token, those deposits to generate more return and it's something that our heart uses. We are dog fooding. Our garden technology to create the heart of Babylon that is our staking mechanic and is also our heart garden. And it does a bunch of things. We have a detailed medium post explaining all the things it does.
00:21:45.844 - 00:23:36.968, Speaker B: For example, it buy backs the token, it also invests in other gardens it also adds liquidity to uniswap and it also adds liquidity to our fuse pool and to our treasury. So that's a bit about ideas that you can do with Babylon. Then regarding our SDK we have a website with detailed documentation about all our API or interfaces, our deployment addresses and then we have a repository that is Babylon finance contracts where you can see all of our interfaces some documentation, the architecture. And we also have already set up a test file with all the things you need to be able to create gardens, strategies, deposit into a garden, vote for them, execute them, finalize them and be able to withdraw so quickly. I can show you this in the code, this is too small but basically in this code you will see how to call our controller to create a garden and you will pass the parameters like the name, the reserve asset, all the ones that we saw in the UI. Then the same thing about how to create a strategy then how to deposit to a garden, how to vote for a strategy, how to execute a strategy, how to finalize it and how to withdraw. And the same time we also have created tests in this repository and you can run them executing Janin Run Test the only thing you need to set up to run the test is to grab an API key from Alchemy and set it up in your environment variable.
00:23:36.968 - 00:24:22.410, Speaker B: You have the documentation here and that's pretty much it. If you have any questions, we are going to be in Discord available during the next few weeks. And you can also go to our Babylon Discord if you have anything else that you want to chat about ideas, suggestions, feedback. And just to reiterate, we have $10,000 in prices that are going to be awarded for the top three uses of gardens and that's it. I think we can stop there. I'm sure there are some questions, so I'll stop right there.
00:24:33.630 - 00:24:40.250, Speaker A: Thanks, Rahman. I think there's a question in the chat. Carl asks on which network can you create a garden?
00:24:40.990 - 00:25:38.638, Speaker B: Yep. Thank you. Right now we are on Mainet, Ethereum only. And we took this decision carefully because we think long term you probably want this investment class or this investment dows on the network that has the most security that for now is Ethereum. That said, long term we plan to deploy to other protocols and to other chains. Starting this summer, we're going to deploy to L2 on Ethereum, Arbitrum, Optimism and Polygon. But a few more months later we are going to look into cross chain liquidity because our idea is like the gardens will still be on Mainet but these gardens will be able to deploy capital to strategies that may be on Avalanche or maybe on Solana or maybe on Arbitrum or other.
00:25:38.638 - 00:25:48.180, Speaker B: So you will still be able to get the security benefits of being on Ethereum but being able to find where the best yield at the moment is.
00:25:53.730 - 00:25:58.480, Speaker A: Do you have any examples of D Five products built on Babylon or past Win?
00:25:59.090 - 00:27:09.830, Speaker B: Yeah, the first one I saw that is the Fountain of Faith, I think is take into account that we just released this month publicly and the Fountain of ETH already has like 10 million in capital that was during this bear market is quite difficult to achieve that. But you can see the Fountain of Faith and all of our other gardens that are up in our website and you can see the Heart as well, that the heart has done really well. The Heart has already accumulated like around 70,000 bubble tokens that is our governance token and has returned so far like more than 100% Apr to depositors. I see another question as well. Is the voting done on chain? Yes, the voting is done on chain, but it's free for users. It's based on signatures and it's basically stored on a database. But then all the signatures are submitted on chain and we do some smart things to be able to compute all the signatures to make sure that the strategy is approved.
00:27:09.830 - 00:27:50.210, Speaker B: I see another question about superfluid. Superfluid is actually something that we are looking into and is an integration into superfluid. It's really interesting and I would encourage you to work on it. Something that we're going to release that is almost ready, but I didn't cover it is like right now Babylon integrates with 15 DeFi protocols. But we're also releasing this Wednesday the custom SDK. So you can build your own integration and you can also connect Babylon to your own protocol or to your own smart contract. And that will be available starting this Wednesday.
00:27:50.210 - 00:28:44.672, Speaker B: How is this to integrate with other chains? It depends on the chain. The EVM compatible chains should be relatively straightforward. The most complicated things there is that the DeFi protocols that are on different chains are different. So although many of them are forks, some of them have different logics. So you need to make sure that, for example, our protocol depends heavily on compound abe, uniswap curve, convex. Some of these protocols are on optimism Arbitrum, but some of them are not. And we need to find replacements and being able to because Babylon depends on integrating with a lot of DeFi, we help other DeFi protocols get more TBL and by helping them is how we grow.
00:28:44.672 - 00:29:21.652, Speaker B: So we depend on having this mature ecosystem. So that's why we are waiting also a little bit to see which ecosystems mature. Yeah, you can create hackathon, for example, using our test, you can create the gardens on Hardhat, that is a local testnet. But then you can also configure it to use rinkabi if needed. There is a minimum two and a half e deposit. It depends on the garden. The minimum different gardens have minimum deposits.
00:29:21.652 - 00:29:54.530, Speaker B: But right now some of our verified gardens of Main net is true that they have around 2000 or $3,000 not ether. I think it's around one ether. The fountain of ETH. I know we are over time, but if you have any more questions, please follow us on Twitter and then go to our discord and we'll be there for the next few weeks. And we are pretty responsive, so please let us know if you need anything.
00:29:55.780 - 00:29:59.990, Speaker A: Great, thanks a lot. Ram in. Have a good day everyone and see you. Thank.
