00:00:06.170 - 00:01:01.710, Speaker A: Remote signing protocol. What this means is that your wallets can interact with DApps without your private keys leaving your wallet. Basically we have a lot of wallets support, Wallet Connect and basically any wallet that you can use is enabled with Wallet Connect. We also have a lot of DApps. A lot of DApps usually have Wallet Connect integrated with us and so then for this hackathon usually just if you want to use any wallet and interact with another DAP, usually Wallet Connect is enabled. Here's a full list and hopefully that by the end of this hackathon your DAP will also be included in this list. We've had lots of downloads throughout the years so we're reaching more places as we keep growing.
00:01:01.710 - 00:01:49.646, Speaker A: So how do you integrate it? There's a very simple UI that you see probably in a lot of DApps, which is this Web Three modal and it basically gives you the ability to use any Web Three provider. And this web Three modal is a way for DApps to connect to either MetaMask or Wallet Connect. Those are the two most popular ones. So I'm going to focus just on those two and there's other providers but I'm not going to mention them for now. This is the package you're interested. This is the Wallet connect web3 provider. This gives you the easiest way to start using Wallow Connect and also use MetaMask at the same time.
00:01:49.646 - 00:02:37.118, Speaker A: So this library is this UI that you see when you click Connect. So then how do you configure it? The Web Three model is very easy to configure. What's the most important aspect about the Web Three model is that you can pick multiple different EVM chains. So like for example where it says the network parameter, you can put the ethereum main net, that's the default. You can put optimism, you can put Polygon mumbai what you have to remember is that you have to pick an EVM compatible chain. Also something important that you need to do is that you have to have your inferior ID. The reason for this is because the connection with the wallets, the wallets don't provide the blockchain information.
00:02:37.118 - 00:03:47.606, Speaker A: Your DAP still has to query that information with inferior, for example like nonsense or token balances that is obtained through Inferior, not through Wallet Connect. So once you have it set up, you can do await this promise. Web Three model Connect and at this point the user is presented with this interface. So only until the user presses one of the options either MetaMask, wall connector or coinbase, that promise will resolve and then you can easily integrate it with a Web Three object. In this case it can be Ethers or Web Three JS and the provider would be the wallets that the Wallet Connect has given through the connection once the user connects with it very similar to MetaMask. Once you press Connect, it gives it to the user, to this object. This provider object follows this EIP 1119 standard.
00:03:47.606 - 00:05:15.166, Speaker A: And there's two things you should pay attention during this hackathon with regards to this standard is that it has two functions, which is two events, accounts change and chain changed. So what usually happens is that on your wallet the user can like, okay, if I'm on Ethereum Main net, I should probably want to switch to the testnet, so I want to switch to Rinktree. So you want to pay attention to when the wallet changes from one network to the other because that can change the contracts that you interact with or where your DAP is deployed. Another thing that you have to listen to is the events for account change because the user you can have multiple accounts on your wallets and you might switch them to test your DAP. And just keep in mind that this is how you listen to them and depending on your use case, finally, so you're going to be iterating a lot in your DAP, probably in this hackathon, and you might want to disconnect to try to reconnect with another wallet, just like, okay, you're sharing with your teammate in the hackathon. It's like, okay, here, scan this, why is it not working for me? So you have to remember that when you disconnect that, disconnects the session, but the cache on the browser still contains the information of the address that was previously used. Now this is useful for user experience because then it's like you don't have to reconnect every single time.
00:05:15.166 - 00:06:04.180, Speaker A: You don't have to scan the QR code every single time. But it can be quite troublesome for you during this hackathon when you forgot to clear your cache. So it's recommended at least that after you disconnect, you also clear the cache just to make sure that you don't have any leftover addresses that you don't want to use. So here the docs. There's a lot of other providers that are not just only infuria or I mean just other Web Three providers that the Web Three model supports. We recommend that you use four to six providers because sometimes having more options is too overwhelming for the user. So the top four most popular is usually pretty good starting point.
00:06:04.180 - 00:06:37.270, Speaker A: And we also have the Wallet Connect docs for when you depending on the different types of transactions you want to do with your DAP. And finally, here's an example repository that has Ethers JS. Ethers. JS is just a web3 library. This is a react app and it already has the Web Three modal installed. So this is a good starting point for your DAP. If you just want to use wallet, connect with ethers.
00:06:37.270 - 00:07:16.860, Speaker A: JS It's a very quick demo. I'll just go back because this is probably this the event accounts changed and chain changed is quite important. And the disconnect, you don't want to make sure that you leave cache there that affects your adapter and your hackathon. I'll just leave it the docs, and that's it. Any questions? Go ahead, Alchemy. Yes, you can use it. Yeah, definitely.
00:07:16.860 - 00:08:23.258, Speaker A: You can use it. So other EVM chains, like, I know, for example, that some Cosmos chains have forked Wildconnect to support Cosmos transactions. I don't remember exactly the name, but I'll have to get back to you in that version. Two of Wall Connect, which is we're hopefully wrapping up soon, would be multi chain. So, sadly, it's not ready for this hackathon, but hopefully, future hackathons, we will have multi chain support. Okay, if you have any questions, we're going to be here at the booth. Usually most of the problems occur with network changes, like when you change your network from either Mumbai or to optimism on your wallet, that usually causes a lot of confusion or the event does not get updated properly.
00:08:23.258 - 00:08:42.100, Speaker A: So you should pay attention to that during the hackathon. My personal experience, Rainbow Wallet works really well. It's really well supported with Wallet Connect. Yeah, that's what I have for now. Any more questions? All right, thank you very much.
