00:00:00.160 - 00:00:19.674, Speaker A: One. Good morning, good afternoon. Good evening everybody. Welcome to the third day of week ten. We continue with the lecture of Emmanuel Freekin from universitude and he's gonna continue talking about tto. Emmanuel, please.
00:00:20.214 - 00:01:34.434, Speaker B: Thank you, Javad. So thanks everybody for coming back again for this third and last lecture on tto. So I remind you that we were considering. So for a function phi in l two, the truncated, the plate separator with symbol phi, so, which acts on a model space k theta, intersect with h infinity as a multiplication by phi, and then applying the orthogonal projection from l two and to k theta. So this gives you a densely defined operator which could be bounded or not, depending on the function file. So today I will talk about mainly three subjects concerning this class of operator. First subject, I will talk a little bit about the spectrum of truncated tuplets operator.
00:01:34.434 - 00:02:31.568, Speaker B: Then I will talk a little bit about finite rank tto, because we will see that contrary to the case of tuplitz operator on h two, we could have some finite rank tto. And then I will finish with an important question concerning the bondedness of the, of the symbol. Right, so let's start with the spectrum of tto. And for that I need the notion of the spectrum of an inner function. So I will recall some, some basic facts, but in about it. So if you have an inner function theta, then the spectrum of this inner function is defined as point zeta on the closed unit disk. So d bar.
00:02:31.568 - 00:04:14.168, Speaker B: Yeah, it's not the conjugate of d, of course, it's a closed unit disk such that the limb half of theta lambda when lambda goes to zeta, such that this limit is zero. You can also in fact see that the complementary of the spectrum corresponds exactly to the point of where one over theta can be analytically continuous. Okay, so equivalently, there is another definition in fact of the spectrum in terms of the decomposition of the inner function theta. So I remind you that when you have an inner function, then you can always factorize it as a Blaschke product b and what is called the singular inner function s mu, so associated to a singular measure mu. And then you can see that the spectrum of theta coincides exactly with the closure of the zeros of the Blaschko product or the zeros of theta in unit disk union, the support of the measure mu. So these two sets in fact coincide and they are equal to the, to the spectrum. So an important result concerning the spectrum of theta is that every function in k, theta and theta itself in fact admits an analytic continuation.
00:04:14.168 - 00:05:44.694, Speaker B: Sorry. Across tset minus sigma theta. So if you have a point zeta on the cycle which is not in the spectrum of theta, then theta and all function in k theta can be analytically continued. And in fact if you denote for point zeta on t but not on the spectrum, this function one minus theta theta bar theta z over one minus zeta bar z. So exactly the same formula as for the reproducing kernels in the open unit disk, then that function belongs to k theta and the norm to the square is exactly equivalent to the modulus of the derivative of theta at point zeta. And in fact this gives you exactly the reproducing kernels of k theta at point theta, which means that if you take a function f in k theta and you make the scalar product with fb, with this function k theta theta, you recover the value of f at zeta. So this is more or less exactly as in the open unit disk.
00:05:44.694 - 00:06:50.442, Speaker B: Okay? And so one important result in that direction of the spectrum concerning the truncated tuplitz operator, the first result in that direction is maybe the leaf sea. Smaller results who proved that the spectrum of the model operator s theta. So I recall you that s theta is a truncated turquoise operator with symbol z. So in fact you multiply by z and you project onto k theta. So the spectrum of that model operator in fact coincide exactly with a spectrum of theta. And in fact you can in some sense generalize this result for symbols which are in h infinity. So when phi is in h infinity, the spectrum of the truncated topic operator with symbol phi.
00:06:50.442 - 00:08:21.476, Speaker B: So spectrum of a phi is exactly the set of point mu on the complex plane such that this infimum here is zero. And so we will see in a moment after the proof that when phi is also continuous on the closed unit disk, you have exactly a generalization of that formula. But first I will make the proof of that theorem because I find it in fact very nice, very nice proof. So the first inclusion is like that. So you assume that you have a point mu in this set, so such that the infimum is zero. And in fact to prove that mu is in the spectrum, we will prove, in fact a little bit more will prove that the I joint of a mu minus mu identity is not bounded below. So how to prove this? So by hypothesis of course you can find a sequence zn on the unit disk such that these two quantities theta zn and phi z and minus mu tends to zero because infinium is zero.
00:08:21.476 - 00:09:44.398, Speaker B: And so since now phi is in h infinity, I recall you that the I joint of the tto with symbol phi. So a phi is exactly the tto with symbol fiber. And in that case, since k theta is invariant with respect to the the kinetic turpitz operator Tc bar, this is just the restriction of Tc bar to caseta. We have already seen that yesterday or two days ago. And now I recall you also that the Cauchy kernel k lambda corresponding to point on the unit disk are eigenvectors for t Ciba, and the eigenvalues is phi lambda bar. And now, using the fact that k lambda theta is internals of k theta at point lambda is that function, you can compute the action of a phi star on k lambda like this. So you write that, yeah, this is just because this operator is just the restriction of t the bar to k theta.
00:09:44.398 - 00:11:04.278, Speaker B: And here I decompose k lambda theta as one minus theta lambda bar star k lambda. I developed these two terms, and here I use the fact that t the bar k lambda is phi lambda bar k lambda. And so now if you rewrite this adding term, the mu bar, I don't k lambda theta, you obtain that. And so when you compute the norm of that function, you can bond these norms by two terms. First term is the modulus of phi lambda minus mu right times the norm of k lambda in h two plus modulus of theta lambda times the norms of that function in h two. And then, using simple estimate, in fact, since the norm of a Turklitz operator is bounded by the infinity norm of the symbol, you get that estimate. And so when you apply this to lambda equals zn and you divide in both sides by the norm of k z and theta, you get that estimate.
00:11:04.278 - 00:12:02.680, Speaker B: So, a phi star minus mu bar identity applied to the normalized, the sequence of normalized reproducing kernel is bounded above. There is a constant, probably it's h infinity norm of five one, or something like that, whatever, not important, the constant. But you have these terms which I recall tends to zero and these terms which also tends to zero by assumption. And so, the only things to check is that these terms is bounded. But this is very easy, because when you compute the two norms and you divide the two norms, you get this. On this term, since the n tends to zero, it tends to one. And so you get this property.
00:12:02.680 - 00:12:53.124, Speaker B: And so, of course, since this is of norm one, it exactly says that this operator is not bounded below and hence it cannot be invertible. And so the conjugate of mu belongs to the spectrum of the I joint of a phi. And this is a general factor. The spectrum of t star is conjugate of the spectrum of t. And so you get that mu within the spectrum of alpha. And so that proves the first inclusion and the second inclusion. So you have to prove that if the infimum is strictly positive, then mu is not on the spectrum.
00:12:53.124 - 00:13:54.964, Speaker B: And here the key point is to use in fact the Carlson Corona theorem, because here you have in fact two functions, theta and phi minus mu, which are in h infinity and they are the modulus. The sum of the modulus are bounded below on the unit disk. And so this is exactly what says constant corona co m. You can solve this Bezu equation. So in more precisely you can find two functions, f and g in h infinity, such that f plus phi minus mu g is equal to one on z. And now taking the we are using functional calculus for h infinity. You get that a theta af plus a phi minus mu identity ag is equal to identity on k theta.
00:13:54.964 - 00:14:54.442, Speaker B: But remind that when you have a symbol which is of the form theta h two, the associated truncated Turpitz operator is always zero. And so in fact these terms disappears and you exactly obtain that a phi minus new identity is equal to identity. And of course these two operators commute and so you have the other equality. And so it means exactly that this operator is invertible and the inverse is exactly h. And so that proves that mu is not on the spectrum. And by contraposition, if mu is on the spectrum, then this infimum is zero and that the proof of the other inclusion. But of course, here we use a lot the fact that the symbol is in h infinity.
00:14:54.442 - 00:16:56.256, Speaker B: We use it here. In the first inclusion, we use it here a lot. And in the second inclusion we use it also here to solve the Bezou equation in h infinity. So now when you have your symbol phi in h infinity intersect with continuous function on the cycle or on the closed unidisc, then you can see that the spectrum of a phi is exactly phi, the image of the spectrum of theta bi phi. And so in particular when, when phi is z, this gives you exactly that the spectrum of az, which is the spectrum of the model space of the model operator s theta is exactly to equal, is equal to the spectrum of theta. So this is exactly a generalization of leafy smaller theorem. And in fact you can see that this equality of this equality, in fact can be seen as a sort of special electron mapping theorem for the functional, if you define this in fact homomorphism, algebra homomorphism, this, this equality means exactly that.
00:16:56.256 - 00:18:19.940, Speaker B: You have the spectral mapping theorem for, for this, for this mapping and this you can write it as phi s theta. This is exactly h infinity functional calculus for this model operations. Okay, but I will not go too much into this detail. So, okay, what can be said more about the spectrum? So in fact, so we have, when phi is in h infinity, we have exactly computed or described the spectrum of a phi. And in fact you can also describe the point spectrum of a phi and a phi star eigenvalues of a phi and its I joint. So this can be done also. And now I would like also maybe to mention a new approach and very interesting approach by camera and Partington, who studied in fact the invertibility and Fidel mass for tto in the model space of the upper half plane with symbols which are the sums of an analytic and anti analytic parts.
00:18:19.940 - 00:19:40.594, Speaker B: So this is more general than just symbols which are in h infinity, but they have a theta separation condition. I will not give the definition, but there is still the condition on the symbols. And their approach in fact is based on the equivalence after extension of tto to turpitz operator with two by two matrix symbols. So this is, I found a nice approach to this problem of invertibility of tto, but in fact in general determines the spectrum of tt two is not an easy problem and in fact it's highly non trivial and in general unknown except for certain class of symbols. So maybe there are still some works to do in that direction. Okay, so this is what can be said concerning the spectrum of zero. And I would like to move to another subject around finite rank tto.
00:19:40.594 - 00:20:48.350, Speaker B: So first, maybe I would recall, I will recall the result of born almost for Turpitz operator. So I recall you that for Turpitz operator you cannot have a compact t operator on h two, except when the symbols is identically equal to zero, except in the trivial case. But in fact, for tto the situation is dramatically different. And in fact there are a lot of tto even having rank one. And in fact that was there was well identified, sorry by Sarah son in his famous paper 2007. And I will try to explain a little bit this tto having one crime. But first I have to recall another notion concerning the theory of inner function.
00:20:48.350 - 00:22:41.304, Speaker B: So this is a notion of angular derivative in the sense of caratheodori. So we'll say that linear function theta as a non Euler derivative in the sense of carathiodoi at the point zeta on t, if theta and theta prime have a non tangential limit at zeta, and the non tangential limit of theta at point zeta is of modulus one. So this set of such, the set of such a point will be denoted by e theta. Okay, so in fact this point were characterized by ion Clark I think in terms of the factorization of linear function theta. So if theta is factorized as the blaschka product b lambda times the singular inner function s mu, so here lambda is a Blaschke sequence of point lambda and d, then you can prove that zeta is a point of then you can prove that theta is an angular derivative in the sense of Caratheodoria zeta if and only if this condition is satisfied. This is very concrete and explicit characterization of such a point. And in that case you can prove that that quantity is exactly equals to the derivative of the non tangential limit of theta primes at zero zeta in modulus.
00:22:41.304 - 00:24:21.498, Speaker B: And if you consider the same formula for the reproducing kernels, but replacing lambda by zeta, and you denote this by k theta theta, then that functions will belong to k theta. Every function f in k theta has a non tangential limited zeta and this function k zeta is in fact the reproducing kernels of k theta at zeta. So this works exactly as in the open unidisc or like in the complementary of the spectrum. And in fact the complementary of the spectrum is always of course a subset of, because if you have a point which is in the which is on the united cycle which is on the complementary on the spectrum, then of course, since theta can be continued analytically, it has in fact theta and its derivative has of course a non tangential limit at this point zeta. And the modulus of theta zeta is also of modulus one. This inclusion is more or less trivial. Okay.
00:24:21.498 - 00:25:40.854, Speaker B: And now I would also like to remind, and remind the notion, the conjugation we have seen yesterday. So I remind you that on k theta you have a natural conjugation given by c theta f equals two theta z bar f bar. And just to simplify the notation after for f in k theta we will denote by f theta tilde the image of f by c theta. So f tilde is just theta z bar f bar f in k theta. And so of course this f tilde also belongs to k theta. And in particular you can this is an easy computation to prove that for lambda in d or in e theta, this the associate tilde function associated to k k lambda theta to the producing kernels of k theta at point lambda. Is that different quotient, that difference quotient theta z minus theta lambda over z minus lambda.
00:25:40.854 - 00:27:31.494, Speaker B: So this is what we need to discuss a little bit the notion of finite rank truncated, the pizza operator. But before maybe I will just, I would like just give you some, some example, in fact, of rank one tto, using what we have said yesterday when I discussed a little bit the link between tto and Carlson measure on k theta. So I remind you that when mu is a Carlasson measure for k thetan, we have seen that if you consider, in fact, you can define the bonded operator on k theta like this. So mu fg will be the norm, the integral, sorry, on t of f g bar d mu for f and g on k theta. Okay, normally you have, as I said, to intersect with the set of continuous function, the closed unit disk. But since this set is dense in k theta, okay, we can do as if it will be very well defined. There is no problem.
00:27:31.494 - 00:29:15.050, Speaker B: And so we have seen that yesterday that this amu is in fact a tto. So it's a bonded truncated Turkit operator on k theta. So now I would like just to give an example of such a situation using the notion of angular derivative in the sense of caratodoi. So if theta is in e theta, then of course, since you have that, the map which, the linear functional, which sounds a function f in k theta into its non tangential limit. So this map is bonded, of course, right? And so it gives you exactly that. The Dirac measure at point zeta is in fact a Carlson measure for k theta, right? And so you can have construct tto taking a associated to this measure, a delta zeta. And if you try to look, what is this operator in fact? So I applied just the definition.
00:29:15.050 - 00:30:31.802, Speaker B: It gives you the norm, the integral of f g bar against theta against j delta zeta. And so of course it's f zeta g zeta bar, right? And so of course you can rewrite this as k theta theta tensor product with k theta theta applied to f against g. And so it gives you that this truncated tuplitz operator a associated to the Dirac measure at point zeta in theta. It is a rank one operator associated with exactly that formula, right? And so you see that this tto is in fact rank one operator. This side that this is a translated pix operator. And this side says you that this is a rank one operator. So.
00:30:31.802 - 00:31:52.212, Speaker B: And in fact, what Saracen observed is that this is more or less the only rank one operator you could obtain. So, more precisely, what he proved is that if you have an inner function theta, and you look at all these three rank one type of operator on k theta. So you take k lambda theta tends product with k lambda theta tilde. So you manual k lambda theta tilde is this different quotient. So you look at this operator for lambda in D, the I joint, in fact of this operator for lambda in D and for zeta in eta. In fact, it's not difficult to say that the k zeta theta tilde and k zeta theta is up to a constant, the same operator. And so you take also this one, this operator, and all these three operators for any lambda nd and any zeta in e theta are all truncated to clitz operator with rank one, of course.
00:31:52.212 - 00:32:55.654, Speaker B: And in fact he also compute the symbols for this three class of operator. And moreover he proved that any tto of frank one is a non zero scalar multiple of one of the above. So it completely describes all the set of tto. Having fun? Quan. Okay, and so what? He also in fact identified grid variety of natural finite rank tgo. But the complete characterization of in fact was done only by in 2014 by Bessonov in a nice paper in proceeding of the ims. Okay, so we are in fact a lot of, as you see, a lot of finite rank tto.
00:32:55.654 - 00:34:17.573, Speaker B: And this is a big difference with the case of the Pritzker brake. So of course when you have identified the finite rank tto, there is the question of can you identify the compact tto? Because of course finite rank tto in particular compact. But probably there are more than finite rank. And in fact, okay, that question was not completely solved. There are some nice results in that direction, but okay, I will not discuss at that question of compact, but I would just like to mention some works also in that direction. Okay, now I would like to finish my lecture by discussing the important problem of bondedness of the symbol. And as usual now for us, I will, I would like to start with the situation of Tuplitz operator on the RD space.
00:34:17.573 - 00:35:38.900, Speaker B: So there is famous result of born almost which says that the tuplitz operator t phi on h two is bonded if and only if its symbol phi is in l infinity. Moreover, we have that, in fact you have the map which sounds phi to the associated Turpitz operator. In fact it's isometric in the sense that the norm of t phi is equal to the l infinity norm of phi. So this map is isometric and in fact it's from l infinity into a set of bounded tips operator on h two. But it's also, this is exactly what says what is written in red. So you have a non to map. Now in the case of Tto, if we look at the similar map, so the map which stands symbol phi in l infinity into the associate truncated turbulence operator a phi theta.
00:35:38.900 - 00:36:58.524, Speaker B: So since phi is in infinity, of course this operator will be bonded. It will give you a bonded truncated top plate operator, and you can easily prove that it's also contractive, but not necessarily isometric. And also, the only things you can prove just by simple argument, is that this map is into. And now the question, the natural question that Sarasohn asked is that does this map is also unto. So in other words, if you have an bonded Cto and k theta, does it possess an infinity symbol? Of course, the situation is more complicated that in the Turklitz case, because remember that for Tto you have plenty of possible symbols, there is no unity of the symbol. So maybe even if the symbol you consider first is not bounded, maybe there is another symbol which is bounded. So this question is not so easy at the first site.
00:36:58.524 - 00:38:30.536, Speaker B: And in fact, as maybe one might guess, it really depends on theta. The answer will depend on theta. So for some theta, the answer to that question will be yes, and for other theta it will be no. Okay, so in fact, we will start with a case where the answer is no. And in fact that was done in a paper by Baranov, Chalandar, myself, Mashvili and Timothy in 2010 in Gfa, where we give in fact the first example of a bonded tto without bonded symbols. And in fact the construction was done using that in fact we already seen two days ago. So when you have an inner function theta and the point zeta, where theta is an angular derivative in the sense of carotidoi, and if you fix a real number p between two and infinity, then you can prove that the following are equivalent.
00:38:30.536 - 00:40:08.814, Speaker B: So the bonded truncated toxic separator k theta theta tends product with k theta theta. So we know that by Saracen or by the computation I made, we know that this operator is a rank one truncated turklets operator. So this bonded truncated peptides operator has a symbol phi in Lp, if and only if the associated reposition kernels at point zeta is in Lp. So in particular, if for some p between two and infinity, this function, this reproducing kernel is not in Lp, then of course k theta, this tto will give you a bonded truncated piece operator with no bonded symbols. Okay, so I will try to explain the proof of this this theorem, but before I will maybe explain you how you can construct an explicit example. So in fact, using a result of ion Clark, you can prove that k theta theta is in Lp if and only if in fact you have that condition. So when p is equal to two, which means which corresponds to the case where when k zeta theta belongs to l two, it's coincide.
00:40:08.814 - 00:41:30.984, Speaker B: Exactly. This is exactly equivalent to say that zeta is a point of where theta is an angular derivative. So if you want to get an example of rank one tto without bounded symbols, for instance, you can control, consider a sequence lambda k, which is rk ei gamma k with gamma k equal to one minus one over k to the square. And the argument is of the form k to the power minus alpha with alpha between one over p and one over two. Then you can easily check that you have these two conditions. So you have, so, yeah, so this series is convergent when with this power two, but not with the power p. And now if you consider the inner function associated to the sequence lambda k, using the arm Clark result, you exactly obtain that k one theta is in l two, but k one theta is not in Lp.
00:41:30.984 - 00:42:56.426, Speaker B: And so by our theorem, this operator will give you a bounded tto with no bounded symbols. Okay, so this is an explicit example. And of course you can construct many more. But now I will, in the time which remains, I will try to explain you a little bit the proof of our, so the first step is, in fact to observe that that function in fact belongs to the spacecraft k theta z bar k theta bar. So you can forget, in fact that constant, in fact, what is important, phi is up to a constant. In fact, it's theta z bar gate zeta theta to the square. So of course, if you look at the definition, it's not difficult to see that the point where theta or theta the to the square have an angular derivative at point at a point, these two sets coincide, in fact.
00:42:56.426 - 00:43:54.482, Speaker B: And so if zeta is in theta, of course theta square will have an angular derivative at zeta. And so the reproducing kernel at point zeta associated to zeta squared is in fact the reproducing kernel of k theta squared. And now there is a natural decomposition of k theta square in terms of k theta. You can, it's a well known result that k theta squared is equal to k theta plus the orthogonal sum of with theta k theta. And so if you decompose k zeta squared using that orthogonal decomposition, you write it as f plus theta g. Well, f and g are in k theta. And now if you multiply, you take the conjugate of this, of that relation, you multiply by z bar and theta.
00:43:54.482 - 00:44:56.984, Speaker B: You exactly get that it's equals to theta z bar f bar plus plus z bar g bar. And here you recognize f tilde. So the c theta f. And so that function would be in k theta, and that function is exactly in z bar k theta bar, because g is in k theta and so phi is in that space. Moreover, the second step is to check that phi will be a symbol for your opaque operator kg, tense product with kg. And so this is just in fact algebraic computation using that theta is of modulus one almost everywhere. Yeah, of course you have to remind, using the Saracen result, in fact, it computer symbols for that operator.
00:44:56.984 - 00:45:57.944, Speaker B: And the symbols is in fact exactly that function. So it's k zeta theta plus k zeta theta bar minus one. So this is Sarason. And so if you want to prove that, you can also take as a symbol this function phi. Using what we have seen in the first lecture, you have just to check that the difference of these two symbols is in that space. And this is just small computation using the expression of that function. And so, in fact, using so what I said, what we've seen in the lecture, one, we get that truncated, the peak separator, a symbol phi for a symbol.
00:45:57.944 - 00:46:28.914, Speaker B: Okay, now I can prove the true direction of the theorem. So, yeah, it remains just three minutes. So I will try to speed a little bit. So, first direction. So two implies one. So let me remind, what is two? So two is the fact that k theta theta belongs to lp. And we want to prove that there is a symbol psi in Lp.
00:46:28.914 - 00:47:24.964, Speaker B: So that direction is the most easier one. So since k zeta is in Lp, if you look at that function, in fact, you can exact, this is just trivial computation. You can factorize using the k zeta theta. So it's k zeta theta times that function one plus theta theta bar theta z. But that function is bonded because trivially bonded by two. And so, if k zeta theta belongs to lp, k zeta theta square will also belong to lp, and hence phi will be in Lp, because phi is, you see the conjugate of k theta theta squared times some bounded function. So that proves one and for the other direction.
00:47:24.964 - 00:49:11.364, Speaker B: In fact, this is based on that lemma saying that when you have two symbols for truncated Turklitz operator phi and psi, if one of the symbols, let's say phi, is in that space I mentioned, k theta plus z bar k theta bar, then you can estimate the lp norm of phi in terms of the lp norm of psi plus the l two norm of phi. And in particular, if the function psi is in Lp, necessarily the symbol which belongs to k theta plus z bar k theta bar will be also in Lp. And this is what we do it in fact, so we assume the other direction is to assume that that truncated separator has a symbol psi in Lp. And since phi is a symbol in that space, we apply the lemma and we get that phi is in Lp, and so we get that that function is in L. And now it's a very easy argument to prove that k theta, theta will be also in it. And so, there exists a minor function theta, for which there are some bound entities with no bounded symbols. But on the other hand, we also observed in the same paper that, for instance, for the singular inner function corresponding to the singular Dirac measure at, .1
00:49:11.364 - 00:50:24.552, Speaker B: this particular inner function, every bounded tto has a bounded symbol. And so, of course, it yields the following. Can we characterize inner function theta for which every bonded tto and k theta has a bonded symbol? And so, I have no time now to explain the details, but that question was solved by a very nice paper of Baranov, Bezanov and kapustins. And in fact, the answer was in terms of the Carlson measure for, for k theta square, and also in terms of a certain weak decomposition for function in that space, which can be written as a sum of the product of two function in k theta. So, I have no more time to explain this interesting result. But, but. Okay, and I will just maybe mention this corollary.
00:50:24.552 - 00:51:00.624, Speaker B: They get so, which gives you a large class of inner function for which you know that every bonded tto on k theta admits a bonded symbols. And in fact, it coincides. It corresponds to the class of function which satisfies the so called one connected level set condition. And for that class of inner function, then the answer to the question of Sarah san is positive. Okay, so I will stop now and thank you for your attention. And sorry to.
00:51:05.404 - 00:51:28.876, Speaker A: Thank you indeed. Let's thank wonderful talk. Questions and comments for Emanuel. I shared the files, I mean, each lecture menu on the chat, and there is a question by Marco on the.
00:51:28.900 - 00:52:01.602, Speaker B: Chat, what, what's the difference in the upper half plane? So I think that Jonathan is in Georgia. Like, maybe I will let him answer that question, because to be honest, I'm not very alessed with the person. I'm not completely sure that. Okay, sometimes there are some analogy, but sometimes there are some differences.
00:52:01.698 - 00:52:35.194, Speaker C: So what can I just say briefly? I mean, for p equals two, they're unitarily equivalent. So there's no real difference. If you're talking about other values of p, you get a different class of operators, truncated turbulence operators, so that Christina likes working the upper half plane. So when I did work with her on this. We tended to write an upper half plane because there are links with things like wean hop factorizations and so forth. But, yeah, you can do all the same stuff in the disk. It works exactly the same.
00:52:36.414 - 00:52:38.514, Speaker B: Thank you, Jeanette.
00:52:43.094 - 00:52:55.974, Speaker A: Any further comment or question? If not, let's thank Emmanuel again and we resume in six minutes.
