00:00:04.010 - 00:01:18.722, Speaker A: All right, well, welcome and thank you for coming out. As I was thinking about what I would say to introduce the event and panel, I thought about a quote from George Bernard Shaw and he said, a lot of people see things the way they they are and they say, Why? But I dream of things as they ought to be and say, Why not? Why not? So that's actually at the essence and the spirit of not just ETH Waterloo and ETH Global and hackathons and people dreaming up new ideas and things like that. It's also what makes Waterloo waterloo. And it's a line that the president of the university, dr. David Johnson, who was the Governor General of Canada, oftentimes would open up his speeches with that Bernard Shaw line. And so I thought to myself, yesterday we had opening ceremonies for Waterloo and the principal message that Liam Horn and Kartik Telwar sent on stage was, dream big. Dream big.
00:01:18.722 - 00:02:07.798, Speaker A: And today we have a number of people who have not only dreamt quite big, but who have actually realized their dreams. And you're going to hear from them. We're really proud to present that. And so rewind the clock two and a half years ago, Kartik and Liam, they approached me and said, hey, we want to throw the world's largest Ethereum hackathon in Waterloo. Would you be willing to help? And after I got over how lucky I was to be asked, I immediately jumped at the opportunity. And so I want to take a moment to describe what's transpired since then, because they've assembled a team that's been absolutely remarkable. And those individuals deserve a lot of credit for what's going on here today.
00:02:07.798 - 00:03:51.602, Speaker A: Across the hall over here, as well as what's happened since in the two years that's transpired, they've taken this prototype of this Ethereum hackathon and they've gone global because all these communities around the world said, hey, we want our own ethuada. And so, 14 events later from San Francisco to New York, denver, Buenos Aires, Argentina, bangalore, India, Singapore, Berlin, Paris the list goes on and on. It's been absolutely remarkable seeing them take their vision and inspire communities around the world to basically hack on top of the Ethereum Platform. And so to quantify 14 events, there was over 10,000 developer applicants from all over the world that have applied for ETH global events from 75 different countries. And so that team that made that happen include the following individuals KartiP Telwar, liam horn, josh stark heather campbell, andrew Dunscomb and Jacob Wilson. So if you could join me in a round of applause for those I continue to be in awe of them and what they've been able to accomplish. For those of you who are from out of town, you might be thinking, what the fuck is this building? Well, this used to be an old whiskey distillery, but now it's the home of Shopify in Waterloo.
00:03:51.602 - 00:04:26.850, Speaker A: And shopify has been unbelievable. Partner in helping us put this event together. And I wanted to thank them. Specifically, I wanted to thank Paul Moretti, who's sitting right up there. Thank you, Paul. And we Cannolly, who's also been instrumental putting this together. Toby at Chopify said this could quite possibly be the nicest office space in all of Tech.
00:04:26.850 - 00:05:23.886, Speaker A: But then, of course, he said the King and Portland Center was probably the nicest office space in all of Tech in any you know, two years ago, when we also were looking for other partners to help us bring this event to you, two other parties that I wanted to recognize. They're sitting in the back of the room is Usman Sheikh and Sean Gomez from Gallons. Usman runs a blockchain practice at Gallins, and they jumped at the opportunity to back us early on when we had nothing but an idea. And so I wanted to thank you for backing us then, and I wanted to thank you for sponsoring and helping us out now. Thank you. And so Liam insisted on me mentioning that this is intended to be a conversation. This is not necessarily supposed to be lecture style.
00:05:23.886 - 00:06:12.370, Speaker A: So if there's something that's not clear or if you want to interrupt, ask a question that's highly encouraged. This is meant to be a forum to share ideas, as I mentioned. And so please, by all means, raise a hand if you want to discuss something or if you want to ask a question about what's been mentioned, because we're going to be talking about three central topics today. It's going to be crypto economics, followed by panel on decentralized finance, DFI, followed by effectively web3 or Internet money, if you will. So that's coming up as well. And with that said, I wanted to also just recognize special friends in the room. Dr.
00:06:12.370 - 00:06:48.400, Speaker A: John English, who used to be the executive director of the center for International Governance Innovation in this building before shopify took it, and Dr. John English and CG, in fact, has been a huge partner. So right now, as we speak today, there's hundreds of hackers next door working on projects that will be presented tomorrow to the judges. Many of them are in the room here with us. And so CG also deserves a lot of credit and recognition for helping us by giving us their gorgeous building. So. Hi, John.
00:06:48.400 - 00:07:22.650, Speaker A: For any other sponsor in the room, the Sponsor Party thank you party is this evening just down the street at the Communitech data hub, and that's from seven to 09:00 p.m.. So we look forward to hosting all of you there. But without further ado, I would like to turn it over to the inventor, creator, and founder of Sirium, the one and only Vitalik Guitar. And thank you for coming back, Vitalik.
00:07:58.070 - 00:09:41.538, Speaker B: So, yeah, I guess today I'm going to talk about urban economics. So to start off, let's go back about ten years to the original creation of Bitcoin. So before 2009, we were in the dark ages where all we had was money issued by different central authorities and different kinds of commodity money, things like gold and so forth. And in 2009, Satoshi came along with Bitcoin, which showed us anyway. But what exactly is so interesting about this? Right? Different people have different answers to this question, but what is interesting about bitcoin and things that came after it? What is the thing that allows previous systems and previous so one common answer that people give is that general's problem here are sort of the visitor general's problem. Okay? So their visiting generous problem basically kind of has to do with the possibility of a distributed group of people kind of coming together and being on a message, right? The original setup is basically you have a town and you have a group of armies around the town if they want to try to coordinate and attack against the town at the same time. But any messengers that the army send between each other could be treaters, could be intercepted.
00:09:41.538 - 00:11:06.166, Speaker B: You want like the channels between them have some error rates. Can you still make sure that you get a lot of people have this idea that general's problem was not solved until Satoshi 17. But the reality is that the residue general's problem was solved by lesbian Vancouver in 1982, right? So distributed consensus as a thing is more than 35 years old. The ability to have a network where you have multiple nodes, multiple nodes talk to each other, they transmit messages between each other and they all agree on some kind of common module of transactions. This is actually stuff that has been possible to do for more than 35 years. So what did satoshi really advance, right? What did Satoshi kind of come up with that these systems were distributed consensus that existed long before bitcoin was created did not have? And my answer to this question is crypto economics. So first of all, what is crypto economics? Crypto economics is the combination of cryptography and economic incentives to try to create systems where you can have some kind of guarantee that these systems will work in the way that you say that they'll work.
00:11:06.166 - 00:12:11.500, Speaker B: Blockchains are an example of a flow economic growth. So if for anyone who is kind of remotely familiar with how blockchains work, you have a chain of blocks and every block points to some previous block. And the intended functionality of the system is that you have a block, someone creates a new block, that new block gets added to the chain, someone else creates a newer block, that newer block gets added to the chain and the whole thing just kind of grows. One point, the thing you don't want to have happen is forks. You don't want to have kind of two blocks over here that are conflicting with each other happen. Because what that means is that one of those two blocks has to get thrown out and some transactions get reverted. So Bitcoin and other group of word blockchains and other blockchains in general use crypto economic techniques to try to encourage participants to participate in the system directly and try to help make the chain grow instead of just going off and building blocks somewhere else.
00:12:11.500 - 00:13:31.730, Speaker B: So the way that Bitcoin and Ethereum and other blockchains do this is the app block rewards, right? If you beat a block that is part of the chain, then you get a reward. If you beat a block that is not part of the chain, then you do not get a reward. So, incentives, right? So basically it's one of the kind of key things that Bitcoin and other Satoshi platforms have is big use incentives in this particular way. Now, another thing that they have is what I call economic weight assignments. So these decentralized consensus systems that existed in the 1980s and 1990s, bbsdwords, all of these systems, they were able to get some number of nodes to talk to each other, right? You could get 15 computers together. Those 15 computers would exchange messages and the system would continue running as long as at least ten of those or at least eleven of those computers are functioning correctly. Any four of them could fail in some arbitrary way, but as long as not more than four of them fail, the system is fine.
00:13:31.730 - 00:14:23.482, Speaker B: Now, what's the problem here, right? You go up from having one computer to having 15 computers, but you still have to agree on who these 15 computers are. So the thing that Satoshi was trying to do, basically creating a decentralized digital currency. Well, okay, so what we're trying to do here is we're trying to create digital gold. We're basically trying to create this kind of payment mechanism and store value. And we want this thing to be used by people around the world, and we want this to be used. How would people even agree on who these computers are? So the trust problem is somewhat mitigated, but it's not all mitigated. If you choose, we'll say, okay, well, let's take 15 companies.
00:14:23.482 - 00:15:41.754, Speaker B: We'll do wheel trust the same 15 companies. Are we going to say it's 15 countries will do, we all trust the same 15? So even going from one computer to n computers doesn't kind of solve this problem of providing the neutrality that people are looking for. That is kind of necessary to help to allow this kind of system to gain more widespread acceptance. So economic weight of what do I mean by this? So things like Bitcoin and Ethereum are fully provisional systems, meaning anyone can participate at any layer of step, anyone can read the blockchain, anyone can send transactions on the blockchain, and anyone can participate in creating blockchain blockchain. Now, the problem here is that this is a fully provisional system. It's also anonymous system. The internet doesn't have some super reliable standard of identifying unique people and block production is kind of like a voting game, right? Producing these blocks is this mechanism where if an attacker is able to produce more blocks than the rest of the network put together then they can revert whatever transactions they want and they can basically break the system.
00:15:41.754 - 00:16:28.566, Speaker B: And so you have this problem called civil attacks, right? So a civil attack basically is let's say we have a permissionless network and some group of computers are participating. And I am going to join the network. And in this network I am going to spin up 2000 Virtual Machines and I'm just going to pretend that each of these 2000 Virtual Machines is a separate computer. And I'm going to claim, look guys, I'm 2000 people. I'm more than everyone else put together. You should listen to me. So because applications on the internet are kind of fundamentally anonymous in this way it's not the sort of environment where just kind of counting self secret identities is secure.
00:16:28.566 - 00:17:36.046, Speaker B: And so what we do instead is instead of trying to count self secured identities we're going to count economic resources. So the way that Bitcoin and Ethereum currently work is that producing one of these blocks is deliberately designed to take up a very large amount of computing. It's somewhere on the order of 1 billion trillion computations in order to walk. And you have these extremely large mining parts everywhere, everywhere around the world that are constantly trying to break down these. And the reason why we have this mechanism is so that if someone else joins a network then they try to kind of start a chain from somewhere behind in history and try to convince the network that their chain is the real chain. Instead of just having to have more identities than the rest of the networks combined they would have to have more economic resources than the other. And this is something which is very difficult to fail.
00:17:36.046 - 00:18:53.236, Speaker B: It's very difficult to come up with more economic resources than all of the resources that are being blocked on something like Bitcoin network or something like the Ethereum network. And proof of Stake also works in a kind of similar way except proof of Stake. Instead of counting economic resources by looking at computing power proof of stake counts economic resources by looking at points. So in either case this idea of using kind of economics for gatekeeping allows us to kind of balance two different goals in a way that was not possible before. It allows us to have both fully open permissionless, open access systems and at the same time have those systems not be exploitable or at least not be easily exploitable. So these two things together are crypto economic tools and they are the tools that make the Bitcoin blockchain work, that make the Ethereum blockchain work and that make any other blockchain work. So how does crypto economic mechanism design? So there's the crypto and there's the economics.
00:18:53.236 - 00:19:55.370, Speaker B: Economics means that you're securing the system using economic limitations and incentives. And the crypto means that you're kind of using cryptography as the broad building blocks that are the substrate that you are building things on top of, right? When we say every block points to a previous block, we mean every block contains the hash of a previous block, kind of a link between two objects that you can't forge. You use digital signatures to prove that someone reads some message. You might use zero LH proofs to prove that the message has three properties. So you have the crypto and the economics. Economics probably even though you need the crypto as the base building block, the economics takes more of a center stage when you try to actually building analyze these systems. So we're trying to incentivize good behavior and we're trying to we want to create systems where if you join these systems, we have no idea who you are.
00:19:55.370 - 00:21:34.690, Speaker B: And so we have no idea whether or not you're kind of intriguedically, aligned with the system's operation. And so we want to kind of provide some explicit incentives that say if you do things that help the system run well, then you get more of a reward. If you act in ways that cause the system to run poorly, you don't get a reward. And if you act in ways that cause the system to break poorly, then you should suffer a large. So one kind of common critique of this that people often make is they ask, well, what about attackers that have a really large extra protocol incentive? So what about attackers who are not just trying to break a system to make money off of it? What about attackers that just have some other goal that they have that makes them want to be, if you are, let's say, one of the core developers of some cryptocurrency and there's some other cryptocurrency which is a human, if you're kind of people you might want to pack that potentially sometimes people just go crazy. These kinds of actors exist in the world, right? And so if we focus on economic incentives and if we focus on things like cost of attacks, then you might ask, well, are we protecting against both of these threats at all? By the way, this is a QR code. It's a possibility of trial and having hyperlink.
00:21:34.690 - 00:22:36.308, Speaker B: So here's my reply to this, right? So first of all, there's definitely limits to the realism of economic modeling. Like there's limits to this idea that people are budgeted by incentives. And there definitely are people who are stupid. There's people who are just acting waste because they have people who have a personal goal set up with them outside of our model. And all of these things exist, right? But the alternative ways of modeling decentralized systems are generally, in my view, even more unrealistic, especially in a fully opened environment. For example, when you do non economic analysis of decentralized systems, we often assume that more than one half are honest and more than one half are altruistically honest. So they're willing to be honest even when they have a big incentive not to be honest.
00:22:36.308 - 00:23:49.970, Speaker B: And there's this example that happened a couple of years ago that kind of proves how relying on altruistic honesty is not enough, right? So this was the Bitcoin SPD mining kind of situation and what happened here, in order to save on costs, miners started validating or building blocks without verifying the other blocks they were building on top of. And this saved cost for verification. But what it meant is that at some point eventually someone accidentally created an invalid block and six other blocks were built on top of it. And all six of these blocks got reported. So we actually see how if we do not kind of try hard to incentivize for behavior that sometimes does not kind of like devil for evil behavior, but wasting behavior can happen pretty easily. Sometimes kind of more subtle forms of defection can happen pretty easily. So you want to have systems that try to be kind of secure in as many of these ways as possible.
00:23:49.970 - 00:24:55.384, Speaker B: Second, there's limits to an attacker's ability to route the company. So if he wants to attack a system, then he could do things like, oh, I'm going to attack some Bitcoin SD, I'm going to attack Bitcoin SD, and I'm going to try to, before I do this, I'm going to short Bitcoin SD on financial markets. And the theory is like, step one, short the coin on financial market. Step two, attack the coin. Step three, profit price goes down. And the claim is, well, even if it's expensive to attack, then if you can profit more from an attack more than the attack costs, then is the system not insecure? And my answer is, well, this is exactly why kind of cost of attack analysis is important. The more expensive you can make it to attack a system, the less likely it is that it will be possible to actually profit from an attack.
00:24:55.384 - 00:25:55.164, Speaker B: Financial markets are not infinitely deemed. A competitor's interest in breaking a currency is not infinite. A government's interest in breaking incentives to do these things are not infinite. And so system we reduce the probability that there will be someone with enough of an incentive to break. And also even nonprofit motivated attackers have to consider questions. So a nonprofit motivated attacker generally not always, but often if they're crazy, it's harder to get attackers that have kind of motives that we can't predict at all. There's just limits to how much money they have and to how many times they're even capable of spending those resources to make them think great regardless of what their goals are.
00:25:55.164 - 00:27:35.396, Speaker B: And often for extrinsic resources, right? So like for example, if you're trying to attack a system, then often in the real world you care about deniably in the real world you care about, it not being known that you're the one who did the attack. And getting resources deniably tends to be harder than getting resources. So sometimes crypto is a Greece of ecosystem in a lot of ways. So crypto economics are used to secure blockchains, right? And we've seen a lot of these principles in action. We've seen, for example, that there are blockchains that are maybe 50 times smaller than something thousand dollars to attack them, and they have been successfully attacked, right? If the cost of attacking a chain is somewhere between five and $10,000, then there's plenty of just a random 14 year old teenagers that earn $5,000 because they bubbles. If you can get the cost of attack up to the $1 million level, the number of people capable something like ethereum not technically successful. Now, crypto economic techniques are useful for designing blockchains because the crypto economic kind of way of thinking assumes very little about the actors that are participating in the system.
00:27:35.396 - 00:28:36.350, Speaker B: It assumes very little about kind of their personal beliefs about whether or not the system is good or there like those things. It just assumes resources are bounded. It's useful for blockchains because blockchains are this open permissionless environment where the protocol itself inherently has no idea about anything about who its participants are. It can also be useful in application layer contexts. So proof of stake for antispam. This is one idea that I've come up with and some other people have come up with. And this is basically saying that in order to prevent spam, and this could be email spam, this could be just spam, denial of service, attacks against websites, this could be lots of different things.
00:28:36.350 - 00:29:56.628, Speaker B: Then we can try to limit these kinds of attacks by basically relying on having a system where you put down a deposit. And putting down a deposit gives you the ability to send some number of messages. And if those messages turn out to be spam or unwanted or attacks, you using some balance. And this is something that we've been considering even such as using lower level protocols. This is something that you can use in higher level applications. It's usable as a general principle in a lot of contexts, and you can even kind of keep this kind of principle out of traditional crypto context, right? So like for example, there was if you got BNC, we simply have to keep running again, and this deed actually monitor all the success quality. So these kinds of incentives can sometimes be quite effective crypto economic lifeline.
00:29:56.628 - 00:30:57.090, Speaker B: So the idea here is that within blockchain protocols can make it easier for applications to do things like searching through data. So one example of this is that even the ethereum blockchain itself, there's a fairly large amount of data inside of it. There's about 200GB of data in it and many applications. Most of that data is history. Most of that data is things that happened before that most people don't care about now, but that some applications care about, like some applications care about kind of fetching events that happen in the history. And right now every kind of full node in the network is required to store all this information. But what we can do instead is we can have this protocol that says if some individual wants a piece of data, instead of asking their own node and querying for all of it themselves, they can just kind of ask the network for the data.
00:30:57.090 - 00:32:19.250, Speaker B: And the network just nodes in the network can then reply back and they can say, here are the results of your search query. I certify that these are the results and that there are no other results. And if someone else comes up with a proof that there actually is another result, then their original signed message and can be kind of published into a smart contract and they can have some deposits. So you can use personal economic policies to also create these kinds of decentralized search protocols just through databases like even for example, blockchain history. And if you do this then this is kind of one of the major passports, interactive computation. This is another kind of fun example. So the idea here basically is suppose that you have some computation and you want an application on the blockchain to learn the result of the computation without having to do the entire doing a computation on a blockchain is fairly expensive because a blockchain is this complicated, maybe tens of thousands.
00:32:19.250 - 00:33:41.272, Speaker B: But you can create this kind of L2 protocol that basically says, well, how about instead of doing the entire computation, launch pieces where each of those pieces can be done on chain if you want to. But at first we're not going to do so at first. Instead what we're going to do is we're just going to wait for someone to submit what they think the XS are. So I can run a computation, I can save a bunch of intermediate data that says here is the input, here is the input after I run it for 1004 and I can submit a sequence of values to just say here are all of these intermediate checkpoints and I push them into some. Then there's a challenge period, right? So to illustrate this with an example, let's say, suppose that in reality calculating two to the power of ten is very easy. But suppose that calculating two to the power of ten is very hard. Let's say that some smart contract on blockchain wants to work what is two to the power of ten.
00:33:41.272 - 00:34:17.150, Speaker B: And so what you do is you can submit a trace where the first trace is the first step is the input. Then every step is the previous step. Multiplied by two you have ten steps and the last step is the output. And let's suppose that you have some submitter who's bullish. Let's say you have some submitter that just is really, really tired about this stupid distinction between kilobytes with 1000 bytes and terabytes. And the submitter wants to convince the world once and for all that two to the power of ten. So here is what they do.
00:34:17.150 - 00:35:21.620, Speaker B: They submit a trace where they say one, 2418, six, eight, 6032-641-2825. They claim, well, this is me and taking over one, multiplying it by two and doubling it ten times. Since here's what I get on the end. Now, if we have this kind of trace, this trace is wrong, right? So if the computation is wrong, there has to be some initial step at which the computation is wrong, right? And it turns out that the initial step is over here. So there exists a challenge period, right? The blockchain does not accept the submission. It accepts the submission and then it kind of waits for about a week. And during the challenge period, anyone else can submit an index and they can say, hey, I think that the computation starts being broad suffer over here.
00:35:21.620 - 00:36:49.280, Speaker B: And they go and they points to this position. And then only when they do the challenge, the blockchain contract on the blockchain, they go and say, okay, well, someone is claiming that the step between these two submissions wrong, I'm going to check it. And so they take 128 now on chain, multiply it by two and they see a weight, it's 256 and not 250. And so this original submitter submitted something wrong and so they should be honest. So the idea here is that in the normal case, people are going to be honest because they know that if they submitted something that is dishonest, someone else will catch them and they're not going to get the honest, they're not going to get the wrong answer through and they'll be penalized for it. But if they submit an honest train, the system might wait about a week and after this they will be reported. So this is one example of a purpose economic technique that you can variants of this have been proposed to be something in the form of things like optimistic roll up to try to some mandatory caveats because you need either some selective altruistic actors or actors that kind of have other reasons to check the computation themselves.
00:36:49.280 - 00:38:35.706, Speaker B: Because otherwise you have this kind of equilibrium where if nobody cheats, that nobody checks, and then somebody can cheat around that. And also you want to reveals software economics, right? So there's also kind of higher level economics. So one of them is Oracles. And the thing that these all have in common is they try to use economic techniques, but they try to solve problems that are kind of higher level and that really start to come closer to well, is this really crypto economics or is this just kind of doing mechanism design just using the blockchain as a substrate? So Oracle, the idea here is well, how can. The blockchain get information about the real world like let's say the blockchain wants to learn what is the price of one ether in dollars or the blockchain wants to learn what is the temperature of Waterloo? Like any of these factors you can offer. Then there's been this kind of branch of thought about well, how do we create systems that still give people incentive to try to publish on chain the correct answer. And there are some answers that kind of variants of this are used by there's also the kind of question of kind of subjectivity versus exploitability that's kind of problem world economic mechanisms for other tasks.
00:38:35.706 - 00:40:03.244, Speaker B: So in my panel yesterday I mentioned public interest projects. This is one of the alternatives that I like. And the idea here basically is that instead of giving your money all at once, you kind of put your money in a contract and basically just the interest from volume that you some project over time. And so instead of a project getting all of its money immediately and then possibly running away with it, a project kind of gets its money more slowly over time. And if people stop being satisfied with the project, then the project can then people have the ability to manage those app. Right? So we can also think about mechanism design as a tool to just general and blockchain and specifically smart contracts can be a really kind of nice and convenient tool for doing all sorts of things and the dividing line between perfectly denominator here's another really fun example, this is Uniswap Ninja. So what happens here is basically so Uniswap is a decentralized exchange and one of the problems that Uniswap has is that lots of people issue tokens and one thing that has happened to an ethereum a few times is that people have created cake tokens.
00:40:03.244 - 00:41:38.212, Speaker B: So lots of people love, I don't know, MKR and people want to buy and trade FKR. So someone else creates a new token, prints a bunch of it for themselves and they also call their token FKR and they try to convince people that this token is NPR they should buy it and they kind of steal on earth. So uniswap ninja is the kind of alternative interface to uniswap, which is one decentralized exchange. And what it does is it uses Claros, which is one of these not quite an oracle platform, but to basically maintain a list in a decentralized way that basically says kind of which cryptocurrency on the ethereum blockchain is legitimate and which actually corresponds to which ticker symbol, which corresponds to which logo and which one. And this kind of self updating decentralized interface that helps people trade one token for another token, but at the same time kind of protect from fake tokens that pretend to be something that they're not. So this is another kind of interesting example of crypto economics techniques being used to solve software problems that are on. So crypto economics.
00:41:38.212 - 00:43:06.000, Speaker B: It's core to blockchain design. It's core to how things like proof of work and how proof of stake work and it's crypto. We can only allows us to create these systems that we can have some kind of high reliability, that these systems are going to function as expected and these systems are not going to break without having to rely on basically centralized interest of third parties. So you can create systems that kind of go across the entire world and where people, regardless of where they come from, they can look at the logic, they can look at how they're likely to be more inclined to see it as a system that they can trust. Crypto economics can be used at the application layer in a lot of contexts and there is that kind of a big spectrum here where sometimes the group you can use it to just help with computational tasks such as this interactive computation for example. And then there's also kind of softer things like trying to create these ways of getting information from the real world into the blockchain. And really there's this kind of spectrum of different techniques that I highly encourage people to learn about.
00:43:06.000 - 00:43:14.950, Speaker B: And if you're going to be hacking this or future hackathons that, Beauty Chicks is already lined up with you.
00:43:19.880 - 00:43:52.400, Speaker A: We have time for five minutes of questions. If you have a question, please raise your hands and we'll run over a mic for you. Anybody with a question for question for people who are new to it? I saw that you mentioned is there almost like a shopify version of that where it would provide underlining?
00:43:55.450 - 00:44:04.370, Speaker B: I think Microsoft actually did exactly this a week ago. These things.
00:44:13.120 - 00:44:23.548, Speaker A: Hello. So I actually asked you a question at Cryptochix last summer about what you thought the first application of AI would.
00:44:23.554 - 00:44:29.468, Speaker B: Be to blockchain and you cited Arbitrage box and also cited uniswap.
00:44:29.644 - 00:44:32.604, Speaker A: So these tools are designed to improve.
00:44:32.652 - 00:44:34.748, Speaker B: Liquidity and reduce spreads.
00:44:34.844 - 00:45:04.908, Speaker A: But do you think that while liquidity is essential to the pricing of assets, there are still dangers with it, with unrestrained liquidity? For instance, in traditional markets with high frequency trading we've seen things like flash crashes such that the Chicago Mercantile Exchange has stuff like breakers to stop trading if it's getting out of hand. So the CME is obviously a centralized entity that can stop trading, but no such thing could exist in a decentralized manner. Do you see that as a potentially issue?
00:45:05.074 - 00:46:38.280, Speaker B: I think there's a large design space in decentralized markets that people haven't really kind of properly explored yet. One example of this I've talked about a bunch of times is like frequent batch auctions. So this is this idea that basically instead of processing trades one by one, you kind of take in trades. You wait until the end of 1 second or 1 minute or some time interval and then you process some kind of easy order in which prices come and the reason why we want to do this is because if you do this then high frequency trading kind of stops becoming a profitable thing to do. There's no benefit to having latency that's lower than some portion of whatever the high frequency trading or whatever the interval is, right? It's definitely the case that there's different kinds of markets and that market structure matters and there definitely isn't a possibility of creating market structures that have kind of some level of centralization to them. And one of the benefits of the crypto space is that it makes it kind of easy for different people to try out and implement different designs. And I know people are trying to implement some of these designs in some ways.
00:46:38.280 - 00:48:09.586, Speaker B: I think this is a problem that can just be solved through newer and newer and better market mechanisms being built on top of Ethereum at the same over time. The one thing that's nothing to do though is that if you have an asset then you can't guarantee that it will you could, but it's less easy to guarantee that it will only be traded on one exchange. And so the mechanic that you do have here is that exchanges are less of a monopoly, and so you have to deal with different exchanges and how they interact with each other. And that's something that definitely exists in the traditional finance, but it's something that, in the long term, I can see being more productive in the crypto space. I guess in general, I think it's my view of kind of how to think of the crypto space is that it's a place that makes it easier to different kinds of systems. There are different ways to structure things like markets and so one of them is better. It's something that could end up some existing exchanges whereby decentralized exchanges need to look like something like Bitfinex or Polonia X three Uniswap for example.
00:48:09.586 - 00:50:22.812, Speaker B: But I'm also not 100% buffet because there is this possibility that exchange designs will interact with each other in terms of node scalability. Right now it's untenable for a normal person to run a node and you mentioned keeping only the last million blocks or four months of transactions. Instead, what about an approach where you shard the history or there's some kind of proof of reproducibility like different people promise to have different parts of the history. That's basically what the idea behind things crypto economic WiFi is going to that definitely is how it will happen. How do you feel about the growing DeFi space and whether apps could have if their dev team decides to make her doubt, not that they necessarily would but say die, disappears or goes on S? It will definitely be it will definitely be an interesting test. I definitely think that I guess first of all, I definitely think that if there is a team that some team that tries to do something like that for malicious reasons then we should have an agreement that we're just basically going to say screw you, and we'll fork machine anyway, even if it caused a lot of damage. And not because causing a lot of damage is good, but because having that free commitment is important to discourage that kind of behavior from happening in the workplace.
00:50:22.812 - 00:51:56.980, Speaker B: But there are definitely going to be cases where there are kind of legitimate disagreements over technical issues. But historically, I think people generally the ethereum community has been pretty good at handling those kinds of things well. There have been cases where kind of some people were favored, and generally people have kind of gone along with whatever the winning decision ended up being. And at the same time, people have also avoided kind of proposing. Right now, I feel like we're in a position where we can't protocol development can still progress, kind of even if in the future things stop being that way and it does start going toward kind of partisanship and really just off into a floor, then you definitely see that kind of just slowing down the ethereum development in a lot of ways. That sort of thing would also have other kind of harmful effects on ethereum's culture, I think. So it's.
00:52:14.300 - 00:52:22.630, Speaker A: Michael Dunsworth Wire. If you could come up to the stage, as well as Joey Crew, Marcelo Cortez, will you guys know if you could come on.
