00:00:02.120 - 00:00:08.794, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Blockcrunch podcast, the go to podcast for investors and builders in crypto.
00:00:14.694 - 00:00:33.528, Speaker B: And before we get started, just a reminder for you guys out there. The Blockcrunch podcast is intended for informational purposes only. Neither the host nor its guests or licensed financial advisors, and nothing discussed should be construed as financial advice. Views held by Blockcrunch's guests are their own, and sponsorship messages do not constitute financial advice or endorsement.
00:00:33.656 - 00:00:51.544, Speaker A: With that out of the way, let's jump right in. Today's episode is brought to you by Protocol Labs, the team behind Filecoin. And with me today is Colin Efron from Protocol Labs, who leads ecosystem there to tell us why people should choose Filecoin over alternatives. So, Colin, why should people be using Filecoin over other competitors?
00:00:51.624 - 00:01:25.052, Speaker C: Filecoin believes that web3 will only win by offering a better product at a better price point. When it comes to storage, Filecoin offers the most scale at the cheapest price, with the strong guarantees uniquely enabled by its open market of storage providers and its crypto economic incentives. Now, smart contracts on Filecoin, which launches in q one of 2023, only make this more powerful. It enables users to create perpetual storage deals to store data forever, at costs that are a small fraction of centralized storage providers, I guess hello there.
00:01:25.108 - 00:01:54.866, Speaker A: Now, before I move on, I'd love to thank the hundreds of you who have subscribed to blockchain VIP. Because with your support, I've been able to share my real thoughts on specific projects that I don't usually share, on interviews in a format that I enjoy more, which is bi weekly written posts. We've also been able to offer exclusive AMA's, sharing my investment frameworks, interactable models, and breaking down important trends before they become big. Now, we even had Elon Musk comment on one of our threads recently. So if you haven't already, head on over to theblockcrench.com VIP and you can.
00:01:54.890 - 00:01:56.762, Speaker B: Access dozens of hours of research for.
00:01:56.778 - 00:02:25.910, Speaker A: What you'd spend on a coffee a day. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, I have an announcement to make, which is that we're going to end the show in its current form, which means we're going to relaunch the show. Because after five years of running this every week, I've decided that we need a fresh rebrand, and that will come in the next few months. So we're going to overhaul the entire format of the show. We're going to offer more critical views we're going to strengthen our guest list and the structure of interviews to be more accessible to more people as well, not just kind of crypto natives.
00:02:25.910 - 00:03:08.334, Speaker A: And I will share a lot more about that very, very soon. But before we do that, I wanted to end the current five year run of Blockcrunch with a bang. So I thought it would be good to end with an episode where we zoom out a bit and talk about what excites us, what aggravates us, and what keeps us here. So for the season finale of Blockcrunch, before we rebrand and relaunch, I'm really excited to have my friend and co founder Darryl from Tangent, our angel investing fund, on the show. Now, what many people don't know is that Tangent is not really a VC fund. It's really in the sense that we don't raise outside capital or we only invest our own capital. And because of this, most of our capital is actually sitting in cash most of the time, which means we get to take advantage of opportunities in the liquid market as well.
00:03:08.334 - 00:03:50.364, Speaker A: And between the two of us, Darrow is more of the secondary market brains. So while we're not day traders and we're not a trading fund by any means, it would be very interesting to get both sides of the perspective from a venture perspective, from a secondary perspective, both of which I think are very, very important to succeeding in crypto and understanding what's happening. So today with Daryl, we're going to go through a few high level topics. So first of all, we're going to talk about a high level outlook, reasons to be bullish and bearish crypto. We're going to go to the thesis level, which is things that we got wrong, things that we think are wrong, and things that we are bullish on. And then we're going to zoom into the market level, which are things that are happening now. So things like meme coins, I'm sure some of you have seen the Harry Potter coins going around world coin and so on.
00:03:50.364 - 00:04:01.162, Speaker A: And then finally we go down to the project level, which is highlighting some of the companies that we invested in. So, Darryl, I'm super excited to have you on the show. I know you've been on twice already from our fireside chats, but never in this format.
00:04:01.268 - 00:04:10.694, Speaker D: Yeah, always a pleasure to come on. I think Blockcrunch has been one of the earliest podcasts I started listening to when I got into the space, so it's really come full circle.
00:04:10.774 - 00:04:29.504, Speaker A: Yeah, I think people don't really know how we met. We were talking about this in the office yesterday, but I found a tweet. Not tweet, a DM that you sent to me on Twitter. I think back in 2020 about listening to the show, and now we've truly come full circle. And that actually reminds me, I wanted to ask you, like, what got you into crypto in the first place? And has that reason changed?
00:04:29.614 - 00:05:24.954, Speaker D: Yeah, this goes back all the way to the COVID crash. And I was previously in my previous life, I was an investment banker in traditional finance, and I was really thinking at the start of my career, how do I compound capital as quickly as possible? And I went through, literally, I went through, bucket by bucket, the different asset classes that could get you there. It wasn't staying in traditional finance in a banking job. You know, if you put your net worth in the SPX, you could comfortably get maybe in a good decade, 10% analyzed gains a year, but that wouldn't really get you anywhere in terms of making life changing money. So eventually, I stumbled across this thing called, you know, bitcoin and ethereum. I started reading about it a bit more, and at the time, I think it was in between the 2018 cycle and the 2021 cycle. So nobody was really talking about crypto, and the COVID crash just happened.
00:05:24.954 - 00:05:51.304, Speaker D: So I think ETH went down to sub 200 and was just making its recovery. But I think everyone was too bruised and battered, too ready to be euphoric about it going back to, like, three or 400. And that's when I really started looking at crypto. And then I was really the only one in my social circle trying to learn more about it. And so I really had no choice but to go to Twitter to find like minded people. And that's how I sort of stumbled across blockcrunch and Jason.
00:05:51.424 - 00:06:14.774, Speaker A: Yeah. And I know you kind of found your previous gig defiance on Twitter as well, so. Yeah. So now that we get the origin story, let's dive into what we are looking out for. So reasons we are bullish on crypto in the next twelve months. What's the first point that I prepared to talk about? Do you want to take a stab at this first? Anything we should be bullish about, or is there any reason at all to be bullish crypto?
00:06:14.944 - 00:06:55.666, Speaker D: There are a couple of things. So I guess there are two different segments. One is from a price perspective and one is from a utilities perspective. I think from a price perspective, most people have covered this already, how we are, I guess, in between cycles, really similar to how when I started getting into crypto before the last cycle. But the common narrative is the bitcoin harming next year very likely. ETF approach approval next year as well will likely be a good setup for the start of a new bull market. I think everyone here has been waiting for it long enough, but from a utility standpoint I think it's quite a bit different.
00:06:55.666 - 00:07:34.048, Speaker D: If you think about what do you actually do on a day to day basis on a blockchain, the answer right now is still not that much. I was thinking about it and I guess there are three main use cases. I can see that you would be interacting with the blockchain on a consistent basis. The first one is payments sending money cross border. I still think even if you use ethereum or l two s, for example, I think the friction versus using an Ach wire transfer is significantly better. So payments are still there, but in its current form still pretty expensive. The second one is Defi.
00:07:34.048 - 00:08:15.712, Speaker D: I think putting down collateral, taking out loans, cashing out and going to buy mansions via the multiple different lending protocols is certainly a use case that I can see staying around. And the last one is buying and selling of assets, more specifically nfts. I think this has definitely been a bit more beaten down as of late as well. But the cross selling of nfts I think is going to be a pretty large market and a consistent one into the next three to five years. So I really don't think we've seen the off nfts just yet.
00:08:15.808 - 00:08:54.652, Speaker A: Yeah, and I mean we've seen a fair share of Defi founders cashing out to buy mansions over the past, I think 24 months or so on Twitter. So that is definitely a very real use case and on the halving point. So this is a point I made in the last halving as well. And very fortunately I was wrong because I was positioned quite long. But my thinking was that the impact of every halving is going to lessen every cycle because the amount of bitcoin block rewards you're reducing is less and also the market cap of bitcoin is less. So the marginal impact of the reduction in supply should be lower and lower. But for some reason, every time there is a halfing, it's predicted a massive bitcoin bull bull market.
00:08:54.652 - 00:09:13.860, Speaker A: So last time I was already saying this time is different, it's not going to happen. Obviously I was wrong, very fortunately for all of us. But for this time, do you think there's any reason that the halving would not be as significant? And I'm guessing things we were tracking were like the litecoin halving, which didn't seem to have much of an impact as well.
00:09:13.972 - 00:09:57.760, Speaker D: I think it's a great question. I think in general, you're likely going to see more and more muted, uh, cycle upsides. I guess. Uh, for example, the last, uh, the last cycle, I think, repeat that bitcoin going up three x versus the one in 2017 where you went up significantly more than that. I think my base case is, you know, if, if the stars align, we probably see bitcoin at is probably a stretch. Uh, I think you're going to need significantly more institutional adoption and acceptance, even more than what we have in our bookings. So I think the percentage upside is definitely more muted, but thats also a function of just how big the industry has got.
00:09:57.760 - 00:10:08.136, Speaker D: I mean, even now, between cycles, were still sitting at about a trillion dollars in market cap across the entire industry. So that is by no measure any small value.
00:10:08.280 - 00:10:53.788, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think the two has to happen together to being halving and also the ETF approval, because you mentioned trillion dollar market cap for crypto. And obviously BlackRock is not going to put even a significant amount of their clients assets into crypto in any time in the near future. But I think it's important to remember that one Blackrock is bigger, like eight times, nine times bigger than the entire crypto market cap. So I think to get us to like the type of prices that bitcoiners like to talk about. Right, the 100,000 or million dollar bitcoins, you need that institutional capital. I don't think retail capital alone is enough to drive it up that way, especially because we've seen the record amount of retail capital flow into this space during QE, during COVID and it failed to drive us anywhere close to 100,000. So I do think the next stage has to be institution.
00:10:53.788 - 00:11:47.764, Speaker A: And that kind of brings me to my personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is just clarity from us regulations. I think right now, a lot of the tri fi folks that you and I talk to, they are scared of holding tokens, or they can't even hold tokens because they don't know if it's securities or not. And Gensler is not exactly being too clear with it either way. I think if we get some clarity from your circulations, maybe with a change in the governing party to the republican side, I think that could maybe lighten up enforcement. But then that's mostly on the US side. I think on the Asia side as well, we're seeing quite a lot of new use cases new founders, a lot of exodus from China, web two going over to web3 to start companies as well. So I do think we're going to see quite a significant influx of new games in the next 1224 months that people are not expecting.
00:11:47.764 - 00:12:13.370, Speaker A: Just yesterday I was testing out this game that our buddies at foliage ventures invested in. It's this kind of first person shooter on mobile and it felt exactly like Call of Duty on mobile. So I think that the quality of games that are coming out are going to be very high and that's going to take people with surprise. But I think that that's too much positivity. So let's flip onto the bear side. So in the next twelve months, why should we be bears? What are reasons to give you pessimism?
00:12:13.562 - 00:13:40.320, Speaker D: So the most cynical approach is the fact that you've had record amounts of funding, record amounts of interest in the space in the last 24 months, and that eventually you're going to have to show for all that capital deployment, all that talent, that the investment in human and financial capital. And right now we're really still not seeing how blockchain tech can fundamentally improve various aspects of people's lives. I mean, even today. How often do you use the blockchain? It's probably not that much unless you're degenerating shitcoins. But on a fundamental basis, if you're abstracting away the price element from, uh, me being the main reason why you're on the blockchain, uh, it's really not that much. And if this stays the same, uh, I think in the next, I guess two to three years perhaps, you know, after another cycle, if this stays the same, uh, you can kind of conclude, right, that crypto, as an experiment, I guess, you know, if you're thinking about it from the pure, uh, the bitcoin s type of view, that is only meant to be a store of value, it's meant to be an alternative currency, I guess that holds true. But if you're thinking about migrating the traditional financial stack onto the blockchain, it's probably not going to happen.
00:13:40.320 - 00:14:03.400, Speaker D: If it hasn't happened already or you haven't seen pretty strong breakthroughs that can lead to it happening right now, we're nowhere near close. Time is ticking. I guess for us to really show that there is a reason to be in crypto that isnt just because you want to be a contrarian anti government store value, I guess.
00:14:03.552 - 00:14:41.084, Speaker A: Yeah, ive definitely thought about that during the bear market as well, in terms of what people can actually use with crypto. Im actually, I guess more positive than that. I do think there are some exciting use cases that could come with social graphs coming on crypto as well. But since we have to be negative for this one, I think the most bearish thing is actually seeing cbdcs. I think the bank of England set up this advisory group like this week to design their CBDC. Every country is trying to launch their own CBDC. So I believe that if governments are pushing their own cryptocurrency or their own centralized cryptocurrency, they have every incentive to kill all the decentralized alternatives.
00:14:41.084 - 00:15:37.704, Speaker A: And they're already doing that in the US. They're making it very hard for banks to bank crypto startups in Asia, even without regulators stepping in. Actually, even with regulators saying that they should be pro crypto, like in jurisdictions like Hong Kong, banks are still scared to bank crypto startups because of what happened with FTX. So you kind of have this double whammy of some regulators trying to kill crypto and then some banks just being afraid of servicing crypto, and crypto just kind of becomes its own isolated island. I think that's pretty bearish because what you end up having is what we have now, which is an echo chamber of just crypto natives, degenering shitcoins, and no one thinking about how to bring crypto to people. And I think one of the founders that we're going to back, that we haven't announced yet, he tweeted that people shouldn't bring people to crypto, we should bring crypto to people. And I think that's the kind of mindset that crypto lacks right now in terms of how do we build things for the broader market, because right now it's kind of an echo chamber.
00:15:37.704 - 00:16:05.730, Speaker A: And then in bearish case, it's going to remain the same. So I think that kind of wraps up our bullish, embarrassed view. So let's zoom in a little bit. I want to talk about kind of market level stuff, and I, in the, in the spirit of staying humble, I want to start with things that we did wrong first. So one thing we discussed yesterday before we recorded was like, most obvious ideas in crypto that turn out to be wrong. So I want to expand that a little bit. It doesn't just have to be things that we participated in.
00:16:05.730 - 00:16:38.618, Speaker A: It could just be general trends that we saw that everyone thought were like, okay, this is Nixwick thing. And it just wasn't. So, so I can kick us off here. I think at one point we did think that Azuki was going to be the blue chip for nfts. It had the appeal to asian markets and then obviously they did that review that turned out to be a massive cash grab and the community seems quite dead right now. So that was a pretty obvious play in nfts that we got wrong. And I think that was also our first foray into nfts together.
00:16:38.618 - 00:16:53.106, Speaker A: And after that we actually decided that, okay, we probably don't have the expertise to trade nfts, and we actually invested in an NFT fund and they've been doing quite well. But that's kind of the story from my side. Anything you can think of, things that were obvious but turned out to be very wrong.
00:16:53.210 - 00:18:13.274, Speaker D: I guess the later part of the 2021 cycle hidden revolved around Axie and web3 gaming. And I think what Axie did was spun off massive interest and massive capital deployment into the web3 gaming space via crypto VC's. Right now I can probably say that as a vintage, web3 gaming in 2021 is probably going to be the worst performing vintage in almost any vertical, across almost any timeframe for a long, long time. So then I guess the reason for that was because what Axie did was the price of Axie front ran the fundamentals by such a large margin that it was almost impossible to replicate. So even if you managed to replicate the Axie game, it was very, very difficult to replicate that kind of price performance just because of the fact that Axie was the first mover. But what it did was a signal to the market, at least to VC's, that there was huge price opportunity or arbitrage opportunity. Because if you invested in a game in 2020, all of a sudden you'd be up 1000 x in 18 months time, which realistically we both know is not possible.
00:18:13.274 - 00:19:30.962, Speaker D: But what happened was a whole consortium of VC's started allocating towards Web three. Web three gaming and the typical game studios or founders that seek funding from Web three VC's typically weren't your highest class gaming studios because the highest class gaming studios are still your very traditional web two gaming studios and they have their own networks of venture investors that they typically tap. So you had massive, I guess, adverse information, adverse selection in terms of what the type of founders that were coming to market to raise from the web3 gaming, from the web3 investors. And you had a horde of web3 investors looking to deploy in this supposed new goldmine. I think in hindsight it was pretty obvious that the unit economics and the business model web3 gaming hadn't been perfected yet. It still isn't right now, but we're hoping that it will be tweaked and will be improved upon by the next cycle. But yeah, I think Web three gaming in the last 18 months have been a pretty horrendous bet for most VC's.
00:19:31.098 - 00:20:10.166, Speaker A: I think the dangerous thing, I think Axie was a great step for crypto. It expanded the population of crypto to far beyond just crypto natives. But I think the dangerous thing about investing in games because of crypto was because, not just because price ran, but because the numbers were actually there. Right? Like at one point, I think in January of what, 2021, they had like 2 million daily active users. That's like more than most applications. And people saw the numbers and then saw the price and then decided that, hey, this is like what we should invest in aggressively. So I think if they didn't have like 2 million users and it was just price, I don't think it would have led to as much capital inflow into this space and over investment.
00:20:10.166 - 00:20:40.862, Speaker A: And if you look at the numbers now, I think the daily active players in the axie is like anywhere from 70,000 to 300,000. So still quite significant. But it's not anywhere compared to where it was before. But I agree. I think the whole metaverse and gaming thing seemed very obvious, but I think it was just a few years too early. So for investors with kind of a longer term horizon willing to hold for five, seven years, I think that's probably still okay. But for people looking to make a quick buck, that has been a painful mistake.
00:20:40.862 - 00:21:07.226, Speaker A: So let's flip the coin a little bit and talk about the more consensus ideas today that we think are likely wrong. So just to list a few that we discussed yesterday, I think rollups as a service, we've talked to quite a few companies in that vertical. I think stable coins. We talked a lot about Maker before, so we can touch on that. For me, it's like generalized L1. So we can touch on and then kind of bringing treasury yields on chain, which we can discuss as well. So let's start with.
00:21:07.226 - 00:21:41.482, Speaker A: Actually, let's start with Maker, because that's one that we discussed lately. So to give listeners context here, Maker recently announced that they will issue a massive buyback and burn for the tokens, and they will start to also have a lot of their collateral managed by external parties who would then help them deploy into real world assets and earn things like treasury yields. And then as part of that yield, will accrue back to users and be used to buy back the maker token. Do you want to share some of your thoughts on what you think about that? Is that a sustainable idea? Are there any risk to that?
00:21:41.658 - 00:23:12.180, Speaker D: The preface, I don't think what Maker has been doing has been wrong per se. I think it's definitely the right step forward in terms of sharing, I guess, value with the maker holders. My bigger concern with stable coins is more stable coins, like maker, is more so how they are tying the fate of the yield to treasuries. And I think this is pretty, or rather, this is not so much a bear case for stablecoins, but it's more so a limiting factor for how optimistic I am on maker, specifically its price, simply because if you think about the environment that we need in order for bull market to happen, it's very likely when interest rates are very low, right? So typically when risk on sentiment is at its most aggressive, you have fundamentals that are the worst simply because your revenue or your utility is a function of interest rates. So it kind of goes against the flow in that sense. And I guess we as fundamentally, when you're trying to create an alternative, I guess, stock medium or transaction currency, you typically want to provide something better than the incumbent. And so what treasury yields are, they're basically just incumbent.
00:23:12.180 - 00:23:37.074, Speaker D: Why do I need to take stable coin risk? Why do I need to take smart contract risk just to get something that I could have got in my local bank, in a fixed deposit in my local bank, for example? And the alternative to this is really a crypto native stablecoin that can generate yields independent of treasury. Of treasury rates. I guess ill leave you to expand a bit more about that.
00:23:37.154 - 00:24:25.710, Speaker A: Yeah, so we did invest in a project that kind of tries to actualize this idea of the native Internet bond, where the entire yield, which is projected to be about nine to 12%, we can link to the sources there. This is not a financial advice. We're not promising any yield at all, but that's the yield that they projected, which we can talk about how they want to get there and whether you guys think that's possible. But we'll leave that for later, I guess. On the maker side, I can see a scenario where in a bear market, a lot of people want to hold the stablecoin, and as such, there's a lot of interest rate, there's a lot of treasury yields from the collateral that's being accrued to them. And then in a bull market, a lot of people want to take out leverage, so they pay the interest. So in bull and bear, the protocol earns revenue, but through different avenues.
00:24:25.710 - 00:25:16.030, Speaker A: But I agree in the sense that is treasury yields the best that we can do for Defi. I like to think not. I like to think this is just the first step. I'm still quite excited about Maker, but let's see where they go from here. I want to talk a little bit about generalized l one s as well, because I thought this trend would be over by 2018, meaning VC's just pile money into new and newer l one s with the goal to kind of overtake Ethereum, and they are still trading in the billions and still getting funded. I think bearer chain raised at like 420 million just because of 420. And in my opinion, I think Ethan has already almost an unbeatable Lindy effect in terms of having been around long enough that people know that there's not going to be random chain halts or chain rollbacks, unlike newer generalized chains.
00:25:16.030 - 00:26:23.402, Speaker A: And there's already a thriving L2 ecosystem that can be assured of the base layer security. So ETH's biggest moat is that it has 500,000 validators now, and it has this massive security pool of staked assets, which many of these other chains don't really have yet. And it has a level of decentralization that many chains don't have yet. So I'm increasingly skeptical of just a generalized l one being able to overtake ETH, and I'm more in favor of more specialized infrastructure. So that's the reason we backed Portco se network, which is when they first approached us, they were positioned as a chain that was specifically targeting extremely high throughput use cases, most likely exchanges. And I thought, okay, it makes a lot of sense for very specific and high demand use case to have very specialized infrastructure, but does it make sense for something like aptos and sweat to try to go after the entire market just because they have a new language, the move language. And is that enough grounds to beat ETH in terms of mind share? I am very, very skeptical, but it seems like everybody seems to disagree with me, at least based on the valuation alone.
00:26:23.402 - 00:26:26.196, Speaker A: I'm curious, what do you think about these l ones as well?
00:26:26.290 - 00:27:34.282, Speaker D: Yeah, I think I'm more or less on the same page. I think the reason why these l ones still exist is because of the supposed upside that is being offered by investing in these l ones. So as long as you're still going to get an artificial five to ten x premium between where VC's invests and where companies trade or l one street, these things are still going to come up. I think only when the, the rr of investing in these things starts declining significantly, will you stop seeing the proliferation of them? I think fundamentally I am in the camp where I want to see competition against Ethereum. I don't think just because Ethereum has such a big kickstart shouldn't discourage alternatives from offering themselves as a substitute. I think there's always an element of healthy competition there. But I would say that the benefits that our generalized l ones have to offer have to be pretty significant versus Ethereum in order to stand up against it.
00:27:34.282 - 00:28:15.192, Speaker D: Today. I think a great example is Solana, which really came out in full force two to three years ago. And right now one can argue that it's failed. One can argue that it is extremely hindered due to the implications of being backed by FTX. I think l one s like that that come and tackle the problem from such a different angle makes sense. I think they should be supported. But the extent at which we're seeing the number of l one s come up, I think that is probably pushing a bit much.
00:28:15.192 - 00:28:22.662, Speaker D: And you're going to see a lot of zombie chains and ghost chains in the next, I guess in the next couple of years.
00:28:22.798 - 00:28:59.546, Speaker A: Yeah, I think Solana is one of those chains that I will bucket under specialized infra like things that I am reasonably excited about. Price aside, just because they are targeting extremely high throughput use cases and the trade off, they make us very, very clear in terms of how they achieve that. So I think it will attract a certain type of applications. But I think one difficult thing about the l ones is in terms of their culture. So I feel like a lot of the L1s that raised a lot of money, they struggle with go to market and distribution. They always end up attracting at least an initial cohort of opportunists. That's not to say like ETH doesn't have opportunities.
00:28:59.546 - 00:29:57.026, Speaker A: There's a tons of scammers on Ethereum as well. But the new l ones, whenever we talk to projects on the newer l ones, they tend to be a little bit more cash grabby. They kind of maybe see this new ecosystem that's cash rich as a potential goldmine for them, and it tends to lead to pretty bad projects. And we saw that at the beginning of Solana, actually more towards the end of the last cycle before the FTX event, when FTX got involved, I think there's a lot of very opportunistic projects started popping up on Solana. There were a lot of great things happening there as well, but we started seeing more cash grabby stuff and recently we talked to some founders that left either Aptos Sui, I forgot which one it was. But their entire view of why they left as well was because they felt that the culture was very much controlled by VC's and tokens were very concentrated in the hands of a few people, and that it was too kind of commercial. They didn't feel kind of the organic nature that other l ones have.
00:29:57.026 - 00:30:33.462, Speaker A: But on the flip side, ecosystems like cosmos that are extremely decentralized, they have many, many different governance boards. They tend to lack, lag a little bit in terms of the pace of development, just because it's harder to disperse grant funding. And I sit on the oversight board for one of the Cosmos grants committees. It is a very difficult process to run a decentralized community. So I can see arguments in favor of being very commercialized. But at the same time, that takes away from the culture of what a crypto economy should look like. Generalized l one s have to work cut out for them.
00:30:33.462 - 00:30:56.350, Speaker A: I haven't seen a single team that has crushed it perfectly the way that maybe Polygon has. But even then, we know that they maybe have overspent on partnerships a little bit. But, yeah, it remains to be seen what the actual playbook is. It could be said that maybe Ethereum was the once in a lifetime miracle, and maybe everyone else trying to replicate won't be able to get to the same size.
00:30:56.422 - 00:30:56.624, Speaker B: But.
00:30:56.654 - 00:31:03.284, Speaker A: But I agree with your point that we should probably have some competition. Anything to add there on the l ones?
00:31:03.404 - 00:31:37.744, Speaker D: Yeah, I think we saw a lot of effort being put into developing alternative ecosystems. I think in 2021, very legitimate contenders came up in the form of Solana, polygon and avalanche. And of the three of them, I think they're now pretty much shells of their former cells, especially comparing versus the height of the bull market. So it really just goes to show you how difficult it is to solve the chicken leg problem. You can't just throw money at it. You can't just buy partnerships. It has to be long lasting.
00:31:37.744 - 00:32:01.734, Speaker D: I guess even I don't. I mean, I don't even know the answer to how you get people to be sustainably committed to one ecosystem. Even when you make early adopters rich, for example, that only goes so far. It gives you the early, I guess, the first leg of the momentum to keep you going. But if you don't build up and follow up on that, it's not enough to keep people on the chain.
00:32:01.814 - 00:32:55.766, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a great point in terms of making your early adopters rich, but that also not being enough. And I think one person, I think, on Twitter made this really interesting comment. So recently I was testing out this new app called Friends Tech, which is this kind of crypto social app, and it was incredibly hard to sign up. You have to open the webpage, install the webpage as a shortcut on your homepage, on your phone, you have to click in, you have to copy your wallet address, go back to your laptop, send ETH across the base bridge to bridge to base l two, and then deposit into that address before you can start using the app. So I think 90%, 95% of users probably dropped off before they can even sign off because of that. I was complaining about that and offering feedback to the team that, hey, maybe you should do away with that onboarding part and expose the app to users first. But when they actually want to interact with posts, you have them deposit assets.
00:32:55.766 - 00:33:43.742, Speaker A: That way you can prevent a lot of the early drop off. But someone made the comment that actually how difficult it is to use an app is a feature, not a bug, because they want to self select for crypto native users, who will be the loudest kind of evangelists for these applications. So I think it's quite similar to what we saw with early Defi as well. Early Defi was so difficult to use with minting dye in the early days when it was still called Psy. You have to click 16 times before you can mint dye. And I think that cultivated its own tiny culture with a few dozen people who are really deep into this, because if they go through all those steps to use an app, chances are they're very, very, very kind of deep into this and very excited about this. So what ended up happening was they cultivated a group of evangelists.
00:33:43.742 - 00:34:36.768, Speaker A: So maybe that's what we're going to see, and maybe that's one playbook that Elwyns could use, is to just cultivate a small group of fans. I'm not saying they should make their applications as difficult to use as possible, but to focus on kind of cultivating a smaller group of evangelists instead of trying to go after the mass market and shill to everybody and appeal to the broader retail market. We haven't seen anyone really doing that yet. Besides maybe some of the ZK level chains, where a lot of the fans are extremely technical, a lot of the early users are very, very deep into ZK technology, but remains to be seen in the interest of time, I think we should move on to the next point. This one is interesting. I'm very curious what your take is what is the most hated coins today that you think can probably do well in the next cycle?
00:34:36.936 - 00:35:28.308, Speaker D: Worldcoin is a pretty good example. I think that the more popular examples so far have been rollbit open exchange, but I think they're pretty much well covered. I think worldcoin is pretty interesting because it attempts to tackle a problem that is pretty new. I don't think anybody has sort of tackled proof of identity yet. And in the way that they're doing it, it's definitely. There's definitely a lot of conflict in the way that they're approaching the situation, you know, on the human right level, for example, which is why they're getting investigated by governments. But if you think about what they're trying to do, and if you think about if you can sustainably prove the identities of the entire human population, how much is that actually worth? The answer is, I don't know.
00:35:28.308 - 00:36:12.404, Speaker D: It could be a lot. It could be meaningless. But I think world coin gets quite strong flack for what they're trying to do, mainly because I think of the starting valuation, obviously, of course, of getting your iris scanned is probably a bit too invasive for most people's preferences, but it's certainly something that is pretty fresh. It tackles a large problem that hasn't been addressed by conventional technology and it fits within the broader ethos of, I guess, ethereum. So that is potentially quite interesting. I'm definitely not saying buy it. We do not hold any world coin as well.
00:36:12.404 - 00:36:19.024, Speaker D: We just think of it as an interesting social experiment that is playing out in real time.
00:36:19.144 - 00:37:09.660, Speaker A: Yeah. And I think they are also in Singapore as well. I think I saw an orb somewhere, or at least one of our friends scanned their iris for $50, which I don't know if it's worth it. But yeah, I mean, there's been a lot of issues that are well documented in terms of maybe there's actual sibling happening with folks in China buying, I think, ids from Africa, and I think the kenyan government recently shut down their local office for Worldcoin as well. So I think the issues are very well documented, but I do think there is something interesting there to get to their credit, I think another coin that I'm interested in that we don't have a position in, obviously not financial advice, is actually FTT. There's been a lot of talks about FTX relaunching again. And I think people know my stance on FTX.
00:37:09.660 - 00:37:52.744, Speaker A: I have been very, very vocal on them. But I do think that if they relaunch, if they are transparent about their governance, structure. If they have completely different management than the first iteration, which they will, because the last management is in jail now, I think people will still use FTX, partly because objectively, if you talk to most people who were hurt by FTX, they will still tell you that the product was actually a good product. They were one of the first to have cross margins. The UI was, I think, by far the best of all the exchanges we used. So there was a good product there. So if they can do away with the fraud and do it properly, there is a chance that I think they can come back, which most people have written them off for.
00:37:52.744 - 00:38:33.240, Speaker A: But this is one of those situations where it's like, fool me once, shame on me, but fool me twice, it's kind of fool me once, shame on you, but fool me twice is kind of my fault. So if they rug again. Um, you know that you, you did. I didn't say anything about this, but I think there's a category that we've both been 100 iqing a little bit, which is meme coins. How do we think about meme coins, man? Like what, what is the right framework to think about something like, uh, you know, doge or Pepe or these newer ones like Harry Potter, Sonic ten Inu, this thing that just went from 2 million valuation to 150 in a span of like a month. Yeah.
00:38:33.272 - 00:40:02.074, Speaker D: So meme coins. I'm really not the best guy to ask, and if you ask all my friends, I probably have a horrible track record in terms of aping meme coins. I think, honestly, I think it's a function of how bought the bear market is right now that people are coming up with these, I guess, mini cults that are choosing to pump specific tokens based on specific social constructs. I guess I can understand pepe, I'll let you try and take a crack at the Harry Potter one. But meme coins are quite representative of the newer generation of how they express, I guess, collective, collective thought and collective alignment, because it's one of the most fun ways of making money. When you and your friends are aping a meme coin that all of you know has no inherent value, but I think the fact that it has no inherent value and your profit off it makes it that much better. So I think that's how the community is, can get behind it, but it's honestly not a category that I'm particularly good in.
00:40:02.074 - 00:40:08.814, Speaker D: So tend to let others do that investing for me.
00:40:08.974 - 00:40:38.042, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we're not meme coin traders, but I just think it's an interesting phenomenon to look at. I talked to some folks who are very good at that game. They're very, very different from the rest of crypto. And I think there's two ways to look at meme coins. One is through a pretty cynical lens, which is things like GME showed us that markets is all about flows. And I think the newer generation of folks, they don't really believe in value. Their biggest experience with the stock market was through the COVID liquidity injection.
00:40:38.042 - 00:41:28.960, Speaker A: So to them, the concept of value is very subjective. So if you take that to its logical conclusion, it's that nothing inherently has value. And hence, why not trade memes? I think that's a cynical approach that some people take. The other approach is meme coins as an encapsulation of the community. For instance, I think when I was first looking into this Harry Potter, Obama, Sonic ten inu thing, and for context, for listeners who don't know what this is, this is literally a random meme coin with no utility, with the ticker bitcoin, and the logo is one of those weird printouts from. I don't even know how to describe it. It's like Sonic the hedgehog with the word Obama on the side.
00:41:28.960 - 00:41:58.014, Speaker A: It's just a really random and outrageous, ridiculous graphic. And I think that's the exact reason why people started paying attention to it, is because it just makes no sense. It's so ridiculous. And over time, there was a community that I guess was built around this meme, and they have their own lingo. They use the word like retain. I don't even know what it means. So I was digging into this community, trying to figure out, okay, what is going on here? And one of my friends, who is part of this community said it best.
00:41:58.014 - 00:42:59.088, Speaker A: Basically, meme coins are the shelling point for communities to express shared ideologies. So bitcoin is basically shared ideology in almost like libertarian economics, in a belief in kind of a limited supply currency, and they believe in not trusting in banks. And on the other hand, meme coins are a shared ideology in, you know, belief in fun or culture or jokes. So all of these coins, at least from the meme coiner's perspective, are just representations of the value of the culture. So maybe that's kind of over intellectualizing it, but I think that that is at least one of the reasons why these things continue to have relevance. If you told me in 2017 or 2016 that there's a coin cut, doge, I wouldn't be surprised. But if you told me, I don't know how many years later, that doge is still going to be around, and it's going to be a top ten cryptocurrency with actual volume trading every day.
00:42:59.088 - 00:43:30.394, Speaker A: I would be quite surprised. And I think that's the thing that is making it hard to wrap my head around, is the fact that it's so far out of how we're trained. Daryl, you and I, I think, train in kind of trad five frameworks. We look at cash flows, we look at fundamentals, but meme coins are literally just like vibes and cultures, which is very difficult to navigate. So we try not to play those games. But I thought we should talk about that, given how everybody has been asking us to talk about that for the last few minutes, I think we should talk a little bit about port coast we invested in. So, do you want to talk about Athena?
00:43:30.514 - 00:44:26.574, Speaker D: Yeah, I think Athena has been. I think when we first saw Athena, which was, I think you covered briefly, native yield generating stablecoin. It was one of the most interesting ideas that I'd seen come across in Defi in a long, long time. And simply because it offers a better alternative to the treadfi substitute. And more importantly, it offers a yield that is independent of what happens in treadfi. So if you think about the benefits of the innovations that have happened in the last 24 to 36 months in crypto, I think liquid staking has been a huge step forward. Obviously, Ethereum's migration from proof of work, proof of stake, was step one, liquid staking as a function of that, step 1.5.
00:44:26.574 - 00:45:34.610, Speaker D: And now you're getting technology or innovations that really capitalize on these latest improvements to give you a product that you cannot find anywhere else in the world. As a native yield bearing stablecoin that is on the market for being a bit more conservative, I'd say probably five to 10% yield. But importantly, this yield is sustainable, as you've seen from historical, I guess, or number one, the proof of stake staking rates on Ethereum, as well as the normalized basis funding rates across most centralized exchanges. So, just to briefly explain how it works, Athena as a stable coin, you can deposit USDT or USDC or any stable coin or Ethereum or state ethereum as well. Se. Um, what the protocol will do is it will stake whatever collateral gives you. It will buy Ethereum and stake the ethereum into, uh, one of the many different, uh, liquid staking platforms.
00:45:34.610 - 00:46:34.512, Speaker D: Um, at the same time, will open up a short position on the partner exchanges that it works with, uh, to give you a delta neutral position. Uh, what happens then is you get, you obtain the yield from the staked ETH component of your asset, as well as the funding from shorting ETH, where I guess normalized funding rates are typically at about 7%, 6% to 7% a year on more centralized exchanges. So you add that yield together and you're looking at something like 10% in a normal world. Obviously, funding rates can't rupturate, and Ethereum staking rates can't fluctuate as well. But that's what typical number that you're looking at. So number one, this is a yield that is significantly higher than what you're ever going to get in traditional finance especially, and this will be especially true when interest rates start going down as well. And number two, it's independent of traditional finance.
00:46:34.512 - 00:47:24.266, Speaker D: So even if things start going awry, or the global markets are easing, again, just yields not going anywhere. So this extremely sticky, it gives you considerable foreseeable forecasts on how you can plan your yield. And I guess a lot more privileges can then be built on Ethereum because of this. So this is interesting to me, because it fundamentally can convince me to come on chain. Right? Because this is a better alternative to anything that you can find in traditional finance. And for that, it was a pretty clear value proposition for us to be a part of this, I guess, this next stage of how DeFi is being pushed forward. And we definitely do want to support efforts like these.
00:47:24.410 - 00:48:05.512, Speaker A: Yeah. And obviously, with any discussion of yield, as we've learned from Luna, we have to emphasize this is not financial advice. This is literally just a projection of possible yield with a structure like this. And you can, you know, you can, this is a factual statement. You can look at the current staking yield you earn from liquid staking platforms, and the current yield you earn by being net short for the past twelve months on ETH, on say like the binance perpetual swaps, and you can kind of get a sense of what the yield could be. But obviously this will fluctuate a lot. And I think we've discussed a lot about the impact on the yield that could be incurred if Athena gets to a certain size.
00:48:05.512 - 00:49:05.826, Speaker A: So, for instance, if there's $10 billion worth of Athena USD, meaning there needs to be $10 billion worth of shorts for ETH on these exchanges to completely hedge out the stablecoin, that could do things to the funding as well. That could mean that you're actually paying funding to hold a stablecoin, so that the longer term impacts, I think, are quite unknown. But I think that the concept of a completely crypto native yield in a stable coin without the need for an external party to inject capital like we saw with anchor and Luna, or without the need to go off chain like we see with maker. I think that's really, really compelling. And one way that I like to look for potential companies to back is like the behavior of people and how they go out of the way to do things when there's no products around. So a great example is like in the early days of bitmex, these massive bitcoin whale traders, when they go on vacation and they dont want to trade, they cant sell bitcoin because bitmax uses bitcoin as collateral. So they would just go one x short.
00:49:05.826 - 00:49:56.720, Speaker A: Their bitcoin effectively have synthetic USD go to the Bahamas or whatever for a few weeks and then come back and then unwind the short. So people were already doing this years before Athena proposed this, which is what convinced me that theres probably something there to close this out. I know we were supposed to talk about say as well, but given that they just launched and I think they're getting a lot of press already and that we're running out of time, I don't think we can save that for another time. But I'd like to close out with the last one, which is what is one bold prediction we each have for the next cycle, let's call it. So I'm happy to go first. I generally think we'll see a crypto app with more daily active users than Axie within the next twelve months and that's probably going to be some sort of a game or a social use case. I don't think anybody agrees with me on this.
00:49:56.720 - 00:50:01.856, Speaker A: I think twelve months is a bit too aggressive for a lot of folks, but I'm pretty confident about this.
00:50:02.000 - 00:50:36.434, Speaker D: All right. I think mine isn't as bold, but I do think the NFT markets are going to come back in full force and be larger than what the last cycle top was would be. So I think betting on, not say betting, but I think the NFT exchanges that facilitate these sales will become significantly larger than what they are today and significantly more looked at than what's been happening over the last three to six months.
00:50:36.554 - 00:50:55.584, Speaker A: I hear you on that. I'm pretty excited about that too. Well, I think we've covered a lot of stuff. Hopefully this has been a fun kind of finale. I know we covered. I try to cover as much as possible while trying to throw in a few curveballs for us and for listeners out there. Thank you so much for supporting us all these years, for the past five years.
00:50:55.584 - 00:51:20.034, Speaker A: When you next hear from me, it will be in a different format, but it will still be me. And I might bring on another host or maybe another two hosts, so stay tuned to see who they are. So I'm very, very excited to share more. And Daryl, thanks again for taking the time to do this, man, and really excited to close out this phase of the show with you. It really come full circle and yeah, I guess I'll see you back in the office.
00:51:20.414 - 00:51:24.934, Speaker D: Yeah, it's truly a pleasure. And I can't wait to see the new version of Blockchain as well.
00:51:25.094 - 00:51:39.312, Speaker B: That's it for this week's episode of the Blockchain podcast. So thank you so much for tuning in. If you enjoyed this episode, please make sure to subscribe on your favorite apps. And in case you didn't know, this interview is also available as a video on YouTube. And if you tag the blockcrunch on Twitter this week and tell us what.
00:51:39.328 - 00:51:40.968, Speaker A: You liked about this episode, ill be.
00:51:40.976 - 00:52:07.066, Speaker B: Sure to respond to you as well. Now if youd like to go even deeper, we have a VIP tier where every week or so we write an in depth research brief or investment memo on a project and well have exclusive AMA's with myself where I answer all your questions as well. Now, we already have analysts from some of the top funds and companies in crypto as subscribers, so if youre serious about getting an edge in crypto, head on over to theBlockcrunch.com VIP to learn more. And once again, thanks for supporting the.
00:52:07.090 - 00:52:08.074, Speaker A: Show and I'll see you next week.
