00:00:06.080 - 00:00:19.302, Speaker A: Okay. Hello, everyone. My name is Andreas. I work for Beamer Bridge, which is a fast and secure token bridge for rollups. Ethereum. Two rollups. Rollups to rollups.
00:00:19.302 - 00:01:17.772, Speaker A: And I'm going to talk about how bridges make blockchains seamless today. The importance of bridges. And this is one of the best cities that I can actually talk about the importance of bridges, because there's lot of bridges in Prague, and this isn't in regards to crypto, but just like, let's think about what are bridges in our daily life and how important are they? And just imagine that starting from today, you wouldn't be able to walk over a bridge anymore. How much restrictions you would have, lack of liquidity, lack of connectivity. Cities would suffer because infrastructures would collapse, etcetera. In our daily life, bridges are very important to grow the overall market, but also to make lives easier of people. So if we look into crypto, especially ethereum, if you look at the roadmap of ethereum for the next three years, there is no other scaling solution other than rollups.
00:01:17.772 - 00:02:37.644, Speaker A: And this means that we will result in an overall fragmentation of the ecosystem if we do not concentrate on making connections between these roll ups. The one thing that I do want to point out is that l one s, and especially the connections to the roll ups, do have their limitations, and that's why we do have alternative l one s. Martin Koppelmann had a great presentation called the limitations of rollups, where he explains why rollups cannot be the future or the pure future of ethereum and scaling and the limitations and also then the benefits of alternative l one s. But that's a different topic overall. So the importance of bridges that we have within the crypto space is that overall, it fights against the fragmentation that we're creating through roll ups and side chains. To overcome the limitations that users have, users get more and more confused of where their assets are, where the Dapps are that they want to interact with, or where they have to interact, where they have to interact with. And therefore, bridges are basically a supportive role for the overall ecosystem to make the experience of users seamless.
00:02:37.644 - 00:03:15.444, Speaker A: The problem is that bridges also have a big responsibility that they're actually not taking. So would you as a person, walk over these style of bridges without having a bad gut feeling? Probably not. I wouldn't. Maybe the left one. Definitely not the right one. The problem in crypto is that all bridges say that they're the best bridges out there. They're fast, they're secure, they're trustless, and they don't actually communicate the limitations that they have, but just want to attract users, investors, et cetera.
00:03:15.444 - 00:04:25.584, Speaker A: So this provides a huge attack vector for users, resulting in losing a lot of assets. And you can see that within the attack vector space of Defi bridges are at the top place. So they've been more loss of funds by attacking bridges than any other Defi sector. Overall, the question is why are bridges doing this or why do we have this problem? And for being in a blockchain space, we sure have a lot of triangles to explain stuff, but basically it's all about the right one. You have to find a compromise between security speed and cost because you cannot provide a technical solution that facilitates all of these three components. And if you talk to a typical user, he will always want to tend to the solution that is cheap because the security parameters is not in his head. He will always think that my assets will be moved in some way.
00:04:25.584 - 00:05:18.104, Speaker A: And that's why if, you know, if I go to an aggregator where I have the list of a lot of bridge options, users will typically choose the one that they have to pay less transactions for, rather than maybe doing research on the bridge and thinking about which one is actually the most secure one. And then the question is, why are bridges doing this overall? So why are bridges not saying, hey, we're actually centralized. So if you want to bridge, you have to trust us, but we're honest, it's easier to fake it until you make it. So bridging and creating bridges is very complex and it's very hard. And the honesty doesn't attract the users, it don't attract the VC's. The white paper is written, so they do plan to implement it in future. It was just more complicated than they originally anticipated.
00:05:18.104 - 00:06:05.544, Speaker A: And overall token bridging, the same as other side chains, etcetera, is erase. If you're not fast in providing some type of product to the user that they can use, you'll lose to your competition. Because the overall, the Dapps, the aggregators, will focus on bridges that actually can facilitate the move of assets, even if it's maybe not as secure as another bridge. So they're trying to basically raise each other, so they're making compromises. And the overall ecosystem is also a little bit fragmented in terms of what you agree on, how to define what a good bridge is. So the most misleading metric, for example, is TVL. So the total value locked within one bridging protocol.
00:06:05.544 - 00:07:07.178, Speaker A: Because a lot of people look at TVL as like a security metric, they look how much TVL is locked in the bridge. But in honesty, it doesn't have any implications of how secure the bridge is itself. Even if the bridge concept is secure, the contract concept could still be unsecure because there might be some bugs within the contract. And I'm not saying that we can prevent this completely, but my question overall, and I'm happy to discuss this after the talk that I have, why do we need, for example, the last 1332 times the amount of value locked than we need in a 24 hours volume transfer? So we have so much liquidity locked in these bridges that we could use for other things. For example, more nodes for Ethereum, more validator nodes for Ethereum. There's just no capital efficiency in the system. So my question is why? Why are we doing this? We don't need that much.
00:07:07.178 - 00:07:54.916, Speaker A: What we do need is we need access to liquidity. So it never should be that the user results in a problem that he cannot, because there's no liquidity in the system, but we don't need it locked, we just need it available. And that's why also my ask to you, to the live streaming audience and overall and the ecosystem, and also, if you're building a bridge, or if you want to use a bridge, try to understand what you're using. There are beautiful resources out there. L two beats has a beautiful section of scaling and bridging. They describe what the risk parameters are, how the concept works, how the messages are being actually transmitted, so that people can move tokens. And Li Fi, one of the biggest aggregators out there, has also a lot of content pieces.
00:07:54.916 - 00:09:21.956, Speaker A: They actually released a blog series this week of explaining a lot of bridges and going into a very detailed scope of how they work and what the security parameters are. Also so that you don't have to understand necessarily what l two beats has in their images, but in very clear and written form. So we have a need for bridges, and we have the problem that bridges are not as not as transparent, but there are also some problems. It still indicates that we have a huge need for the benefits of bridges, because through the overall segregation of the liquidity that we have by having more and more roll ups, by having more and more side chains, bridges provide a solution to unlock use cases for users that they cannot use. On Ethereum, for example, they have to go to a roll up to trade mint nfts, etcetera, because Ethereum might be just too expensive. It also overall provides a better space for innovator or innovation in general, designing new concepts on how you can secure bridge transfers, et cetera. So the question is how will bridges make or how do bridges make blockchain seamless? Currently the answer is arbitrary messaging bridges.
00:09:21.956 - 00:10:38.504, Speaker A: And arbitrary messaging bridges are basically bridges or protocols that do not only transfer tokens, but they are actually able to transfer much more information so that the user itself, or himself or herself does not necessarily need to think about what bridge or what side chain I am currently on. And one of the interesting and trending words that we have here currently is this intent driven motivation of a user. A user wants to do something within crypto, but he doesn't actually care where his assets are. He just wants to be able to use his assets to do a certain thing to mint an NFT, to trade on a Dex. And bridges are basically making this possible by passing more than just the tokens, but actually more information that then executes contracts on other chains. So we have to think beyond token transfers or token bridges, we have to think about more the arbitrary messaging component and one of the examples that we have is acceleratechnology. They're basically sidechain for themselves and they have gateways or gateway contracts deployed on multiple roll ups and multiple side chains also.
00:10:38.504 - 00:11:15.074, Speaker A: And they have a proof of stake consensus running on their own chain that basically listens to the contracts and what is happening on the contracts. And if they reach a specific majority, then they also execute whatever call data is provided or token are provided. And this is just one overall example of it. As I mentioned, I work for Beamer. I'm the venture lead. We are the most secure and fastest token bridge currently, and we're now working on arbitrary messaging. We can do roll up to Ethereum transfers within 25 seconds.
00:11:15.074 - 00:11:39.164, Speaker A: And if you do have any questions or want to talk about more, how bridges are making blockchain seamless, here are my contact informations. But I'm also here questions? No questions. That's fine. One question, two questions.
00:11:41.104 - 00:12:26.204, Speaker B: Hi, thanks for the presentation, it's very interesting. I just want to make a quick comment about the point you touched on about liquidity efficiency with the bridged asset. They essentially act as collaterals for the targeted mint on the other chain, isn't it? So they're one on one in terms of efficiency. It's actually already pretty high coming to a lending protocol. You get one on 0.5 if the tv or if the long term rate value ratio allows isn't. But my question is that with your product, how does the the messaging passing works and who are passing them and what's the benefit of your solution?
00:12:26.324 - 00:13:12.254, Speaker A: So Beamer bridge specifically. Okay, so what we use is optimistic proof. That's why we only work or deploy on roll ups that have their data availability. On Ethereum, a user basically sends token to a contract on the source chain and then an agent, which we don't have centralized liquidity, so we don't have TVL. We have decentralized liquidity where multiple players can manage the liquidity themselves and then match a request. And once they match the request, they will provide the tokens on the target chain to the user. And this is done within 20 seconds, so the user doesn't have to deal with any problems afterwards.
00:13:12.254 - 00:13:50.044, Speaker A: The user has their tokens on the target chain in 20 seconds. Then what happens is we have a 24 hours lock period where the other agents can basically check on what he has done is correct. And if they believe that something went wrong, they start an escalation game up to the point where they say, we want to basically use Ethereum and the data that is on Ethereum to resolve the decision dispute. And then it gets written onto l one ethereum. And then either the person who said that you've done something wrong is right or wrong, and then they lose a stake of what they basically staked.
00:13:54.584 - 00:14:18.236, Speaker C: Okay, hi, I have a rather conceptual question. Have you considered that once we really stabilize this, this whole topic of the bridges among chains, that we could consider the traditional finance as some other chain to be bridged to? So in fact, replacing ramps?
00:14:18.300 - 00:15:23.786, Speaker A: Yeah. So I started working in Crypto 2012, and I was working for the biggest stock exchange in Europe, Deutsche Berserker. And the one thing, and that's also one of the reasons why I left that space, is that blockchain provides a beautiful tool to eliminate the trust factor of a centralized party. And we are now trending back into a space where we see more and more trust vectors introduced back into crypto. I mean, one of the best examples is the 1 hour downtime of arbitrum yesterday, because they didn't have enough gas in their node, which means that in concept, this thing is purely centralized, and arbitram was done for 1 hour. So I'm not a fan of introducing more components that result in the centralization part of one trusted entity. It looks a little bit different if we have assets moving on chain that you can't actually represent on chain because they're living in an outside world.
00:15:23.786 - 00:16:04.494, Speaker A: And there you will always need a trusted party that basically provides the guarantee that the value on chain is actually the value outside chain. And that's fine, in my opinion, but everything that you can do on chain, everything that you can prove on chain. And there are a lot of things that we can prove on chain we should be able to prove on chain. And people shouldn't run shortcuts to just launch a product that potentially results in people losing their funds. So we should focus on prioritizing decentralization and not having the need of centralized parties introducing trust vectors that we can avoid. Does that answer your question? Okay.
00:16:11.674 - 00:16:27.394, Speaker D: Just to follow up on that, that basically means you don't trust in anything we currently build because everything basically builds on trust. Currently all of DeFi is trust based if we talk about it.
00:16:29.934 - 00:16:58.594, Speaker A: Very long discussion. Happy to also do that offsite. I don't agree with that. Everything is related on centralized trust currently. There is a tendency that this is being done again. Yeah, but I do hope that this is not going to be the next ten years of crypto because then we're going in the wrong way. Thank you.
