00:00:00.200 - 00:00:29.370, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sasano, and today's the 6 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, so the sepolia testnet merge is happening very, very soon. It probably is in the middle of happening or already happened by the time you have watched. This is of course going to be the live stream with the Eatstaker crew and myself. I'm sure by the time, I think by the time this goes out, it'll either be kind of like the end of the live stream or like maybe even halfway through it or something like that.
00:00:29.370 - 00:00:52.634, Speaker A: But you can obviously watch the recording back kind of like later on, like after you've finished watching this or whatever. And I'm super excited for it. I mean, this is, this is two thirds of the way there. Guys like to, to mainnet merge after Superior is Girlie and that's it. And then we have mainnet like, there's nothing else planned after that. Everything has gone through quite smoothly so far. No major issues in terms of like merge related issues or consensus related issues.
00:00:52.634 - 00:01:20.404, Speaker A: A lot of things seem to be just non merge related and non consensus related, which is what we want to see, of course. And there's more shadow Fawkes happening. I believe that shadow fork eight went through quite smoothly. I saw today. I think there was only an issue with Aragon nodes or I think that they weren't synced or something like that. I can't remember exactly what was said. I read it in the core dev kind of discord, but I think there was maybe 1015 percent of the network, which was the Aragon nodes that were kind of like not synced or something like that.
00:01:20.404 - 00:02:00.334, Speaker A: And then yeah, there wasn't any big merge related issues or anything like that, which is very awesome to see. But yeah, if you want to keep up to date with, I guess like the sepolia testnet merge and how it all went, I guess like we'll know that it went through successfully or not. You probably know by now by the time you're watching this, but I'm sure there'll be post mortems and things like that and reports that come out after maybe like twelve to 24 hours after it happens. I'm just super excited for it. So I guess it's probably already happened by the time you watch this. So hopefully it went well. So Xiao Wei Wang here from the Ethereum foundation has uploaded her presentations of the Ethereum layer one R and D workshop at Devconnect here.
00:02:00.334 - 00:02:50.834, Speaker A: So you can go to this forum here and the presentations covered the most important R and D topics such as dank sharding, PBS, statelessness and more. So this is the stuff that you want to be watching and kind of like reading and kind of paying attention to. If you want to get into like the deepest weeds of Ethereum core protocol development, this is the bleeding edge, guys. Like this sort of stuff is stuff that is years out, right? Like it's just kind of like in research phase right now. And then obviously it'll move on, keep iterating from there, then move on to the development phase. And then obviously, hopefully it goes into the network and kind of becomes part of the mainnet Ethereum. But this kind of like stuff includes, you know, erp 48 44, which is proto dank sharding, dank sharding in general, l two resource pricing, right? Kind of like other things like statelessness, as Xiaoi Wang mentioned, and a bunch of other really, really cool things here.
00:02:50.834 - 00:03:28.638, Speaker A: So if you're interested in kind of watching those talks and, and checking out the slides and everything, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you and you can check it out below. As I'm speaking of the Ethereum foundation, the EF research team will host a Reddit AMA on July 7 at 01:00 p.m.. UTC. This is about 24 hours after the Sopolia testnet merge timing, which I guess is the point, right? They want to kind of like do this ama after a major kind of event has happened, which was the sepolia Testnet merge. So if you have questions, definitely go to this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can ask your questions in the thread here. These AMA's are usually really, really good and really, really full of insight.
00:03:28.638 - 00:04:08.546, Speaker A: They've done a bunch of these, you know, as this is the 8th year, they've done seven previous ones and they do them semi regularly. I think it happens maybe on a kind of like every five to six month cadence here, as you can see from, from the dates. And it's just a really good way to ask the kind of like people on the bleeding edge of Ethereum any question that you would like. And they're usually very, very good about answering most of the questions, if not all of them, that are asked in the thread. So definitely go and ask your questions. And of course, once the AMA is complete and they've answered all the questions, you can go read all their answers, which I'm sure will be packed full of alpha. There's no, I mean, there's really no one kind of like, I guess deeper in the weeds than the Ethereum foundation research team in terms of kind of like Ethereum core protocol development.
00:04:08.546 - 00:04:47.194, Speaker A: This is where it starts, guys. Like, it doesn't start the development phase, obviously. It starts at the research phase and everything has started there. The proof of stake sharding AIP 1559, like everything that you've ever kind of like heard of, every major upgrade has started in the research phase, been iterated on over time and made its way into the network. So if you paid attention since kind of like the research phase, you got to basically see it evolve over time and see everything come together nicely, which is actually really cool. I've paid attention to pretty much every major upgrade since I got into Ethereum and from like the research side to the development side. And it's really, really awesome to see just how kind of, I guess, like how it all comes together right at the end of the day.
00:04:47.194 - 00:05:31.470, Speaker A: So yeah, check out this AMA, ask your own questions if you have them. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so another, I guess, ethereum or web3 related mobile phone news today and I just saw this kind of like, I guess a few hours ago and I hadn't heard of this before, but basically this account called Ethereum phone has released the first build of ethos, which I guess stands for Ethereum operating system. And they're claiming that ethos is easy to install. Updates over the air features, an onboard light node and you can install it on a pixel, three or five a I'm sure you, I think you can install this on basically any modern Android phone. But if you go to ethereumphone.org comma, basically what you'll see here is kind of like the kind of link to install it yourself here.
00:05:31.470 - 00:06:15.708, Speaker A: So mobile operating system built to be crypto native and this is kind of like the features that they, that they planning on kind of like having or adding so native. Dapps 0% platform fees crypto widgets local Lite node I talked about lite clients the other day and light nodes, crypto native payments and an ENS integration as well, I'm sure among other features. Now what this is basically an, like a whole new operating system for your phone. Obviously stuff like this can't really be installed on iPhones. I'm not even sure if like people even bother jailbreaking iPhones these days. It seems to be a much smaller community than it once was, but Android, it's. It used to be called like rooting your Android phone, which was basically getting kind of like root access to the phone in order to upload or install your own operating system on it.
00:06:15.708 - 00:06:52.036, Speaker A: Well, that's exactly what ethos is trying to do here, which is, I think, pretty cool. I discussed yesterday about, you know, Polygon partnering with HTC on their metaverse phone, and obviously Solana has their own phone initiative and things like that. I think there is definitely going to be a battle here and there's definitely going to be something that comes out of it. As I mentioned yesterday, I am way less bullish. I'm actually pretty bearish on teams that are trying to do their own hardware, even if they're working with a third 3rd party. It's kind of like, you know, it's kind of like hard to do hardware just generally. But also I think that if you do software, it means you can kind of like install it on the existing devices that are already out there.
00:06:52.036 - 00:07:17.524, Speaker A: The existing hardware that's already out there. Now, obviously, Ethereum OS is taking it to the extreme where you can install an entirely new os on the phone in order to get like a mobile. I mean, sorry, crypto first mobile or crypto native mobile experience, which I guess most people aren't going to do, but, like, maybe the more hardcore people will do. And also just a note on that as well. I haven't looked at this software. I don't know anyone who has. So I don't know if it's kind of like legit or if it has a backdoor in it or whatever.
00:07:17.524 - 00:07:34.486, Speaker A: So I wouldn't be storing any significant funds on this or anything just yet. I wouldn't be putting much money into it at all. But. But if you do want to try it out, you can, of course. But I guess that's just like an aside to what I was just saying before. But I think, you know, the software side of things is going to be much more impactful than the hardware side. And it doesn't have to be an entirely new os.
00:07:34.486 - 00:07:59.414, Speaker A: It can be specific apps, it can be specific integrations with existing software. I mean, Android itself, and it's. And the, and the popular flavors of Android like that the manufacturers put on it, such as Samsung can embed their own crypto wallet. And I'm pretty sure Samsung did at one point. I'm not sure what happened with that. And same with kind of like Apple. They can embed things into Apple Pay, I think they did, or they were looking at it they can embed things directly into the iPhone because the iPhone has a.
00:07:59.414 - 00:08:44.282, Speaker A: So basically what the iPhone has is essentially what kind of like a hardware wallet has where it has a separate kind of chip for all your, I guess, passwords and authentication and things like that. So you can technically have a private key that lives on that chip and no one would be able to see that. And you'd be able to use your mobile device as kind of like a web3 wallet, like natively without having to install a different kind of like wallet software on it. So all that sorts of stuff is really cool. But again, obviously it relies on Apple integrating that at the iOS level and it would require one of the manufacturers or Android itself doing it on the kind of like OS level. Or you could install ethos and it's all there for you. And the good cool thing about Android is that you can install these custom os and still have access to the App Store like the Google Play Store.
00:08:44.282 - 00:09:15.348, Speaker A: You can still install and still install the apps from it. The only issue is that, you know, the compatibility issues between these new os and the apps that you install and things like that. So that's definitely a potential blocker there, but still cool to see people experimenting with this. I mean, this sort of stuff has been talked about for a while now, like, like it'd have to be five or six years at this point in terms of having like a web3 phone or web3 operating system. And there's been various attempts over time. And I think it really comes down to the fact that we just need more experiments in the ecosystem. We just need more people kind of, I guess, like giving it a go.
00:09:15.348 - 00:10:01.016, Speaker A: But I think that the success is if it's ever, if there's going to be success here, it's just going to be seen on the software layer. I don't think there's going to be much success on the, on the kind of like hardware layer because as I described yesterday, or as I explained yesterday, the hardware game is like totally different to the software game. It's, it's, it's very, very much, very, very hard. And not just hard from kind of like a supply chain perspective, but also just building the network effect, breaking even, you know, cost efficiency, all that stuff that I, that I mentioned yesterday there. But just wanted to kind of like highlight this today because I thought it was interesting. And as I said, you can go install this. I mean, you could install this on some just like cheap Android phone if you just wanted to play around with it, if you didn't want to screw around with your own Android phone and replace your existing OS, you can essentially just install this on a really cheap Android phone that you could probably get off Amazon or eBay or something like that and play around with it.
00:10:01.016 - 00:10:39.064, Speaker A: Or I think you could even install it on like an emulator, an Android emulator on, on your pc as well if you wanted to play around with it. But as I said, I wouldn't be using this as a daily driver yet. And I also wouldn't be storing any significant amount of money in this because you just can't trust it at this point because I just saw it. I don't know much about it, so I can't be recommending it to you guys yet, but I just thought it was interesting to see that this is out there. All right, so Bartek from the l two beat team has published a proposal on the l two beat forum for a bridge at risk framework. So they obviously want to get community fare back on this framework, and it's been something that they've been working on for quite a while now. I remember talking about it when they were teasing it.
00:10:39.064 - 00:11:17.926, Speaker A: Basically, they want to do what they did for L2 s in general on l two beats for bridges in terms of getting a risk framework up and running, making users aware of kind of the trade offs of each bridge, how they work, what the risks are. You know, are there admin keys, are they centralized controls? All these sorts of stuff? And I think it's an awesome effort that needs to kind of, like, be done because obviously bridges are very, very popular these days, and they're only getting more popular as time goes on. But not all bridges are created equal. Pretty much all of them have major differences between each other. And I think people, some people kind of like, equate bridges with each other. Like, oh, this bridge lets me do this, and this bridge lets me do this as well. Or they must be the same thing, when in reality, different bridges work in different ways.
00:11:17.926 - 00:12:16.496, Speaker A: Like, I've spoken extensively about bridges before, right? There's kind of like cross chain or cross l two exchanges which act as kind of like bridges, and then there's just simply kind of like sending it across. And, um, there's kind of like a system that just, like, signs the transactions and issues you ious on different chains, and they may be controlled by multisigs and stuff like that. So there are various different bridge designs out there. And that's, I think what the l two bridge risk framework wants to do is that they want to centralize, centralized, they want to centralize the information around all these bridges into one easy to digest kind of like resource for people, so that people know exactly what they're kind of like getting into it. And you can actually see the different kind of like messaging bridges, they call them here, um, you know, in more detail, such as kind of like client verifying, external validator set, optimistic validation, and hybrid. So this post itself is actually pretty informative. If you want to learn about, learn more about bridges, I would highly recommend checking it out, but also get involved with the conversation if you have any kind of like, um, any kind of thoughts on this as well.
00:12:16.496 - 00:13:02.756, Speaker A: And actually, I didn't, I didn't see this just before, but there seems to be a table here with all of the bridges, or at least all the known bridges, and kind of like what they're using for verification, their mechanism and the trusted entities and the trust assumptions. This is really cool. This is exactly what the framework will end up looking like, probably in a, in a nicer format, but essentially what you see on my screen here, where you see different kind of bridges, such as, you know, the binance smart chain bridge from Ethereum to BSc is verification is done externally, it's lock and mint, which means lock it on Ethereum and you get issued an IOU or minted an IOU. On BSC, it has an external validator set that you have to trust, which is the BSc validator sets. And then the same is true for a lot of these things here. And then you can see kind of like these generalized bridges that we've used, such as hop and Connext. Verification is done locally.
00:13:02.756 - 00:13:46.882, Speaker A: On hop mechanism is liquidity providers. So it's that kind of decentralized exchange that I was talking about. And the trusted entities is obviously liquidity here. And you can see all the different ones, I'm not going to read through them all, but this is, I think, a really, really cool little table here that will actually save you a lot of time and effort and worry, kind of trying to kind of like figure out what the bridge is, how they secured what, you know, what the risk is, all that sorts of stuff. So I can't wait to see this live on the L two B website. I think this is going to be an amazing resource for people, just like I think that the L two B website in general is an amazing resource for people, because it lets you know the risks. And I talk about the risks a lot on the refuel, around everything, not just decentralized things, not just deFi, but obviously CFI and centralized services and stuff like that.
00:13:46.882 - 00:14:22.118, Speaker A: Like, at the end of the day, I wouldn't be putting any significant amount of money into something that I didn't know how it worked. I used to do it when I was more of a cowboys in Defi Samar. Like, I was bit harder and looser there, but I've definitely kind of like, matured since then and definitely taken risk a lot more seriously. And now when I look at something, I kind of like, hesitate. I'm like, hmm, do I really want to put my money into this thing? Like, how much do I trust it? And it's, you know, I'm not kind of like aping my funds into fresh yield farms anymore. Not that there really is anything like that at the moment, but just generally, I'm not doing that. Like, I'll go for, if I'm doing something, I'll put it into a protocol that I know is kind of very secure.
00:14:22.118 - 00:15:03.662, Speaker A: Been around for a while, has a team that's not going to rug or anything like that, such as kind of like uniswap or maker or curve compound Ave, you know, all the popular ones, right? Those are the kind of things that I would probably put my money into if I, if I was going to use something like DeFi on chain. But there are a lot of stuff out there that I just wouldn't touch. And especially when it comes to bridges as well, I don't really like bridging into different things and bridging out of it. Using these third party bridges at this stage, just because of the fact that they're very early, there's still risks involved. And if I was doing a significant value transfer, then I definitely would not be using any bridge. Like, if I was going from Ethereum layer one to optimism and I wanted to transfer. Significant is relative.
00:15:03.662 - 00:15:32.848, Speaker A: Like, you know, obviously $1,000 is more significant to some person than other people. But say I wanted to transfer $10,000 or something to the optimism from Ethereum layer one, I would personally go through the optimism bridge itself, the bridge contract. I wouldn't go through one of these third parties. And same is true for going back now. I know there's that seven day delay when you go through the kind of like natural bridge there, but I would account for that. Sorry, the native bridge there, but I would account for that personally. And it just depends.
00:15:32.848 - 00:15:53.354, Speaker A: Obviously, as I said, the amount is relative, but these bridges will become more secure over time. They'll become more trustless. They'll become, they'll have less centralized points of failure. But we're not there yet. Obviously all this stuff is very early and that's why we need things like the bridge risk framework here in order to enable users to know exactly what the risks are that they're taking. So check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:15:53.354 - 00:16:21.934, Speaker A: So a walkie shared some really cool stats here from Gitcoin. So in q two of 2022, Gitcoin facilitated $9.4 million in value transfer across a bunch of different categories here. Bounties, tips, grants, kudos, ads and ecosystem. Now obviously the top two is kind of like grants and, and I think tips. These colors are kind of like weird, yet either tips or bounties. These colors are all very similar on my screen.
00:16:21.934 - 00:16:51.412, Speaker A: It's, it's, it's kind of like weird to see. But grants obviously has accounted for like the major, I guess like revenue of, of gitcoin or I guess like the main kind of like value transfer. I shouldn't say revenue value transfer of Gitcoin for a long time now. But it seems that, I think that's tips because it's. I think bounties is in, is in a darker color here, but it seems like. I don't know for sure, but it seems that tips or bounties is accounting for about half and grants is accounting for about half now as well, which is cool. I mean, it means there's more diversity in the value transfer here on gitcoin.
00:16:51.412 - 00:17:10.404, Speaker A: It's not just all centralized in grants. We obviously don't want it to just be mostly grants. We want Gitcoin to be more than, than the grants rounds. Sorry, than the grants thing, the grants product in general. We want git coin to fund open source software as much as it can. And you can see here, in total there's been $65 million of funding for open source software. I mean that's huge, guys.
00:17:10.404 - 00:17:52.626, Speaker A: Like, they're like, open source software is usually something that gets very, very underfunded or not funded at all. And there are many, many instances of very, very popular open source products and open source software products and kind of like a code in general that has been used by major companies, billion trillion dollar companies. And these companies don't actually pay anything and don't maintain these sorts of things and don't kind of like pay the people that are maintaining this software. They just use it because it's something very popular to use. And then what happens up happening is that the developers or the maintainers of that software may be like, well I don't want to maintain this anymore. They have no obligation to. And then some people kind of like, or some companies like, oh, crap, we actually need this.
00:17:52.626 - 00:18:32.640, Speaker A: We really need this. And then they kind of like have their own shit moment. Whereas doing a more sustainable kind of like way of funding open source software, which is what Gitcoins mission is, is definitely much, much, much better because it basically pays people for doing the work and for maintaining things and for kind of rewarding them for their important work, the things that people care about. You know, there's a lot of kind of like teams, a lot of projects on Gitcoin grants these days. But I think the classic example is the Ethereum core teams, right? They get money from various different sources, but generally they need to kind of like find their own funding and grants is one way to do that. And they're providing a shit ton of value for the network. Like, they're building the things that drive value directly to ETH.
00:18:32.640 - 00:19:05.118, Speaker A: I mean, they built 1559. That's driving direct value directly to ETH. They're doing the merge, which is obviously very bullish for ETH. So they should be paid for their work in. And I think honestly, like, that payment could come from the Ethereum foundation, which already pays them and other entities. But I think it's really cool that individuals get to have an impact here, especially in the matching rounds where they can basically give like one to $10 and have that matched a lot more and have their donation go a lot further than it otherwise would have to public, you know, open source software here. So very, very cool to see gitcoin having such amazing growth.
00:19:05.118 - 00:19:34.650, Speaker A: I hope it continues. All right, so a tweet from polynyard today. I don't think I've talked about polynyard in a little while. I remember there was a time where I think for like a whole week on every refuel, I had Polynya tweets up. But they're not tweeting as much these days. But whenever they do, it's always a banger. So they put out another one today where they said, endgame EVM VM AsiCs for roll up sequences orders of magnitude faster versus any multi threaded virtual machine, stateless and expiring multiple sequences composing to a single validity proof roll up.
00:19:34.650 - 00:20:33.336, Speaker A: And users and validators verify validity proofs on cpu without requiring, requiring recomputation on asics. Okay, this sort of stuff is like getting into the very nitty gritty of, I guess, like L2s or validity proof roll ups as kind of like Polynya calls them here. But essentially what they are saying is that the end game, like long into the future or maybe not too long into the future, but kind of like over the longer term, we definitely want to see Asics repurposed to become roll up sequences. So what they would do as a roll up sequencer is that they kind of like run these proofs. You know, the most expensive part and most time consuming part of a validity proof roll up or a ZK roll up is the proving costs and the proving time. Now, to get that down, you can use things like asics, the application specific integrated circuits, which is what is used obviously in proof of work today. But using them as a sequencer doesn't require you to burn enormous amounts of electricity because it's a different thing in proof of work.
00:20:33.336 - 00:21:22.502, Speaker A: You're basically competing in like a worldwide lottery and guessing kind of, and like hashing to guess the, the right kind of like right get. Guess the right guess, I guess, or guess the right guy right thing that you need to kind of like produce a block there. But basically as, as a sequencer, it's not doing any of that sorts of stuff. It's just processing the kind of like transactions and VAR and running the proof and all that sorts of stuff there. So obviously there's no massive electricity cost here. So I think that's really cool that we can repurpose asics, hopefully, or kind of like have the ASIC manufacturers kind of build asics for ZK rolls for validity proof roll ups, and then doing multiple sequences composing to a single validity proof roll up would be very cool as well. And then users, users and validators verify the validity proofs on their own cpu without Re, without requiring recomputation on ASIC.
00:21:22.502 - 00:21:59.054, Speaker A: So basically the ASIC does all the heavy lifting and then the cpu from any device, smartphone, laptop pc, doesn't matter what it is, would be able to verify the validity of these proofs. So verify that they're correct without having to do the whole computation themselves, without having to do the intensive work themselves. So as I said, this sort of stuff is very technical down in the weeds. Like, I'm not going to, I'm an expert on this, far from it. But I think this is stuff that you can look into if you're into the hardware side of crypto, if you want to know what the future of AsIcs looks like, especially in the Ethereum ecosystem. Obviously, ASIC miners are still going to exist within bitcoin. They're not changing for proof of work for a while, if ever.
00:21:59.054 - 00:22:34.764, Speaker A: I say for a while, because I do think there is a reality where they do have a proof of stake. Bitcoin, it may be a fork, it may not be the bitcoin, but I think that it could happen eventually. But just generally, ASICs are still going to be bitcoin. You know, a bitcoin thing is going to be for bitcoin proof of work, but they're also going to be a roll up thing, specifically with ZK roll ups that have very high proving costs and take a long time. By putting an ASIC to it, we could get those costs dramatically down and the time also down dramatically there. So, yeah, that's it on that one, you can go check out the thread. I think there's not really many replies here, but there are.
00:22:34.764 - 00:23:37.950, Speaker A: There is another thread linked here about recursive snarks, if you wanted to read that as well. All right, so Voyager, the troubled kind of like crypto services or centralized crypto service provider today, kind of like put out a thread, or at least the CEO, Stephen or Stefan here put out a thread talking about what the recovery plan is for Voyager. So there's one tweet in particular that I wanted to focus on, and for those of you who don't know, Voyager basically bankrupted themselves by lending out, I think, $600 million or something to three irish capital obviously didn't get that paid back because 3 hours capital blew themselves up. And I think Voyager has like $220 million worth of assets left. So unfortunately, customers took the hit here, and I quote, twitter this tweet, and this is the tweet that Stefan or Stephen put out here where he says customers with crypto in their accounts will receive in exchange a combination of the crypto in their accounts, proceeds from the 3 hours capital recovery, common shares in the newly reorganized company, and Voyager tokens. So basically, the. The loss is being socialized to the customers of Voyager, which really, really sucks.
00:23:37.950 - 00:24:02.234, Speaker A: Like, and that's why I said, like, I feel very sorry for Voyager customers. This is fucked up. Just another reminder to not leave any funds you care about on centralized exchanges slash services. Don't do it, guys. Like, honestly, not your keys, not your coins. I know that's been around Forever, but it's so true. Like, if you had left your funds in Voyager, you are now basically getting this, I don't know what another word for it, this orgy of kind of like crap.
00:24:02.234 - 00:24:43.694, Speaker A: Basically, like, you get some of the crypto in YouR Account, you get some of the proceeds from the three rs capital recovery, if that ever comes, you get common shares in the newly reorganized company, which would probably not be worth very much. And you get some Voyager tokens, which, again, aren't very much because they at all dumped because of the fact that the news came out, the Voyager kind of, like, screwed themselves. I really hate this, and, like, the reason I hate this is because at the end of the day, like, customers and users, most of, if not all of them, are. Pretty much all of them are innocent. They shouldn't be taking the. I guess, like, a brunt of this or they shouldn't be taking the punishment here. But the problem is, a Voyager literally doesn't have the money to cover all their obligations to their customers, so they have to do this.
00:24:43.694 - 00:25:05.902, Speaker A: So that's why don't keep any significant funds on these centralized services or exchanges. There is a spectrum here. Obviously, Voyager is very different to something like a coinbase. But at the end of the day, like, it doesn't matter who it is. If you don't control your keys, you don't control your coins. Like, it doesn't matter how trustworthy the person is or the organization is that hold your crypto for you. That doesn't matter at all.
00:25:05.902 - 00:25:35.378, Speaker A: Like, unless you control your own fate, you're at the whims of them. It's the same is true for, like, banks and stuff, too. Like, if you put your money in a bank and there's been instances of this around the world, put your money in a bank and the bank starts having troubles, or the economy or the government starts having troubles, or there's, like, rampant inflation, or as a bank run, like you, there's no guarantee you have access to your. You'll get access to your funds. Right? So it's not just crypto thing, it's just a general thing. And we have this beautiful thing of self. Self sovereignty, or being able to kind of hold your own money and being able to self custody, and people take.
00:25:35.378 - 00:26:05.996, Speaker A: Take that for granted. People put their money into these centralized services to earn some yield. They're like, oh, I can earn, like, 10% on my stable coins or 10% on my. Or 5% on my Ethan bitcoin. And it's like, okay, well, yeah, you can earn that, but then you have 100% chance of risk, of custodial risk, which is basically this kind of, like, organization can go run away with your funds, go bankrupt, get hacked, any of that sorts of stuff. Whereas with self custody, I don't actually think it's difficult to self custody at all. I mean, like, there are different ways to do it.
00:26:05.996 - 00:26:37.746, Speaker A: Even just self custodying on a hot wallet is probably better than putting it on a centralized exchange, uh, at least most of these centralized exchanges and services. But again, it is a spectrum. I mean, hot wallets themselves are inherently insecure too. So I'm not trying to say that they're secure, but in my mind, like, most of these centralized exchanges and services are more risky than that. And that's saying something, right? If it's more risky than a hot wallet, then must be very, very risky. Whereas there is obviously cold wallets and cold storage and hardware wallets and all that sorts of stuff that you can do as well. A little bit more complicated for the everyday user.
00:26:37.746 - 00:27:25.678, Speaker A: But like, come on, like, does it like if you can't be bothered learning how to use a hardware wallet or learning how to kind of like get your funds into a hardware wallet and you have a significant amount of money in crypto, well then honestly, I just think that's, that's pure laziness because if you don't care enough to secure your funds, if you're fine risking your funds on these centralized services, that's totally your decision. But at the end of the day, if you just took a little bit of time to learn how to self custody and learn the importance of that, you would have saved, you would potentially save yourself so much heartache down the line. So I think in the future, I really hope that more people kind of like heed these warnings. More people kind of like realize these sorts of stuff. Maybe they weren't, probably, they weren't. And I think really at the end of the day, what's coming to these centralized exchanges and services is extremely harsh regulation. It's probably going to be just as harsh as what banks have, if not harsher than that.
00:27:25.678 - 00:28:01.462, Speaker A: And that's what's going to kind of like curb this sort of stuff. There's going to be obviously audits and stuff. There's going to be regulations applied to these companies and all that sorts of stuff there as well. But just generally, I would prefer if we just kind of like had people custody their own funds and I controlled their own keys. But I know that that may not be a scalable way for mass adoption either, but it can be if we get better solutions. Obviously something like a smart contract wallet that Argent's working on where you can have like a social recovery and stuff like that. Like that definitely is getting us better towards the path of enabling more and more people to self custody and to them to do it easily.
00:28:01.462 - 00:28:31.994, Speaker A: But just in general, I mean, if you're listening to the refuel, like you're in the weeds. To me, all the refuel listeners and watches are in the weeds of crypto or ethereum. Everything that has to do with it. If you have any significant amount of money not in a hardware wallet, like, just literally go buy one right now. Like, go buy a lattice one, go buy a ledger, whatever hardware wallet you want, go buy one. And then move your crypto to it and make sure you secure it, obviously properly and secure your seed phrase properly and everything like that. Because, like, it starts with us, guys.
00:28:31.994 - 00:28:57.280, Speaker A: Like, it starts with the enthusiast at the end of the day, and then we can kind of, like, put that message out there and educate other people about it as well. But, yeah, very. I feel very sorry, as I said, for Voyager customers here, and it was avoidable for them if they didn't have their funds there. But unfortunately, Voyager just doesn't have the money to pay everyone back. So there's really nothing they can do at the end of the day. But they are trying to push some blame onto kind of 3 hours capital here with this tweet, which I thought was funny as well. But they're solely to blame here.
00:28:57.280 - 00:29:39.022, Speaker A: Voyager, the company, for lending out all that money in an under collateralized fashion or an uncollateralized fashion. Two, 3 hours capital was absolute stupidity. Really, really dumb. Not even just in hindsight, just generally, even if there's capital was legit, lending out that much money to. Of your balance sheet to and in an unclateralized way to kind of like a fund that, you know, trades, it is just stupid in my eyes, but I think that was just kind of like one of the ways that Voyager was. Was kind of like offering the yield to their customers because 3 hours capital would have been like, oh, yeah, yeah, we'll pay you, you know, this amount of kind of like interest on this, and then they kind of, like, pass that to their customers and promised all this yield and all that kind of like, other stuff. But, yeah, not pretty feel sorry for people there.
00:29:39.022 - 00:29:46.646, Speaker A: But. But, yeah, I think that's it for. For that one there. And I think that's it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:29:46.646 - 00:29:50.334, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
