00:00:00.170 - 00:00:31.030, Speaker A: Information is moving incredibly fast in this space, and you have to constantly update your probabilities and your thesis. Like, people are still latching on to a solana that is three years old or two years old. Like, just go and read the helios blog post on Fire Dancer and then come back to me. Just do that. Like, why wouldn't you do that? Maximalism has never served anyone well, but I'm incredibly excited because it goes back to this idea of coordination. When you have an environment that is lower fees and it's faster, it's better, it's cheaper, then it unlocks nonlinear consumer behavior.
00:00:36.890 - 00:00:50.220, Speaker B: What's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we're joined by Santiago, who is a crypto og. He's a prolific investor. He's the co host of Empire and also maybe the biggest fan of Harry Potter that I know. So, Santi, welcome to the show.
00:00:50.590 - 00:01:00.654, Speaker A: Garrett, it's great to be know. It was really sad to see you leave Empire because you made my life incredibly easy, but it's great to see you now go to squads and everything. So really happy about that.
00:01:00.852 - 00:01:19.190, Speaker B: Yeah. Well, thank you. For people that don't know, I used to be the producer for Empire, and actually I did my first two podcasts I've ever hosted with Santi when I filled in for Jason. So if you don't listen to Empire, I'll put a link in the show notes. It's blockwork's biggest show, but Lightspeed is the fastest growing. So, you know, not surprised. We've timed it well with Salana kind of getting the narrative over the last six months.
00:01:19.190 - 00:01:35.994, Speaker B: And we're going to get into your Salana thesis. I want to talk about your predictions for 2024 and some themes that you've talked about before we do. I would love to give people context of your journey in crypto. I think you found bitcoin in 2012 and then going into parafi investing full time. So could you maybe just start with your origin story and we'll go from there?
00:01:36.192 - 00:02:28.042, Speaker A: Yeah. For me, crypto is really interesting. My background is in game theory, and at the time it was really bitcoin and I was at JPMorgan doing investment banking, stumbled on the r Reddit kind of bitcoin forum, and I thought the white paper was really a new chapter in game theory. Sent it to all my professors, said, hey, this is really interesting from optimizing payoffs, because when you think about it, I love talking to people that are very skeptical of crypto, and I do that often these days. Because it really forces me to deconstruct crypto to very basic primitives of, like, why does this matter? Because I think you constantly need to ask that question. Not because prices are going up or down, just fundamentally because everyone has a high opportunity cost. And I think it forces you to center, like, what is the North Star? What are we trying to build here? And I think that will touch on a lot of the things we talked about in this pod and the way I now frame it.
00:02:28.042 - 00:03:14.390, Speaker A: Perhaps I didn't understand it fully back then, but the intuition is coordination is at the bedrock of every system. And when you look at, there are frictions in all kinds of systems, healthcare, finance, government. And when you can improve coordination, we become better as species like humans are phenomenal because we have this brain that allows us to communicate, and communication leads to better coordination. But we're not perfect in that continuum. And over time, if you look at major breakthroughs, it is because we've become better at coordinating. The Internet allowed us, the printing press allowed us to disseminate information. And I think crypto comes and really helps us fix this coordination problem that the founders of the Internet acknowledged that they didn't want to solve.
00:03:14.390 - 00:03:56.390, Speaker A: You'll hear Mark Andreessen, you'll hear Tim Berners Lee say, we really punted the notion of moving money in the same way that we move information and commerce. This idea of transacting value between one another as social species really creates this link and is probably the most important thing to coordinate, because if you're not transacting value, you're not really coordinating much. People don't care. Right. You have to go back to what is the incentive? When there's value, there's a clear incentive and motive to do that. And so crypto is fundamentally explosive, like, revolutionary from that standpoint. And I don't care if you believe in bitcoin, ethereum, Solana, whatever.
00:03:56.390 - 00:04:41.270, Speaker A: At the end of the day, it really is. I think everyone can fundamentally agree on that premise, which is if you can improve coordination, then you start unlocking so many different possibilities that weren't. And I think that's why crypto is really exciting. So I'll pause there. And so over the years, this has become the common theme as to why I'm fascinated by this space and why I think I am earlier today than what I was in 2012, because you extend this idea of becoming better at coordination to so many different things beyond what was a very narrow use case of bitcoin and has so far kind of widened out in its aperture. But I think we're fundamentally extremely early.
00:04:41.340 - 00:05:08.990, Speaker B: Still, I'm curious. You've been through so many different evolutions of crypto and so many ups and downs and cycles. I think you joined Parafi, which is one of the first investing funds in the space, in February 2020. So that was a month before Black Thursday happened, which was when maker Dow almost fell apart and crypto lost a third of its market cap in one single day. So a lot of people didn't see that happen. Can you maybe just describe starting at Parafi and then maybe going through that experience and how it's shaped you as an investor?
00:05:10.290 - 00:05:43.846, Speaker A: Yeah, look, it was angel investing. Between what happened during 2012 and 2020 was I was working at a venture fund called Sageview Capital. What was unique about it is that we were investing in open source software when a lot of traditional investors didn't understand how you would monetize open source software companies. Then Red Hat got acquired by had. It sort of gave people this idea that open source is incredibly powerful. It's exciting, monetizing. It still is a challenge in traditional context.
00:05:43.846 - 00:06:20.710, Speaker A: When you think about the Internet, like Tim Berners Lee, the founders of the Internet are not, like, billionaires. They should be, but they're not. Most of the value has accrued to that top layer of applications and crypto, really my pitch to the fund back then, and I kind of went around Silicon Valley pitching, I have a memo that I wrote to Sequoia because I wanted to do early stage, and I said, God, you should invest in the projects back then were like, this is storage, a like distributed file storage system, I think. And still today was a killer use case. They were investors in Dropbox. And so I was like, guys, this is relevant. Open source attracts, really this chaotic innovation.
00:06:20.710 - 00:07:16.230, Speaker A: But they discounted crypto much like people still today. But nonetheless, in that journey, I was angel investing, but I felt really comfortable, and I still do, taking risk with my personal proprietary capital. And I always felt that was the nature of the game for me. And joining Parafi was really the impetus of a great matchmaking. Bain introduced us, and Ben's a great, he has a great similar background to me. And we both agreed that one of the killer use cases of this coordination and applying crypto was decentralized finance, for the single reason that if you talk to anyone in finance, what the major problem is that has a friction point is this counterparty risk. And when you can build systems that don't require trust or trust minimized, and you minimize counterparty risk, it is a very big unlock and so Ben was getting started.
00:07:16.230 - 00:07:45.966, Speaker A: He had survived this bear market. He had just raised parafi at the peak of the ICO boom, and he had managed to survive. And so I was lucky to join him at a time where we were coming out of the bear and Defi. Summer started. Our thesis was being very focused on DeFi when other funds were just really generalized, and it was chaotic, but it was a very fun journey. I've since left, but we can talk about what happened during that moment.
00:07:46.148 - 00:08:17.206, Speaker B: This is when Covid was going on. The markets absolutely crashed, but then soon after that, you had the run up, and that's when all the attention came back. That's actually when I came back into the space. I got involved in 2017, but I think most people that did, almost everybody left, maybe didn't sell everything, but they kind of left and didn't pay attention anymore. Now it's you who actually stuck around. So one of the big questions for me is, how the hell did you keep your conviction then and now? Because even people in the space today, they're like, oh, am I crazy for being here? Like, is this magic Internet money? You've been here through multiple cycles, and you've seen it. At the end of the day, it only goes up when I say that, though.
00:08:17.206 - 00:08:21.040, Speaker B: You go through massive volatility. So how do you hold that conviction through all this?
00:08:22.290 - 00:08:59.880, Speaker A: Look, it wasn't easy. After 2018, we went through this phase of raising money for decentralized x, and it was decentralized everything from finance to Uber and Airbnb and everything in between. And I made a lot of mistakes during that process. And one of the things that was very helpful for me was going back and documenting and diagnosing those mistakes at that point. God, if you were to look at some of my old wallets, I invested in all kinds of stuff, like everything. It's very much a power law distribution in terms of returns. It takes really one or two bets to be right, of course, in the right size.
00:08:59.880 - 00:09:26.546, Speaker A: And timing, to your point, is really instrumental. I say this now, and it's common parlance, which is time in the market beats timing the market. I came at it from a venture standpoint. When I invested in ethereum early on, it was in bitcoin. It was like, this could take 1020 years. As a venture investor, I think you have that level of kind of time horizon and duration. But of course, you say that, and then in practice, you get slapped in the face when what you think can happen in ten years happens in three months.
00:09:26.546 - 00:10:28.694, Speaker A: Ethereum went from seventy five cents to eighteen dollars in less than a year. And you're sitting there saying, I am forced to now think more like a hedge fund manager than a venture investor because you have this liquid venture asset class that is in constant price discovery, and that requires you need to acknowledge that you can't just sit in a vacuum and say, I'm going to be a venture investor and I don't care, I'm not going to touch it. I think certain people have done that, but emotionally, I think it's incredibly hard. And I went through this process of going through all my mistakes and setting different kind of frameworks, like part venture, part hedge fund by trial and error. And I think that was, had I not done that before joining Parafi, I don't think I would have had any success in doing that. And I don't think I would have been comfortable managing other people's money had I not gone through that journey. And so I documented a lot of it.
00:10:28.694 - 00:11:20.566, Speaker A: I haven't written in five years, but I have the substac where I wanted to not only document it, but also publicly stake it for my personal accountability and also to invite criticism into my process, kind of open sourcing my brain and saying, okay, I want to invite criticism because that is ultimately what's going to help me find the truth faster. And so I now do it on Twitter, which know, I think short form content is just faster, it's stream of consciousness, whereas writing takes much more time. But yeah, writing was a big component of that. And I know your co host Mert is big advocate of that. And I generally think that you write for yourself to document and to do introspection, which investing is more a psychological sport, because managing your emotions is the most important thing, I believe.
00:11:20.748 - 00:11:42.880, Speaker B: Yeah, you came from traditional finance. I think you worked at Morgan. How do you think, being so early too, how were you able to find the DeFi protocols and know where to invest and have that conviction at the same time? Whereas the traditional person that comes from, I don't know, JPMorgan may not be able to do that. Is it maybe that you were actually using these protocols? Do you think that was the core insight that you had?
00:11:43.410 - 00:12:37.838, Speaker A: That is probably the most important thing. You came from 2017, 2018, where it was all white papers, and then there was this concept of few protocols like Maker, Dow had survived. Not only that, but when you think about the mechanism of maker, seeing that the value of the collateral at the time was only Ethereum, ETH had gone down 85 90%. But the peg of die, the stablecoin which was minted systematically against that collateral maintained stable. And that was one incredibly useful for people. That Ethereum stake and didn't want to sell, but had to cover some sort of liability or daily expenses maker was very useful for a subset of people. A money market is like this decentralized bank was a fantastic idea.
00:12:37.838 - 00:13:44.206, Speaker A: I think it's one of the best ideas out there that really, I think gave me conviction saying, okay, if that works, then it really opens up other possibilities for other protocols. When you think about, I think there is a sequence by which you build a decentralized finance system ecosystem. And I think it starts with something like a money market and a swaps exchange, but really a money market, this idea to have something more stable and so many different protocols had that dependency. Like when you think about Auger, like a prediction market, Auger didn't work partially because you couldn't settle the bet in a stable unit of account like Dai. And when you make a bet on a prediction, it becomes very hard to settle it in something that is very volatile. When you think about commerce, when you think about payments, you need to have what is now a stable coin. And I think that was instrumental in using that minting and going through that process was probably the thing that gave me the most amount of conviction and insight into Defi being a thing before it was Defi.
00:13:44.318 - 00:13:54.920, Speaker B: One of your favorite questions I saw that you like to ask founders is what surprised you the most throughout your journey? What is something just over the last several years that you've been in crypto that's surprised you or changed your mind the most?
00:13:57.210 - 00:15:02.430, Speaker A: Oh, great question. I think it goes back to this idea that I think we're earlier now, I don't think you meet anyone that says I was very early. I think you always feel that you're late because by virtue probably of price becomes the number one proxy or barometer for that estimation, right? It's like, oh, you see the run up of Ethereum from seventy five cents to two thousand five hundred. You're like, I am extremely late to this trade. But I think now, and it goes back to, as I continue to see more and more verticals open up. The aperture of how we can actually implement this is something that has surprised me because it's been twelve plus years and it just is a bit grounding to keep that perspective because it is very hard when you have this noise of a market that is in constant price discovery telling you that things may be far or too early, or the tech just suddenly becomes 1020 30% better because the price runs up. And that reflexivity is important.
00:15:02.430 - 00:15:12.766, Speaker A: But yeah, I think we're very early still, and that has always been kind of a very humbling experience. Probably is something that has surprised me the most.
00:15:12.948 - 00:15:36.022, Speaker B: Yeah. So important for everybody that's new to crypto to hear that, not just trying to create false hope, but I think everybody's felt that way at some point. That's been in crypto more than a year. You go through that over and over again and what is it? Let your winner's ride. Because you often see tokens, ecosystems that go up in value, and you're like, oh, I missed that one. I should look for the one that's sub 100 million dollar market cap. And then often what you realize is those that have done so well in the past are often the ones that do well in the future.
00:15:36.022 - 00:16:09.220, Speaker B: And I've noticed over those last several years, one thing that you've avoid is maximalism. And I think a big part of that is you always describe that you think in probabilities. And a podcast that I first heard you on was in 2021, and even back then you were talking about Salana quite a bit. So can you talk about out how your thought process and how your investment framework has led you to such conviction on Salana? And just to throw a quote for people out there, in the beginning of December, Sansi said, I think there's a 20% chance that Salana flips eth. And then in their predictions episode not long after that, you said, I see no reason that the Salana market cap shouldn't match Ethereum's at some point in the future.
00:16:11.750 - 00:17:00.718, Speaker A: Yeah, my relationship with Solana goes way like at was. We did that deal directly with the foundation and I was also an investor, early investor in Multicoin. And back then I thought that they would capture alpha, that I wouldn't, and that kind of forced me to pay attention to it and discover it. I think that the biggest insight is most recent, actually, because sometimes you invest in stuff from a structural standpoint as a hedge, when you have a lot of exposure to a particular ecosystem, in this case Ethereum. I have always felt that if you don't have skin in the game, you're not going to pay attention. So you need to have some amount of value, again, value in stake to pay attention. The biggest insight most recently happened when I've said it publicly.
00:17:00.718 - 00:17:45.860, Speaker A: I went back and I love going back and hearing people and the way that they've expressed themselves over, especially a founder. You hear Anatoli constantly say the same concept of why he started and his vision for Solana. And it really comes back to this idea of putting Nasdaq on the blockchain, like this single shared state. You fix latency in information and that is incredibly useful and valuable. And you'll hear me if you go back to my podcast over time talking about Solana. I think bankless invited me and I was with one of the co founders of Lido talking about Solana. This was when Lido was also exploring like Vasili is an investor in Solana, early investor, actually.
00:17:45.860 - 00:18:51.654, Speaker A: And the common criticism that Solana was facing, and still does, is the higher hardware requirements. In Ethereum, anyone can run a litecoin a node with a raspberry PI, and that's super nice in theory. In practice, no one really runs a node on their kitchen table because again, you kind of delegate outsource that to a more technical operator like Lido. This aha moment was the focus of the Solana team in understanding the type of client that is going to use that blockchain. You overcome the idea that, no, wait a minute, there are plenty of people that are willing to pay for that higher hardware requirements and bandwidth and storage costs, if you think about the three components of costs, because having solving latency is incredibly valuable. And Mert recently over the weekend was tweeting about the scalability know this idea of decentralization, security and scalability, and they're not mutually exclusive per se, but you have to make some trade offs, at least initially. And I just think Solana has got extremely right.
00:18:51.654 - 00:19:48.200, Speaker A: Is the scalability component like you are seeing it in real know in tandem with hearing Anatoli say that understanding, okay, hardware requirements are not as important. Like you overcome that friction point and then you pair that with all the activity and usage that you're seeing in Jupyter and tensor. And I think the evolution of the apps in Solana pre and post FTX collapse were meaningfully different. Not to discredit the early apps in the early days, but I think now you're seeing beautiful apps that web two people. If I were to send someone web two that is new to crypto, I would send them probably to a salana app because it's faster, it's better, and it's cheaper, and the user experience is not that dissimilar from a web two. In fact, it might be even better. And that in my mind has helped me revisit and update a lot of my mental frameworks on kind of how blockchains like the scalability trilemma, and what is the most important thing.
00:19:48.200 - 00:20:47.530, Speaker A: It's been a journey, and I wanted to make it also very public, because I categorically think that there's not a perfect blockchain out there. And again, we're incredibly early, but from a philosophical standpoint, I admire the Solana team and their openness. And you're here, and I totally constantly say, like, there are so many things that we still haven't figured out. Fee markets are one, and fire dancer and getting to that point is another. I think ultimately that level of open mindedness from them is what probabilistically will make them become the most important blockchain out there. And Ethereum has this problem where you have a more kind of decentralized leadership, right. Vitalik still holds a lot of power in his decisions and what he talks about publicly, about the vision of where things should go, but it is incredibly hard to coordinate.
00:20:47.530 - 00:21:42.070, Speaker A: And bitcoin has also had this problem. Right. There's ways to resolve that, like the upgrade to proof of stake and EIP 1559 for Ethereum is probably one of the most impactful things of human coordination ever. It's not a small network, and you ultimately go through that decision making process from an upgrade. From a coordination standpoint, it might be one of the most impactful things in the history of mankind, and people might laugh at that, but I think it's worth putting into perspective. But it also has a challenge that as you think about Ethereum and the scalability roadmap, I just have more visibility in Solana, attracting way more usage, and it is really predicated on seeing the scalability component being really figured out. And if you have a lot of users, it improves the economics for validators and invites more validators, improve decentralization of validators.
00:21:42.070 - 00:22:53.520, Speaker A: It also increases security because you're now more decentralized. And so ultimately, like that flywheel, I see it working and I see it strengthening more and more and more for Salana, whereas I don't have that level of visibility and conviction. And I invite anyone to push back on that, on how the current l one l two architecture is going to get to that point where Salana today, much less with fire dancer, gets. And so now I am challenging every single one of my teams that I'm an investor in when they go through this journey of saying, where should we build? I always say, well, what can you get from these other ecosystems that you cannot get with Solana today, and Solana with fire dancer, and I to this day have not heard a very compelling answer as to why you'd go somewhere else other than there are a lot of liquidity and users on Ethereum. But ultimately I think that that is not a very compelling or convincing answer because you can't make this decision as a builder of where to deploy on the current state of users, which is like micro beta testers. I think you have to have a reasonable conviction around yeah, we're going to onboard billions of people, and when you think about where the capital and the user is going to flow, that's the bet that I'm sort of like trying to predict that.
00:22:54.450 - 00:23:42.430, Speaker B: Yeah, I hope developers are listening to this. We talk about a lot on this podcast, how in Solana you're seeing some sorts of vertical integration, and that could be Jupiter, where they have the aggregator, but they also now have perpetuals and they're expanding into the launch pad. Then you have jeto, which is kind of like a flashpots, and also lido combined. And I think part of that, and you haven't really seen that in Ethereum, even though they are trying to vertically integrate things like aave. But I think a hard part would be if you do want to expand, one, do you know if the chain can support it just from fees and composability? But two, where do you want to build? Are you going to build on optimism or arbitram? Like, which l two, are you waiting on to mature and where are you going to release that next product that you want to be composable? And I think that's probably held things back a little bit. And another narrative that I'm seeing that's kind of nebulous Santi and I'm just curious how you've thought about this, because I think it's popped up before, is this idea of scarcity versus abundance. And by scarcity I mean like bitcoin was 21 million, and there's a real reason for that.
00:23:42.430 - 00:24:11.434, Speaker B: Ethereum kind of has scarce blocks space, but then you see things like Solana that are a bit more about abundance. And you can see that with the fee model as well, which brings in a lot of questions about accrual and value. And then we have things like Celestio, which is catching a big bid. And I think one of their taglines now is like, I don't know, it's like abundance for all or something. It's like really leaning to this idea that crypto doesn't have to be only about scarcity. But I think that's hard for some people to grasp because when crypto first became a thing through bitcoin. Everything was about scarcity, everything was about limit supply.
00:24:11.434 - 00:24:14.240, Speaker B: So I'm just curious how your frameworks evolved on that.
00:24:15.090 - 00:25:33.766, Speaker A: I think you're spot on. Look, the thing about bitcoin centric mindset is that scarcity drives value, whereas I think you should invert and you should think value drives not invert, but just more so, say utility drives value. And certainly in that exchange, the idea of having talk about another big primitive of crypto unlock is this idea that you have digital property that is provably scarce or provably, you can trace the origins of it, like provenance, and so that's hugely valuable, like go read de Soto and property rights and how that was instrumental for economic development. Now extend that to a digital context where most of our lives and exchanges are happening in the digital world. And finally, for the first time ever, you can have this digital property that is recorded in a time and space that is not contested, that gives you guarantees that transcend a sovereign. To say, I uploaded this picture or this piece of content at this particular moment in time, and this is the first time that it was seen in existence. And you can prove to that that is incredibly valuable for anyone.
00:25:33.766 - 00:26:33.210, Speaker A: Artists talk to a notary, talk to a lawyer. When I say that this is one of my entry points into a very critical brain of crypto, I tell them this digital property concept and they start to get it. If you're a lawyer, if you're a notor, if you're an artist, it becomes incredibly useful to easy to see and bitcoin like. Sure, I'm skeptical of this idea of digital gold because gold took centuries to ossify as like a social construct that has value, but it's a terrible semiconductor. I don't know if you've seen what a billion dollars of gold stored looks like in a vault, but it's not easy to move or secure and has all these costs attached to them. So I kind of sympathize with that can serve a niche use case, but now you have stable coins, so you don't necessarily need to use bitcoin as a medium to for capital flight. So if you think about the size of a table or your room, gold is 9 trillion.
00:26:33.210 - 00:27:04.754, Speaker A: And how much do you think that the value? The Internet is certainly bigger than that speck of dust in your room that is 8 trillion. It's way larger than that as we think about it today. Of course, now you think about, well, what other use cases are possible because of this digital property concept. It's almost like going back to 2002 and saying you had the Internet. People were skeptical of in 2002. Not long ago, people were very skeptical of the Internet because you had just had the.com crash, and then the smartphone came around.
00:27:04.754 - 00:28:08.790, Speaker A: I don't think people envisioned how impactful the smartphone would be and all the different applications that have now sprung up and are incredibly valuable and almost to the point of essential components of our lives. And I think crypto is in that state today where the far more interesting point is this abundance of digital property and explosion of creativity and exchange and better coordination, that if you think about a game, good luck trying to bootstrap and scale a game with only a collection of 10,000 pfps. It should be very abundant. It should invite people to come in and exchange. So I think that's the more important and vastly larger market that I think crypto will cover. There's still a time and a place for digital scarcity, but abundance is something that technology is always like. The real unlocks in technology have been because it created way more abundance.
00:28:10.090 - 00:28:41.678, Speaker B: 100% agree. That's something you see, like with Figma, for example, that it made, like everybody that was at a company, a designer, essentially. It almost introduced abundance of design. And then also, this is a little tangential, but I was reading this money on the vision pro that's coming out, and just like, what are going to be the use cases? They think it's going to be a small set of buyers at first, and a lot of that's just how much they can manufacture. But I watched the highlight video of the courtside camera that's set up specifically for the Vision Pro. It is absolutely insane. And my point of all this, too, is just as you move more digitally online, all of these things just become more valuable and useful in themselves.
00:28:41.678 - 00:28:58.706, Speaker B: But if there's not a place where you as an average consumer can interact with it, then it doesn't matter. And I think for crypto to actually get widespread adoption, you have to have these things that are entertaining, things based around community, and also things that are like low fees and cheap to interact with. And you talked about Jupiter. Jupiter is all time. It's maybe my favorite crypto app I've ever actually gotten involved.
00:28:58.738 - 00:29:33.570, Speaker A: Jupiter and tensor, for sure. Yeah. Now, today, Disney announced this walkable rug that you can move around and stay like. Then you start seeing the challenges of interacting in a virtual world. I think we should consider ourselves incredibly lucky. I certainly consider myself incredibly lucky to have discovered crypto at an early point in my career, when I was able to take way more risk because I didn't have any obligations. I was lucky to have graduated early, had a scholarship from Morgan, didn't have debt.
00:29:33.570 - 00:30:09.790, Speaker A: I was paid reasonably well as an investment banker, and that allowed me to invest a decent amount of money into the space. But stripping away all of that, I think I consider myself incredibly lucky. I've discovered this space that has continued to attract the smartest people that I've met, but also to find what I think is a calling that you talk about your journey in crypto. So you first came into blockworks, you were a producer, you're putting incredible show notes for Empire. Then you very quickly, within a year, launch your own podcast that has far surpassed empire and success, right?
00:30:09.860 - 00:30:12.240, Speaker B: I don't know about that, but it's done pretty well.
00:30:12.690 - 00:30:57.050, Speaker A: The Twitter polls don't lie. And now you're going to one of the top protocols in Salana, and you're going to run bd for that. Now, that journey is not linear. And when you think about the probability of you doing that in a traditional context, in web two, or traditional in the non crypto world, the real world, yeah, no, it would have been very hard, and I've always been frustrated with that. And I think ultimately, crypto is what it is. Because of that, I think you ultimately relate it to what it means at the individual level. And open source systems are incredibly powerful because you discover information, information surfaces faster than in non open source systems, in closed systems.
00:30:57.050 - 00:31:49.786, Speaker A: And that empowers people in a very meaningful way, because the people that are surfacing that information, that are more competent and knowledgeable, you don't need a college degree to be discovered in crypto. If you're smart, if you're putting out good ideas, you can contribute. Not only that, contributors can accrue a lot of value. When you think about that stack, that is why you need a token to capture that value and that contribution. And I think that's the most important thing that matches with so many other trends that are happening in this post industrial revolution world. Like, we are shifting away. And for a while now, from this nine to five static industrial revolution concept of organizational, of how we coordinate and create value and how we think about measuring output to Covid comes along and it says, no, you can actually work from home and still be productive.
00:31:49.786 - 00:32:34.302, Speaker A: And the office becomes less and less important. And crypto, I think, fits into so many different things that are happening. And so I consider myself incredibly lucky to have been born at a time where the pace of technological innovation was just going absolutely parabolic and crypto comes at a time that allows us to really take that to the next level. And then you have AI and other components. And I think the more and more I think about it is crypto fits into that and is the linchpin to really unlock so much more value and possibilities. And there are generations, I think, that go by that don't have this moment. So for me, it's like when you think about what keeps me in the game.
00:32:34.302 - 00:33:36.514, Speaker A: I love this game because I don't think there's been a period in human history where we're seeing this amount of innovation. And not only that, but we finally, I think, have solved the key issue of open source development, which is how do you monetize, how do you fix the continuity issue? And it unlocks so many different possibilities of people being able to contribute to these systems without necessarily having to go through the common system that is very hard to access. Not everyone can afford a four year education. That doesn't necessarily mean they're not smart. And now they can circumvent that and go directly into these systems that will reward them if they are contributing value. And the nice thing about this open system, it's also highly capitalistic. So value gets, there's a price that gets tagged to that, whether you believe in it or not.
00:33:36.514 - 00:33:58.070, Speaker A: And the price discovery component of all that is something else, but at least you have something to latch onto. Ethereum, as a piece of technology, has created probably the most amount of millionaires across a wider set of people than any other piece of technology in that. And so that's incredible.
00:33:58.650 - 00:34:34.218, Speaker B: Yeah, I think a lot of people get turned away from crypto just because they think it's all speculation. They see some of the degens, including ourselves, and Twitter can be a harsh place if you're new to crypto and you try to get involved, but there are some great things there. And I like how you said, I love the space, and I saw you tweet once, like, if you don't love this game, you don't have to play this game, but I think part of it is just embracing it. There's no reason to hate on the speculation. Obviously, when people are bad actors, you want to call them out and so forth, but just, like, enjoy it, play the game. You want to find something that really drives you with passion. And also that's intellectually interesting, and that's what brought me to crypto.
00:34:34.218 - 00:34:53.434, Speaker B: And you talked about accessibility. Santi, I've listened to you for a long time, one I never thought I'd talk to you, and then I got to produce your show, and I got to meet you, and now I'm actually getting to host you on a podcast. This is all within, say, a two year span, and anybody can do that, and you can dm people on Twitter, and they will respond to you at least half the time, and that doesn't happen anywhere else.
00:34:53.632 - 00:35:24.578, Speaker A: Yeah, there's. I think going back to what I said at the very beginning, speculation is a component that is kind of a prerequisite. You see it in any technological revolution. Point me to any movement throughout the history of mankind that hasn't had speculation as a fire that keeps people motivated. There's none. Because ultimately, if you don't transact value and people don't think there's value, then they go elsewhere. That's as simple as that.
00:35:24.578 - 00:35:59.710, Speaker A: There's a difference between speculating and gambling. I think there's nothing wrong with speculation. Everyone speculates about everything all the time. You have to. When you make decisions, when you ultimately try to predict the present but also the future, and how you allocate your resources, that's speculating. Gambling is doing things that probably can jeopardize your ability to play the game, but there's nothing wrong with speculation. But somehow crypto has gone through this phase time and time again where we shy away from saying that there is speculation.
00:35:59.710 - 00:36:42.014, Speaker A: And a lot of that, I think, comes from. We have had it pretty hard. It's been very hostile for someone that is in crypto, and I think anyone can relate to that. You constantly get questioned, and you go from being the most popular person at a party when crypto is booming, to the least popular at family reunions, when crypto takes a hit and it questions your identity, questions why you do stuff. It's never easy, can be uncomfortable, because somehow you become the lynchman of the person in crypto, and that relates you to FTX and Terra. So, yeah, it's hard, but ultimately, I think you just have to deal with that.
00:36:42.132 - 00:37:03.582, Speaker B: I remember, actually, the last podcast I was on with you, we were talking about something kind of similar, and I had, like, a date a few days before that, and you get into the question, like, what do you do for a living? It's like, I work in finance. Like, what do you do? It's media and startups. And then they ask more questions. You're like, crypto, like, oh, okay. We'll see how the rest of this day goes. Quick break to tell you about an upcoming event, I promise you don't want to miss. It's blockwork's biggest and best institutional conference called Das London.
00:37:03.582 - 00:37:29.850, Speaker B: It's a two day event happening in London this March, where we're going to have over 700 institutions, 130 speakers, and a couple of thousand of us all under one roof. Crypto is in a position for the first time to actually onboard these institutions, and they're showing up. We have companies from Blackrock to visa launching real products in the space. We have the real world asset narrative taking off. We have things like payments that have been exponentially growing, and then we have things like deepen happening in the Salana ecosystem. There's a ton of capital right now in this institutional space that's going to be coming on chain. It's going to completely change the industry.
00:37:29.850 - 00:37:51.038, Speaker B: Whether you are an institution or you're a retail user, or you just want to learn more about what's going on in the space, this conference is for you. You're going to be able to meet some of the best and smartest people in the space. The speaker lineup is absolutely incredible, and you'll get to hang out with me. But the best part is you actually get 10% off your ticket if you use light speed. Ten, when checking out, I put a link in the show notes. I recommend buying this today because, one, you'll forget about it. Two, these ticket prices go up every single month.
00:37:51.038 - 00:38:20.902, Speaker B: So, anyways, I hope to see you there. Now, let's get back to the show. But Santi, I want to start to talk about some of the predictions that you had for 2024 and just some themes you're looking at kind of like the next stage for crypto. And I think just because we were talking about Salana before this, maybe the first place to start is I heard you say that you think there might be up to, I think, ten unicorns that appear in the salana ecosystem and DFI and Dpen. And you can talk about that. But I also want you to compare that to you were very early in Ethereum DFI. You were close with Ave and Stani and Hayden and Uniswap.
00:38:20.902 - 00:38:28.240, Speaker B: I don't think you're as bullish about the DFI projects that are happening there. Can you maybe describe the difference in those two ecosystems and why you think that.
00:38:30.210 - 00:39:15.710, Speaker A: It'S all on a relative basis? Look, I think DeFi has been long forgotten since I left. Know, Defi kind of has been at the backseat. I think it will have its moment and it will shine. Maybe not, certainly not in the same way that it did in DeFi summer, but it will power a lot of the different applications. So my interest in Defi and Solana is this idea that I'm seeing way more activity. Because when you have fees that are negligible, people might say, well, how's that any different from binance smart chain or something? It's a good point. When binance smart chain at one point eclipsed, had more transactions and users bridge over than Uniswap, and then the activity has subsided because it's very much a centralized chain.
00:39:15.710 - 00:40:34.790, Speaker A: I think what people get wrong about revisiting their thesis about Solana because it has its moments where the chain is halted and people think it's a vc coin and whatever, and that ultimately is the opportunity for people that can actually do the real work and understand whether you believe the Nakamoto coefficient is the best proxy for decentralization or clients. But information is moving incredibly fast in this space, and you have to constantly update your probabilities and your like, people are still latching on to a Solana that is three years old or two years old. Just go and read the helios blog post on fire dancer and then come back to me, just do that. Why wouldn't you do that? Right? Maximalism has never served anyone well, but I'm incredibly excited because again, it goes back to this idea of coordination. When you have an environment that is lower fees and it's faster, it's better, it's cheaper, then it unlocks nonlinear consumer behavior. People now extend that to Uber, Airbnb, and so you're seeing that in real time. And to me that's incredibly exciting because candidly, the structure of paying $19 or $7 or $1,000 of fees on Ethereum, l one at least, is not very economically feasible.
00:40:34.790 - 00:41:42.060, Speaker A: There is still a type of user that is going to value that. And of course, then you can extend it to an l two. But I remember a moment where I talked to the drip founder and he said, look, even if I were to do drip in an l two, it still would not be economically viable for us to do these kind of mass batch like minting of nfts. It would still be as small on a relative basis as fees are in an l two, Salana still is much cheaper. And so, yeah, that for me was also a big part of my journey of then saying, what is now that it's dubbed like, only possible in Salana. That doesn't mean that l two s and Ethereum are not going to have their moment or will be irrelevant. I mean, I'll ask you the question, do you think people care about decentralization, do they philosophically understand or care about security? It really ultimately boils down to, and I hate to say, but I think it's just more of a practical, not theoretical, standpoint, which is people will go where they can do things that increases their output and utility the most.
00:41:42.060 - 00:42:26.870, Speaker A: Security is one of those things that you appreciate if things go badly, but that doesn't mean that Solana is not secure. And this is where most people that have been around for a while kind of don't believe that because they haven't done the work. That's something that you constantly need to question yourself. Like is Solana meaningfully less secure than Ethereum? What is your security threshold? What is the decentralization threshold? I think these are fundamental questions that we need that are very theoretical. But I think practically speaking, again, I go back to one of my biggest shifts over the years, is that more like scalability and improve the economics of a blockchain. And that ultimately is a driving force to improve all the other two components of this trilemma.
00:42:27.210 - 00:43:12.294, Speaker B: Yeah, let me double down on that, because actually in the interview you did in 2021, you were talking about the same thing, and that it's kind of taboo to ask, like do people actually care about decentralization? And your point was like, you're like, I don't know. But in general, the average consumer, probably not. But you did say that some of these, I think you call them aggregators, but somebody like visa would. So if you're visa on Ethereum or visa on Salana, Salana has about 2000 validators today. And that is comparison to Jay Jogg, which I talked about last week. He's under the impression that maybe you only need 36 geographically diversified validators to actually have the set that you need to say that this is decentralized enough. Do you think this concept that visa would choose to build on something like Ethereum or Solana still stands because it is something that is more decentralized? Or do you think they just go and build an app chain? Because that's the other world I see where they're ah, we don't need any of this.
00:43:12.294 - 00:43:13.382, Speaker B: We'll just do our own thing.
00:43:13.516 - 00:44:09.450, Speaker A: It's a fantastic question. Look, I think technology is always a centralizing force. It has been. And the only thing that might help us centralize it or pull it away from that natural tendency to centralize is crypto, for the simple reason that you can improve the incentive mechanism and you can improve the coordination. But if you don't do that, we're not going to overcome that. AI to even the nth degree will be even more centralizing. This is where I think a lot of people fall short in their thinking of like how do we actually can insert ourselves and overcome that tendency to centralize? And it really boils down to better incentives and better coordination, because if you can create more value, if you can deliver a better experience for the consumer, whether it's the aggregator through incentives, but the aggregator cares about the end user.
00:44:09.450 - 00:45:01.174, Speaker A: And so how are you going to be Robin Hunter visa and tell your users, oh, guys, sorry, your wire fee is 25, we're not really like improving it. That's going to be a bit more expensive and it's going to be unpredictable because there might be spikes in fees. So you're going to have to bear with us. No, it's not realistic to think that way. But I do think that you can see a world where they start using Solana, like take Uber as the example. Uber was just a killer technology that overcame regulatory pressures, union pressures, habitual pressures of people just naturally thinking of a taxi and they're yellow and they're easy to identify to something that just was incredible because it latched onto a piece of technology like the smartphone that at fingertip, you could hail a cab at any moment in time. And it was clear, it's transparent, it's faster, it's better, it's cheaper.
00:45:01.174 - 00:45:40.120, Speaker A: By order magnitude, that's the bar for crypto. And if we don't get there, we will not overcome the tendency to centralize and none of this will matter at all. We're going to be a niche, techno utopian piece of technology like bitcoin was in the day. But I'm not here because of that vision alone. I think fundamentally we can do that, but in order to get there, the bar is high. It's very high. We're not there yet, but I think we have early indications that we can fundamentally have, through better coordination, increase a ton of value and unlock new possibilities just weren't possible before.
00:45:40.120 - 00:46:18.642, Speaker A: And I think Solana is by far the place where I see that path. Like clearly I don't see it anywhere else. Maybe an X Gen L1, maybe it's aptos, maybe it's sui, maybe these designs. The problem with going first in crypto, and I sympathize with ethereum, is that you didn't have, in many ways, these other protocols, like Salana and others, are standing on the shoulder of giants. You're always borrowing stuff in an open source context. Yeah. An aggregator will care about security, for sure, we don't have a secure environment.
00:46:18.642 - 00:46:26.680, Speaker A: But again, the question you just posed is, what is that? And I think it's a minimum viable threshold of security that Solana already has.
00:46:27.370 - 00:46:45.870, Speaker B: I agree completely. Okay, that was very well said. I have, like, four statements of yours I think are a little bit unorthodox and predictions. Okay, so you have a lot more, but I picked out four. Let's see if we can run through those in the next ten minutes. So maybe we'll spend just a minute or two on each topic. So, one that I have.
00:46:45.870 - 00:47:00.340, Speaker B: So gaming was really hot. People are like, gaming is going to be the trojan horse that brings people into crypto. We haven't really seen that play out. But one of your predictions is that in 2024, we're going to see three viral games that hit. So why do you think the timing is now?
00:47:01.030 - 00:47:17.574, Speaker A: Just because I've seen it from my vantage point. I've invested in ten plus game studios. They're building. It takes time to build games. There's different categories. Fast casual to fully form aa games. But it will happen.
00:47:17.574 - 00:47:29.910, Speaker A: I've just seen it. I'm seeing it in real time. It will happen. It's not going to be your play to earn. That was not a game. That was D five with a veneer of gaming attached to it. But so was farming.
00:47:29.910 - 00:47:36.634, Speaker A: So yam farming was pretty more fun than axie, probably. No, not to take a stab directly at axe.
00:47:36.682 - 00:47:53.780, Speaker B: Okay, so this next one, me and Mert shit on blast all the time, which is an l two roll up on Ethereum that you could deposit eth, but you couldn't take it out. You've actually tweeted a few times about blast, and you'd say, believe it or not, there's actually a lot of developer interest in Blast. What's going on there? And yeah, how do you think about it?
00:47:54.230 - 00:48:26.080, Speaker A: Turns out when you have over a billion dollars of liquidity locked in there, it attracts a lot of developers that want to tap into that. It's the same reason why people continue to be interested in Ethereum is because the users in large part of there's a lot of liquidity. Look, I've never faded. A founder that just built great products. You can criticize the mechanism by which they launched, the way that they framed the risk free component of that. It wasn't perfect by any stretch. Nothing is risk free in crypto, so that word should never be used in any context, ever.
00:48:26.080 - 00:49:12.480, Speaker A: Nothing is risk free in the world, period. Anyways, if you put aside the launch pac man and the team have know the builders are a blur, and I'd be hard pressed to find someone that says that's not a good product. I always invest in teams that can build great products, and I had the benefit of being an early investor in blur, and I think the same is going to happen with blast. Look, at the end of the day, the more important question that you should always ask, what is the integrity of the team? What is the rug risk? Because of course, it's a multi sig. Look, I'm not here to tell you there's no risk. Of course, there's a ton of risk. When contracts are upgradable, you should always be hypersensitive to that.
00:49:12.480 - 00:49:20.560, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think there's a lot of developer interest. It's still early, but I'll be a judge there and we'll see.
00:49:21.570 - 00:49:34.820, Speaker B: I like it. Okay, so you're a big fan of Solana's global state, but I know you've also gotten some interest in the cosmos ecosystem. Has that been something that's just of late? Is there something that has driven that, or have you always thought Cosmos was going to be this ecosystem that would take off?
00:49:35.270 - 00:50:22.270, Speaker A: I had the benefit of being in Palo Alto, so Berkeley was around the bay, and a lot of the Cosmos team came from Berkeley and the people's Republic of Berkeley. And I discovered IBC when I first heard about it was like early, I think it was 2018 or so, it was like in development. And I just felt that it was going to be a multi chain world as much as I believe Solana is sort of far and ahead. But I do still think that there's a place for other chains, application specific chains, there's just a benefit, like, look at DyDX. Right. And so when you can have more degrees of freedom and autonomy over these parameters of fee setting and not competing in this global state and competing for having space in a block. And now we have paralyzed fee markets and whatnot, not fully in production.
00:50:22.270 - 00:51:04.030, Speaker A: But the idea is really interesting nonetheless. I still think it's a multi chain world, and I think IBC is fundamentally really interesting piece of technology to connect these chains without compromising security. Problem is, IBC was constantly delayed, but now it's closer and closer. I think there are very interesting developments, IBC being one. The other one is shared security. Like people should go look at and research mesh cosmos. This idea of like, the problem with appchains was if you're not DYDX and you're fully kind of formed project the way you bootstrap security is that initial kind of cold start problem becomes very expensive.
00:51:04.030 - 00:51:54.266, Speaker A: So people need to have these incredibly high inflation curves and staking rewards to attract validators to go on the. So, because that's important for security now with mesh and what ethos is doing, which is taking now, finally, you're going to be able to use restaked eth to bootstrap the security of the chain. So anyways, I think now it's an interesting time for cosmos. We keep seeing that every cycle. It's like, oh, Cosmos has probably really interesting tech, probably one of the best techs out there, but it doesn't shine because it doesn't have a good marketing team. But in short, I think it is important to pay attention IBC as a connectivity tissue across chains, not only within the cosmos ecosystem, but beyond as a better version of a bridge. And second, this idea of restaked and using Ethereum security for app chains is something that is a pretty big unlock.
00:51:54.266 - 00:51:56.270, Speaker A: So I'm paying attention for those two reasons.
00:51:57.170 - 00:52:39.680, Speaker B: Santim, curious how you think about it, but also how teams are pitching you when they're building a product in crypto. I don't know if this is framing how everyone thinks about it, but you have like protocols and businesses and protocols to me would be say, like Celestia, a protocol could be they're a da layer, a business would be, okay, we're a Da layer, but then we're planning to expand to these three other products, which might be a wallet, kind of like uniswap wallet, or it might be like, okay, we're a Da layer, but we're going to launch a Dex on top of this. And it's kind of this wedge mentality that a lot of startups have. And then you expand. It's like land and expand. When you think of crypto protocols, do you think about them in that way that you're like, okay, they're going to find a niche market today and build out from there? Or do you still see it as this money Lego? Every protocol or app just does one thing?
00:52:41.490 - 00:53:29.114, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess the question is, what is the difference between a protocol and a company? I don't know. I think the lines are very blurred. I just think it's either like b to b or b to c. I think a protocol is more b to b, like Ethereum. And the most important thing is to invite, be very secure and give confidence for builders to build on top. I guess the analogy would be, and I understand analogies are imperfect, but like Salesforce started as a company and then became like an ecosystem because it had this store and it would invite people to build on top and products that would complement the core feature. I think every protocol is a company in some capacity.
00:53:29.114 - 00:53:56.870, Speaker A: The user might be different ultimately, but I think of him, and maybe this is my lizard brain. I think everything is a company, and ultimately, whether you understand your customer or not is something that I just focus on. I think Solana understands her customer exceptionally well. I think other, certain protocols don't understand that or don't want to believe that they're a company. But the end of the day, you're always a company. I think you always need to think about product, market fit, and who's going to use your protocol. That, to me, is no different than a company.
00:53:56.870 - 00:53:57.558, Speaker A: Right?
00:53:57.724 - 00:54:09.754, Speaker B: 100%. Okay. Two things to close out. One, I want to talk about what's. I was going to say what's next? But I don't know why everyone thinks there has to be a next. There always has to be the next thing. I believe you're investing full time.
00:54:09.754 - 00:54:17.360, Speaker B: I know you looked into launching a bank, and you've hinted at that you might be interested in doing an incubator. So. Yeah. How do you think about those things these days?
00:54:18.370 - 00:54:41.746, Speaker A: Yeah, I constantly think about where I could be most useful to the space. Because I'm not technical, I certainly invest, and it's really nice to. It's like a frustrated dream. I empower people with capital to go and build. The bank idea was quite interesting. It was at the time where you probably thought it was the craziest idea because you had all. Silvergate was down, the sand network was shut down, FTX collapsed.
00:54:41.746 - 00:55:25.986, Speaker A: And so I think the appetite to fund a crypto bank was zero. But I had the benefit of just funding it myself. I came out of that process not convinced that banking is that big of an issue. I just think that it might be just that certain type of customers may not want to furnish all the information to be onboarded into a bank. But I've never had issues. Banks again, blockchains are perfectly transparent pieces where you can do all the analysis to trace and track provenance of funds. You will find a bank out there that will bank you if you can furnish all the information, and they'll be using chain analysis on the back end to do that.
00:55:25.986 - 00:55:45.770, Speaker A: But I think certain people may not want to do that and are sensitive to that. My conclusion is I'm still not going to be able to bank those people if I start a. Yeah, and the level of effort is pretty high. And so I shelf that project, but I spent a good amount of six to nine months, like, talking to users, regulators, different jurisdictions.
00:55:47.150 - 00:55:51.238, Speaker B: Do you think that's what Coinbase becomes? In many ways. How do you think about Coinbase?
00:55:51.334 - 00:56:24.120, Speaker A: Coinbase is going to be one of the largest financial institutions in the world over the next ten years. There's really no reason why they can't extend their offering. You're seeing it in real time. Yeah, I think Coinbase looks very. Coinbase is not just an exchange. It will be a fully fledged financial institution, particularly one that services younger generation more technically, like just digitally native users. Yeah, stablecoins are a fantastic product.
00:56:24.120 - 00:56:34.060, Speaker A: Know, obviously they have USDC and yeah, I think Coinbase is going to be doing way more things than what you're currently able to do in the app today.
00:56:34.510 - 00:57:04.174, Speaker B: I agree with you. It's kind of like in Solana in some ways, that a lot of people weren't very bullish on Solana as like the VC coin. And then the FTX implosion happened. I think that actually made the community stronger and people started looking at the tech more instead of it just like the price. And the same thing kind of happened with Coinbase where they grew so quickly. They obviously did well, but I think they probably just hired a lot of people that weren't in crypto at all because you saw them launch some products, say some things through their communications and marketing, and it looked like they were almost falling apart and losing market share. And then over this last like six, eight months, they've just been absolutely killing it.
00:57:04.174 - 00:57:09.800, Speaker B: They seem pretty crypto native. I mean, I can't imagine a better company to represent the space that is more on the centralized side.
00:57:10.250 - 00:58:02.198, Speaker A: The work that they've done on the policy and regulation side and offering. I mean, it's synonymous with crypto and they've never been hacked, knock on wood, but they've had incredibly secure setup and they're just the primary onboarding mechanisms, but also the willingness to reinvent themselves and cannibalize certain business lines like they're now launching base. Talk about creating easy journey into millions and millions of users, all their user base, right? 100 million users, some of them. Well, they're going to enter web3, like, start using on chain applications. Well, probabilistically, it's going to happen through Coinbase. So I think they play Coinbase. I respect them because the leadership, I think, has probably felt that they have not gotten enough credibility or validation from the crypto community and certainly not from the non crypto community.
00:58:02.198 - 00:58:27.470, Speaker A: So they've had to probably been quite lonely journey for them. Now. It's great that they're finally getting some well deserved credit. I mean, Coinbase developers have contributed a ton to open source. They've done fair amount of contributions in certain pretty big updates, like proof of stake. And like the beacon chain, the mp 1559, they're pretty impactful to contributing to some of these standards in crypto.
00:58:27.810 - 00:58:54.386, Speaker B: Definitely. And a lot of talent has come out of Coinbase and actually started develop protocols in wider crypto and decentralized crypto. Like, even Mert came out of Coinbase. Yeah. And like, Coinbase credentials, I think is going to be really cool. If you're a Coinbase user, you're within the app itself, but then they have the self custody wallet, then they have the web3 wallet, and maybe they'll have like, a safe sandbox that you can play in, which are like these apps that are preloaded, which are on base. But then you can take your Coinbase credentials and go to outside of base and you can go to Solana or these different ecosystems.
00:58:54.386 - 00:58:56.470, Speaker B: I think that's going to be the ultimate onboarding.
00:58:56.890 - 00:58:58.342, Speaker A: Absolutely. Yeah.
00:58:58.476 - 00:59:10.778, Speaker B: Okay, so I'm going to make you talk about yourself before we close off here. I knew you ran marathons, but I didn't know. You're an absolute monster at Marathon. Yeah, you are. I think you ran three. Did you run three last year and you're doing two to three this year?
00:59:10.784 - 00:59:18.766, Speaker A: Three last year, and I'm doing Tokyo, Berlin and New York. Three last year, three this year. Finishing the six majors, Tokyo, Boston, and then always New York.
00:59:18.868 - 00:59:36.162, Speaker B: I don't know what your time is. I'll let you say it, but I do know it's inhuman. I did my first marathon this year, and after hearing your time, I was like, holy shit. Santi is not just a podcaster and investor, he's an absolute madman. I think running has been great for me. I'm curious what it's done for. Like, I don't run all the time, but I do think it's been big for me.
00:59:36.162 - 00:59:45.270, Speaker B: So I'm curious, what has it done for you? And then also, I don't know, is there anything you learned from it that you could either apply just to the rest of your life or investing?
00:59:45.610 - 01:00:07.200, Speaker A: Running is liberating. You can do it anytime, anywhere. I've never regretted going for a run. Whether it's 1 mile or 26 miles, the clarity that I get, it just permeates into other facets of my life. And I'm the type of person that I need to exercise to have clarity. And so I love running. I love cycling, too.
01:00:07.200 - 01:00:51.910, Speaker A: The two most insightful learnings that I've done is I think it relates a lot to investing this idea of, you have to run slow to go fast. It's counterintuitive. When I trained for so many years, this notion of every training, I need to push harder and harder and push the limit. And I first learned from the different techniques of the zone two type of training. And the Soviets, the Russians, really used it for wrestling, which was they would never go 100% in their trainings, ever. Maybe once or twice before, but ever relative to the Americans, they would go all out. The problem was, when you go all out constantly in training, their risk of being injured goes up meaningfully.
01:00:51.910 - 01:02:14.966, Speaker A: What happens is you will eventually get injured. So instead of training like the Russians would 360 days of the year or 300 days of the year, because you would take a day off every week, the Americans would train half of that because it would just get injured. And it really forces you to think like the nonlinear component of training every day, even if it's not at 100%, the compounding effects of that far, far outstrip the going all out constantly, because that is not sustainable. And I think if you apply that, for me, has been hard to implement because you always feel like you're not going all out in this type a mentality of like, I constantly need to push myself, but having to think has forced me to be more disciplined and patient. And ultimately I see it in the results because my marathon time went from two, I was running sub three for a while, but I really took it down from 250 to 248 to 245. Now, people might say that doesn't sound like a lot, but as soon as you go sub three, every incremental minute is like, start being nonlinear, right? Like, going from 4 hours to 3 hours is far easier than going from three to 250 to 240 to 230 to now the fastest man in the world, like, what is it, 159? It's like sub 2 hours. It's incredibly nonlinear relationship.
01:02:14.966 - 01:02:54.386, Speaker A: And so it's a fun journey for me. You got to listen to your body, you have to think about so many things, signing up for a race right after I finish one. But it's really the training that is very hard to implement because when you're training in zone two, you don't feel like you've exercised, right? You're like, oh, this is like, it's conversational pace. You're like, God, I don't feel like I'm really putting in the work here feels like you're cheating, but it requires mental strength, discipline, patience to see it through and saying, all right, I'm not getting injured. That's the most important thing in investing. Most important thing, survive. Never do anything.
01:02:54.386 - 01:03:32.494, Speaker A: Gambling compromises that ability because you can do stuff that can investing, never do anything that will put you out of the game. And when you gamble, you do stuff that can put you out of the. So in running as so it's been incredibly humbling constantly. Is there are like last, not this last race, but the one prior in New York. I didn't finish after 10, pulled out of the race and I hadn't done good training. It was very hot that day, but I just trained half ass. I trained terribly, not structured, going all out.
01:03:32.494 - 01:04:26.394, Speaker A: I came in really fatigued to the race and I came with a very high expectation of running a pr and I had quit running for many years and I retook it like gone without running three years. And also the idea of restarting is hard because you always know your pr, you always. And I'll conclude this probably by saying we're close to the new year, I guess is I wrote a blog post called the summit and for a while I have questioned the utility of goal setting. And I'll put an analogy of climbing. Say that your goal is to climb Everest. As a climber. I think the best climbers have the goal.
01:04:26.394 - 01:05:13.306, Speaker A: I think you always need to set a goal to give you some sense of direction. But how attached you are to that goal, I think is the difference between a phenomenal, exceptional climber and a not so exceptional. Why? Because I think you have values and principles, but I think those should be very clear. A goal should not. A goal, I think, should be more flexible based on things that you can't control. And so you might say in the process of climbing Everest, you may get there, you may summit and you may come down, you may be successful, but there's not enough attention in how you got there because you may have compromised your values and your principles as a climber. You may have taken way too much risk to get there, you may put other people's lives in jeopardy and that is not a sustainable path.
01:05:13.306 - 01:06:09.314, Speaker A: As a climber, you at one point will be caught and you will probably die. It will put you out of the game. But if you always have center in what your values and your principles are, you will make probably sometimes the decision to quit and say no, which is one of the hardest things to do because your ego gets in the way. But I think I always have gotten center around. I am optimizing for the long haul to compound to do this, what I love, day in and day out, and I will never do anything that will put me out of the game. And so if that is going to compromise on a goal, I want to say perfectly, but I'm more and more comfortable today of discarding a goal if it compromises with my core values and principles. And so I have constantly applied that, and every time I do, I never regret it.
01:06:09.314 - 01:06:34.134, Speaker A: And, yeah, it's hard because validation is a big thing. You can hang the metal. You can tell people easily, oh, I've made so and so much money. I've climbed so and so many mountains. I've done this and that, and it's more tangible. And goals, I think, help us to dress up our identity, which is an easy way to do. But I don't think it gives you confidence.
01:06:34.134 - 01:07:09.410, Speaker A: I don't think it gives you self worth, because ultimately, validation is one of the things that is nice, but you're dependent on stuff, and I think you should ultimately know your self worth and your identity based on your values and principles and goals. While important to set direction, I don't think should ever be rigid, ever, because you're always, by the way, there's always another summit, there's always another 10 million, 100 million, billion that you can make. It never ends well. It sets a high expectation. I think you should constantly be trying to minimize expectations.
01:07:10.310 - 01:07:33.374, Speaker B: I do think one thing that's important, I just want to point out, and this isn't just about you, Santi, but all the investors that are on Twitter, and they might tweet about a specific product. And I know, like, me, when I first got to, like, I would look to see what Santi tweets about, and then it's like, oh, I should invest in that. You're not putting all your money in one product or one project, right? You're diversified, you're in multiple ecosystems. It's just like you described. You want to make this where your key thing is survive, right?
01:07:33.572 - 01:08:06.498, Speaker A: Absolutely. And there is ever decreasing probability that this space doesn't amount to what we all hope it will. But I think I have more conviction than that. Time and time again, purely because of the human capital. As long as I continue to see smart, driven, smarter than me, people come into the space to build, I will be here. But there have been times where I question that. But, yeah, your journey, I think the journey of going through crypto is magical.
01:08:06.498 - 01:08:39.022, Speaker A: Whether you end up believing in bitcoin Solana, Ethereum, I don't care. But I think it just intellectually is fascinating because it forces you to question everything that you've been told and things that you may just have taken for granted. And I don't think you should ever take anything for granted. To set a goal to take things for granted is to assume that you know things. And the journey investing for me is you are in this truth seeking path and also as a builder. And that's incredibly exciting. But it's not like binary and it's not static.
01:08:39.022 - 01:08:45.730, Speaker A: It's constantly changing. And so that's why I love this game, because it's fun and it's entertaining.
01:08:46.150 - 01:08:57.014, Speaker B: I always say I do believe in crypto in its future, but even if crypto didn't work out, like, the amount of intellectual capital and the people here, they're going to find something else. And I want to be around these type of people. So that's what always has kept me in the game.
01:08:57.212 - 01:09:14.010, Speaker A: It's hard to imagine that something good will not come out of all of this energy and attention that is being applied to try at a very exciting and novel but early piece of technology. So I hope this conversation has been entertaining for people and it hasn't. Please let me know to improve.
01:09:15.790 - 01:09:26.990, Speaker B: It definitely has. Yeah. Thank you so much for coming on, Santi. This is a lot of fun. It's fun to have kind of a throwback of putting us back together. I hope we get to do this again in the future. Everybody needs to go, and you should follow Santi because Santi does.
01:09:26.990 - 01:09:31.940, Speaker B: You tweet quite a. You're kind of like Murt. Honestly, you and Mert are different, but have you guys been in the same room together?
01:09:32.630 - 01:09:42.070, Speaker A: No, I'm investing in his company as a hope to get closer to him because I find him highly entertaining and someone that I want to pay attention to, for sure.
01:09:42.140 - 01:09:56.770, Speaker B: Yeah, you all are different, but in many ways, I can see reflections of each other, and you both put out great content and insights along the way. It's just like he's working on a business. Day in, day out, you're on the investor side. Day in, day out. So, like you two in a room, I think we'll have to get you on a stage at a blockworks conference.
01:09:56.850 - 01:10:13.998, Speaker A: I love people like Mertz and you that help me challenge my worldview. And I think, yeah, those are the best people. So, yeah. Thank you for the questions. Really exciting and best of luck at squads. If you have guys who are ever raising, I hope I get the call, but you're going to kill it. Yeah.
01:10:13.998 - 01:10:16.702, Speaker A: Really excited for your journey, man. Thank you for inviting me.
01:10:16.836 - 01:10:18.540, Speaker B: Appreciate it, man. All right, we'll see you next time.
