00:00:06.010 - 00:00:12.346, Speaker A: Jump right in and introduce Sandeep and Mihalo on screen and let them take it from here. So sandeep.
00:00:12.378 - 00:00:12.718, Speaker B: Hello.
00:00:12.804 - 00:00:17.146, Speaker A: Welcome. We're super excited to have you again and loving the shirts.
00:00:17.338 - 00:00:20.800, Speaker C: Yes, we were saying that we are the Polygon twins today.
00:00:22.130 - 00:00:23.710, Speaker A: Mission accomplished.
00:00:24.130 - 00:00:30.230, Speaker C: Yeah, we should take a picture of it to post on Twitter also, because this looks funny.
00:00:31.290 - 00:01:08.690, Speaker A: All right, so it's been incredible to get this event going. I'll summarize people who are just joining us for the Summit piece. This is officially the biggest event that Global has done. And in our four years of running things, we have never seen this much interest in what's happening in web Three, especially from people who are uniquely leaving Web Two to join. The last two weeks, we got record number of applications to attend the hackathon and we had to sadly say no to a lot of people because we couldn't support them for judging. So that's already a great start to this day. And I'll let you kick off with what's happening with Polga.
00:01:09.110 - 00:01:09.618, Speaker B: Yes.
00:01:09.704 - 00:02:16.326, Speaker C: Awesome. So I will take the first part of the presentation and then from there, Mihailo can pick up. So let me quickly share my wait, just one know. Like I'll I'll start with a brief overview of Polygon. And first of all, I welcome everyone who has shown interest in this road to Web Three hackathon. And then I wish to all the people who are already in web Three and who are coming from web two to web Three fantastic experience with this hackathon and they get to at least a good mental framework of their journey into Web Three. To start with, Polygon's journey.
00:02:16.326 - 00:03:09.434, Speaker C: Polygon was founded in 2017. Then we did an IEO on finance. But in June 2020, we launched our main net with the proof of stake chain. And by end of 2020, Polygon was already showing signs of very high amount of adoption and we were previously called Matic Network. Many of you would have heard that before also, but we rebranded from Matic to Polygon and some of the things I'm going to talk in the next slides that Polygon now is. Previously, Matic Network was one kind of chain, like it was Plasma chains to be scaling Ethereum. But now Polygon as Polygon, we have a much larger vision of having this multi chain Internet of blockchains for Ethereum, where developers can choose from various different kind of solutions that we provide.
00:03:09.434 - 00:03:54.790, Speaker C: And I'm going to talk more about that going forward. Then in April 2021, a large amount of DFI started coming onto Polygon. And then this culminated with Uniswap, I think three, four weeks back. Uniswap also deploying, which completes the entire Ethereum DeFi community having a store on Polygon. So they continue to exist on Ethereum main chain, but they also have their, you can say stores on the Polygon chain also. And it has been absolutely fantastic journey from there. And many of these protocols have larger number of users on Polygon now than the main chain.
00:03:54.790 - 00:05:17.718, Speaker C: Of course the volume of the transactions is smaller, but the number of users they have there is. And that's why the DeFi initiative is called DeFi on Polygon because it basically allows retail community to participate in the DeFi because of the low gas fees and everything. And then from June to the end of last year, we have expanded Polygon and kind of made Polygon as one of the powerhouses of Zero Knowledge technology. Now, some of the most famous projects in the Zero knowledge space like Polygon Hermes Polygon Zero One protocol that we are doing with Ernst and Young Polygon Nightfall and Polygon Midnight Know constitute the zero knowledge suit of Polygon. And pound for pound, many people have said that probably Polygon has probably one of the best, if not the best like top two teams in the Ethereum scaling space. And then there have been multiple things with Polygon Zero. We announced Plonky Two which is like 100 x faster than any other zero knowledge recursive proof generator to kind of scale the zero knowledge technology.
00:05:17.718 - 00:06:08.690, Speaker C: So what exactly is polygon? So Polygon, as I said, that is a multi chain suit of these blockchains. So basically Polygon is not one chain, although many of you will interact with Polygon POS chain for now in this hackathon. But if you see and if you follow my cursor like Polygon has a much larger visibility or kind of the mindset for the ethereum scalability. We don't believe in one narrow definition of Ethereum scaling which primarily has been purely layer two. And layer two means like you have full security guarantee of Ethereum. That means both your data as well as your dispute resolution, which are the technical terms of layer two, are guarded by Ethereum. But for Easiness perspective, just think that full blown layer two means full security from Ethereum.
00:06:08.690 - 00:07:18.614, Speaker C: But then obviously when you are getting full security from Ethereum you have to pay for fee for that. Right? So we believe that each application has its own requirements and Polygon wants to be present across this spectrum where on the left extreme you see this low security, low security from Ethereum, or almost no security. You have sovereign chains and the security of the chain is fully guaranteed by the sovereign validators of that chain. And then if you come to the middle you will find a chain like Polygon POS which is built on top of Ethereum, does not derive full security from Ethereum, but the staking rewards everything happens on Ethereum. And then on the right extreme you can see the full blown roll ups where we have 40 knowledge roll up efforts going on. Each of them have their own benefits, own trade offs and right now they are all four different products. Maybe some of them will converge with each other and then in between that we also have a polygon avail which is the data availability solution from polygon which allows and the people who know zero knowledge scaling space which allows for validium where you can have the zero knowledge proofs back on Ethereum.
00:07:18.614 - 00:08:01.302, Speaker C: But the data availability can stay on an off chain layer. So that's basically again, the idea to take back home is that Polygon provides spectrum of these solutions across the board for Ethereum scaling. And you as a developer, you choose what is better for you. Are you a DeFi application who needs absolute security from Ethereum then choose zero knowledge roll ups. If you are building a very casual game where you need a bridge from Polygon or your own chain to ethereum, maybe use Polygon SDK. Or if you want, like somewhere in the middle, you want to interact with the larger DFI and NFT ecosystem. Maybe you want to remain on a shared chain.
00:08:01.302 - 00:09:08.640, Speaker C: Still low cost. You can be on polygon. POS. So giving the power back to and the power of choice back to the developer for this web3 compute, right? And Polygon actually if you see we want to kind of become the AWS of web3, where today if you are coming from web two you are building an application and you want to deploy it, you go to AWS, choose the server you want, choose the database you want and then you deploy your application, right? In web3 you are looking for decentralized compute. In web two you are looking for centralized compute, right? So in web3, when you will be building your application, you will probably come to Polygon and see okay, what is the requirement of my application? Whether it's a DeFi, it's NFT how much security I want and how much controls use, censorship, resistance I want and you will choose your solution according to that, but fully connected with Ethereum because that's where the large network effects lie. So I already mentioned about these around seven products that we have. Polygon POS polygon SDK, which is now called polygon edge polygon avail.
00:09:08.640 - 00:10:10.514, Speaker C: Hermes, nightfall, midn and zero are the zero knowledge projects. In terms of the investors in our Polygon ecosystem, like the largest of the largest names are there and then all these investors are investing very heavily in Polygon ecosystem. A lot of these investors have committed multiple hundred million dollars into the protocol. And if you are building into the, into the ecosystem, and if you are building something and it is great, we are more than happy to provide all these investor connections to the people who have strong product aspirations. Post the hackathon. In terms of the polygon project, these are like very, very small number know the projects like aave. Uniswap and and, you know, decentraland, like especially, let's say, meta versus you know, people talk about meta verses, but some of the largest meta verses, not some of the in fact, all the largest meta verses in the web.
00:10:10.514 - 00:10:34.970, Speaker C: Three space are all on polygon. Decentraland. Somnium, Space, Sandbox, Ave Gotchi, all of them are on polygon. Some of the top games, like Neon District, Zedrun, Mega, Crypto Policy. All of them are on polygon. And now big brands like Adidas and Prada, Dolce and Gabana are launching their NFTs and you have access to this large ecosystem. Now if you are building on Polygon.
00:10:34.970 - 00:11:56.066, Speaker C: I mean I already spoke about this metaverse and the brand related things know, Macy's Thanksgiving Parade had their NFTs launched on Polygon, NFL had their NFDS on Polygon. And on the Metaverse side, like all the blue chip metaverses are integrated with mean in terms of adoption. Polygon currently I think that by the daily average users and the number of developers building on Polygon, polygon has emerged as the most used polygon POS has emerged as the most used blockchain globally. It has surpassed even the mother chain Ethereum and then even like all of the other layer ones. If you take by the number of daily active users and the total number of unique users in the ecosystem, you would be probably five to ten x of any of the even the layer ones alternate layer ones which are trying to compete with Ethereum, right? So I mean it's an order of magnitude. It's not like Polygon has more than that, it's orders of magnitude higher of these matrices on Polygon and the benefits like as some of you would already understand that Polygon will provides full Ethereum compatibility scalability, that means low cost transactions, security and sovereignty. If you are looking for a polygon SDK related or polygon edge chain.
00:11:56.066 - 00:12:47.650, Speaker C: Interoperability bridges between these chains and user experience related things like meta transactions and all that developer experience like if you learned Solidity, which is predominantly the largest and the most used kind of blockchain programming language. You have access to all the tooling, including hard hat or tenderly or RPC providers like infura Alchemy. Everything. These are some of the benefits. But once you start building on it, I'm pretty sure you'll love the developer experience. Overall adoption I already spoke about. As I was saying that many of the other layer ones that even the layer ones if you see they would have like 100, 200, 300 application alchemy sometime back they posted that Polygon has 7000 plus applications.
00:12:47.650 - 00:13:46.962, Speaker C: We have generally three to 4 million average daily number of transactions. The TVL on the network is around $12 billion and overall market cap of the protocol has reached fluctuates between $16 to $20 billion. On Polygon postn you get two second block times, which makes it very fast EVM compatibility and a lot of other things, especially if you are building on NFT. All the biggest NFT enablers like OpenSea as a marketplace fractionalization protocol like uniquely and many other things like Showtime, they are all available on Polygon. And if you are building an Ft project, you get direct access to this entire NFT ecosystem. Community wise. Polygon is now one of the largest crypto communities and people and the projects which are building on Polygon, they get visibility directly to all these users.
00:13:46.962 - 00:14:45.660, Speaker C: Now, even if you are building a gaming platform like Indig, which is the India version of YGG, which is the play to one community, you have direct access to that also. And Indig is also very closely worked upon by then. You know, like we have mentioned some of the stats about know in terms of the NFT tech support, it has been a constant growth overall on Polygon. And here is a brief self explanatory comparison of some of these other layer ones which are trying to compete with Ethereum. But we believe that Polygon already provides all those advantages on the top of Ethereum. So generally negates the need for any other blockchain platform. And with the Ethereum's huge community, massive, massive community, it gives every reason to remain intact in this high network effect community.
00:14:45.660 - 00:15:25.906, Speaker C: In terms of the tooling, you see the wallets, almost every wallet available in the web3 space is integrated with Polygon. Oracles, almost every Oracle is integrated with Polygon. Exchanges integrations, every exchange is integrated dow devtooling. It is pretty extensive in that sense. Anything that you are used to using on Ethereum, most likely you will find them those same tools working on Polygon like a charm and NFT and gaming. These are some of the top games that we could mention here. OpenSea Super Farm Battle Racers.
00:15:25.906 - 00:15:58.994, Speaker C: I mean, many of these comet arzora and all that. These are big names in the NFT space, some more names on the NFT side of things. And this is like a very small list of this ones. Like I think gaming wise we'll have 500 to 1000 various level of games on Polygon. DFI, as I said that the entire DFI ecosystem is there on Polygon. Like whatever you have on Theorem main chain. If you want to experiment with DEXes, lending, borrowing protocols, everything is available on Polygon on the main net.
00:15:58.994 - 00:16:43.018, Speaker C: So you can have direct integrations and testings of your project that you are building. And this is DeFi two point second slide and then third slide. Like everything that you can imagine on DeFi is available on Polygon. So that's all from my side. And then that's the closure of the presentation. And then I would also request my co founder Mihilo, who has been pretty prolific in the Ethereum research community, to talk more about, let's say, what Polygon is doing on the zero knowledge side. To just give you a brief flavor of what all we are doing on the zero knowledge and why we believe that this is the future of blockchain scaling.
00:16:43.114 - 00:17:05.266, Speaker B: Yeah, of course. Hi everyone. First of all, thanks Karthik and the team for organizing this. This is really amazing. And of course we are super thrilled and humbled to see this level of interest. More than 1200 hackers already applied and that's really amazing to see. And that's basically why we started this whole thing called polygon.
00:17:05.266 - 00:18:09.430, Speaker B: And we're super happy to see all of this. I think Sandeep covered pretty much everything that is important. I don't know, for the hacker, for the builders community to know, maybe as Sandeep said, I can briefly cover our efforts on the ZK side and maybe I can take a step back maybe and cover actually more the vision itself of polygon, how it started and how do we see this web free. Because the title of the event, the name of the event is Road to Web Free. So I was thinking maybe I can just briefly share some of our thoughts basically and how do we see the whole web free ecosystem, what it means for us and what do we want to actually do for it. So for us, web free is one of the most potentially impactful technological movements in the world at this point in time. And we believe it can have significant and profound impact on the whole society, on the whole planet in general.
00:18:09.430 - 00:19:18.734, Speaker B: And to try to kind of this is too vague, of course, but to try to maybe articulate some points is that one of the things that we're trying to build with web free is this global network of value. So with internet we established this global internet of information, right? And we kind of democratized access to information. So prior to internet information, let's say education, obtaining certain knowledge or skills was not really widely or globally available. And maybe people who had better financial status or maybe living in certain geographies were able to acquire knowledge, go to universities, et cetera. And internet kind of democratized that. So anyone in any remote, I don't know, villager in Africa or in whatever, Philippines can now access this global pool of information and knowledge. And that's really transformative concept.
00:19:18.734 - 00:20:15.574, Speaker B: Of course, what was lacking there like one major thing that was lacking there is this global network of value. So okay, now we democratized knowledge, we democratized information. How do we now allow these people globally to monetize this knowledge, to actually benefit from the knowledge they acquired in a lot of parts of the world, many parts of the world? This is not really possible. I don't know. I lived in some time in Africa, in Tanzania, and for example, a huge part of population doesn't even have IDs, not to mention bank accounts. So they're kind of excluded from this current financial system and web free. And establishing this global network of value is really a transformative concept that can actually now also democratize access to this global economy and establish actually this.
00:20:15.574 - 00:21:03.794, Speaker B: Global borderless economy and allow everyone in the world literally to just simply spin up or install a wallet and actually become part of this global open borderless economy. And that's for us, hugely, hugely transformational concept. There are some other also important concepts I guess I can speak about polygon and web free for days. I'll just try to be mindful of time and yeah, concepts like ownership where people finally own their own assets, of course digital assets primarily. It's hugely transformational. Having no intermediaries, you're actually in charge and holding actually your assets. This is also something that we never had in modern history and several other ways.
00:21:03.794 - 00:22:07.710, Speaker B: The ways web Free and its concepts can affect the way we organize ourselves, the way companies work, all sorts of human organizations from companies to NGOs to governments even all of this can be disrupted and we believe taking everything into account, web Free is in my opinion the most transformative tech movement in the world now. And I'm personally very humbled and excited that I'm a small contributor in this movement. And yes, that is the primary and unlimited, I guess, source of inspiration for us at Polygon as the founders I guess and the team overall. So that being said, we believe Ethereum is our best shot by far to actually build this web free. And we are fully committed as a project to Ethereum. We are a part of the Ethereum community. We consider Polygon integral part of the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:22:07.710 - 00:23:35.858, Speaker B: That is how we position ourselves. Ethereum is again when it showed up with its energy, with technology, this programmable blockchain emerged as again our best shot to build this web Free. The thing that we just realized along the way is that Ethereum layer one that we originally all used for building applications and trying to realize this dream that we have is basically highly limited in terms of throughput. There's only a certain amount of activity that can happen on actually layer one. Soon enough we realized that in order to actually onboard the masses we of course want to onboard 1 billion plus people to this new global network that we call web Free. In order to do that, Ethereum layer One is eventually going to become some sort of higher court, some sort of settlement chain, central component of this wider ecosystem that is actually Ethereum multi chain that we believe Polygon represents. So that being said, I can now position to say what is Polygon? We understood that first thing that Ethereum layer one cannot support this level of activity that we need for web3.
00:23:35.858 - 00:24:09.114, Speaker B: We understood that we have to have these scaling solutions to scale it. And we understood also that we are basically in an early phase of building this infrastructure. Okay? So we want to build robust, decentralized, secure, eventually probably even private infrastructure that can support 1 billion plus people. That is our goal here. If you want to have really a global network, building such infrastructure takes time. It cannot be built overnight. This is basically a marathon.
00:24:09.114 - 00:25:28.758, Speaker B: That is what we understood and we will probably get there, I don't know, I hope in five years, maybe in ten, but definitely it's not going to happen this or next year. We understood that this is basically right now, an early phase of innovation in web free. And having understood that, we decided that the community needs a project like Polygon that is supporting all meaningful scaling solutions, that is basically a hub of innovation and R and D and development in general in this field of scaling and infrastructure development. Ethereum didn't have such a project before, and we are happy that we managed to start it. Polygon is an unoppinionated platform that supports all major scaling solutions from as Sandeep covered for us, scaling Ethereum is basically scaling Ethereum stack. So anything from fully standalone Ethereum chains up to fully secured layer twos and hold that spectrum in between is something that we are interested in and we are working hard on providing. That being said, we are definitely a little bit biased in the long term towards ZK based solutions.
00:25:28.758 - 00:26:47.758, Speaker B: Having being involved with ethereum scaling since ever since 2017, I guess. When plasma was originally introduced as the first formalized scaling I guess approach for ethereum. We analyzed all these major approaches to scaling, analyzed the trade offs. And we believe, basically, that ZK based solutions are solutions that offer the best set of trade offs that actually can allow us to offer or to satisfy these strict design criteria that Ethereum ecosystem has. So, Ethereum is ethereum as an ecosystem is really making no compromises when it comes to these major design principles like decentralization security, scalability and other important design criteria. And with ZK Tech and privacy, of course, ultimately with ZK Tech, I believe we have a good chance to kind of deliver on all these requirements. So, several months ago, we basically announced or formalized that bias, I guess, by announcing our ZK thesis, which is a short, basically post that speaks generally what I just talks about, what I said in general now, and our commitment to support these ZK based solutions.
00:26:47.758 - 00:27:40.898, Speaker B: And we also committed $1 billion from our treasury to support all the relevant efforts in that field. Since then, we introduced as sandeep covered several major interesting ZK projects. Polygon Hermes, polygon midn, polygon zero and polygon Nightfall. For now, we have a lot of meaningful efforts happening in the background, everything from carder acceleration to tooling in ZK ecosystem, et cetera. I don't think we have the time to cover that now. But what I would like to say is that specifically with one of the projects, Polygon Hermes, basically Polygon Hermes is ZK rollup that is currently live on Ethereum, Mainet. But it supports, like all other ZK rollups, it supports payments basically like simple transaction logic only.
00:27:40.898 - 00:28:45.682, Speaker B: Until, I guess, six months ago, it was uncertain whether it's even possible, practically possible, to build ZK based EVM compatible solution. And I think with Hermes now and several other projects, this is becoming the reality. And we are very optimistic now when it comes to results that we have with Polygon Hermes, we basically have the proverb already in place. We don't see any major obstacles on the research and design side. We are very confident now that I can confidently say within three months from now, we will have a testnet for full blown Zkevm, which is going to be the world's first, basically ZK EVM roll up. We are super excited about that and we're preparing a lot of auxiliary activities to support that announcement and hopefully the testnet, that should happen three months after that, roughly again. So, yes, this is something that we are very excited about and we're working around the clock to build and to deliver.
00:28:45.682 - 00:29:32.118, Speaker B: And for us also, one thing that I forgot to mention, ethereum compatibility being of course, integral part of Ethereum, ethereum compatibility is very important for us. We kind of learned that as a project the hard way, I guess. We started originally with this POS chain that most of the people are using now, which is fully EVM compatible. And plasma implementation that we have that never really took off. And the reason it didn't take off, it was because it wasn't EVM compatible. To use it, you actually had to learn how these plasma predicates work, express your application logic using those predicates, et cetera. So it was kind of a new paradigm and we understood that there's so much hunger on the developer side.
00:29:32.118 - 00:29:57.530, Speaker B: And as we can see, there's 1200 people here now that want to build their applications. They want to use solidity is mainstream already. EVM is mainstream. People want to build their dreams, basically. They don't want to learn new paradigms like these predicates and whatnot. So we learned that kind of lesson, I guess. And all the solutions, at least for now, that we're working on, are fully EVM compatible, including this Polygon Hermes that I'm mentioning.
00:29:57.530 - 00:30:29.582, Speaker B: So everything you basically learn developing on Ethereum and then developing on Polygon. Now polygon POS chain is fully applicable for also upcoming polygon Hermes. And that's something we're also very excited about. So you will basically have the same Ethereum developer experience like you have on Ethereum. On Polygon POS, you will have this highly secure, robust solution that is Polygon Hermes. And yeah, I think I can wrap it up here. I mean, I could talk, I guess more, but I hope this was helpful.
00:30:29.582 - 00:30:48.220, Speaker B: Just to put things into perspective and to say it from Polygon side, we are heads down, really working on more exciting and advanced solutions from our side. Until then, enjoy using Polygon PS as a super cheap alternative to Ethereum. And yeah, enjoy hacking. Thank you so much.
00:30:48.830 - 00:31:07.140, Speaker A: Thank you so much for that amazing overview. And of course, lots more to come in terms of brand new primitives and ease of use for hazard knowledge. Proofs will just make all this easier. So thanks again for that. And so I don't have enough time for Q A, but I'll relay them to you directly and we can relay those answers to our audience later.
00:31:07.590 - 00:31:09.220, Speaker B: Sure we can answer them.
00:31:09.990 - 00:31:11.390, Speaker A: So, without further ado.
