00:00:00.200 - 00:00:41.740, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deadly Way Repeal, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asana. And as the 22 September 2022 alright everyone, let's get into it. So I do need to correct something from yesterday that I accidentally, or I guess like didn't explain correctly and multiple people have, have corrected me on this. So it was about that, I guess, like Lucky staker website I talked about where I was talking about the chances that you have per validator to propose a block via different time intervals. Now I'm pretty sure listening back on it, like, I butchered the explanation of how kind of statistics works, and I was never very good at math, so you'll forgive me for that. But there was an explanation here from a slaughtered pig on Twitter saying, you know, that's not how statistics work.
00:00:41.740 - 00:01:00.852, Speaker A: If your chance of opposing a block within one day is 1.6%, the chance of proposing a block within a year is 99.7%, not over 100%. You're falling for the gamblers fallacy. And you know, they're totally correct here. I definitely screwed up by saying over 100% doesn't even make sense now that I hear myself saying it. But you guys know, I do these things unedited and I just kind of like said it.
00:01:00.852 - 00:01:28.420, Speaker A: I must have not realized. And then he, you know, they go on to say the math is one minus and in brackets one minus the chance of proposal by day to the power of number of days. Think of it this way, the chance of rolling a six on a die is one in six. But even if you roll it six times, you are not guaranteed to have a six. So proposing a block is basically rolling a die with 430,000 number of validator sides. So that I think that's a great explanation. And also, I didn't point out that on the website luckystaker.com,
00:01:28.420 - 00:02:17.844, Speaker A: there's actually an average number of days to get proposals section. So it says here, you know, the average number of days to get one proposal is 60 days, two proposals is 125 proposals is 301 days and 25 proposals is 15, three days. Now when it comes to statistics and probabilities, obviously you can't have over 100% chance and you can't ever have from minus ten get exactly to 100%. You can approach 100% and get really close, but it's never actually going to be 100%. And it's always kind of been fascinating to me when looking at probabilities of things. And I guess how, especially when looking at probabilities of outcomes within markets and obviously gambling and things like that. People do fall for that fallacy, right, where they think that they're just because they've played so long, they have a greater chance of winning, when in reality, your chance is the same each time.
00:02:17.844 - 00:02:29.032, Speaker A: Right. But it just, on average, you take the average of it, the chance goes up, so to speak. Hopefully I explained that. Right. That, that time correctly there. But thanks to the people for correcting me on that. Don't just let me get away with these things, guys.
00:02:29.032 - 00:03:06.424, Speaker A: Like I should. I feel bad whenever I say something that's not accurate. But I still think, you know, if you, if you kind of like, look at this and you do the naive math behind it, as I mentioned yesterday, you can get rough numbers of how long, how many validators you would have to have to get a proposal each day, right. To get a proposal of a block each day on one of those validators. And I still believe it's the same the number that I suggested, which is 60. But do correct me on that if I'm getting that wrong there, but just wanted to point that out and correct myself before moving on to the rest of the stuff from today, which I'll do now. So the ultrasound money account put out a little summary tweet of one week since the merge.
00:03:06.424 - 00:03:31.234, Speaker A: Wow. It's already been a week. I know the price right now is not great, right? To put it mildly. But I have been looking at it and being like, whatever more opportunity to buy ETH. I don't really care what that, what the price is doing, obviously, over the short term, but it has been a week since the merge, and this is the summary that ultrasound money put out. There's been zero incidents. There's been, I mean, depends how you define incident, right.
00:03:31.234 - 00:03:48.834, Speaker A: Because, like, there have been missed blocks due to mev boost related bugs. There have been obviously some participation rate fall off of like that two to 3%. But we're back to normal now. But there's been no critical incidents. There's been no critical bugs. Everything has run smoothly. We're finalizing.
00:03:48.834 - 00:04:08.738, Speaker A: It's all well and good. So that's obviously a very positive sign. There's currently 99.4% participation, which is pretty much what we had pre merge. So, you know, we're basically back to normal. Obviously that 99.9% less electricity burn or less electricity usage that's been talked about to death, eight times less issuance, which I'm going to talk to in a sec.
00:04:08.738 - 00:04:53.906, Speaker A: 19 times less supply growth and five consensus clients, four execution clients with 8000 execution nodes and $18 billion of economic security. And that's the amount of ETH staked securing the beacon chain. So, all in all, what makes since the merge a lot of great stats to look at there, but dive into, because I know a lot of people have been talking about this recently, especially with the price not going up post merge, even though I think people got the wrong idea about that. There's a tweet from antiprosynthesis that shows this screenshot from the ultrasound money website. And he captioned it by saying, remember when we told you that ETH would have a triple harvesting, triple halving on the merge? Well, it turns out it's only a triple harvesting where compared to BTC, it's more than a quadruple halvening where compared to ETH before the merge. And that's with the lowest fee burn in years. So this is including the fee burn, this little chart here.
00:04:53.906 - 00:05:20.884, Speaker A: But you can see that before the merge, it was 3.8% per year, including the fee burn on bitcoin, it's 1.72% for the kind of like, annual issuance there. And currently on ETH, even with the lowest fee burn in years, as anti says here, it's 0.21%. And as I've mentioned before, just because the fee burns low now, you have to take the average out. You can't just take the average from like the, you know, a week. Right.
00:05:20.884 - 00:05:44.276, Speaker A: You have to take the average from a longer period of time. And over the longest period of time, which is since 1559. Inception. Inception. We've been deflationary, we have burned more, Ethan. We have issued under a proof of work regime as, as well on some of those, some of those kind of like, days. So you can kind of look at all of that and look at this chart and see, like, wow, okay, well, I mean, there's hardly any ETH circulating.
00:05:44.276 - 00:06:07.956, Speaker A: The ETH issuance has dropped dramatically. I mean, obviously, until withdrawals are enabled, there's no new ETH entering circulation. And then people will look at the price and be like, why isn't that playing out in the price? Well, there's two big reasons of this. One is the fact of the matter that it's not just going to happen overnight, guys. Like, it was never going to happen overnight. There was always going to be volatility, as I mentioned. And there was a lot of people betting on this kind of, like, sell the news event, which seems to have played out.
00:06:07.956 - 00:06:43.024, Speaker A: And there's obviously all the macro stuff going on. So right now, the just general market is weak, but just generally, we haven't had that effect trickle down to the markets yet. Or maybe we have and we're not seeing yet because of point number two, which is that demand is basically non existent right now. We're at near zero demand. And I've mentioned plenty of times how I think we're in the 2019 kind of period right now. But what do you think is going to happen when demand comes back? Like, as I've mentioned before, ETH is going to trade lighter. We're not going to have that demand eating through minor sell pressure, for example, there's not going to be any issuance sell pressure to eat through.
00:06:43.024 - 00:07:20.920, Speaker A: If that demand comes back within the next six to twelve months, it's literally just going to be the natural sellers, which are people taking profits and traders. There's not going to be all that extra sell pressure that we had pre merge. So that will, I mean, it will, like, by fact, it's not even an opinion it will make ETH trade lighter because like, we can directly map the fact that there isn't going to be that extra ETH hitting the market. Right? So how much demand will there be when the demand comes back? I mean, that obviously we don't know. We have to wait and see. And there'll be different periods of different demand levels. But I think based on the last bull market, we can get a pretty good idea that if the market heats up again, you know, defy is going to heat up again.
00:07:20.920 - 00:07:42.122, Speaker A: That'll bring more money in and then nfts will probably heat up again because of that. It's kind of like this wealth effect from people who have ETH and have other crypto and they make money from that. And then it trickles down to other things. And then people make money from that and it becomes a circular thing and it can go on for quite a while. And then you can bring in even more new money. And that's how kind of like a lot of the bull markets in the past have gone. So that can happen now.
00:07:42.122 - 00:08:20.964, Speaker A: Also, we have staking, right? People will have, there'll be demand for staking. So if the demand is even like, I mean, if you, if you consider the fact that we've dropped issuance by like by over 90%, if the demand is even 10% or 15% or 20% of what it was last bull market, then ETH will trade lot lighter just because of the fact. The matter is that we have way less, I guess, sell pressure for buyers to eat through, just like on the way down, you have buy pressure for sellers to eat through. So you have to have more sellers than buyers for the price to go down. It's the same on the way up. Like, no one ever really talks about it on the way up for some reason. But it's the same thing when you're going up.
00:08:20.964 - 00:09:01.728, Speaker A: You have to have more sellers than buyers to keep the price down. And obviously, Hal price has talked about this, this kind of like structural flows thing, which is still very relevant. I know Hal on Twitter recently said that it's kind of out of ETH right now for whatever reason. But I don't think that invalidates his thesis, which is that, uh, that those kind of figures he put to it where it's like you have to find that extra sell pressure to eat through, the buy pressure to keep the price from, from going up. And that wasn't a short term thing, that's a medium to long term thing. And I think that it's still going to play out, but we just have to wait until demand comes back, which traditionally it's always come back. But again, I know we've, we've, we're in a kind of like macro bear market right now.
00:09:01.728 - 00:09:37.820, Speaker A: There are opinions everywhere. We don't know how long this is going to last. I don't know how long it's going to last. But I think if you believe that the technology, just Ethereum, but wider crypto has a use and has use cases and, and will attract people over time, and, you know, you believe that we'll deliver all the scaling things that are coming, we'll deliver on the ethereum roadmap, then it's really, really hard to not imagine a world where that demand comes back and then not just comes back, but actually beats the previous demand that we've had. And I obviously imagine that world, I envision that world coming, but it could take a while. Like just, it depends on how the world goes from here. Like just generally, I've explained this before.
00:09:37.820 - 00:10:15.016, Speaker A: I mean, I remember explaining this a long time ago when inflation started ticking up on the refuel. I said, if inflation stays high, no one's going to be buying assets like ETH and BTC and any other crypto because they're just not going to be able to afford to do that. They're going to have higher bills. They're going to have to take whatever spare money they have and put it towards paying those bills. And that money that would have gone into ETH or other crypto just isn't there anymore. So when you have like this tightening of monetary policy, as you've seen with the Fed to kind of raising rates and banks around the world raising rates and inflation being high, it's very hard for risk assets to actually go up. Will that reverse eventually? Sure it will.
00:10:15.016 - 00:10:53.056, Speaker A: I mean, based on the past hundred years of data that we have, or how many years of data we have there, it does reverse, but no one knows where that reversal point is. It's a lagging thing as well. The markets can actually start going up way before the numbers reverse, because as you guys know, so the inflation numbers only come out once a month, and it's a lagging thing. And the fed seems to lag the inflation numbers by quite a while, quite a bit as well. So we could literally see the markets price in a kind of like return to risk on six months in advance, but you wouldn't know until down the line. So that's why I guess, like, trading can be so difficult in times like this as well. And obviously why I'm not a trader.
00:10:53.056 - 00:11:45.560, Speaker A: But obviously, as I said, if you believe in the long term of Ethereum, of crypto, to capture value, to bring demand back, to build applications that people actually want to use, then you believe that once that demand comes back, it's going to be affected by their structural flow changes, and that should lead to a greatly increasing ETH price. At least that's my thesis on it. But nice little chart that's on ultrasound money that you can go check out on their website as well. It's a live chart, and you can kind of do the comparisons and see the percentages for yourself. Alright, so it looks like Vitalik has been playing with one of these AI, I guess, art tools called stable diffusion, which has been getting a lot of attention lately, and he's drawn one for Casper. So Casper is the name given to the consensus algorithm that powers proof of stake, Ethereum. And it doesn't really look like Casper right now, but again, this was done by an AI based on a prompt.
00:11:45.560 - 00:12:10.546, Speaker A: This was not done by a human. I just wanted to highlight this because it's funny. I think, I can't remember exactly when Vitalik called it Casper, but it's been a long time now, and it doesn't really get referred to as Casper anymore. It's just proof of stake. But as I mentioned before, Ethereum's proof of stake mechanism is actually made up of two mechanisms. It's made up of the consensus and the kind of finality gadget. Right? So you have like it's called Gaspar.
00:12:10.546 - 00:12:42.134, Speaker A: You have the Casper the friendly finality gadget and Casper the consensus mechanism. So those kind of parts make up the beacon chain and make up the proof of stake Ethereum that we all know and love. So I just figured it was worth highlighting that it is called Casper and it is named after Casper the friendly ghost, obviously, which this definitely does not look like, but maybe we'll get closer to that. Maybe Vitalik will keep trying. All right, so Danny Ryan put out a tweet today. Mark your calendars to tune into a Twitter space about the merge data challenge this Thursday at 04:00 p.m.. UTC.
00:12:42.134 - 00:13:21.146, Speaker A: That might be happening right now actually, or it's Thursday for me, and I don't know what time it's in UTC right now, but this may have already happened by the time you watch this, but you can definitely watch the recording for this and get all the details from from this tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you. And just another shout out here, there was a live stream on bankless with Tim Baiko and Denny Ryan all about the merge. So this was obviously done a week after the merge, just to get a recap. I haven't watched it yet, but I'm sure it's amazing. So I just wanted to highlight it for you guys in case you missed it. That'll be linked in the YouTube description as well. So a big announcement out of Coinbase cloud today.
00:13:21.146 - 00:13:55.794, Speaker A: So they have launched something called node and node gives developers free and instant blockchain read write access, starting with Ethereum, powerful data indexes, advanced and NFT APIs, and soon much more. So this is a competitor to Infuria and Alchemy. It's obviously centralized, right? But it is. It is a competitor to Infuria and alchemy, and maybe even the graph with that indexing tooling that they, that they are having, that they have here. This is great. Even though it's centralized, like it's another centralized RPC, it doesn't matter. I think the more centralized RPC is the better, because then we obviously don't have to rely on just one.
00:13:55.794 - 00:14:38.086, Speaker A: But as I've mentioned previously, Infuria wants to decentralize and I'm sure alchemy is probably going to follow suit there. I don't know if Coinbase would do that, but I think as long as we have lots of these rpcs out there, if one starts kind of censoring or one starts falling over, you can just switch to another one. So there is redundancy there as well. Obviously, long term, we want to see decentralized rpcs and we obviously want to see lite clients, as I discussed yesterday, to make it a lot easier for people to basically be able to relay their own transactions without having to run their own full node, which you can still do, by the way, and do it relatively easily. Just run it locally on your computer, connect your metamask to your own RPC and your own full node as an RPC, and away you go. But still, most people aren't going to do that. I'm not naive to that.
00:14:38.086 - 00:15:05.146, Speaker A: I'm not someone with his head in the clouds thinking that every single person that ever uses Ethereum is going to be spinning up their own RPC or anything like that. Right? So the fact that Coinbase has just entered this game as another player is really, really awesome. So yeah, kudos to them for spinning this up. They've been killing it lately. Coinbase, honestly, they've been doing a lot of great stuff for the ecosystem. I'm really loving their approach right now. I know they've copped a lot of flack in the past for various different things, but I have to give credit where it's due.
00:15:05.146 - 00:15:31.292, Speaker A: And they've done, you know, obviously Coinbase cloud, they were instrumental in the, in the, what's it called, the, the beacon chain client diversity. They really stepped up there and made sure they weren't using the super majority client anymore for most of their infrastructure. They're prioritizing L2s. They're just doing a lot of great work, I think. And the Coinbase wallet, the mobile wallet that I've talked about as well, they're doing a lot of great work there too. So just wanted to give a kudos there. But you can go check out node, the signup is now live.
00:15:31.292 - 00:16:14.344, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so the privacy and scaling explorations team is sponsoring a dedicated round for grants for applications that integrate the semaphore anonymous signaling protocol. So you can go give, get the details of this in this, in this blog post here. But it seems like with this grant round, they are encouraging builders who try out the tools, such as some semaphores, zero knowledge primitives, and in real world applications that matter to your communities. So this is obviously one for the developers out there. There is a reason why they're doing this. You know, privacy matters, semaphore as a privacy layer, how it's working in action right now with a bunch of different I guess proof of concepts and a wish list of things that they want built.
00:16:14.344 - 00:16:50.050, Speaker A: So there's a how to apply section as well down the bottom for you to check out. If you're a dev, it's definitely relevant to you and an faq as well. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below. As I said, this is most relevant to devs, but you can check this out as a non dev as well. So an announcement from the Mainnet conference, and this comes from Microsoft research actually. So they've published some scaling research that has a net net six times speed increase of EVM execution. Now as you guys know, the Ethereum EVM is extremely prevalent across the entire ecosystem, not just within Ethereum, but within L2s, layer one sidechains.
00:16:50.050 - 00:17:31.390, Speaker A: And they've actually tested this with live Ethereum mainnet transactions. So it's based on real data, not synthetic data, and they've achieved a six times improvement in execution time. Now there is a paper here that you can read if you want to get into the nitty gritty details. It is about 18 pages. There's also this thread from your K. Rhodes, who works in the mic, I believe works in the Microsoft research team and kind of explaining it as well here, which is very, very cool. So what are the practical applications of this? Well, I'm not sure what changes would be required under the hood to achieve this on the core protocol side of things, but this, even if there were changes that were required, this doesn't have to just happen on the core protocol.
00:17:31.390 - 00:18:05.024, Speaker A: It can also happen on optimism and arbitrary, because they use the EVM basically, or use a derivative of the EVM that this could potentially apply to, and they could potentially integrate this. Same with the polygon Pos chain, same with the other EVM chains out there. So it's very, very cool to see that they've achieved a net. Net six times speed increase. That's huge, I think. And if you want the details of how they do that, you can read the blog post, of course. But basically I'm wondering if there's a summary here, because it kind of does get difficult to summarize these things.
00:18:05.024 - 00:19:06.702, Speaker A: Apparently, according to your k, it doesn't, doesn't require any changes to ethereum consensus. And he's got a little paragraph here that explains it. Maybe I'll just read out the paragraph. It says transaction execution is on the critical path of creating the next block because it does the real work in the state machine to compute the resulting state of the current block, which is needed for verifying the current block and for constructing the next block. If this bottleneck can be alleviated, the system can be configured to process more transactions within the same time window for each execution phase, ie, the pack more transact to pack more transactions into each block without increasing the block interval, resulting in throughput increase. Note that this approach does not require any change to the consensus phase algorithm, or require any require increasing the latency or block interval. So basically, it seems the HDR is that they've been able to pack more transactions into into a block here using something called forerunner, which is an which I've kind of specified here as well, which yeah, that said, we have fully implemented forerunner for a theorem and developed speculative program specialization on Ethereum EVM bytecode.
00:19:06.702 - 00:19:55.510, Speaker A: We evaluated forerunner as a node connected to the worldwide theory network, processing real life time live traffic. And this is a breakdown of how forerunner works here, so you can go give this a read for more details. I would be lying if I say I'm totally across this right now. I have to read more myself to understand how they achieve this, but it's coming from a legit place. Obviously. Microsoft research is one of the most legit places you can get this kind of research from, and I haven't, I don't know if I've seen anyone comment on this from the course dev side of things, but yeah, I'll keep an eye on this and I'll let you guys know if there's any other updates to this. All right, so speaking of MEV, before, there was a report that the blocks route MeV relay is failing to return signed blinded block, which is causing main net validators to miss proposing blocks.
00:19:55.510 - 00:20:39.234, Speaker A: If you're using the blocks route relay, please be extra cautious. Discussions are happening in the blocks route discord. The issue got resolved shortly after, and you can see the blocks route tweet here. But what I think this speaks to, and this is something that I've been talking about on the refill as well, the MeV boost relays, they're still early stage software, and if you're running one that has bugs in it, you're going to miss proposing a block if it has a kind of a bug due to that. And that means that you're going to miss out on potentially a lot of rewards. Personally, as I've said, I don't plan to run any of these. Me to run MeV Boost and talk to any of these relayers, one because of these possible bugs, but also two, just, I don't feel comfortable doing it because, I mean, I'm a very big believer in eliminating as much MEV as possible.
00:20:39.234 - 00:21:18.714, Speaker A: So I don't really want to be an active participant in extracting MEV from the ecosystem as well. But that's, that's more of a moral grounds as more of an altruist grounds, which doesn't obviously lend itself to good economic security for a blockchain. So I don't expect most people to do that. But that's just my kind of personal view on it. But definitely the bugs thing is something that a rational economic actor doesn't. That's not just doing things for altruistic reasons would care about, especially if you're running a lot of validators. Could you imagine if you're running like 100 validators and you're running MeV Boost, you would miss, if I'm doing my probabilities right, again, you would miss, on average one to two blocks a day if there was a bug there, and that could be a big payout for you.
00:21:18.714 - 00:21:59.736, Speaker A: So obviously be cautious when running these different relays and running MeV Boost. But also speaking of Mev, there was something posted here by the founder of zeromev.org, and they've released something called Zeromev Geth, which is a fork of geth that helps avoid toxic MeV builder centralization and censorship under MeV Boost, and the moral and legal jeopardy of being bribed to frontrun users. And it still allows for non toxic Mev, such as backrunning. Now, the way they've achieved this is a simple thing. They're basically just ordering transactions by time and not gas. So normally transactions ordered by the, obviously gas by the highest bidder, but now they're just doing it by time.
00:21:59.736 - 00:22:51.826, Speaker A: I'm not convinced this actually helps, and I'm actually more convinced this makes it worse, because if you're ordering it by time, you're basically rewarding the participants with the least amount of latency in the system. And this is basically how high frequency trading works in the traditional system, where people literally move their entire operations to as close as possible to the exchange in order to shave like milliseconds off off the time that they have to execute trades and things like that, just so that they're able to do, I guess, Mev within the traditional space. So I thought, really convinced that ordering by time instead of gas actually fixes anything. So I don't know. I mean, it's up to you guys if you want to run this or not. I wouldn't be running it anyway just because it's new software and very definitely experimental. But these claims here that they're making that just kind of wishy washy to me doesn't really convince me too much.
00:22:51.826 - 00:23:41.830, Speaker A: And one thing I forgot to mention before about the mev boost relays as well, is that some of them are censoring certain transactions and there's no guarantee that the other ones won't censor either. So you're literally giving up your own ability not to participate in censorship and handing that ability over to the relay, who can or cannot participate in censorship, just depending how the relay is set up. So that's another risk that of running mev boost on your validators, is that if you don't want to participate in censorship at all, well, you don't have a choice unless you stop running the mev boost software. Because even if you pick a relay that's not censoring right now, there's no guarantee that they won't censor in the future. So yeah, okay, you miss out on rewards and things like that, but it's just up to you how you want to play it. Personally, I care more about censorship resistance and making sure the Ethereum network is as, is as censorship resistant as possible than I do about making a few extra bucks. Right.
00:23:41.830 - 00:24:24.984, Speaker A: And I'm happy missing out on the rewards. And I'm also, I also understand that we're trying to eliminate as much mev as possible in the longer term. So this is just like a temporary thing, hopefully, that we have these things like, like Mev Boost and stuff like that. Obviously it's, it's mev boost is good for the ecosystem in terms of making me be less toxic, but I don't think it's actually the solution. I think the solution is eliminating as much mev as we can as possible and making it so that we don't have to run these kind of sidecar software in our network that could potentially lead to things like censorship and other sorts of very toxic things generally. So. Yeah, but anyway, you can check this out, we'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:24.984 - 00:24:51.554, Speaker A: Alright, so Uniswap, the Uniswap foundation has announced their first wave of grants here, which I think is $1.8 million. Yep. Of grants was given out to a total of 14 grants, which you can view below. There's a bunch across our protocol, growth across community growth and governance. Stewardship, stewardship, stewardship there. And you can check out all the projects in this blog post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:24:51.554 - 00:25:19.326, Speaker A: But it's great to see that Uniswap is reinvesting that treasury that they have in projects within the ecosystem. Obviously some of these, I guess, Defi protocols have rather large treasuries because their native token is in there, and the native token is worth quite a bunch, especially uni. So it's good to see them reinvent reinvest that now. This is only the first wave. There'll be more waves as as time goes on. I think $1.8 million is pretty healthy, especially considering a lot of these projects I believe are early stage.
00:25:19.326 - 00:25:57.270, Speaker A: So they're definitely not anything. I mean, some of them might be, but like I think a lot of them are still very early stage, haven't proven product market fit or proven their value add just yet, but with this money, hopefully they'll be able to do that. So you can go check out the blog post, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so match our Dy dy DX Zero X's little decentralized exchange aggregator here is now live on Arbitrum. So if you're a matcher user on Mainnet, and I believe Matcha is also on a few other a few other chains, l two s like optimism and other layer ones. But if you're a matcher user, you can now use it on Arbitrum. I personally am a matcher user.
00:25:57.270 - 00:26:57.310, Speaker A: I love the interface that they have. It feels very, very sleek and very web two like, which I really like about it because it's got a because I think traditionally defi apps within Ethereum have suffered from bad UI and UX issues, whereas matcha doesn't suffer from that at all, in my opinion, and does a really great job of being a decentralized exchange aggregator, having everything there for you and offering you some of the best prices when trading. So definitely go check it, check match out if you haven't yet. But the fact that they're live on arbitrary makes me excited because I've been using arbitra more and more lately, actually, along with optimism, not on my public address, but on my other addresses. I've been doing a lot of things around participating in arbitrary odyssey when it was live, and participating in optimism quests and stuff like that, because I definitely just want to be part of that whole, that whole thing that's going on. And speaking of arbitrary odyssey, I wonder when they're going to re enable that. I I don't believe it's been re enabled unless I've been living under a rock and I missed that because I remember nitro went live.
00:26:57.310 - 00:27:22.124, Speaker A: I think three weeks ago now. So I'm wondering when they're going to re enable that. Maybe, maybe they'll wait till the new month or whatever. But anyway, when they do, you'll be able to trade on matcha since it's now live on arbitrary, or you can trade on matcha right now if you're still using arbitrary, regardless of odyssey. So definitely go check that out. All right, last up here, just wanted to give a quick shout out to cryptocurrency jobs. They've got newsletter here at cryptocurrency Jobs Co.
00:27:22.124 - 00:28:02.748, Speaker A: I have shouted them out before, but if you are looking for a job in crypto, this is probably one of the best places to go to, to find a job and the person who runs it. And you can follow them here on Twitter. Daniel, he definitely is very, very helpful. I've heard multiple stories from multiple people that he's been very, very helpful in helping them find the job as well if they've, and helping them narrow down their search. So you can definitely go check it out and also subscribe to the newsletter so you can stay up to date with everything cryptocurrency jobs here. So that link will be in the YouTube description below for you to check out there, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:28:02.748 - 00:28:09.124, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
