00:00:00.440 - 00:00:25.134, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 18 June 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I listened to this podcast today from Hazu and Suzu, and they basically spoke about the state of the market. Now, I recommend going and giving this podcast a listen. I think it was just over an hour long or something like that. It was a really great listen.
00:00:25.134 - 00:01:11.226, Speaker A: But the reason why I wanted to talk about kind of like this and kind of like the markets in general is because it's, I think, one month to this day that ETH was at 4.4k. So about the one month anniversary of the start of our kind of like, I mean, I wouldn't call it a bear market, but down market slash sideways slash crab season, whatever you want to call it. Right. And it's, it's been, you know, it feels like it's been an eternity. It's only been a month, but it feels like it's been a much longer time. So I just, I just didn't want, I did want to discuss kind of, I guess, what I'm thinking about, where my, you know, how I'm, how I'm viewing the kind of market going forward, how I'm viewing things, you know, from here. I wrote about something in the Daily Way newsletter today that Suzu said on the podcast where he said that he thinks a lot of people are suffering from recency bias right now.
00:01:11.226 - 00:01:59.418, Speaker A: And I actually agree with him. So recency bias is essentially a bias that is innate to all humans, of course, where we tend to put more emphasis on, I guess, the things that happen in the short term and we forget about the things that happened, you know, in, back in history and, you know, that are going to happen in the future. So, for example, you know, a lot of people are putting a lot of emphasis on the fact that the market has been bearish over the last month, but not, you know, remembering the fact that ETH is up from its low of like $100 in March of $2020 to $2300 today. So ETH is still up 23 x from the low. And, you know, even if you don't look at the low and you just look at as early as kind of like late last year, ETH was like four to $500. So it's still up, you know, five, four to five x more than that, like almost six x from those kind of price points there. So when you kind of like, zoom out.
00:01:59.418 - 00:02:23.186, Speaker A: You. You contextualize it. You see that, um, you know, you shouldn't be feeling, like, ultra bearish for any reason, just because the last month has had some pretty negative price, price action. So that, that's, that's kind of like the perfect example of recency bias. But I also think that it affects, um, fundamental investors, too, who may stare at the charts all the time. You know, I definitely look at the charts way too much. Even though I don't actively trade or anything like that, I still just look at them.
00:02:23.186 - 00:03:11.058, Speaker A: And then on crypto Twitter, you have everyone making memes about it, right? And it's very hard to escape the day to day price movements. But if you actually kind of get out of that mindset and just stop staring at the, at the charts and kind of, like, just sit down and think about what's happened in the past, like, what's the really bullish stuff that has happened in the past, the foundations being laid and what's going to come in the future, you have a totally different view of the, I guess, market and of this industry. And I gave a few examples in the newsletter today where I said, like, let's look back at what happened, you know, maybe over the last year or so. Well, the two major things that happened, I guess. Sorry. The one major thing that happened over the last year was that DeFi exploded in usage and gain legitimacy. And we had the narrative shift from DeFi just being viewed as a toy to it being viewed as something that's going to disrupt and pretty much replace traditional finance.
00:03:11.058 - 00:03:52.800, Speaker A: And then on top of that, we also had the ETH two beacon chain go live on December 1, which was a massive milestone for ethereum, because that represented about six years worth of work to get Ethereum to proof of stake. And then we've had, you know, during early 2021, we had nfts go through their boom, like, boom and bust cycle in a really big way. Um, and nfts, you know, just because they're kind of, like, in their own little bear market, doesn't mean that they're going away or they've lost the legitimacy or anything like that. The industry is still very strong there. There's still a lot of projects working on things there, and there's still a lot of value being created there. Uh, and then, of course, we had, uh, L2s, you know, and scaling in general, come online over the last few months. Uh, and, you know, will continue to go online over the next few months.
00:03:52.800 - 00:04:26.060, Speaker A: Uh, we have EIP 1559 coming up very shortly. We have the merge happening. You know, yes, that's going to probably happen in early 2022, but still, if you kind of look back a year and look forward a year and just ignore the last month. Right. Let me pose the question to you this way. If the price was, you know, going, if we were still in kind of this bullish momentum where the price was going up and it was like two months ago during April when ETH was going up through the three thousands or whatever, you know, would you have felt totally different to what you feel today about the fundamentals? You probably would, but. But why, right.
00:04:26.060 - 00:05:03.786, Speaker A: Why do you feel different about the fundamentals just because of the price action? Like, literally nothing has changed on the fundamental front at all. Like, really nothing. And people point to, oh, well, Defi has less usage now. It's like, well, yeah, but that doesn't change anything about Defi and what, you know, what the technology enables and what it's going to do in the future, all that's just a short term noise at the end of the day. And people say, okay, well, with 1559, the gas prices are cheap right now, it's not going to have as big of an impact as it would have had, like, over the last few months. It's like, okay, true. But that's, again, using recency bias and thinking that the market's always going to be like this.
00:05:03.786 - 00:05:44.418, Speaker A: The market is not always going to be like this. It works both ways. We're going to have bearish cycles and, like, down markets and we're going to have bullish cycles. So if you're like a fundamentals based kind of like investor and a long term person who's in this for the, you know, the long term, and I think most of you are, if you're watching the refill every day, then you, yeah, really, this recency bias is something that you should try to work through and ignore. It does take a while as well. You have to, I think, be in the industry for a little while, experience these cycles, experience, you know, the, the pits of despair and the highs of a bull market, and then you just kind of get used to it and you kind of just ride these waves out. You know, I was looking at some old pictures from late 2019 conferences that I went to.
00:05:44.418 - 00:06:13.010, Speaker A: There was a picture with a bunch of friends that I was with in Osaka for Defcon. And, you know, that was only, what, a year and a half ago now something maybe just over a year and a half. And it feels like a lifetime ago because the crypto markets have just changed so much. When that photo was taken, I looked up the date. I looked at the date of the price. The price was $180 back then. But I would say that, you know, the excitement for Ethereum back then, even though the price was at dollar 108, and it actually dipped even further than that into the later months of 2019.
00:06:13.010 - 00:06:54.184, Speaker A: But, you know, Ethereum had been in a bear market for almost two years. But the thing is that the people that stuck around and kind of, like, went through it and just accepted the fact that we were in a bear market and we were at a point where the price was just going to do whatever and we'd have to just deal with it. Once you accept that and just start and just stop paying attention to that, then you just focus on the fundamental stuff, which is what a lot of us did. That's what got us through the bear market, is that we knew that there was fundamental value here still, and we knew that the world was going to wake up to Ethereum eventually and wake up to ETH. So that that's kind of what got us through. And that's, I think, what exactly what gets a lot of us through these kind of down periods in general, is that we know that nothing has fundamentally changed. We just know that the markets are going to do the markets.
00:06:54.184 - 00:07:22.452, Speaker A: And, you know, sometimes ETH is going to get overheated. Sometimes it's, it's going to go down more than it should, and eventually you reach that equilibrium. But the long term thesis is that ETH is just going to keep going up like that. That's definitely the long term thesis for every ETH investor. And not just ETH, you know, BTC and all these other kind of, like, tokens and stuff out there. And on that note as well, I think it's important to kind of, like, remember that. I think right now the reason why it's very painful for people is because they're not ready for a bear market.
00:07:22.452 - 00:08:02.340, Speaker A: Like, they don't, they refuse to believe that it's going to, you know, we're going to go into a long two year bear market because of the fact that there's so much fundamental value still being created every day and there's so much adoption still to happen. And I'm one of those people, like, I refuse to believe that we are going into a long term bear market. And I, you know, I do believe that we won't, we won't do that. And there's a chance that we will. Like, I don't know the future, but from, from just my, where I'm sitting and what I pay attention to in the industry and what I'm seeing just from everyone that I'm talking to. Like, I just can't help but be bullish. Like if, if I was just holding on to something or if I was just involved in an industry that was, you know, completely dependent on the market movements, then sure.
00:08:02.340 - 00:08:37.826, Speaker A: Like you could say that the market, the, the industry was bearish when the markets are down and it's bullish when the markets are up. But that's not true for Ethereum. I think Ethereum, you know, and I mentioned this before, I think the teams within Ethereum are very well funded now. So even if we go into a prolonged kind of down market, even if this lasts a few months, these teams are still going to be building, these teams are still going to be shipping new products, new upgrades. There's still going to be stuff like the L2s going online. Like none of that has changed. So I guess the way I would categorize my kind of thinking about the state of the market is really that nothing's changed.
00:08:37.826 - 00:08:58.236, Speaker A: Like I don't really care about the short term movements too much. As I said, I'm not trading them. I don't plan to trade them ever. I don't plan to sell ETH to buy back in cheaper. You know, maybe, maybe I could do that. Maybe I have enough experience in this industry that that would work. I don't think so because I'm too much of an emotional investor because I'm so, you know, emotionally invested in the fundamentals of this technology.
00:08:58.236 - 00:09:48.198, Speaker A: And sure, you could say that that blinds me and other people like that to two things. And, you know, we remain optimistic for too long and we miss buying, you know, selling the highs and buying the lows. But at the end of the day, we accept that. I think as, as these kind of like fundamentals in based investors, we just would rather pay attention to the tech, you know, let the price do what it wants over the long term and kind of have the thesis that during, you know, actual bear markets, it just load up as much as you can. You know, load up as much ETH as you can or as much of a project that you think has a future as you can. Yes, it's risky, but, you know, the reward payoff is huge. And, you know, a lot of the trading channels, the proper trading channels and one in particular that I watch called Benjamin Cohen, we'll always talk about these macro trends where at different points in like a market cycle it will be, you know, much better risk reward than other points.
00:09:48.198 - 00:10:30.904, Speaker A: You know, buying ETH at 4.4k was obviously a much higher risk for what? Much lower reward than if you bought Ethan like under dollar 500 back in the, in the bear market, like for example, you know, we range between one and $200 for like a year in 2019. If, or 100, $300, I should say around about that. And if you bought during that period, that was the least riskiest period to buy in with the greatest amount of reward. Because even if you bought the top of that year and you bought like $350 or something, you'd still be up like at the, at the peak, at like say 4k, you would still have been up like one. Sorry, let me do the head math now. You would have been up about twelve times or something like that on that buy.
00:10:30.904 - 00:11:10.724, Speaker A: So, you know, the risk reward there was, was immense because, yeah, yes, it went down, but like, it went down and just went to like $100 or something like that and retested its lows there. So, yeah, from that, from that point of view, I think that when you take the long term outlook, you can't go wrong. Um, as long as it's on kind of like assets that actually, you know, have a high chance of having a future. If you're just buying into projects that really won't survive. If there's a down market for quite a while, then yeah, I mean, I'm not going to say that you're guaranteed to make money on anything. You're never guaranteed to make money, but you have a better chance buying into things that like, look like they have a future rather than things that look like that were just around for the bull market. But anyway, that's my current kind of take on the state of the market.
00:11:10.724 - 00:11:52.360, Speaker A: I really enjoyed this podcast from Hazel and Sue, so definitely go check this out and listen to it if you haven't already. Sue has a very good view of, I guess, the markets because he obviously is the CEO of a trading firm and they do actively trade. So he definitely comes at this, I think from a less emotional standpoint and he comes at this. I mean, he's pretty bullish in general based on fundamentals, but he has like a pretty good mix between fundamental based investing and also kind of like momentum based stuff where he sees things, you know, going south and he takes positions because of that. And then he kind of like bets on, you know, a brighter future after that's kind of done there. So anyway, recommend checking that out. I'm going to leave it at that for now.
00:11:52.360 - 00:12:22.944, Speaker A: Hopefully that's kind of like giving you some, given you guys some context around the way I'm thinking about this and the way I'm thinking about the market going forward. So just a heads up here. My crypto tweeted this thing out today that users are receiving ledgers in the mail unexpectedly. They didn't order or anything like that. And it looks really suspicious. And it's because actually a targeted attack. So they received this letter that basically says that Ledger was recently, you know, targeted by a cyber attack which led to a massive data breach there.
00:12:22.944 - 00:13:18.204, Speaker A: And then, you know, they have this whole letter that's, that, that says, here's basically a free ledger device, and you must switch to this new device to say, stay safe. Now, of course, the way that this attack works is that the new device has already been kind of like booted and the, it's already kind of like backdoored from, from these attackers here. So this is really scary, actually, because of the fact that they just basically, the hackers or the attackers here are basically using that ledger customer database leak to basically man in the middle attack people with these new ledger devices. So I guess the warning here is that if you receive one of these, throw it out straight away, do not use it at all under any circumstances. Do not put any funds on it, do not trust any of this. Only ever buy in my mind, like hardware wallets from the actual manufacturer. I mean, technically they could still be man in the middle attacked, but the chances of that happening are basically zero.
00:13:18.204 - 00:13:52.158, Speaker A: But, you know, never ever accept like ledges from, I mean, for me, I even, or hydro wallets in general. I don't buy them from Amazon or eBay or anything like that because they could be sellers that have kind of backdoored it already and basically will steal your farms as soon as you load them onto the device. So be very, very careful here and just use common sense. I guess at the end of the day, you know, look at, look at the way these letter is done. It's like two different fonts here and it's like, it's just a weird kind of letter. And also like the shrink wrapping on this is like very amateur. That's not how kind of ledger devices come.
00:13:52.158 - 00:14:18.704, Speaker A: And, you know, it's already ripped open here as well. So definitely don't put any money on these devices if you get them unexpectedly. And it's not just ledger like any hardware wallets, of course, as well. But yeah, just wanted to give a warning there. So for those of you who don't know, there's actually this really cool site called l Two Beat.com that Chris has put together here, and he put this together a little while ago. Basically what this does is it tracks different kind of value lock in different L2s.
00:14:18.704 - 00:14:51.786, Speaker A: Now, you can see here all of the L2s, like loop ring and, and zk swap and optimism dy DX. And there's a bunch of kind of, like, stuff here, which, which I think is really, really cool. And you can see like, the value locked over time as well. And of course, like, causes is measured in USD. As the prices of assets go down, of course the USD value locked is going to go down. And also, like, people, you know, as the market cools down, people are going to withdraw funds from these sorts of things, too. But, but what I wanted to go over today was that Chris actually put out a, um, an update where he's tracking arbitrum here.
00:14:51.786 - 00:15:37.000, Speaker A: And Arbitrum currently has about $60,000 locked. Now, this is just arbitrum with the dev main net. Like, obviously, it's not open to users just yet. So you can basically see that the devs are loading in funds already. I mean, here's the bridge address here. So when you actually, I guess, interact with Arbitrum, you'll be sending your funds to a bridge, which then puts them onto arbitrum from Ethereum's layer one. Now, the reason I like this tool so much is because they, he has this kind of like, project in a nutshell kind of list here, where he basically goes through, you know, what the technology is, you know, what's its hypothetical level of decentralization? What's his current level of decentralization? And you remember I talked about how arbitrary is going to be, like, pretty much centralized from the start because they're going to have like, admin keys and things like that as part of their guarded launch.
00:15:37.000 - 00:16:08.058, Speaker A: And you can see here that contracts are upgradable is the reason I mentioned this just on yesterday's refuel. You know, whether it's permissionless to deploy to currently, it's, it's, sorry, permissionless to, to produce blocks. And currently only the sequencer can produce new blocks, and I don't think that's open yet to the public and yet force transaction mechanisms, which means that the sequencer can be forced to append particular transactions into the roll up. For now, it's only for whitelisted accounts. So, yeah, I mean, privacy and stuff like that. Smart contracts. Yes.
00:16:08.058 - 00:16:54.498, Speaker A: So, you know, if you go to some of the other ones here, you can see, you know, loop ring and, and see kind of like what, what what it is here. Um, and kind of like can funds be stolen by the operator? Like all these details which I think is really really cool. So if you haven't checked out this site yet, be sure to do so. Um, you know you can get details on all the L2s and you'll notice here that uh polygon isn't on here. And I think I saw maybe some debate about this but you know there's been so much talk about this before that that polygons pos, uh, network is not a layer, a true L2 or whatever. I'm not going to get into that debate for now, but I think from what I see here is that the project in this list are ZK rollups, optimistic rollups, validium and plasma for now. But I hope that they kind of like extend this l two beat to maybe just scaling beat and to see all ethereum scalability solutions on here.
00:16:54.498 - 00:17:36.346, Speaker A: But we'll have to see how that kind of goes in the future. So the new go Ethereum client was released. If you run geth, definitely upgrade to this one. So this is London. This has the London hard fork enabled for all testnets with rupts and switching over in one week with goalie and rinkeby coming soon. So the mainnet block is still not decided for London which includes 1559 of course as I've said that's probably late July, early August now but if you're running guest, definitely upgrade to this version here. So speaking of Polygon, Polygon basically put an update here that they are I guess lowering the matic rewards for the Aave markets here.
00:17:36.346 - 00:18:17.412, Speaker A: So you can see here the emission schedule for phase two of the matic rewards. And Aave has been updated with $84 million in rewards to be rewarded to use over the next seven months. A total matic allocated will remain the same. So I think they've just basically extended the period of the liquidity mining out which means that overall there's going to be less rewards but sorry, slower rewards but the rewards are going to remain the same, same here. So this is, this is good. I mean you know, generally my view on liquidity mining programs is that they should be done in a way that is not too aggressive, where the token is just going to be you know continuously dumped. So like a farm and dump token and done in such a way that, that um, it actually bootstraps liquidity and keeps the liquidity there.
00:18:17.412 - 00:19:12.428, Speaker A: Once the liquidity mining either tapers off or kind of goes away completely and I've spoken about this metric before called unincentivized TVL, which is basically a metric that tracks how much, you know, of capital in your product is actually there for, for product market fit reasons, not for just liquidity mining. And this is a metric that the index co op likes to use a lot. And I like paying attention to it there because it shows that people are actually using the products like the DeFi pulse index and things like that without just using them to farm index tokens and dump them on the market here. So, yeah, I mean, if you want more information about this, I'll link the kind of tweet thread in the, in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. So Cyrus put out an interesting tweet the other day where he said he would love to see the maker compound and other communities get a little proactive and quote, el Salvador, some favorable borrowing terms. Seems like a ripe opportunity for some, some disruption disrupting.
00:19:12.428 - 00:19:51.298, Speaker A: And then someone in the comments said, how would that work? And Cyrus said, maker Dow, the dow itself could go to, I think this is the president of El Salvador. Yeah. And, and say, if you issue a tokenized bond, we will add it as collateral at x percent stability fee with a debt ceiling of blah blah. Now, I mean, while this is really cool, I think I actually want to talk about something as a little bit of an aside here. I think as a community in Ethereum, we don't do enough to reach these kind of like, I guess, unbanked people or maybe people that need this technology more than we do. Like, if you think about it, Defi is amazing. And we all need defi in my mind.
00:19:51.298 - 00:20:18.920, Speaker A: But some, some people, I think need it more than others. There are some, you know, there are lots of people out there actually, in countries that don't have developed financial systems and don't have developed banking systems or, you know, any sort of, I guess, traditional finance. But they have access to the Internet and they have a mobile phone. They can install a crypto wallet. They can interact with Defi. So we should be doing more to reach these people. Now, I'm sure there's a bunch of projects out there that are doing this, and I'm sure there's a bunch of people kind of like, out there that are working on this.
00:20:18.920 - 00:20:44.814, Speaker A: But, you know, personally, I think that I could be doing more for sure. I mean, I do a lot of education, but, but I think that I could be doing more to kind of like, I guess, reach these people. Now, if you guys have any ideas of how I could do that. Be sure to reach out there. I think, you know, a lot of it's a language barrier thing as well. I mean, just take El Salvador, for example. They speak Spanish, and, but, but in saying that, I don't think that that should be an excuse for not kind of reaching these people.
00:20:44.814 - 00:21:23.514, Speaker A: Like, the ethereum community is a global community. It's not just english speaking people. There's a ton of people in the Ethereum. I mean, there's a, there's a, there's a very large spanish community in Ethereum, or people that speak Spanish, not necessarily from El Salvador, but also from all over, I guess, like Central America and South America, too. Argentina has been very active within the Ethereum space, so we should be doing more here. I know maker does a lot with their diet products in Argentina and things like that, but I still think that if we want to bring this technology to the right sorts of people, then we need to have troops on the ground. Um, I I would like to know if anyone's actually doing this, because I want to, I want to support them if I can.
00:21:23.514 - 00:22:01.906, Speaker A: So definitely reach out to me if that is you or, you know, someone doing this. Um, but still, very interesting tweet from, from Cyrus. I think these projects themselves should be doing this because if you think about it, these are daos and dows can just come together and basically put a proposal on the forum saying, hey, we should, you know, do this. Uh, do some, gives the El salvadorian government some favorable borrowing terms on our DeFi platform, see if they'll go for it, and maybe they will. And that'll be really cool for showing more people about DeFi, getting the word out about it. Basically free marketing for DeFi, but also being able to help people that, that would require this. And being able to show people the power of the apps that we've built and all those sorts of good things there.
00:22:01.906 - 00:22:30.778, Speaker A: So, yeah, as I said, if you are across any of this, definitely reach out to me. I would love to hear about it. Well, that's just my profile there. So finally here, yam finance put out an update that yam synths community testing is now live. So you can basically test the upuncs, ugas, and you stonk synthetic assets which provide exposure to, you know, crypto punk, synthetic exposure to crypto punks. The gas market and stonks in general. I think.
00:22:30.778 - 00:22:51.404, Speaker A: I think just stonks in general. What is it? Track the top ten. Yes. Stocks chosen by the wall street bets community. And you can unlock your words by doing so, so if you want a testing pass, you just got to jump in the, into the discord here. And the testers will also receive a limited edition NFT. So finally here, I wanted to talk about Gitcoin again today.
00:22:51.404 - 00:23:20.950, Speaker A: So a lot of you will know about Gitcoin. A lot of you will obviously be doing a lot of things with Gitcoin right now in terms of like donating during this current matching round. I did mention it yesterday that the matching round is now live. But I did want to point out that to truly get your, I guess like donations matched in full, you should do this trust verification process here. Now I'll explain how this works. Basically, you go to your profile on Gitcoin. You go to this tab called trust bonus, and then you scroll down here and there's many different ways to verify your identity.
00:23:20.950 - 00:23:54.900, Speaker A: And this was done for civil resistance. And by doing so, you get to basically up your matching. So you can see here on Gitcoin, verified users have 100% or more of their donation amount count towards the match fund algorithm. And unverified users will only begin with 50%. So you can do it in a number of different ways. You can do it with Facebook, Twitter, Google, SMS, ens, Polar, Idina, bright id and proof of humanity. Now, actually, I did want to mention I have a bit of an issue with Idina and proof of humanity counting for so much of the matching here because I tried to do the Idina stuff today and it is an absolute headache.
00:23:54.900 - 00:24:42.020, Speaker A: And then I tried to do the proof of humanity stuff and again, a bit of a headache there because you have to record a video of yourself saying some lines and have your ethereum address in the background as like proof that you own it. And I just thought to myself, why can't I just sign a kind of like message with my ethereum address to prove that I own it? But, you know, and the bright id was the same thing. I did this a while ago where you have to kind of like join a verification party to kind of get verified here. So I just have like a little bit of an issue with these being worth so much of the match because the idea stuff, I think I got stuck on the fact that you need an invite code or something and, you know, you need to wait till the next verification session, which the next one's on the 5 July, which is actually after the current matching round. So that was really disappointing. But I still suggest doing the rest of them if you can, if you want to. Obviously, this link.
00:24:42.020 - 00:25:01.408, Speaker A: Sure. Kind of like existing kind of profiles and your mobile number to, to get coin here. But if you do it, you get better matching during the current gitcoin grants matching round here. So just a little tip there. And I did want to give a quick shout to everyone who's donated to the daily way so far. Thank you very much. I think there's over 150 individual donors so far.
00:25:01.408 - 00:25:26.448, Speaker A: So I really, really appreciate that. But again, don't forget to donate to all of the, your favorite projects. There are so many on there. There's $650,000 of and you know, but kind of donating to your favorite projects here. You get to support them and you know, support them through maybe a down market and a little bit of a bearish market and keep them going, keep them building because that's what we're all about obviously in the Ethereum ecosystem. Anyway, I'll leave it at that for today. Everyone, thank you again for listening and watching.
00:25:26.448 - 00:25:34.464, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks everyone. Bye.
