00:00:28.980 - 00:00:38.450, Speaker A: Everyone and welcome to the IPFS and Filecoin 101 workshop. Joining us today is Jenks who will be taking us through this session. And with that, I'll pass it over to Jenks to get the session started.
00:00:39.700 - 00:01:07.880, Speaker B: Hello everyone. My name is Jenks, your friendly developer advocate from Filecoin Foundation. Today I'm going to give you an introductory talk on IPFS and Filecoin 101. This will be acting as a vocabulary for your rest of the workshops. This will be the workshop to introduce all of the workshops for rest of this hackathon. So let's get started. And also welcome to Hackfest.
00:01:07.880 - 00:02:07.896, Speaker B: So at first I'll talk a little bit about introduction to Web Three. Then I'll move on to IPFS and how IPFS solve some pieces of puzzles for web Three. And equally important, I'll talk about how Filecoin is contributing to web Three infrastructure. I'll then introduce a few products and tools that you can use in your hackathon and also some case studies on why people have used IPFS and Filecoin so you know the business behind it. I'll then talk about the future roadmaps. So overall we are as a human being witnessing a great movement from a centralization of web technology to a more decentralized future and eventually to a distributed future. The current internet that we use, we rely on every day is very centralized by design choices.
00:02:07.896 - 00:03:00.910, Speaker B: I-P-V four, I-P-V six, DNI DNS internet service providers and HTP protocol that we use every day are all having this centralized design thinking. There's nothing wrong, including tim. Bernard Lee also claimed that internet will be a centralized thing because of the nature of TCP, IP and HD protocols. There's nothing wrong with this design. It's just a design choice at the beginning. But because of this design choice, many organizations and platforms have accumulated a tremendous amount of power over time, and they're influencing a lot of our lives. So some of the centralized platform companies have access to our data via our social media profiles and use this as the basis of their business model.
00:03:00.910 - 00:04:14.500, Speaker B: It's designed to collect massive amount of data from users and being able to capitalize on those data. This lack of ownership and probability around that data is causing systematic failures. This shouldn't be this way, right? If you have systems that are centralized, all you need to do is just take down that centralized point and the whole thing will fall apart. Companies have tried to decentralize their infrastructure, having point of presence everywhere, but the design is still very much following an authority within that decentralized world. We're seeing gradual movements to decentralization and what people really want, people who believe in web Three is a distributed future where users are empowered to provide services, where everything is unstoppable, censorship free. They are open but private, and then you have verified data and you have data that is not siloed to certain companies and certain organizations. So.
00:04:14.500 - 00:05:08.870, Speaker B: Incoming web three. Everyone is building web three. Fiercely. And there is a lot of capital certainly flowing to Web Three space right now to fill the gap between innovation and implementation. So what is web three exactly? One of the explanations that I enjoyed a lot is from Juan Bennett, founder of IPFS and Protocol Apps. He said Web Three is a broad movement in a group of associated technologies and people aiming to make the web and the Internet more decentralized, verifiable and secure. This sentence is beautiful because Web Three up till now, I don't think there is a strict definition of it, but it represents a group of people and then a group of technology that people are trying to make to work towards a single goal that is decentralization of the future.
00:05:08.870 - 00:05:55.380, Speaker B: So Web Three, the other version that I have heard of web Three that I really like, and this breaks down into different themes, is that Web Three has three components to it. One is the physical and on the protocol level it is going to be a distributed web. So it should be designed to work offline. It should be faster, not slower. It should be safer, not less secure. And there should not be a central point of coordination for the distributed web and there should be permanent links for contents online. The second part is about making sure that the computers and people have a trustless network to work in.
00:05:55.380 - 00:06:26.430, Speaker B: This is where Blockchain comes in. Blockchain is able to provide publicly verifiable data. It encourages permissionless entry and exiting if anyone wants. Everyone is incentivized to do the right thing in the network. So you shouldn't worry about certain entities starting behaving as adversary to you. So you don't have to trust anyone for it. You can trust that the system itself is going to run by itself and in a good way.
00:06:26.430 - 00:07:17.904, Speaker B: The last one is Semantic Web, and I think this is very beautiful. It's about creating a graph of knowledge and making sure that the machines understand the meaning behind the data, so we don't have to repeat this information everywhere on the Internet. So, for example, I live in Melbourne, Australia, and Melbourne should be a single object on the Internet as maybe a node of the knowledge graph. And then if it is marked as a location, then people can do certain things with it. For example, navigating to it and getting interesting spots of this location. So that is concept of Semantic Web. So how is IPFS and Filecoin helping with this Web Three movement? IPFS provides a peer to peer protocol for Internet to work on.
00:07:17.904 - 00:08:10.800, Speaker B: As I said earlier, the protocol itself is centralized by design. And then Filecoin is aiming to provide infrastructure for the Web Three. The applications that we use every day, airbnb, Uber and alike, they all run very hefty infrastructures. Right now there's no way we can build a Web Three, a truly decentralized Internet and allow developers to build Internet scale applications without using aft infrastructure and that is what Filecoin project intend to do. Exactly how? We will take a look at it. IPFS stands for Interplanetary File System. Apart from being the favorite acronym in web three that I know of, it is also a very good idea.
00:08:10.800 - 00:09:30.916, Speaker B: It is very essential to web Three because one of the most important functions of the computer system and the Internet is file systems. If there is no way for computers to understand how to store files and retrieve them, it is going to pose a very big problem. So IPFS is a peer to peer protocol that intends to be the decentralized version of Http that will allow users or nodes to communicate with each other and transfer files between each other without using a centralized server in between. How does it do that? It is using peer to peer technology, the underlying technology. There's a few, but one of the most important one is Lip PDP, which allows the software to talk through many internet interfaces and then speak to each other as a cluster of computers and not talking to one single server and asking for information. So in this swarm of computers of IPFS nodes you have photos and files and these nodes will provide services to each other. They have a unique ID, so people know who they are and then they use services from each other as well.
00:09:30.916 - 00:10:39.890, Speaker B: The content on IPFS is able to be addressed based on its content and not its location because we're trying to get rid of this location based schema in IPFS and then the class of computers will help each other to find the content on the network. It is fully distributed, no central server, it is quite resilient and it's offline first design. So what that means is if you take a chunk of the computer, take a part of the network offline, they should still work within itself by itself until they are reconnected to the main cluster. Or if you take a single one out, it still works by itself, it just may not have access to certain peers in the network will be less useful, but it should still work. So it really promotes resiliency. The most important part in IPFS, I think it's one of the most valuable part is the content addressing technology. In web two we always type in a domain name which gets translated to IP and port.
00:10:39.890 - 00:11:37.270, Speaker B: But in IPFS, how computers find files is actually through the ID of the system, which is a hash digest of the whole file itself. This hash digest replaces the address based location and it basically is a fingerprint of the file and then the computers within the network will talk to each other and see who has this file and serve that. So imagine if your computer has that file itself. Visiting IPFS or visiting a website could be retrieving that file from your computer. And that's ultra fast, because we know there's no latency, there's no network, there's no need for communication with external systems. Or if this file lies on your Wi Fi network, so someone else's computer in your home, perhaps this will be retrieved from there and not from a US server. For example.
00:11:37.270 - 00:12:31.300, Speaker B: Or if the file in IPFS is located in the other side of the world, the system is able to broadcast messages and gossip with each other and find out where the content is and eventually get through many, many hoops to find the content and then retrieve it for you. So it works very like BitTorrent, but it's made for the next generation application, so made for real world applications out there. So the underlying stack for building IPFS is IPLD Interplanetary Link Data and Lip PDP. So Lip PDP also has a bunty in this hackathon. I encourage you to take a look at that. On top of Lip PDP you can build many, many systems, not just a file system. And Lip PTP is trusted by Polkadot Project and Ethereum.
00:12:31.300 - 00:13:05.650, Speaker B: IPFS has gone through a tremendous growth since 2019. It had about only 800 contributors now to about 11,000. The performance has improved a lot. It took 40 seconds to find files at the beginning, which is very slow. And in 2022, the gateway, I think the 95% tile is a lot quicker now. It's probably a little bit better than that. I think there were some optimization on routing that's been down.
00:13:05.650 - 00:13:50.872, Speaker B: And if you're using a gateway that caches content for you, then it will be a lot faster than 400 milliseconds. We have now five browsing integrations. Brave and Opera natively integrate with IPFS. So if you type in IPFS column and then the CID on Brave Opera, you can find the file or the website directly that way. And this is a future sort of we want monthly user increased to 50 million, and IPFS empowered apps are up to 1000 now. It is a huge ecosystem of developers and builders out there using this protocol. We also have many gateway operators.
00:13:50.872 - 00:14:28.308, Speaker B: I think the monthly request is over 1 billion. It is over these gateway requests. So there is a real demand for retrieving content from IPFS. There are many tooling you can use to interact with IPFS, including IPFS desktop client. I have that installed on my Mac and I bring it up to store some files myself. There is a COI tool that you can run and runs a daemon behind it. So it provides API interfaces, a web UI for you to visit on your browser and have that fine control over your node.
00:14:28.308 - 00:15:25.784, Speaker B: And it's also able to provide some services that you need behind the scenes. You don't always have to install IPFS on your computer to use it. You can install it on the server or you can pay someone to host it for you. So Pinata and Infura are two providers of private IPFS nodes that you can use to access the vast IPFS network. There are also implementations of IPFS in different languages, including some native OS environments. So you can embed that IPFS module inside of your application wherever you wanted to. This is great for decentralization of IPFS because the more you can implement on your device, the more point of presence or nodes we have in the network.
00:15:25.784 - 00:16:13.328, Speaker B: It's better for decentralization that way. There's a few things that's pretty exciting that's coming our way to make the lives of builder easier. One of them is Iron project Iron Computer and they are trying to make a very lightweight IPFS for mobile native devices. There is also content exchange improvements called Carpool. And IPFS debuted Unreal Engine and Unity earlier last year to tap into the gaming development industry. There is also native integration of IPFS into tools like Curl, FF, MPEG browsers and more. A lot of things are very exciting.
00:16:13.328 - 00:16:58.170, Speaker B: If you just search on Google IPFS implementation you will find quite a few of them. There are a couple of sites for you to find more things, exciting things like that. We can't always keep track of what is happening in the ecosystem. Awesome. IPFS IO is the site that is hosted on IPFS and then it showcases all of the projects that are using IPFS. Or if you did something really cool on IPFS, please feel free to submit your idea there and let other people know about how you use IPFS. There is also an official ecosystem site for you to look up which companies are having collaboration or using IPFS and that's the ecosystem IPFS tech.
00:16:58.170 - 00:17:44.756, Speaker B: So hop on there and take a look once in a while. You might find something really cool. So now onto filecoin. Now IPFS really provides ways for computers to talk to each other and store files in a very decentralized way. It might work across planets as well. But who is going to actually pay for the infrastructure? And who is going to establish build all the plumbing that it needs to connect different computers together? And who are going to pay for the computers? Right? So Filecoin is established to solve this problem. It is designed in initial phase, designed to encourage a mass of hardware to give this web three thing a kick at the beginning.
00:17:44.756 - 00:18:36.200, Speaker B: So Filecoin is the largest decentralized storage network in the world. There are about 3600 storage providers or node operators. Some project calls it around the world and then it represents over 40 countries. This commitment from our storage providers are not just in terms of hardware investment, they also invest substantially, monetarily or financially to ensure the network. So Filecoin has collateral system and slashing system. So the total pledged amount of coins are 147,000,000 as of April this year. This is a huge financial commitment that people have put in to secure the network.
00:18:36.200 - 00:19:30.480, Speaker B: Filecoin enables open services for data and adds an incentive layer to IPFS. This is kind of a global digital economy that we have started to help people to find data center services. Help people who needs data center services and who has data center services to provide to them. It is a kind of a market for hard drives like Airbnb. So if you have large amount of files that you need to solve store for a certain amount of time, you can make deals with people who own these private data centers around the world and then make a deal with them. And then the filecoin blockchain is able to keep track of to provide the underlying security behind it. It facilitates the storage deals and then it ensures that all of the storage providers on the network is doing the right thing to protect clients interests.
00:19:30.480 - 00:20:08.020, Speaker B: That is providing data storage reliable. It is a layer one project in the web Three world. It is designed for storage, but it's not limited to storage. Filecoin's Masterpan always includes things that are not storage. Because storage is the first step, it's not the last step we'll take. We are also interested in building a data retrieval network, decentralized CDN services. So anything that gets stored into the filecoin, we can retrieve it at a very fast speed, performance speed.
00:20:08.020 - 00:20:43.356, Speaker B: And also we're interested in providing developers with DAP tools tools. So we have built FalcoIn virtual machine that allows people to compute over FalcoIn blockchain state. And then we are also wanting to get into the compute business as well. So Filecoin has projects that are focused on perfecting decentralized way of compute, especially over filecoin nodes where the valuable data is stored. It's very expensive to move data around on the internet. There are some key benefits. FalcoIn is compatible with web three protocols.
00:20:43.356 - 00:21:29.628, Speaker B: We have built bridges with near and then now with the help of Sevm, we're building more interoperability integrations so FalcoIn is more nimble with other blockchains out there. We are also providing Verifiable data. So a lot of data centers actually charge more money if you want to secure the data. So making sure that data is not tempered or lost or corrupt. FalcoIn, thanks to IPFS design, can provide the Verifiable data with no extra cost. FalcoIn is secured by cryptographic proofs and I will talk about a few primitives later in my presentation. And it is massive in size because it is a design soul.
00:21:29.628 - 00:22:23.760, Speaker B: Falcon from the economic design perspective is encouraging enterprises to join the business FalcoIn algorithm. There are some details about FalcoIn blockchain so if you're interested in that you can take a look at FalcoIn specs. So if you search FalcoIn spec you'll be led to specification page and that talks about all of these primitives in details and link to research papers and stuff like that. Feel free to dig deeper there. But for consensus we are a probabilistic BFT, so something called an expected consensus for proofing it is more like a proof of storage and plus proof of stake. So it's a combination of these two. We call them proof of space time and proof of replication.
00:22:23.760 - 00:23:10.928, Speaker B: So the verification is primarily Zksnarc. We use zkSNARK to reduce the block time to meet the block time and also reduce the message size. Broadcast method is lip p to p that I mentioned earlier. And some of the cryptographic primitives are Merkle tree or Mercodac for data integrity vector commitment scheme, look it up for commitment and then ECDSA bos. Two signature schema exist in Filecoin. And for randomness we have decentralized randomness Drand or Drand for providing verifiable randomness. So Filecoin is also the largest deployed ZK Snark network to date.
00:23:10.928 - 00:23:55.068, Speaker B: Because of the infrastructure that our storage provider provides. We have some pretty amazing numbers there. Filecoin's crypto economics is very well designed. First of all, the filecoin economy design is completely open source. So if you look up engineering filecoin economy paper written by ZX, or if you look up crypto Econ lab, you will find many many research papers behind the decisions that they have made at the beginning. It's very useful for many people who are interested in tokenomics out there. So Falcon Economy, if you think about that, is similar to an island economy.
00:23:55.068 - 00:24:48.880, Speaker B: You have people who are amassing hardware, pay for electricity and running of these data centers and they interact with developers and researchers to make products and offerings to people outside of this island. And then inside of this island. Everyone uses Filecoin as value exchange and then outside we can exchange value with external parties. Fills are utility tokens. It is designed to purchase services that Falcon network provides or Network Participants provides. There will be only 2 billion file coins ever minted or issues that equates to about 330 million Minted each year. So over 30 years time, 97% of the file coins will be minted and issued.
00:24:48.880 - 00:25:46.210, Speaker B: Filecoin has simple Minting and baseline Minting for block rewards. Baseline Minting means that it encourages everyone in the network to increase their capacity. If everyone does that, the total power increases and the rewards that we give to the participants or start providers and other kind of service providers will increase in the future. There is a linear vesting concept we do have in our Falcon allocation. We have allocation for the investors, for Falcon Foundation, for protocol Labs to run, and there are also a mining reserve to encourage new services to be established on the network. But storage mining allocation is still the biggest in coin allocation. So out of all the file coins that will be created, the storage providers will get most of it.
00:25:46.210 - 00:26:29.340, Speaker B: There are concepts of deals and sectors which I'll go through a little bit later. I also have another talk in about an hour about Star providing. And there's also concept of collateral and slashing in filecoin. If you're interested more, find primer to filecoin circulating supply or engineering Filecoin's economy to find out the exact thinking behind it. Filecoin runs in a phase economy. So in stage one we encourage capacity and building up the network to handle to be secure. So at first, Simple Minting or reward to the storage providers will be quite great to encourage them to onboard hardware.
00:26:29.340 - 00:27:25.440, Speaker B: At this point, there might be very little quality services and there might be very little deal payments. So deals means people actually paying for storage provider services. And then for the second stage in the middle of the economy, this should be turned around. So Simple Minting should reduce quite a bit. We're already seeing that first wave of storage providers reward is reducing quite a bit. And what we're encouraging them to do is to set up equipment and also build software to be able to provide services to clients and encourage real clients, real data clients, to use these data center services. And in the stage three we should have very little block rewards for the storage providers and other kind of services providers and they should be making money primarily for providing those services and making deals on the network.
00:27:25.440 - 00:28:05.056, Speaker B: So we're kind of in stage two or between about to step into stage two right now for the whole economy. The network growth has been an incredible story. In 2021 we only had about 1.6 IB and now 17 Avabyte. This number is actually including the this number is not the role byte number, this is quality adjusted byte. So it looks a lot better than, a lot better than the actual hardware that we have. Hardware spaces that we have.
00:28:05.056 - 00:28:43.772, Speaker B: The number of providers went from 800 to 4000. So I mentioned 3600 earlier, that was 2022 figure. Now we have about 3600 minor IDs out there. The pledge collateral went to 174 and now it's 170 or so million dollars, maybe 140. I think the orgs that built on Filecoin went up to more than 500. The storage size also increased. So the number of files, we call them Content IDs increased to 6 million.
00:28:43.772 - 00:29:45.952, Speaker B: Unique providers went up storage deals. There's millions of storage deals every year and then total data stored I think is up to about 700 petabyte or maybe even over one exabyte now. So either from the whole network capacity or from the data that's being stored on Filecoin, it is the largest in the world. So who are actually using these services right now? Right? And why? So the reason why people use that is because Filecoin provides dramatically lower storage cost than traditional data centers. To store one petabyte of hard drive, it could cost you around 100,000 to 2000 $600,000 for a year in a data center. And that's just storing there, doing nothing. A petabyte of data will cost you that much in Filecoin it costs a lot less than that.
00:29:45.952 - 00:30:51.508, Speaker B: So it's very attractive for people who has really large amount of data to store somewhere and they don't need to immediately retrieve it. It also improves data availability because Filecoin's storage providers has many, many point of presence. You can store your data in many places rather than just one data center or one company's data center there. It also verifies the data storage for free. It's easier to meet regulatory requirements if you're dealing with a local data center that is in your region, that understand your region's laws than say, putting everything on a country that you're not familiar with, then the country will probably have some pretty strict data import and export policies. And we're also very green chain. So there's a project called FalcoIn Green that intends to make start providing a carbon neutral business and maybe carbon negative at a certain time.
00:30:51.508 - 00:31:16.620, Speaker B: So some of the featured clients are Internet Archive. There are a bunch of people who are preserving the Internet. There's. University of Utah, UC Berkeley, CERN the Science Research Institute in Europe. There's a few other web. Three customers as well. So OpenSea Solana are all users of FalcoIn systems.
00:31:16.620 - 00:32:17.356, Speaker B: So different kinds of people use FalcoIn on the top, media companies uses Filecoin, and then production events, e commerce, education, public data. There's a wide range of customer segment on FalcoIn. If you want to find out more about FalcoIn client, I encourage you to go to FalcoIn Explorer and you can scan that QR code to visit FalcoIn explorer.com. We will be constantly updating featured customers to this website and there are some really useful case studies in case you want to dig a little bit deeper on why they have used Filecoin. The client growth is incredible. Storage client Growth so we're onboarding a vast amount of data on the Internet every day since April. By April 2023, 1 million terabytes of data has been stored on filecoin.
00:32:17.356 - 00:33:08.400, Speaker B: And the number of unique storage clients we have is 1500. And on some occasions we can onboard about one petabytes of data per day. So how these data are onboarded is through deal making. So the whole filecoin market revolves around storage deals. This is an overview of how it works. First of all, the client who wants to store some files will prepare the files for a friendly structure for filecoin protocol. And then along with the sort of file information and the deal information, it will make a deal, broadcast the deal to start providers that they're interested in, startup providers will negotiate and respond to these deal proposals.
00:33:08.400 - 00:33:47.640, Speaker B: And then the ones who accepted the deals will then need to receive the files. Once they have received the files, they will be providing a proof of replication on the network. That's the first message they sent to Falcon Blockchain. And then once that's been produced, they need to constantly provide proof of the spacetime so proof that they still have the file and the file is not destroyed or being tampered with. And then to the network constantly in. Order to get a block reward over time. As long as they can prove that they're still online and then they are still storing the file faithfully.
00:33:47.640 - 00:34:30.440, Speaker B: They won't be slashed for their staking will not be slashed towards the end of the storage deal. The clients will need to renew the storage deal or let it expire. Letting it expire means that the storage providers no longer have obligations to store this. They won't get slashed for not providing a good storage service. They can recycle the sector for new files. One of the things that is key to Falcon architecture are the concept of actors. Actors are the things that in FalcoIn software that will do things.
00:34:30.440 - 00:35:28.256, Speaker B: So there are different actors for different purposes. There are reward actors that calculates the block rewards that someone deserves. And then there are minor actors that help with mining operations. There will be storage power calculators actors, storage market actors, data cap actors which are related to verified data. We give higher incentive for storage providers if they are doing actual storage of useful data to their clients and verify registry actors. So there are quite a few of those. If you want to look into the deeper part of how exactly Filecoin interacts with its nodes and data clients and storage providers, I encourage you to take a look at the YouTube video and some of the documentation we have on Filecoin actors, but don't feel this is a completely strange thing in this hackathon.
00:35:28.256 - 00:36:25.980, Speaker B: If you know what actors are, you'll have a good idea of how Filecoin protocol operates. Falcon Virtual Machine is our way of opening up FalcoIn blockchain to the vast developers out there. FalcoIn Virtual machine is built on WASM and intends to build many runtimes on top of it. And the first runtime that the project decided to do is the EVM so the Ethereum Virtual machine standard. So Filecoin now has Filecoin EVM deployed quite a few months now, and people are doing lots of DAC development on top of it. If you're interested in that, please scan the QR code and read more on Fem. Since launch in, I think it was April or May, we have quite a big interest on Fem.
00:36:25.980 - 00:37:12.460, Speaker B: There are about 75,000 active Fem wallets out there. There is close to 1 million fields that are held by Fem powered smart contracts, or Actors, we call it. So there's quite a bit of a trust that people place in Fem that they can trust these smart contracts with their money. TVL is around 1.2 according DFI llama, and there are about 937 unique smart contracts that have been deployed and there are about hundreds of teams building on DApps. Falcon ecosystem is definitely a lot busier after the launch of Fem. We also have built interoperability integration with XLR and Kraken.
00:37:12.460 - 00:37:58.264, Speaker B: There's quite a few web three partners that are building to us. If you're interested in the status of Fem and wanted to have a look at the details of how well it runs, scan the QR code and go to this. Fem explorer that Starboard Ventures has created for us. It pulls all the data from Filecoin blockchain and then analyze it and give you all the insights in there. There is a solidity library for Filecoin. It integrated with many of the actors that I mentioned earlier. You can use these actors directly in your solidity contract if you import Zondex Filecoin solidity.
00:37:58.264 - 00:38:35.892, Speaker B: So take a look at that and they've got some pretty good documentation too about these. There is also quite a few starter kits that the Fem Developer Experience team have created. I encourage you to take a look at the Fevm Hard Hat kit that's been created. It's a repo full of examples of how to interact with Filecoins through Fem. The development experience and the user experience should be pretty close to Ethereum. Filecoin is integrated with MetaMask as well. You can import testnet and then also connect mainnet.
00:38:35.892 - 00:40:00.310, Speaker B: But for hackathon probably you'll only be using the calibration testnet and then the deployment experience. Development experience should be pretty similar to Solidity developers on the EVM compatible chain. So fallcoin overall, the project has attracted many projects to build on top of that and we're very interested in helping the teams to actually go through the funnel, get funding, get expertise from the project, from Protocol Labs, Falcon Foundation, all of the people in the ecosystem. And then what we want them to do is actually use the IPFS and Falcon technology, build their ventures and secure funding to build it even further. So we're working with 15 accelerators out there and then help teams to raise tremendous amount of capital to push them forward. Falcon and IPFS is a perfect combination because IPFS provides a fast flexible retrieval with its gateways local nodes, browser integration, and Filecoin is great for persisting and providing Verifiability for data. So together one has the protocol for File system to go decentralized way and then Filecoin provides the hardware infrastructure and the backup for all of its content.
00:40:00.310 - 00:40:46.576, Speaker B: So on top of Lip RPOD IPFS, you can build protocols like Filecoin. And I also encourage you to take these modules and combine it and build your own protocol if you have a really good idea on this. Also, a lot of people have turned this into a storage business model. So there are a lot of storage helpers out there like Pinata that uses IPFS and NFT Web Three storage. They're charging for the Dropbox storage like systems for users to use it, whether that's household users or developer users out there. So use the stack and build your project. I'll go through this really quickly.
00:40:46.576 - 00:41:37.910, Speaker B: There are some products and tools you can use in your hackathon that will make you not only eligible for the prices that we give out and some of our partners prices, but also, if you use the right tools, that can reduce your build time a lot and then allow you to focus on the important part of your project. You can go to filecoin Ecosystem page to take a look at some of those tools as well. But today I'm going to introduce you to you. NFT Storage. NFT Storage is a public good program. It is a NFT basically Dropbox for NFT for NFT projects out there. So if you're an Ft project, you can use it for free forever and it should work similarly to Dropbox or Google Drive.
00:41:37.910 - 00:42:50.180, Speaker B: It has a pretty awesome API that is able to handle large volume. And then the idea is that when you're minting NFT, use NFT storage for the asset storage and then write the image URL or the asset URL as IPFS links and not centralized version or Http links. Web Three Storage is the same deal as NFT Storage, except this is designed for general storage. So it's super easy to use web three storage. I've used it SDKs to do many things, including this photo booth that you can see on the right corner. This was for one of the conferences that happened in Lisbon last year, web Summit. So the photo booth software was sending photos to a node application that I run on one of the cloud platforms and then it will interpret the APIs from the photo booth software to Webster Storage and then pass back the IPFS link back to the photo boost software.
00:42:50.180 - 00:43:32.116, Speaker B: And then the photo boost software will display a QR code that's got the IPFS link on it. Users can retrieve it from the phone, their favorite selfie from the phone. So it's ultra easy to integrate. I encourage you to use this in your project if you have some storage needs. IPFS is also great for deploying websites. So Fleek and SPHERON are two businesses that have successfully integrated with IPFS and Filecoin. So if you just connect your GitHub repository or GitLab repository to Fleek and Sephiron and it is a website, they can pull it, crawl it and then build it constantly deploy it to IPFS for you.
00:43:32.116 - 00:44:35.612, Speaker B: And I think Sephiron now also runs Compute so you can run backend on their network. Fleek might have similar plans as well, but take a look at their tools, I use them quite often for my demos. Farcoin data tools, specifically Estuary are some tools that are really helpful if you want to hide the complexity of dealing with blockchain. So you can install s three node or just use the cloud version of SRE to interact with Filecoin. It allows you to run IPFS nodes very easily, so storage nodes and then it build all the integration with Filecoin market. So you can make storage deals by clicking through the interface or by sending some APIs. It will automatically orchestrate the deal making behind the scenes and replicate your data for six times and then make those storage deals with storage providers out there.
00:44:35.612 - 00:45:13.560, Speaker B: So take a look at Filecoin data tools, especially Estuary, to see how this can simplify your project. Who and why are people using Filecoin one of the examples. So, first of all, why will people join storage provider business, right? So, Steel Storage is one of the storage provider in Europe. A lot of people join this because they think this is the future of the Internet. And then Filecoin has a really good economic design. So it is a business. So they can get profit out of operating.
00:45:13.560 - 00:45:38.940, Speaker B: In the early days, you can just bring hard drives online to join Falcon Network and get paid for it. And that's a viable business for a lot of people. But as you know, the Falcon economy has certain stages. So later on they will have to start providing real storages. So a lot of them are in with this journey and then are very committed. So seal storage is one of them. And it is seal storage.
00:45:38.940 - 00:46:29.452, Speaker B: Thanks to them, we were able to land a partnership with Atlas Experiments, which is storing CERN valuable scientific research data for CERN. So this is the example of why Filecoin has a stronger proposition than really large cloud platforms out there, because we are working with small businesses, essentially, and small businesses are best to understand their local customers'needs. So CERN is one great example. And Storage, New York City. Open data is also stored on filecoin these days. So public data sets are perfect for Filecoin to store because we're designed to hold enterprise level data. So whole data center, you can migrate to Filecoin.
00:46:29.452 - 00:47:33.700, Speaker B: And then we're designed to last for as long as possible through crypto, economic incentives, and also having so many people joining us, and then permissionless entry and exit, and also replication technologies that we have. So there are many governments that are storing open data on Filecoin for media, medical and research purposes. Filecoin is also very important because we have this verifiable data. The research industry really requires solid, untempered data that they can trust. So Generate is one company that's based in Austin. They are putting human genome sequencing data on Filecoin, and their progress is amazing. So, getting close to the end of my presentation, I'll introduce you a few things to look forward to in this hackathon or beyond this hackathon.
00:47:33.700 - 00:48:15.708, Speaker B: So one of them is retrieval market. So, I mentioned how amazing Filecoin storage network is. To get the data out is a different kind of story. So if you want to retrieve data and read the content very quickly on the Internet, people often rely on this thing called CDN content Delivery Network or CDN. So content Delivery Network content Distribution Network. So to do content distribution network or delivery network in a decentralized way presents many, many challenges. It's easy to do it if you're a centralized company, but it's very hard to do it in a decentralized way.
00:48:15.708 - 00:49:33.768, Speaker B: Retrieval Market was the project program that got set up to encourage projects like Saturn and Titan Network to be built. These are our approaches to building decentralized CDN and Saturn and Titan will be integrated into Filecoin. So in the future you could see that people joining CDN businesses maybe in your city to provide content from IPFS and Filecoin and they might get paid for providing such activity or developers will pay them to speed up the content delivery. Bakayao is the project that I mentioned earlier that tends to do heavy computing. So building up a computing network in a decentralized way and encourage intensive processes to run on storage nodes. So for example, if Filecoin is storing a lot of video data in really high resolution, then Bakayao is made perfectly for people who wants to decode these videos into different resolutions to serve on different devices. Moving these really vast amount of data to elsewhere to perform decoding and transcoding these things is a nightmare because the egress costs will be tremendous.
00:49:33.768 - 00:49:59.664, Speaker B: Falcon is also updating its consensus algorithm. The next one is going to be called Interplanetary Consensus and it is next frontier in blockchain scalability. So I'll talk a little bit more about that later. So retrieval market, if you're interested in that. And then Saturn network is the one that's being launched. Please take a look at that. I believe Saturn also has a price pool of 5000 for this hackathon.
00:49:59.664 - 00:50:24.490, Speaker B: So take a look at their DevTools out there and see if you want to build a project related to decentralized CDN. Bakayao is compute over data. Scan this QR code. Take a look at that. They got some really awesome demos on generative AI and batch computing of really compute intensive jobs. It's step by step. They go through everything for you.
00:50:24.490 - 00:51:05.236, Speaker B: So take a look and hopefully use it in your project. And this is IPC. IPC also has a price pool. I'm not exactly sure what kind of DevTools might be there, but take a look at the price description and see if you would like to do something with this new consensus that we're actively developing. So if you're more interested in that bigger picture of how FalcoIn is doing, what I have said is just the beginning. You can read some industry reports. So some are produced by FalcoIn foundation.
00:51:05.236 - 00:51:38.608, Speaker B: Masari has done a report on Filecoin, they have a quarterly report on Falcon economy and CoinGecko has published State of Decentralized Storage that largely talk about FalcoIn in their report. So you can also talk to me directly if you have questions. I would love to answer your questions on East Global Discord Channel or DM. Me please. I don't turn my DM off. Feel free to ask me a question. I may not know everything, but I'm well connected within Filecoin and Protocol Labs teams.
00:51:38.608 - 00:51:50.810, Speaker B: I will direct your question to the right person for you. So that's all from might I'll see if there are some questions here?
00:51:52.060 - 00:51:55.892, Speaker A: Yeah, there was one question about linking to the economic resources.
00:51:56.036 - 00:52:32.550, Speaker B: Oh, economic resources? Yeah, really simple. Filecoin economy, engineering. Google it. We're still googling these days. So you'd be led straight to the PDF which gives you a higher overview of how things were designed for. But the one that is Crypto Econ Lab is the website that you need to go to to read all the researchers. So I'm going to pop it into the chat and this file coin economy resource over here.
00:52:32.550 - 00:53:35.924, Speaker B: So with Crypto Econ Lab, ZX is lead in this organization, really amazing team there best in the business and they have produced many many resources. So if you want to look at maybe let's see technical reports. I think they have done some researches on how Fem is going to impact Filecoin's economy. Yeah they have all these things. So consensus scaling IPC if you want to read more papers on that and they seem to have done some researches on fee mechanisms. These are really like good public good for rest of the industry because anyone can come and see how they think and have done the work and the know the arithmetic behind things and then you can replicate it to other projects and take parts that will benefit you to so it's pretty good, take a look. Cheers.
00:53:35.924 - 00:53:36.504, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:53:36.542 - 00:53:49.350, Speaker A: Thank you. We've got a few more minutes until the next workshop so thank you everybody for joining and thanks Jenks and yeah he'll be having another workshop in about seven minutes so see you all again soon.
