00:00:07.680 - 00:01:03.312, Speaker A: Hi, my name is damian and I'm member of the core development team, which maintains and develops the Nethermind Ethereum client as core devs. Our goal is to support the health of the Ethereum the best way that we know, by bringing more stability and performance improvements to our client. We collaborate closely with Ethereum foundation and Ethereum development community to discuss, specify and implement features that affect the network. Our interns can contribute to Ethereum improvement proposals such as EBM, object format, account abstraction or vertical trees, just to name a few. And many used to work on historic hard forks like the merge or Shanghai. When working with the core team, you'll have the chance to gain hands on experience and explore the inner workings of Ethereum blockchain and gain a variety of skills in the middle. This includes mastering the latest version of net, an open source development platform, and RocksDB, a key value store that we use for persistence.
00:01:03.312 - 00:02:13.000, Speaker A: You'll also gain experience with distributed networks, specifically peer to peer networks, which are key to understanding blockchain technology. It's a real opportunity to contribute to key areas of Ethereum such as EVM, transaction pool, smart contract execution, state database, or JSON RPC. You can master writing modern, highly efficient and multi credit code using the latest version of net. Gaining this hands on experience in working with complex data structures and asynchronous code will be useful in tackling even the most complicated software engineering tasks in the future, whether they are within or outside blockchain space. This also could be a great starting point for your future career in Ethereum and in wider blockchain scene. If you don't think you have enough skills in C sharp or net, don't worry, our team can bring you up to speed using references to the languages that you may be already familiar with, like C or Java, for example. If you're a bit more advanced already, you can jump right in and start contributing to the network right now, or use Nethermind's plugin functionality to add exciting new features.
00:02:13.000 - 00:02:28.050, Speaker A: No matter what your next goal is, our team of experienced members is there to guide you. We want to encourage creativity and innovation, and we are very much excited to help bring your ideas into life. That's why don't hesitate, go ahead and apply.
00:02:32.390 - 00:03:35.026, Speaker B: Hi everyone, my name is Jorge Arse. I am a mathematician by training and a blockchain and cryptography researcher at Nettermind. In our research team, we're always looking into the latest and most cutting edge protocols and tools in the blockchain space, so we're a pretty good place to learn what is new? Working with us, you'll learn about cryptography concepts such as consensus protocols, signatures, key sharing schemes, and zk snarks and starks, which you may have noticed are insanely popular these days, deserve potential for privacy and scalability. We also work with blockchain solutions such as roll ups, liquid staking, decentralized identity, distributed validators, and many, many, many more. You will likely recognize some of the projects that we have had the pleasure to work with. Take Lido for example, the largest liquid staking protocol on Ethereum, and we helped them discover and explore decentralized identity and verifiable credentials. These days we are researching decentralized dispute resolution mechanisms on ethereum.
00:03:35.026 - 00:04:25.320, Speaker B: These will boost the Lido protocol and will help them bring on board permissionless validators. Then there's oball, a leader in the field of distributed validator technology, or DVT for short. Our collaboration with Obal is pushing the boundaries of consensus protocols and cryptographic elements like threshold signatures and verifiable delay functions. A DVT tech is an incredibly cool piece of technology and will likely have a very large impact in Ethereum as well. So are you up for it? We're always on the hunt for talented and curious minds. If you've got an academic background in cryptography, computer science or related fields, or if you're programming with with a deep understanding of the Ethereum protocol, then you might just be the person that we're looking for. But above all, curiosity is key.
00:04:25.320 - 00:04:38.140, Speaker B: So if you're on the fence, just take it from a former nettermine intern who gave it his all and now works in this industry full time. You never know what doors this program can open for you. Hope to see you inside.
00:04:42.340 - 00:05:41.184, Speaker C: Hello, my name is Joey and I am the infra group manager at anothermond. I have been working in IT industry for the last decade and specializing the infrastructure area. The Nethermond DevOps team works on projects such as node operator, so currently we operate and maintain more than 8000 validators on both Ethereum minute as well as for Lido. Lido is the largest staking provider on Ethereum. By working on this project, you work in the experience of how to set up, alerting and monitoring. We use technologies such as Grafana and promises. We also have opportunity to work on diverse internal support which includes architect solutions for other teams and projects.
00:05:41.184 - 00:06:57.868, Speaker C: DevOps supports on Voyager which is a dedicated blockchain block explorer for stacknets. It includes setting up the infrastructure, improving the infrastructure, as well as the CI CD automation on each build of the code. We also work on a lot slack bot integration notion integration in house and we constantly working on cost optimization on many cloud provider. So by working on this part you will get not only the Linux operating system skills as well as the command line tools skills. You will be exposed to programming languages such as Python, Golin and Bash as a scripting language. You will learn a lot in infrastructure as code toolings which we use terraform and you will gain a lot insights from cloud provider. Mainly it's AWS, that's what we heavily running our production system on.
00:06:57.868 - 00:07:34.970, Speaker C: You will be also able to design and implement highly available, secure and reliable system through working on different projects in this part, as I mentioned, that's about the project at another mine in DevOps team you will have opportunity to work on and we're very excited to get you on board, so please apply to this program. Thank you.
00:07:38.530 - 00:08:26.618, Speaker D: Hi, my name is Roberto and I am the lead for the real time monitoring team which is part of Nethermind Security Group. This group consists of three teams, smart contract audits, real time monitoring and formal verification. The first team is all about security auditing for smart contracts. If you're looking to join this team, keen attention to detail is crucial as you'll be spotting problems that even the developers may have overlooked. Having a proven track record of uncovering bugs and code and experience with web3 CTFs or writing security related blog posts would be great. As part of the team, you'll have the opportunity to enhance your security skills by working on cutting edge protocols in both the Ethereum and Starknet ecosystems. This includes protocols related to lending NFTs, staking auctions and vesting.
00:08:26.618 - 00:09:14.570, Speaker D: The second team focuses on real time monitoring solutions for blockchain activity. We work closely with the Fortune network, which is where we build detection bots. If you want to be a part of the development of these bots, you'll need to research the exploitative techniques attackers use and get familiar with protocol's code bases and documentation. By joining this team, you'll strengthen your skills with typescript and dive into tools like ethersjs. You'll also have the opportunity to deepen and broaden your knowledge of the different types of exploits that occur in the web. Three space the third team focuses on the use and development of formal methods and techniques for formally verifying smart contracts. We primarily focus on using the lean proof system to verify EVM based and starknet smart contracts and zero knowledge circuits.
00:09:14.570 - 00:09:39.320, Speaker D: We also developed the horror's automated formal verification tool, which allows developers to annotate their starknet smart contracts with simple specifications that the tool can then attempt to formally verify hold. If you join this team, you'll strengthen your functional programming skills. We mostly use Haskell and lean, as well as your knowledge of formal methods, programming language, semantics and smart contract security.
00:09:43.480 - 00:10:25.676, Speaker E: Hello, my name is Lazaro. I'm tech lead at Nethermind, currently leading smart contract developers in our DeFi research and Development group. We are a group of blockchain and financial professionals that specializes in DeFi research and development for institutional clients. We deliver a wide range of services that help our clients tap into the power of blockchain technology and decentralized finance. If you join our team, you will get to explore a variety of services and products that we work on as part of our tending. At due diligence service, you will be involved in researching the latest happenings in the blockchain space. This means reviewing, for example, emerging stable coins, staking products, bridges, oracles and L2s.
00:10:25.676 - 00:11:35.690, Speaker E: So you will develop technical knowledge about differing aspects of the industry and underlying technology, and you will be involved in creating reports, summaries and comparisons to dig even deeper into these developments. Interns also have the opportunity to gain hands on experience in the citing world of defi and explore topics like tokenization and derivatives, which are key aspects of our recent projects. You will work closely with our smart contract developers and contribute in every aspect of our projects. We also have some great opportunities for you to develop your engineering skills. You will gain experience by using onchain data analytic tools to assist our clients and learn all about extracting, processing and organizing data from the blockchain. Classifying transaction traces and extracting MeV data are among the tasks that you will face in the process of mastering the ins and outs of working with blockchain data. Another cool thing is that our engineers call the full escope of development as they handle all the web two related work our clients need, along with integrating all the web3 components into the systems we build.
00:11:35.690 - 00:12:05.010, Speaker E: So if you are looking to become a full stack developer, our team will help you with that goal so you will get the right guidance to participate both front end and backend development. Plus, you will dive into wallet infrastructure and monitoring related work as well as all other offchain interaction with the blockchain that our projects involve. Just like you, we are still in the early stages of the blockchain ecosystem, so we'd love to welcome you to our program and grow together. Thank you.
00:12:10.660 - 00:12:40.380, Speaker F: Hi, my name is Swapnil. I'm a traditional computer scientist for training and I specialize in compilers. At Nethermind, I lead the Starnet teams. Starknet, as you might already know, is a validity rollup. It uses ZK Stark to prove and compress computation from off chain onto Ethereum. And together with these zk proofs and the amazing community that we have in Starknet, we are scaling Ethereum. Since Starknet goes to scale Ethereum, we also get a chance to work with some of the most smartest people in the industry.
00:12:40.380 - 00:13:31.630, Speaker F: We also focus a lot on developer tooling and developer experience for the Saturn developers. In the past we've also worked with protocols to educate them about Saturn and also port their protocols onto Saturnet like we worked with Ave. The skills that you get to learn if you choose to work at the start of team at Nethermind are CK stocks, P to P consensus, database design and so much more. And lastly, you'll also get the chance to make Ethereum the global settlement layer. Some of the cool projects that we do under the Sarkin umbella at Nevermind are Juno, which is a full node implementation in Golang and the goal of Juno is to decentralize Starknet. So working on Juno you learn about ZK Starks, P to P consensus incentive design and so much more. Then there's Voyager, which is a block explorer and the goal of Voyager is to make the data of startner accessible to everyone.
00:13:31.630 - 00:14:24.420, Speaker F: The biggest problems we solve and the Voyager team are actually ingesting all the data for the entire network, then segregating it, indexing it and making our data pipelines. So the skills we use are database design, algorithms and data structures and cloud computing. Then there's remix project for Startnet and the idea of that is to enable a Startnet experience inside the remix editor and make remix the best place to start a new project. Experience with compilers, static analysis tools and just rethinking about the developer experience is what we are doing at the remix plugins. And lastly, take it from me, I started as a compiler engineer and now work on decentralizing Sarknet, making the data accessible to everyone and just helping the developer community. Working Onnet has put me in touch with some of the smartest people and just some of the newest ideas in the industry. So yeah, come join one of the best teams in the industry.
