00:00:00.250 - 00:00:40.234, Speaker A: It's so exhausting to keep up with all these new DeFi projects. But very few DeFi projects are really original. Most of them are copies and just reuse the same smart contracts. And if you know these contracts, it's much easier to analyze new DeFi projects and spot patterns. In this video I will show you the three most important smart contracts in DeFi that have been reused times and times. Again, it Uniswap V two pair is a smart contract created by Uniswap Uniswap is the biggest decentralized exchange on Ethereum. Traders can use Uniswap to trade their ES 20 tokens in a decentralized way, and the Uniswap V two contract is at the core of this system.
00:00:40.234 - 00:01:16.498, Speaker A: Each pair contract represents an automated market maker for a specific market. There is a separate pair contract for each market. What makes this smart contract so special is the so called constant product formula, an algorithm that is used to determine the price of the token. It is used by a large number of decentralized exchange on Ethereum and also on other chains including sushi swap and pancake swap. Uniswap V two pair has been updated to V three, but most protocol who folked Uniswap still use the V two version and this version is also easier to understand. That's why I recommend to study the V two version. First.
00:01:16.498 - 00:01:54.614, Speaker A: Governor Alpha is a smart contract created by compound. Compound is the biggest lending protocol on ethereum. It is used to borrow and lend Yas 20 tokens on the blockchain. The governor alpha contract is used for the governance of the compound ecosystem. Holders of the comp token, the governance token of compound can use Governor alpha to vote for the parameters and the evolution of the compound protocol. Governor Alpha is used in the governance of a large number of protocols and daos. Governor Alpha has been updated to a new version called Governor Bravo, but most other protocols still use Governor alpha and the updates of Governor Bravo are minors.
00:01:54.614 - 00:02:34.654, Speaker A: That's why I recommend to study Governor Alpha first. MasterChef is a smart contract created by Sushiswap Sushiswap is one of the largest decentralized exchange on Ethereum. Sushiswap was originally a fork of Ethereum, but it did bring some innovations like MasterChef. MasterChef is a smart contract that is used to build staking pools with MasterChef. Users can lock their token in a smart contract and in exchange they will get a token reward. Besides Sushiswap, MasterChef has been used in many other protocols like Pancakeswap MasterChef is probably the most forked smart contract the whole blockchain ecosystem. So now you know the most important smart contracts in D five.
00:02:34.654 - 00:02:49.180, Speaker A: The next step is to go read their code and understand how they work in detail. What is especially important is to understand how you can interact with this smart contract. And on my channel, I have another video that dive deep into uniswap V two pair. I will see you there.
