00:00:10.420 - 00:00:48.612, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Thank you for joining my talk. My name is Jake Ruckman. I'm the founder of Coin Fund, which is a sort of early US based, crypto focused fund. We're based in New York. Today I'd like to give a talk called Blockchain Spaces to Watch where I present a few sort of interesting areas of blockchain that we as investors and more importantly researchers have been studying and that I think are interesting. This list is by no means comprehensive so I'll just try to run through a couple.
00:00:48.612 - 00:01:27.396, Speaker A: There's many other areas. First, I'd like to talk a little bit about Coin Fund because that helps to frame how we think about technology development, how the companies develop in the blockchain space. Coin Fund, as I said, is pretty early. We launched our first fund in July of 2015, had a long resume in the blockchain space. In March of last year, we partnered with the folks at BenRock and David Pakman, big VC firm in the US. To look at crypto together. And so far I've done two investments together with them, including CryptoKitties, Dapper Labs as well as three bots.
00:01:27.396 - 00:02:40.764, Speaker A: Most recently, when people ask us what do we invest in, we like to say we're sort of full stack investors across decentralized networks. And as I'll talk about our thesis is really about networks, but also the rails, meaning the companies that facilitate the growth and operation of these networks. Furthermore, we are a pretty technical team and we like studying the technology down to the lowest level of the layers and we do something called generalized mining. Or in other words, as a fund we like to participate in the decentralized networks that are in our portfolio. Talk a little bit more about that. Generally, our thesis is around the fact that these networks long term can create massive disruption in many traditional markets. But kind of the insight that we're working toward is that the way that you capture the value of that is not in the long term operation of those networks, but rather in the transition from centralized world into a world where these networks exist.
00:02:40.764 - 00:04:01.440, Speaker A: There's a lot to talk about there, so I'm not going to dive too deeply into it, but happy to talk to folks after the talk and because we think that that's the thing that we're investing in. The way we invest is tailored to this idea of decentralized networks kind of coming to fruition, growing, becoming bootstrapped, eventually becoming enough of a force in the traditional market our funds. Therefore I sometimes get upset because people call us a VC fund but we're a crypto fund. And what that means to me is that we do something called Network Lifecycle investment. It means that in the early stages of decentralized networks, we might be backing teams and their private equity of their private companies that are building the networks. And in the middle stages, as the networks are coming online, we might be helping to bootstrap those networks with capital or by running a validator node or staking or doing software mining like we did in Liver which is a subject of my talk at East Denver take a look at. And finally, when those networks come to production we can engage in trading the liquid assets of those networks and hopefully those networks have liquid assets.
00:04:01.440 - 00:05:27.020, Speaker A: So in light of the fact that that's what we think about investing in blockchain the most interesting things to us are areas that first of all have technological breakthroughs. We're a very flexible fund and this technology is constantly evolving in our space and always turning over. Number two, we look for things that have viable business models and hopefully token models because interacting with tokens allows us to manage risk more effectively. We look for networks that have what we call generalized mining or supply side strategies. In other words, open networks would do things like running nodes mining participating somehow in the supply side that actually helps the network come to fruition. This is very different from what, let's say a traditional Wall Street hedge fund does when it dispassionately trades the stock of a company not really caring necessarily about the underlying business of that company but when we participate in the bootstrapping of networks we deeply care about the long term success and that's why we're doing it. We look at underappreciated sort of beachheads into markets or communities that are better suited to blockchain than other communities which I'll talk about shortly.
00:05:27.020 - 00:06:49.290, Speaker A: And especially and Threebox is a great example of this sort of products that have both crypto native and traditional demand. So when you talk about self sovereign identity and storage which is what Three Box is working on you can clearly see a need in web Three for identity right in various contexts. But more interestingly there are very traditional consumer tech companies building things like IoT devices and collecting loads of private user data that don't necessarily want the liability of holding that data in centralized services. And so they're looking for ways of putting it into decentralized networks stuff that we're more or more skeptical about, things that are hypey. And I tend to think that people often overestimate the ability of big tech companies to launch cryptocurrencies and things like that constantly see startups that are great ideas but just too early or too late. A lot of times when folks build decentralized networks and then start to build a company around it they say what's your business model? And they say well we're going to build value added services, we're going to run nodes for people. We're going to allow like one click kind of node services.
00:06:49.290 - 00:07:46.312, Speaker A: But we see companies providing that across networks and getting like massive economies of scale that are not issuers of networks themselves. So we're kind of skeptical about that and perhaps the hard way just being in the space for many years now and watching different token models kind of come to fruition. We've become a little bit grumpy and more skeptical about models that capture value. So let me jump into interesting spaces. And I've never given this talk, so I'm not sure how I'll do on time. I'll try to adjust my pace. NFT Origination, what do I mean by that? I mean companies and products that enable an artist to take a piece of artwork, turn it into a non fungible token, or perhaps some kind of collectible and the insight here.
00:07:46.312 - 00:08:18.310, Speaker A: And as I said, I'm based in New York. We have a great art tech community in New York. And so what I see is an excellent fit between that community and blockchain technology. Artist folks are super curious. They want to play around with new tech. They're willing to pay a little bit of money to do weird things like buy a digital cat. And generally they have really embraced sort of a lot of these origination platforms, like Known Origin and Super Rare and even OpenSea Who's here.
00:08:18.310 - 00:08:56.720, Speaker A: And I think it's a great kind of beachhead into a market that perhaps isn't as obvious to people who are not in those communities. Moreover, when these folks have now gone and created a bunch of digital artwork, but there's no real place to display that artwork or really do anything with it. And that's one of the challenges and problems of the space. What we see is virtual worlds coming online. One that's in production today is called Crypto Voxels. Another one that's going to be released shortly is decentraland. And when you walk through Crypto Voxels today, most of the buildings inside that world are art galleries.
00:08:56.720 - 00:09:46.690, Speaker A: So moreover, you can also walk through these art galleries using a VR headset, like an Oculus Quest. And the reason I said Oculus Quest class is because this is the first headset where you don't have to tether to a giant computer. You can just kind of put it on anywhere and go, that's really cool. And they've been selling fast. So there's this early signal that maybe VR is going to help virtual worlds, the virtual world is going to help people display their tr. There's still a lot of challenges here. Like as an investor, I think it's super interesting, this market, because it has the opportunity to create a new market for artists to sell their art, but also for retail users to have a new asset class in art that they couldn't have before.
00:09:46.690 - 00:10:39.456, Speaker A: But creating a new market is really hard. We need more places where NFTs can be used, digital picture frames. We have three or four companies doing that, but none of them are connected to an NFT marketplace, for example. So that's an interesting area. When you are an issuer of NFTs, how do you create defensibility? Like, why should someone use you versus your competitor? There's a lot of questions around that. And most interestingly, and no one has really quite dug too deeply into this yet is if you're an artist, you want to make a cut perhaps every time your piece changes hands, that means you don't just make money when you first sell your art, you make money every time a new person enjoys your art. And artists get really excited about that model.
00:10:39.456 - 00:11:38.928, Speaker A: Have a couple of lawyers in the room, right? Artists have told me like in the traditional world we're using paper contracts. This has never worked because nobody really honors that. But using blockchain technologies you can enforce those kinds of business models and artists get really excited about it. Let's get technical. When I watch folks like, I don't know, Nuriel RabinI testify in front of the US congress and say blockchains don't scale, I get the sense that he doesn't know what he's talking about because I just came back from Berlin and have been watching a ton of progress in the scalability of blockchain and side chain technology. In particular, and very interestingly in this idea of K Rollers that the colleague has described, these are technologies that solve TPS at throughput. They solve the decentralization of the operators of the side chain, they solve privacy.
00:11:38.928 - 00:12:35.396, Speaker A: And they also now come with what's likely to be fairly operative programming languages. And practically what you can achieve with these things is 500 to 2000 TPS, I think like as an Ethereum side chain or even more with certain technologies you can achieve like 50 x fee improvements. Privacy centralization. As I said. But why is that kind of important? Well, when I think about side chains, I think about like DEXes, right? DEXes don't have good liquidity today. But my bet is the reason that they don't is because it's incredibly expensive to be a market maker on a Dex that is on chain. When you take this kind of technology and you lower the fees, you increase the throughput, it now becomes a lot more financially viable to market, make decentralized exchanges and I think the liquidity of DEXes goes up.
00:12:35.396 - 00:13:21.460, Speaker A: So I think in the next twelve to 18 months going to see quite a bit of that. And just at this conference we have at least two side chain projects that I just heard of, talks of and probably many more. So the challenge with these kind of side chain tech chain tech is of course new programming paradigms. When you're on top of like zero knowledge proofs, you get some limitations in your programming languages to build this stuff is a fairly complex math and computer science challenge. You might sometimes inherit limitations as a base layer, like ZK rollups. They have to put in a bunch of proofs into the Ethereum chain, but they're limited by the size of the transaction. That's actually going to improve a little bit.
00:13:21.460 - 00:14:03.730, Speaker A: The cost of that will improve a bit with the Istanbul hard fork that's happening in Ethereum. And of course, as always with any kind of blockchain community you need a developer base. And so you need to think about interoperability with other programming languages, other developer communities, with other hacks, like this DeFi wallets. Super exciting area sometimes. I've felt in the last couple of weeks that the number of DeFi wallets is doubling every two weeks or something like that. A lot of folks have presented like high UX experiences. If you've seen Argent, if you've seen Dex wallet, there's a ton of them.
00:14:03.730 - 00:15:05.060, Speaker A: And what these wallets are solving for Is and creating a case for Is mainstream user experience. They're getting rid of the transaction fees that you need to move assets back and forth. They're getting rid of passphrases that you have to write down and replacing that with multiparty computation or social recovery, as you see with Guardians and Argent, and they're adding fiat to crypto Rails in the app. So now you can go to your bank account and you can convert like $10 into ten die and then go lend it. What's really, really interesting is if you're a L2 project, especially State Channel projects, you want to integrate with all of these wallets because you know that primary crypto native use case here is token transfers. You got something like 500,000 to a million transactions a day on Ethereum. Maybe like half of them are transferring tokens.
00:15:05.060 - 00:15:49.430, Speaker A: And so actually, does anyone have a sense of what's the median size of an Ether transaction in a given day in dollars? Anyone want to take a guess? $15? $5? It's $500. So if you take MetaMask reported right, there's 1.5 million transactions on MetaMask in April this year. Wall parking times $500. Times stolen, it's $8.8 billion. So there's nontrivial market share to be had here in just transfers of wallets, potentially, and especially in State Channel related to technologies that want to serve that use case.
00:15:49.430 - 00:16:43.936, Speaker A: Wallets are tough, though. What's the business like? If you're an investor, why do you make money by investing in the wallet? How does the wallet make money? And a lot of wallets they put forward this model will say, oh, we'll offer like D Five services, like lending to the user, and it will skim a little transaction fee off the top. But of course that's a problem. Like if you're using compound that has variable rates and you onboard 100,000 real users, well, the rate goes to zero. So it's tough. You need more and better sort of D Five services that will enable you to monetize. If you're curating which DeFi services are available in your wallet, then some competitor is going to come along and open that up and maybe give the consumer more choice and maybe eventually consumers will prefer that wallet.
00:16:43.936 - 00:17:28.284, Speaker A: So there's a lot of competition there to open protocols and not a lot of wallets. Really. Have thought about crypto native business models, something like TTRS on what apps are available inside of the wallet? Smart tokens. I just kind of made that up when I say smart tokens, I just mean things like set protocol. Have you guys seen set protocol? Yeah. So I think this is super interesting that you can put an entire trading strategy into a token. And the thing that sort of blew my mind in Berlin when I was thinking about this is like, imagine a token that gives you exposure to following strategy.
00:17:28.284 - 00:18:07.650, Speaker A: You look at a stablecoin. If that stablecoin falls below a dollar, you buy it, and if it goes above a dollar, you sell it. So it's like a pure arbitrage strategy on a stable coin. And then you can package that up into a token. So you just commit capital that by putting money into a smart contract and then getting sort of a set protocol type token back. So what's interesting about that space is that it has like a really large design space for what you can do with smart tokens. You could put this strategy, you could put that strategy, you can create a basket of goods, you can create some sort of dynamic trading scenario that you're getting exposure to.
00:18:07.650 - 00:19:12.340, Speaker A: And why that's interesting to us is because on the back end, someone has to rebalance these things, right? If you guys have seen like, idle Finance, right, you have 20 lending protocols. They all have different lending rates for Dai, however, there's another protocol that optimizes and gives you the best rates out of the 20 and someone on the back end of balances that. So when I hear about opportunities like that and I think toward an increase in the usage of these things, I think, oh, there's an opportunity for rebalancing and making some capital there as a fund. And again, by doing that, we're making money, but we're also making the system operate. That makes me feel good very early in that space. There's a lot of friction, I think still a lot of work to create a smart token. And there's certainly not enough throughput there for rebalancing to create a strategy big enough for a fund today.
00:19:12.340 - 00:20:07.620, Speaker A: But maybe that changes over the next several years and DeFi as a whole, it's not clear if there is a market fit. I think it's very promising and I think millennials will really go for the idea. But to expect that DeFi will be sort of integrated into the larger world I think will take some more time. Of course, it's also a challenging regulatory field against looking at the lawyers here because you can easily accidentally create some kind of derivative that is regulated when making these kinds of tokens. And finally, Dows and Dow Tech. I was around during the time when the Dow happened and spectacularly exploded and we had a couple of years where we needed to calm down and cool off. And it really seems like this year we've come back to Dow Technologies.
00:20:07.620 - 00:20:36.460, Speaker A: This has been a high experimentation area this year. Dows have now millions of dollars in AUM, at least $2 million in AUM. At Molok. There's a bunch of Molok forks, including MetaCartel. Yang dow is a dow that's tasked with creating memes for Andrew Yang's 2020 US. Presidential campaign. Of course, Aragon and Dow stack platforms for these kinds of technologies.
00:20:36.460 - 00:21:21.112, Speaker A: And I think on the 15th of this month, edgeware is launching on polka dot with an eye toward kind of being a governance layer on the blockchain as well. To me, Dows are much more general than, oh, we're taking a company and making that into a smart contract. I see them as, like, very general human coordination technology. So, for example, if you live in New York and you're a young person and you have three roommates and everybody has to coordinate on paying rent every month, well, you can use this technology to facilitate that kind of coordination. And that's probably, like, not in most people's minds when they think about DAOs. And it's not in most people's minds when they think about building DeFi wallets that give people financial services. But, hey, that's a microservice.
00:21:21.112 - 00:22:01.740, Speaker A: That's a micro financial service. Dows also love memes and have very successfully proliferated across the Internet. And if you don't believe me, check out what Yang Dao has been doing with Andrew. So, you know, Ross talked a bit about making DAOs work with legal jurisdiction. Someone told me today here at the Hackathon that they couldn't even submit their iOS app unless they had a company. And so if you're a Dao that wants to build iOS products, unfortunately, you're going to have to have an LSD wrapper or some kind of wrapper to do that. Still very early in the tech.
00:22:01.740 - 00:22:38.490, Speaker A: It's very hard to build Dows. There's a huge barrier to entry. But that being said, at East Berlin, someone created a way that you could fork Molok DAOs now very quickly. Now, on the more theoretical side, I think Dows are very biased toward voting systems. We're always thinking about using tokens to vote on proposals, and there's a group of people that say, oh, that collapses into plutocracy because the people with the most money get the most votes. And then there are other people like me who say, that's probably fine. It depends on your use case.
00:22:38.490 - 00:23:46.584, Speaker A: But overall, voting systems are just one way to coordinate people. There's also things like cooperation games. There's also something like, diffuse this bomb in 24 hours and cooperate to do that or you guys all die, right? There's many different ways to coordinate people in this manner. And so whereas humans existed for, like, hundreds of thousands of years, governance has existed for much less time, probably thousands of years. And companies as we know them probably existed for maybe hundreds of years, right? And voting systems have been studied mathematically for about 200 years. But we still have so much to learn about the ideas of government, and I think Dows are, like, the perfect venue where you can experiment with this kind of stuff and that's what we've been doing in space in 2019. So, in summary, this is not comprehensive, but there's a lot of very interesting innovation happening as you head to the hackathon or your next hackathon.
00:23:46.584 - 00:24:09.028, Speaker A: Think about these areas. If you're an investor, there are incredible investment opportunities in the transition to these kinds of technologies and there's so much more kind of experimentation to do. So please do it. Thank you. Go ahead. Okay. And I don't know where we're Preston is yet.
00:24:09.028 - 00:24:25.512, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. He might be just outside. Okay. I had a quick question. Do any dog creators use blockchain tech to fund for your fund? Yes, all the time. I immersed myself into NFT World. Like, first quarter of this year.
00:24:25.512 - 00:24:43.810, Speaker A: I built a digital gallery. It's called the Wine and Gallery. Inside of Crypto Voxels, I have a curated gallery of NFTs that artists have created called First Edition Art. You can check it out. So absolutely all the time. Yes, sir. You talked about DeFi wallets, but you didn't say like, which ones you would invest in.
00:24:43.810 - 00:24:50.050, Speaker A: I'm not sure I would right now. Very early.
00:24:52.420 - 00:24:56.164, Speaker B: All right, so DeFi wallets, that take.
00:24:56.202 - 00:24:57.524, Speaker A: Some skin off the top.
00:24:57.642 - 00:24:59.190, Speaker B: Do you really think that.
00:25:01.240 - 00:25:01.636, Speaker A: You could.
00:25:01.658 - 00:25:10.600, Speaker B: Just interact with a compound contract yourself? If I was brave enough to launch my own version of our diary, for example, now there's.
00:25:12.380 - 00:25:13.380, Speaker A: Pool die.
00:25:13.460 - 00:25:38.610, Speaker B: You can just get together in a pool and then the interest goes to a third party. All that is is launching a smart contract. They don't charge anything. So there's this kind of idea that there's a lot of people in the space that are building things without a business model and that's okay. How do you think those people are? They hurting the possibility for making more sustainable companies by doing that?
00:25:42.820 - 00:26:06.090, Speaker A: I don't think so. I think people will just experiment with things and they'll come up with business models that work. At the core of your question is the question of whether skimming interest off the top works. I think it's not that likely to work because if you do that, then your competitor just goes around you and returns. That spread back to the consumer. Consumer gets a better rate and prefers that wallet. Right.
00:26:06.090 - 00:26:33.536, Speaker A: Wallets are really tough. DeFi aside. Right. It's just like how do you make money as a wallet? Most applications like that are sort of like loss leaders for these companies. I was going to ask, what do you think about the central banks having clients? I think it's great. I think it puts our industry sort of in the forefront. It gets us in the news.
00:26:33.536 - 00:26:48.150, Speaker A: It validates the thesis that cryptocurrencies should be a thing in the world. Are they going to sort of co opt their space? I think that's like an open question, but for now it seems to be a good thing in terms of PR for watching.
