00:00:10.170 - 00:00:42.538, Speaker A: Thank you everybody, for coming here. So, for those who have been around for a couple of years, you've probably heard of Roostock. So back in January 2016, Roostock was founded. And it was the very first side chain built on bitcoin. And it was the very first project that realized the power of combining the security of bitcoin network, as well as the programmability of Ethereum. Fast forward. Here we are 2022.
00:00:42.538 - 00:01:42.142, Speaker A: And we are not just Roostock or RSK. We've built a layer three protocol called Riff, and we also acquired one of the largest social media platform called Taringa. It has 30 million plus users based in Latin America, and we're in more than 30 countries, and we have over 180 employees all around the globe. I think our vision never really changed. We wanted to build a safe and equitable global financial system that would enable everyone to participate and prosper. We're not satisfied to serve the 1%, to serve the 99% of the world population, and we wanted to include everybody in this shifting paradigm that has decentralized the technology inside it. Our mission is very simple.
00:01:42.142 - 00:02:42.794, Speaker A: We wanted to enable our vision, and the fastest way to do that is to support the most innovative minds and team. So we provide the next generation of fintech innovators with the decentralized technology and tools to build a new global economy. But if you take a step back, I think we're really motivated by this massive global challenge that we are all facing today. I myself started working in the traditional finance back in 2010, right after the financial crisis. And the following years, we all witnessed the quantitative easing by central banks. We've seen the rising government debt and the rising cost of living around the globe. And we also witnessed the inflation and the most recently, deglobalization that was exacerbated by the pandemic, unfortunately.
00:02:42.794 - 00:03:32.842, Speaker A: So now, suddenly, we found ourselves in this economic polar Cris, where we are surrounded by inflation and who feels the most pain? I would say the emerging markets, the users who don't have access to advanced financial systems or the means to make an earning and save consistently. And a lot of them are underbanked. I think this challenge is not to be taken lightly. We're not talking about having the access to being able to do trading with leverage. We're not talking about yield farming opportunities. We're talking about the day to day needs to be able to save and be able to transfer and transact with each other. And we are talking about having that basic layer of trust with government and your banks.
00:03:32.842 - 00:03:58.150, Speaker A: And that does not exist in emerging markets. And I think the problem is it's spreading. It's not just about emerging markets. It's the Europe and it's the United States. The inflation is here just around ourselves as well in the states. And the cost of living is also rising rapidly with a declining purchasing power. We need a solution.
00:03:58.150 - 00:04:50.070, Speaker A: Well, back in 2019, when the DFI just came out, we thought that might be the solution. The DfI by Ethereum, that could solve all the problems. But we have to face that the advanced DFI, or as we know, the DFI today, is not for everyone. It's way too advanced for the ordinary people, the normal people in a lot of the countries and the world. This advanced DeFi is for really the savvy crowned of maybe all of you who understand how to leverage and use the financial systems, and understand the basics of finance and risk management. It's for the retail users in the western and advanced mature markets. But in this global crisis, we look for something better and more affordable.
00:04:50.070 - 00:06:12.100, Speaker A: And this is a chain analysis, global crypto adoption index back in 2021. And if you look around, the true adoption, if you consider true adoption, is using crypto for payments and for the non speculative use cases, we see the adoption taking place in places such as Vietnam, India, Pakistan, Ukraine, most recently Venezuela, where there's decades of mismanagement from top to the bottom. And Argentina, which witnessed 52% of inflation just in 2022. Those are the largest recipients of world's remittances, cash flows. And that's where I believe, and we believe that crypto was designed for, this technology is designed for solving problems just like that. Another research paper actually indicated that in Latin America, specifically speaking, people and the users are not just buying crypto as an investment, they're using the crypto as a means, a store of value. They use it as an inflation hedge, and they use it as a means of non bank payments and able to transfer their funds to their families and their friends.
00:06:12.100 - 00:07:00.766, Speaker A: So this is where we believe, and when we believe a new era of the mainstream adoption has begun. We call it everyday deFi, because this is really about addressing the everyday uses and needs. We believe it will be driven by people trapped by weak local currencies, with declining purchasing power, and a desire to protect their financial interests during the period of extraordinary global economic turmoil. And it will be defined by normal people, like everybody. And it will be built by the most competitive long tail neo banks, maybe, of the future. And this is actually one of the most massive and largest market opportunities. If you look at the stats.
00:07:00.766 - 00:07:53.598, Speaker A: So simply put it out there you have a few millions of advanced defi user wallets, while you're dealing with over a billion, one and a half billion underbanked and unbanked populations and users in the world. So we're not covering the gap anytime soon. And there's a lot more to do because we wanted to make everyday defi an everyday reality. And that's the only way to really bring the next billion users onto the crypto rails. But what does that mean? That means we have to build for it, and we have to build it with specific principles. There are three principles we share and value at ILV Labs and at Rustoc. The first one is to build a simple and intuitive user experiences.
00:07:53.598 - 00:08:52.710, Speaker A: All as best products, must be simple. And secondly, we have to focus our efforts around education. The education especially around risk and opportunities, how they play off with each other after lunar and Terra. I think you can all understand that. And the goal is really through that process to safeguard users from big and obvious traps and also to protect them from big malicious actors. And I'm here today to tell you that all of this can be built with riff and on Roostock. So very quickly, the reminder and refresher what is Roostock? A roostock is a decentralized L2 blockchain that leverage the bitcoin mergent mining aspect, as well as the Ethereum virtual machines for compatibility, composability and interoperability.
00:08:52.710 - 00:09:50.086, Speaker A: It is simply the most secure smart contract blockchain platform out there in the world. Our ecosystem has grown a lot thanks to our partners and strategic projects in the space. We have Saburn, which is our trading platforms that allows for lending, borrowing, margin trading. Using bitcoin, you can take our 0% interest rate loan on sovereign and it's a Dex. We have money on chain, which is a platform that houses many ways of using, creating stable coins using the bitcoin, and you can earn an income through multiple ways. Then you also have tropicas, which is a decentralized lending protocol that was created specifically to serve the Latin american margins. Colombia we're all going to Bogota this month, so we'll see that firsthand.
00:09:50.086 - 00:10:45.142, Speaker A: It is important to support those micro loans and the businesses on the ground and using the perfect project, the technology we're developing. So stablecoins, wallets, exchanges on off ramps, as well as some of the strategic partners such as Chainlink and other Oracles project in the space. That's how we consider our ecosystem will continue to evolve. And the riff? What is riff? So the riff is a service layer of open decentralized protocols that run on roostock, but it's not limited to roostock. We're trying to make it compatible with multiple layers, layer ones and L2s. But riffs will help developers build scalable defi dapps faster and easier. To sum it up, I think those are the four functionalities we're looking to enable.
00:10:45.142 - 00:11:41.630, Speaker A: Our product team is looking to allow everyday DeFi users to be able to save, to borrow, to send, and to pay seamlessly and effortlessly in a very affordable way. This might be a little premature revealing of what the product team is building. It's the rift product suite roadmap and we have a few different layers of approaches. How we think about the everyday D five use cases can be best supported from the very top. It's the stablecoin rdoc. It's a stablecoin collateralized by riff, and it supports payments and b two b lending use cases and then going down. You will see the naming services, the smart wallets and the DFI gateways that will essentially help the neo banks of the world to get on web3 much more faster.
00:11:41.630 - 00:12:27.974, Speaker A: It's a lot like RNS is a lot like Ens. It's human address readable addresses that can introduce trust and usability into your day to day transactions. It itself is an NFT. The smart wallet is composable and extensible. And the gateway, it connects the users with a variety of DeFi protocols right there. And of course we think about payments and transfers a lot around scalability, security and the cost of doing so. Aggregation and relay are the two specific protocols that we are implementing to enable the small to medium sized money transfers much faster.
00:12:27.974 - 00:13:07.806, Speaker A: It's an implementation of the ZK sync on the roost dock. The bridge is specifically about the bridge to Ethereum, so that way the tokens between Ethereum and the roostock can transfer across the chain very easily. And lastly fly over. This is something quite new and exciting. We are looking to enable much faster on ramping of bitcoin. A lot of bitcoin holders are out there looking to participate in DeFi, but they don't know how to securely doing so and they don't want to convert into other tokens. So flyover is actually helping that on ramping process to make it much shorter and faster.
00:13:07.806 - 00:14:41.986, Speaker A: It introduced the liquidity providers in that process, so that could benefit everybody and engage everyone. This is to bringing down the walls between the bitcoin network and the roostock. And lastly, of course, it's extremely important for us to be able to give it back to the community in a very transparent, seamless and fair way. Riftao is an initiative and a project that the commercial team and the product team are working very tirelessly to figure out the definition, what's the initial version would look like and how could we redistribute some of the transaction fees and the revenue that is going to come in through the product suite and make sure the true stakeholders, which is the token holders of riff and the contributors, the developers of Riff, to be able to benefit and participate more meaningfully. So I'm at the end of this talk and I wanted to really call for all the developers if you're a developer and you're interested in building everyday DFI use cases, there's no better time to join than now. I think, just based on what I've said, it's very easy to port all your web3 apps from Ethereum and other layer one and L2s to Roostock. If they're EVM chains, you can make code contributions and improvement proposals directly on our platforms.
00:14:41.986 - 00:15:47.082, Speaker A: There's RSkip and you can use the developer portal website for a lot more information. And then just to go back to a little bit more technical aspect of things, the reason that it is so easy to do is two things. One is the roostock virtual machine and the Ethereum virtual machine. They share the same opcodes, so it is extremely easy to port the smart contracts you develop on Ethereum to roost Doc and just requires a little bit of minimal effort of doing so. The roost doc nodes expose the same JSON RPC as the Ethereum nodes. So what that means is all the decentralized wallets and other depths, you can just reconfigure a little bit and then you can port it on top of Roostock, which is making it so much easier for regardless if you're a developer or a user, there's a lot of compatibility already existing on the roostock. So this is just a list of things that you can check it out.
00:15:47.082 - 00:16:14.860, Speaker A: Make sure you check out RSK Co and the developers RSK dot co for a lot more details. And I'd love to talk to you. If you're a developer, a project who is working on a multichain infrastructure, or if you're capital markets players who is looking to get more involved in the Dow governance and initiatives, please come to talk to me. Thank you so much for your time. Thank.
