00:00:08.560 - 00:01:01.974, Speaker A: So thank you. Good morning and happy to see you all and have this opportunity. I mean, just to introduce myself. I'm a member of the European Parliament, elected for a four Czech Pirate party and currently serving in the economic and monetary affairs committee. So if you have expected any sort of like technical debate, I would rather go way more political because I think despite the fact that I've started like in the technical field, now I'm involved in the policies and I would like to a little bit more talk about the policies because, or the way how they are created. The current situation. I mean, I guess most of the people you observe that is that actually both, let's say cryptocurrencies, blockchain smart contracts or technologies that are appearing.
00:01:01.974 - 00:02:10.964, Speaker A: And we came to the point that, let's say, the traditional politicians, the traditional politics realized there is something new here and we shall somehow approach it. And of course there are like various debates about how to regulate those technologies or how to, I mean, like tailor it for the, for the word that the people were used before. I mean, like, I'm talking about regulations, but that's sort of like natural. I mean, like politicians are used to provide things like consumer protection or security of services and so on. So they do expect to actually apply those concepts that they have learned in the other fields to be applied here as well. I mean, for example, I mean, like we have very nice legislations regarding to fight terrorism, fight money laundering and so on, which is, I would say natural and kind of like understandable idea that we have such a legislation. I mean, like nobody likes terrorists, of course.
00:02:10.964 - 00:03:21.004, Speaker A: But the problem is when we try to apply it here in this new field, I mean, like we are supposed, or like every single bank is supposed to know its customer. I mean, like when you are coming to the bank, you are supposed to show your id and tell who am I? When kind of like putting the money on the account. The problem of the traditional politicians is that when they are kind of like talking about those concepts, they imagine things like, for example, bitcoin wallet to be sort of like an account in a bank, okay? If they understand it that way, then naturally for them the natural expectation is, well, you shall follow the same rules. I mean, like everybody tells you the market shall have the same conditions for every single participant. I mean, like, the conditions shall be equal. So if they say conditions shall be equal and we understand the bitcoin wallet as a sort of like an account in a bank, then naturally they demand that there is the same level of checking of the customers as it is in the traditional bank. That means they try to identify every single person having a wallet with bitcoins.
00:03:21.004 - 00:04:16.944, Speaker A: Well, I mean like technically speaking, this is not possible. We do know how the blockchain works, how cryptocurrencies works and this is technically not possible. And it's complicated like killing the whole purpose of cryptocurrencies as they are. I mean like they are supposed to provide like independent way of independent payment system. And I mean like you can't really like, you can't really like do it if you expect that there will be some banking authority kind of like checking everybody who is creating just the wallet in own computer. So this is a bit an issue, but still we are fighting a lot of big, like let's say barrier of misunderstanding with the traditional politicians. Because I mean they do expect that they will apply the rules and they would like to do so also in this field.
00:04:16.944 - 00:05:28.932, Speaker A: I mean, over the last four years of this current mandate of the European Parliament, we have had a couple of reports talking about the cryptocurrencies assets in general. Two months, two months ago, there was a vote on so called Mikael regulation that defines the market. The problem is that following this logic, the regulation was adopted without really understanding the specific needs of cryptocurrencies and blockchain. And yet already some people in the european commission are talking whether there should be something like Mika two, because currently the cryptocurrencies are in a way covered. The problem is that there could be some sort of like a covering for the smart contracts as well. Well, this is very much double edged. I mean, on one hand we can be afraid that smart contracts would be same case as we have seen for cryptocurrencies.
00:05:28.932 - 00:06:26.812, Speaker A: Same like blind applying of the old principles. On the other hand, we should think about like possible advantages of this, of this approach. I mean, we are talking currently when we are talking about smart contracts market, we are talking about some 180 million of us dollars just for 2022. It is expected that the market shall grow until 2030 to some 1 billion or 1.2 billion of us dollars. I mean, may sound a lot, but in practice, if you think about it, just the budget that is being every year used by city council of Prague, like of this city is twice the bigger. I mean, like this city, this one city has twice bigger budget compared to the whole market of decentralized finances or smart contracts in 2013.
00:06:26.812 - 00:07:18.184, Speaker A: Well then we are not really progressing that fast as we would like to. Again, the problem is that decentralized finances are sort of like isolated, legally from the, let's say traditional finances, from the traditional big banks like market is way, way, way bigger compared to what we see here. And again, we see the same type of issues. I mean, like they could possibly consider investing into startups, investing into the new companies. The only problem is they always face the legal regulations. You are supposed not to invest in anything which could be used by whatsoever, terrorists, money laundering and so on. Well then you are restricted from investing into the new innovative sectors.
00:07:18.184 - 00:07:55.724, Speaker A: This is a problem and we need to find a way, find a workaround, how to give the opportunity for, let's say, the traditional financial industry to actually invest into the decentralized finances. And that will be tricky. I mean, as we have seen in case, for example, the cryptocurrencies, the problem with understanding of what the wallet is is here. There. When we are talking about the decentralized finances, we are talking about smart contracts. And if you look on the lawyers, they will ask you. So the smart contract is something like a contract.
00:07:55.724 - 00:08:47.034, Speaker A: So it should follow the traditional, like, legal expectations I have for contracts. So for example, when a court says, I want to cancel this contract, we decide that because of the law, then the contract shall be cancelled. Isn't that natural? I mean, that's what we are used to from the traditional law. Okay. The problem is that actually you can't do that because I mean, like the smart contract is cryptographically secured. So I mean, like this particular, like demand doesn't make sense in that context. So what we need to do is actually to find a way how to include the smart contracts as, let's say contracts, but same time respecting their specific technical features they have, so that they are accepted by the, by the traditional, let's say, legal and financial industry.
00:08:47.034 - 00:10:01.496, Speaker A: Honestly, I think this is going to be issue, this is going to be very much a political issue because as I must say, I'm fine with Pirate Party, Czech Pirate Party, European Pirate Party, German Pirate party. I mean, like, we are more on the same page. When I see the traditional parties that are being active in the field, there is no understanding for this concept. So from that point of view, I see, or I really feel the need to talk to you and to ask you, please help us politically, because what we need you to do is actually to help us to build a bridge from, let's say, the traditional politics to this new field so that the traditional politics can adapt to it. We are no longer considered to be some crazy geeks who are doing something weird, but really are being involved and could become part of the system in a way. I mean, what I would like to see at the end of this game would be my pension fund that is investing in smart contracts market. And so far it's not really possible.
00:10:01.496 - 00:10:21.164, Speaker A: So that's what I would like to achieve. And I would like to ask you to actually help us to lobby this, to spread the word and to participate wherever you can. So far from me, I've talked a lot. I guess I should give some space for the questions. If someone interested, I'm really happy to answer.
00:10:46.364 - 00:11:14.526, Speaker B: Yeah. How about now? Okay. Is it okay? So thank you for this. My name is Viara, I'm part of the European Crypto initiative. So basically we work on topics that you described. What we have been working on for the past many months is the data act that actually has a definition like the first definition of smart contracts. And as far as we've been following the current tree, look, it's not going great for the industry and for your future pension fund.
00:11:14.526 - 00:11:42.706, Speaker B: So can you elaborate? Are you in any way involved in that work and what are your kind of position, if you can share any, regarding the data act and the way that it's going? Because there are also kind of attempts to, especially in the parliament version, to basically equate smart contracts to legal contracts that are a bit worrisome. So if you can elaborate on that act, it would be interesting as well.
00:11:42.850 - 00:13:02.666, Speaker A: Well, yes, data act is one of the pieces of the legislation that are currently going through my committee, actually more through the other one, like the industrial one, because there is more focus on that. I mean, there is precisely this political debate, as you have described around it most, or like the mostly involved among us, I think, is Marcel Golia, my pirate colleague in the European Parliament, who was in his committee, if I'm not mistaken, a shadow reporter. Precisely. The problem is that the data act kind of like expects you to easily change the, change the content of the data to be able to kind of like delete them. This is not that easy for blockchain and whatsoever technology, which is kind of like based on decentralization and cryptography. So I mean, like we have this problem here. The problem, if I'm not mistaken, what is actually now the current wording there is a negotiation between the European Parliament and the council, effectively always it works that way for those who have not that much followed.
00:13:02.666 - 00:14:06.864, Speaker A: European Union works effectively that way that you have European Commission, which is something like the government, and then there is European Parliament, which is something like a parliament, and then there is council, which is effectively grouping of the member states. And whatever law you wanted to pass, it has to be proposed by the commission, like the government, and then it has to be passed by both chambers, which means the parliament and the council. And it has to be passed in the same form, which means there is always a process ongoing which is called trialogue, and that is effectively trying to kind of like match the parliament position and the council position so they have the same one and they can vote on the same one and pass the same proposal. So currently we are in the process of trialogue, where there is parliamentary position and council position. If I'm not mistaken, the parliamentary position is a bit better and the member states are currently not really great in this particular field. Correct me if I'm mistaken.
00:14:07.984 - 00:14:56.420, Speaker B: The way that we see it, the parliament position is actually not that great. Especially there is a new proposal for a definition that will basically encompass everything imaginable under the scope of a smart contract. We thought that we'll follow is that basically now there are going to be strict requirements for how a smart contract should be developed. And when the scope is so broad, it just brings a lot of uncertainty. So what we are trying to achieve is to make it only for permissioned blockchain and smart contracts that are basically not going to affect the permissionless. But we can discuss that later if you want. But from our understanding, actually, the parliament isn't going in a great direction.
00:14:56.572 - 00:15:17.344, Speaker A: Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, then please let me know the precise details. And I mean, like, I will try to speak to the colleagues who are responsible. Because, I mean, like, this is a bit shame. I mean, like, usually it works that way, that the parliament is kind of like more reasonable than the council, but on this particular field, apparently it's not the case.
00:15:17.764 - 00:15:19.224, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you for that.
00:15:28.624 - 00:15:53.164, Speaker C: Hi, I'm Chris. So you mentioned smart contracts as an endgame in regard of regulation. Are there some low hanging fruits, like thinking about stable currents or something, to get the waste straight so we can later on regulate smart contracts do you can come up with something that are some easy steps we can make before.
00:15:55.684 - 00:17:14.904, Speaker A: I think generally the biggest, let's say, influence on the political process is actually the way how it is talked about. If you say cryptocurrency is currency, people are way more likely to understand it as a cash. When you say smart contract is a contract, people tend to understand it as a contract. So the question is whether it wouldn't be actually in a way smarter to talk about it in, let's say, by using, let's say, a different word that would actually refer to the same thing, but would not create problematic association. But to be honest, I'm not in the stage to tell you I have this or that word in my mind that would actually rephrase or reorganize the whole discussion when we are talking about stable coins. In fact, I think there is a general problem that people who hear about it, they expected it to be something very safe and stable naturally. And that naturally feel or brings them to the idea that there should be, let's say, high level of consumer protection provided.
00:17:14.904 - 00:17:41.903, Speaker A: And as they try to apply this consumer protection on stable coins, sooner or later they realize, okay, it works a bit differently. And then they moved towards way of thinking, let's ban it at all. And this is not really what you want. So I would say it's very much a question of how you name the things and how you talk about them, not only about the technical implementation.
00:17:43.044 - 00:17:44.264, Speaker C: All right, thank you.
00:17:50.844 - 00:18:33.360, Speaker D: Hi, is this on? Hi, I'm Jake. I'm legal counsel at Brainbot, a web3 venture builder. And I've also thought about this problem with the smart contracts naming. And I just wanted to point out that Vitalik actually in 2018, also expressed his regret having called these systems smart contracts. And he suggested that they maybe should be called persistent scripts. And I think that is a good way to look at it. And I want to encourage defi builders maybe to think about if their arrangements should actually not look like contracts.
00:18:33.360 - 00:18:38.996, Speaker D: So do it in a way that not two parties are interacting, which with.
00:18:39.020 - 00:18:40.924, Speaker A: Each other through the smart contract, but.
00:18:40.964 - 00:18:59.064, Speaker D: Rather do it in a different way. So if you look at decentralized exchanges, for example, you have order books and you have amms. So I think we should favor the amm side from that point of view. I just wanted to know your thoughts about this.
00:19:01.204 - 00:19:28.274, Speaker A: If I may ask you maybe just to send me the reference to this proposal. I would be interested to read it. All right, so thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Round of applause.
