00:00:00.330 - 00:00:24.670, Speaker A: You know, we see the success of Ave and compound, and we have tremendous respect for these guys. And I admit that we definitely have the advantage of building on the shoulders of giants because we were able to borrow a lot of their ideas. But I think in the next phase of ZK Len, it's really about how do we make it like a next generation lending protocol, especially when it comes to scalability and privacy.
00:00:25.210 - 00:01:22.374, Speaker B: Z hey everyone, welcome to the Edge podcast. I'm DFI dad and I'm here with nomadic from Fourth Revolution Capital. Today's show features ZK Lend, one of the new foundational DFI applications on the Ethereum L two Starknet ZK lend is a money market where users can lend and borrow different assets like ETH wrapped bitcoin, stablecoins, and lido Steph. Launched in May 2023, ZK Lend currently makes up 20% of all total value locked on Starknet as the number one money market protocol. Having rewritten their smart contracts and completed a new audit, they just announced moving on to the next phase of their roadmap called ZK Lend Mainnet. In this episode, we'll interview the cofounders about what differentiates ZK lend from its competitors, including an application designed for institutional clients, and why you should pay attention to the rapidly growing Defi ecosystem on Starknet. But before we do, just a quick word from our sponsors who make the edge podcast possible.
00:01:22.374 - 00:02:01.038, Speaker B: For most of us, our crypto journey started with Metamask, and now with Metamask portfolio, we can do so much more. Metamask portfolio puts you in control. Use the dashboard to see all your assets and balances across your wallets in one place. The buy feature allows us to buy crypto assets effortlessly with fiat options such as PayPal or credit card. The swap feature allows us to swap any tokens anytime by finding a selection of available rates. The bridge feature allows us to bridge between networks, including Ethereum L ones and L two s, based on the best price and fastest delivery time. And with the stake feature, anyone in a few clicks can stake ETH and earn rewards.
00:02:01.038 - 00:02:39.920, Speaker B: Do more in web three your way with a safe, simple and convenient tool that's all in one place. Track and manage your web three everything at Metamask IO portfolio, whether you're a trader, farmer, analyst, or newbie, you can trade smart with Kyberswap, the OG decentralized exchange and aggregator on 13 chains. Swap at the best rates farm with real yields, set limit orders. Use their proprietary trading and AI tools with the best UX and DFI securely and permissionlessly get better rates, better opportunities, better alpha and a better trading experience. Tradesmart now@kyberswap.com.
00:02:42.450 - 00:03:24.030, Speaker C: It all started so simply with cryptokitties and maker on Ethereum, but quickly became complex with more applications and many chains. Today, everyone agrees UX issues are the biggest blocker standing in the way of crypto adoption. Introducing avocado multichain UX. Redesigned from the ground up. The first wallet to abstract networks, accounts and gas one gas tank to pay transaction fees on all chains in USDC and native access to Instadap's powerful custom defi strategies. Avocado one wallet to rule all chains.
00:03:24.770 - 00:03:49.846, Speaker B: All right, let's introduce Jane and Brian, the co founders of ZK Len. Jane started her career at Credit Suisse before making her way to Deliveroo. She has extensive experience helping scale startup business operations. And Brian had 15 years of experience in investment banking and private equity at global financial institutions before diving into the world of crypto and DFI. So, Jane and Brian, welcome to the Edge podcast. How are you doing?
00:03:49.948 - 00:03:54.006, Speaker A: Hey guys, thanks for having us. Doing well on this fine morning.
00:03:54.108 - 00:03:56.806, Speaker D: I'm doing very good. Thanks guys, for having us.
00:03:56.988 - 00:04:57.302, Speaker B: We're talking on a day that you've made a major announcement. We're excited to hear that you're moving to the next milestone in your roadmap. And so previously, as we understand it, ZK Lend has been in this alpha beta stage. Starknet itself is still in Mainnet Alpha, but having rewritten all of your smart contracts, we understand you've completed an audit and now you've redeployed, as well as adding wrapped staked ETH or stef as a collateral and a borrowing asset. So we're going to talk about all of that today, but also just want to dissect zk lend because you are a foundational money Lego on Starknet. And with all of the excitement around Ethereum l two s, we're still looking forward to the launch of Starknet. We feel that it's always been one of the most important Ethereum l two s in terms of its track record and development.
00:04:57.302 - 00:05:17.090, Speaker B: And so, yeah, we'll cover all of that today. But why don't we start with a little bit more about your background, maybe? Jane, do you want to kick us off with just a bit more about what ultimately got you interested in crypto and led you to working here on zk lend and then love to hear Brian's story as well.
00:05:17.240 - 00:05:54.598, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So I think you made a quick intro about my background. I came from both finance as well as the startup world. But what really drew me, I guess, into finance in the first place, mean people of my age, I guess, right after they graduate college, the ideal job is you go into banking or you go into consulting and you do like a couple of years as an analyst in, and then you kind of go off and continue that track, or you do whatever you want. And that's exactly what I did. I felt that coming out of college, that's what most of my friends did. And so I jumped into that world and quickly realized that it wasn't much of a fit.
00:05:54.598 - 00:06:39.082, Speaker A: While I really enjoyed learning about markets and I worked in New York, so I felt that I was really staying close to a lot of the action. I just personally didn't enjoy the work. I felt that I was a very small piece of the puzzle. And while I was churning out either decks or taking phone calls every day, I didn't really understand how my work actually impacted the larger organization. As in, I went home every day and I was like, okay, well, I did my job, but they could do with or without me. That makes no difference. And so I think after that, I realized that, okay, well, I wanted something the opposite, or I wanted the opposite of something that I felt, and I wanted to really feel the impact of my work.
00:06:39.082 - 00:07:38.526, Speaker A: And so I joined Deliveroo, which was, I guess, a relatively small stage food delivery company at the time. And they were really expanding their reach because they were a US based company and they were a UK based company, and they were expanding their reach into Hong Kong. And so after the company ipoed in 2021, I decided that it was time to move on to my next challenge. And I was very fortunate to have met Brian, as well as Jonathan, our other CTO. And they were looking to start something in crypto and in the world of Defi. And I've touched on DeFi for some time, but I wasn't super, super familiar with it on a professional level. But long story short, what I felt was Defi was the perfect marriage of being able to use some of my financial knowledge from my previous job and being able to execute on some of my operational skills and marrying those two together.
00:07:38.526 - 00:07:47.730, Speaker A: So I'm sorry for the long winded answer, but I think came, I feel like I've come full circle from that point of view.
00:07:47.880 - 00:07:48.398, Speaker B: Brian?
00:07:48.494 - 00:07:48.754, Speaker D: Yeah.
00:07:48.792 - 00:07:55.882, Speaker B: Can you tell us a little bit more about what got you interested in crypto and led to zk lend?
00:07:55.966 - 00:09:23.246, Speaker D: Sure. A little bit of background by myself. So, yeah, I start my career in banking. I would say some years ago, I started in Bloomberg doing credit sales and then doing that for about a year and a half, and then moving on to center charter bank, doing investment banking, covering IPOs, bond issuance and a lot of private debts actually during that time. And after that I moved to private equity doing a lot of outbound investments M and A and sorts, and it was, I would say around late 2018, which I would be looking into crypto before that, doing a little bit of speculation, gaffling as such, and then just buying all coins, coins, whatever you have it, and then try to make a quick buck and getting the adrenaline out of it as well. And slowly and slowly I got a bit more, I would say, educated in the use of different DeFi protocol instead of just going on and looking at the different coins and started using them a little bit, bit by bit, and actually got basically dugging myself into the rabbit hole and really deep dive into understanding how a lot of the different pieces work. And there are a lot of resemblance where I see how Trifi wheel is being kind of reinvented in Defi, but in a completely different sense, and how the decentralized component and permissionless component is being baked into it.
00:09:23.246 - 00:10:26.370, Speaker D: And I thought that was really cool, but that was just me feeling really cool and then still have my main job on the side. And it was, I would say about a year and a half later when I start to see a lot more institutions start to secretly, they would have teams and departments building on blockchain, and then I see that they start to have interactions with a lot of the different blockchains as well. And I took the hint that institution is coming as well. So when institution is coming, whatever they hold in terms of the time user base they have, and I think that will be the actual mass adoption that we'll be looking at for the next big wave. So I want to get in early, I want to get myself building in the ecosystem rather than just being a speculator. And so yeah, that was kind of when I decided that I want to start a project and chesapeake that I had the opportunity to meet up with Jane and Jonathan. And basically we just came together and wanted to build a Defi protocol and basically the rest is history.
00:10:26.520 - 00:11:00.714, Speaker E: Thanks, guys. I love those backgrounds that both of you have shared there. I think before we get into zk lend, I'd love to kind of take it back to the beginning and understand your thought process for initially launching on Starknet. As some people may not know, Starknet is not EVM compatible. So you were kind of making a bit of a bold decision to go away from the EVM. And yeah, just anything more you can share about those early days when you decided to build on Starknet.
00:11:00.762 - 00:12:29.690, Speaker D: This actually takes us back to our genesis day where we were kind of brainstorming what we want to build on the blockchain and which blockchain we want to build on. We know that we wanted to build a DeFi protocol, but at a time we're still kind of finding our ways and trying to see which narrative we want to deep dive into. And I think during that time it was collective decision that we do want to build a native money Lego piece on a blockchain, that it's up and coming. And at the time there was a big rush for layer two and the promises bring where Ethereum we all understand there is the blockchain trilemma, where scalability has always been an issue, and it has been a big issue to the big deep isolator back a few years at the time. And we felt that if we want to build a lending protocol that's going to be future proof and that's going to be trustworthy enough for institutions to adopt into, it has to be a blockchain that is decentralized, secure. So we basically decided that Ethereum is one that we want to build on and layer two basically just adds the scalability of it. And the non CK EVM decision, actually, I would say it's a amalgamation of different situations added together.
00:12:29.690 - 00:13:23.040, Speaker D: The reason I say this is because one, at the time it's Jonathan, our CTO and also the third co founder of the project. He was actually one of the earliest contributors to Startnet ecosystem. Before we actually got started on the project, he was already building rust library and CLi libraries on it. And basically he inspired us to look into Startnet a little bit more, deep dive a little bit more. The reason we picked Startnet was because it has a very strong track record during that time already. When we started, it started with the company startware, which developed Startx and has been used by a lot of well known protocol, including UidX software, immutable. And basically during that time for them to come out and build a compatible and composable layer two, it's very exciting for us.
00:13:23.040 - 00:15:13.606, Speaker D: And it's basically after the fact that when we start building on Startnet and understanding the intricacy of the non CkE EVM component of it, where we start to realize that we're actually hitting jam mean the non seeking EVM component actually takes away a lot of the restriction where builders on Ethereum using solidities would have encountered way earlier. I mean the Cairo is a language that is developed by startware and it's especially catered for CK circuits. So the way the programming languages work, it's very robust, it's flexible, and it has a lot less compromise, including for example where a lot of the CK EVM code, they would have to have precompiles or they would have certain bytecode that needs to be, that has to be executed before certain protocol can be run. And for startnet, actually it removes all that. And I think the only counterbalance that you have to write in Cairo, it's not the easiest language, not the most fun language to program in. At the beginning I would say it was also another great unlocks in a journey to building a future proof defi because basically the whole ecosystem attracts a lot of very creative, innovative teams to build on. And I would say the non cke EVM actually plays a key role into attracting these type of talents and these type of innovations where we're very lucky to be able to provide a base layer of money, Lego pieces to the whole equation.
00:15:13.738 - 00:16:39.030, Speaker B: I think that starknet remains a sleeping giant among the Ethereum L two s. It's been in development for such a long time. It's always been a top tier name that anyone who's been in the space for more than five years has been paying close attention to. I think what took me by surprise is I didn't expect Ethereum l two s to grow so rapidly, especially during the bear market. I think it's fair to say we've seen all this growth during a pretty awful time in crypto. It's been a rough crypto winter, but if you reframe the growth of Ethereum l two s, it's actually been very encouraging. That said, yeah, it's taken time for Starknet to be ready to, I guess, progress beyond this sort of alpha stage, which really is my next question is just wondering, anything else you can share about the development cycle for Starknet? Or like when can we expect Starknet to move beyond this main net alpha? Because I know it has been a challenge that has held back any of the teams that are looking to build DFI or web three applications on Starknet.
00:16:39.030 - 00:16:49.594, Speaker B: That said, once we're beyond this, I feel like the floodgates will open. So yeah. Anything else you can share about the development roadmap for Starknet?
00:16:49.642 - 00:17:47.362, Speaker A: Thanks Steve. I dad, and I think you're right in that slapping on the name mainet alpha does kind of draw eyeballs or caution across users because it sounds like the network is not exactly ready. But actually Starknet has been in Mainet Alpha for over a year now. And I just want to go back a little bit on background because I do think this is relevant and Bren may have touched on it earlier. Starknet was started by a SaaS company called Starkware, but Starknet itself is actually a public good. So in the early stages of development, I believe the starkware team actually took on much of the development work and really built the network into, I guess the shape that it's been in over the past, let's just say twelve months. But as we kind of move towards this mass adoption of this l two that is known as Starknet, I think the team is focused on two things.
00:17:47.362 - 00:19:04.246, Speaker A: First is in terms of optimizing performance, as are most major L two s out there, not only related to zk roll ups, but the second one is around decentralization. How do we move away from the association or the pure association of Starknet with Starkware and really think of it as this ecosystem full of infrastructure and components that are built by other teams and individual contributors. So I guess with this in mind, let me just jump into the different phases of development. Over the past year, year and a half the team has been really focused on performance because zk roll ups, a lot of it has been around theory, right? Like we think we can make this happen, we think we can compress a lot of transactions and batch them and execute them, but then send a proof over onto Ethereum. But the reality is there are a lot of components, including the sequencer, the Cairo VM, the prover. All of that actually takes time to build and not every component is actually optimized so that the output is extremely high TPS. So what's actually happened over the past year, year and a half is starknet has been rebuilding a lot of these different components.
00:19:04.246 - 00:20:00.718, Speaker A: So for example, they will be debuting Madara, which is the Starknet sequencer written in Rust, which will really help optimize the network's performance. There are multiple implementations of the Starknet prover, in fact Lambda class, which is actually an independent entity. They're building the entire Starknet stack so that there are different implementations of the Starknet stack on both Starknet as well as on any future app chains that choose to adopt the Starknet stack. So that's kind of part one in terms of performance. I think there's still a lot of background work that is ongoing to make sure that Starknet has the best performance available but I know that as of a couple of months ago, actually as of July, since Mainet zero point 12.0. Brian, please correct me if that was wrong. Since version zero point 12.0,
00:20:00.718 - 00:21:05.310, Speaker A: Starknet has actually experienced dramatic improvements in performance, recording TPS as high as 47 transactions per second, which is, I believe one of the highest across all L two s. So I think it's already a very encouraging sign towards what's to come. But I would caveat that with it's still very early days and a lot of the components are still being optimized. I think what's exciting is that the other part of what's to come on, you know, they announced app chains back at ETCC in July, and one of the reasons why we decided to build on Starknet is not only because of what they've accomplished, but it's also because of what we believe is to come. And we believe in, well, at least in the Starkware's team's capabilities, but now in the ecosystem's capabilities to continue to have new developments. So for example, there are a couple of developments that the network will be looking at. For example, they will be introducing things like volition and fee markets.
00:21:05.310 - 00:21:26.358, Speaker A: So being able to prioritize your transactions based on different levels of fees that users are willing to pay, but also different decentralized teams are building kakarot, which is the ZKE EVM. So developers will be able to write in solidity, but still be able to use Starknet, for example.
00:21:26.524 - 00:21:50.686, Speaker E: Awesome. Appreciate that overview, Jane. I think in crypto, a lot of the bystanders or people in crypto have this six month attention span and sometimes just don't realize the long development cycles that are needed to build out all this infrastructure. All right, let's dive into zk lend. What is the core offering of ZK lend at a high level?
00:21:50.788 - 00:22:48.798, Speaker A: So yes, ZK Lend's mission is actually very simple. We want to enable the most seamless user experience on DeFi, specifically in depositing, earning yield, and being able to borrow assets. And really, I think what we aim to do is to be able to do all this on chain and to be able to answer the age old question of where is my money? Because when users interact on centralized exchanges and they play around with things like the earn programs or whatever programs that are potentially embedded in these exchanges, they don't necessarily know where that money is coming from. I just want to give a very quick example. I was on an exchange the other day and their earn program had I would say like 18% on USDC and in the back of my mind, of course, in my mind, I'm like, wow, that's awesome. Like 18% on USDC. I can't even find some of these opportunities on chain.
00:22:48.798 - 00:23:52.550, Speaker A: But in the back of my mind, I'm like, how do I know this money is really being used to lend out USDC to other users? Or maybe it's being used to farm other, I don't know, shitcoins or altcoins? And I think really inherently a lot of users are thinking the same way. How do we ensure to give them peace of mind so that they know that their money is being used for the methods that they've agreed on? And this is very much the mission of Zkland, right? You can go into any of the ZK Len market contracts and you'll be able to see what's been deposited and what's been lent out. Your assets are never like, if you deposit ETH, your assets are never used to go farm. In another protocol, for example, it's only being lent out to other users who have collateralized their loans as well. So we are looking forward to, right now, we are only on the permissionless side of right now we are only live on the permissionless side of things, but we are very much looking forward to implementing this on the institutional side of things to service both parties as well.
00:23:52.620 - 00:24:32.850, Speaker B: So when I look at Zklend, it obviously looks a lot like Ave or compound. So it's a very familiar user experience as of today. And this is being recorded prior to the launch of wrapped steff or wrapped staked ETH by Lido as a collateral and borrowing asset. We have ETH, USDC, tether wrapped bitcoin and Dai. We can supply those assets. We can borrow those assets. How do you start to think about differentiating from other money market protocols?
00:24:33.270 - 00:25:10.542, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think of differentiation in a couple of ways, actually, on protocols. On defi protocols, one is on the chain level. So on which blockchains have you decided to deploy on and what the ecosystem is like? And I think Brian's already answered this. We chose darknet for a reason, and we believe that it's going to be one of the ultimate winning layer two solutions. I think the other two is when it gets a little bit more interesting. Second one is around actual code and product innovation. So how do you structure the protocol itself? Right.
00:25:10.542 - 00:26:25.826, Speaker A: Whether it's maybe non liquidating loans, for example, which we've seen now in the market, non upgradable contracts, so that you need to go from V one to V two, and you actually need to withdraw your money or thinking around like CDPs, right. People being able to mint stable coins based on their collateral deposited on a lending protocol. I think these are all super innovative ways to differentiate. And I think for us right now, we are focused on being a fundamental Lego piece on Starknet because the network is still extremely new. So what we believe is we want to make sure that people are able to get the basic functionalities down before we continue to innovate on that front. But the third one is actually what I'm most interested in, and I think it's least talked about, which is I have seen a lot of protocols not do well, even though there's a team of really, really smart people thinking of like crazy ideas, simply because the user interface and the user experience is not intuitive. So you may have designed something really well, but if I'm a user and I'm trying to deposit, let's just say $10 and I have like 10 million buttons to click, the info button isn't super clear on how to actually navigate the protocol.
00:26:25.826 - 00:27:27.562, Speaker A: It's still a losing protocol. And I think this is an area where we're going to be focusing on most in the short term in lending markets. I know it sounds very simple, like you can just deposit ETH and be able to use it as collateral to borrow, but we're thinking of ideas like what about loan swap? So users with an outstanding loan, if they suddenly change their mind on something, can they actually swap their exposure from an ETH loan into like a dai loan, for example, or when you're repaying your loans? One of the issues that I've faced recently is my loan is in Dai, but I have a bunch of ETH in my wallet and I now have to go into another amm to swap this so that I can repay my loan. It's things like that that actually day to day really do make a difference in the user experience, and we believe that that's something that we are able to implement in the short to medium term, especially for starknet users, as we kind of build out the fundamental Lego piece before we continue to innovate, both on the design level as well as on the chain level.
00:27:27.696 - 00:28:01.094, Speaker B: Jane Brian, will zk lend offer flash loans? And if ever, would you consider adding looping applications? I've just been noticing that looping as a DeFi use case has grown a lot in the bear market. It's like one of the ways that you can ultimately achieve a higher yield while interest rates are down on chain. But yeah, what are your thoughts on that? I'm thinking of the likes of like a radiant capital on arbitrum and some of the success that they've had.
00:28:01.212 - 00:29:30.382, Speaker D: Yes, flash loan will be available and basically the user will be able to borrow from flash loan and being able to be paid in the same block. So in terms of using it for liquidation, in terms of using it for looping, like you mentioned, I think these are all applicable use cases for it and for us, I think for you, farming. Actually, we do want to look into this narrative a little bit more once we have more access coming up and then once we have more users made as well. And I think right now the narrative for startnet at the moment is still very focusing on the initial usage and then getting a lot of the early users on and a lot of edge farmers as well. So right now I think we are starting to build a base where we have recurring users and being able to offer these one, it's overcharged on a different interest rate between different roll ups. That's one I think that's quite attractive, where people are able to borrow cheaper liquidity and then being able to use that on different chains for farming, or vice versa. We'll be able to offer that cheap financing and then being able to put that into other assets where they will be able to gain a higher yield from that and being able to loop it several times in order to achieve, let's say, double digit return on their capital.
00:29:30.446 - 00:29:53.418, Speaker A: One thing we're really excited about is we're one of the first teams on Starknet to be open sourcing our latest code base. And what that means is not only are we looking to obviously continue to build on top and continue to think about other d five primitives, but we also encourage other teams who are looking to potentially build other applications on top of zk len to do so.
00:29:53.504 - 00:30:37.878, Speaker B: Being on an L two is still advantageous to those of us who have lived through the pain of being on like an ethereum L one where gas cost 500 Gwe. But understanding that everyone, I think is going to be moving to L two s. I think part of your journey that is part of the reason that we at four C ended up investing, is seeing money market protocols and other DFI launch from the start on an L two. I don't think it makes any sense anymore to be launching new protocols on L one given the future growth of L two s. So anyways, what else can you do to really make zk lens stand out?
00:30:37.964 - 00:32:16.982, Speaker D: So I think for zk lens we have a dual product designed right from the very beginning, where we want to target the Defi retail users as well as the institutional user as well. And I think for the institutional part, where we call it cklan institutions, but in truth, it's actually a more B two B, two C platform where we actually focus on compliance lending solutions, where we have a permission pool where users would come in through QICs, they will do background checks and also checking other source of funds to make sure that the AML and CFT purposes are satisfied. And I think against the increasing regulations for different lending protocols and different players, I think this is definitely something that we hear a lot of big lenders are starting to look into. And ultimately what we want to do is because one issues that we always find lending protocol, even for very edgy protocols, it's still very segregated between DeFi users and institutional per se. So there is a natural barrier between the two pool of capital where they cannot mix together. And for us, we do see that there's actually a bridge where, for example, institutions can lend to retail, that retail can lend to institutions vice versa. And the two pools where one would have surplus of liquidity and one would have surplus of demand, basically those two would actually combine and have great synergies between the two.
00:32:16.982 - 00:33:06.642, Speaker D: So for us, being able to move on from just offering a DeFi solution and start to mix in the institutional part as a whole, rather than as a separate protocol, is actually something that we do see a lot of value where we can unlock that road. Obviously, building a layer two is advantageous. And I think having these combinations of having a DeFi protocol, having d five retail usage, and then also being able to tap into, let's say, ERC 20 tokens, or even tokenized RDP tokens as a collateral would be something that would actually unlock a lot more real life usage and being able to levitate CK land into kind of the next aura of actual mass adoptions.
00:33:06.786 - 00:33:33.406, Speaker E: Brian, you kind of read my mind there, flipping over to the institutional stuff. I want to talk a little bit more about that, and I'm kind of curious just what kind of traction, if any, you've seen on that front. And if you're doing any sort of like early outreach and trying to find clients kind of before launching that institutional product, or just any insight into what that's looking like right now for you.
00:33:33.428 - 00:34:23.306, Speaker D: At ZK Lent, we start outreach. I would say since the early days of our building, tones have switched quite dramatically over the past years. I would say there are a few findings that I have come to a conclusion for the last several months of discussion is that the appetite for insecure lending is drying up overall. I would say liquidity from institutions as a whole is drying up, and there's not a lot of leverage needed for institutions at the current juncture. Second, it's the deposit rates. For the deposit rates requirement for DeFi protocol has heightened quite a bit because of the risk free rate for us treasury, it's already at 5.3% per se, and also permission lending pool.
00:34:23.306 - 00:35:42.326, Speaker D: It's actually being favored due to regulatory heightening as well. And last thing is that fixed term borrowing is more preferable due to the certainty of availability and cost of funds. So with that, I would say right now, what we're focusing on is trying to pivot ourselves a little bit, because initially we have always been focusing on creating a QIC borrowers pool, where the borrowers would go through QIC, go through due diligence, and will have some form of credit scoring system on it, and then being able to have the comfort for lenders to provide capital for these borrowers. But what we encounter is that, one, this is not a full of fall through system, where the credit system actually does fall through, and we have seen cases of that. And second, it's the unsecured or intercollateralized nature of the lending becomes quite a bit of an aftermath in terms of how borrowers deal with or lenders deal with the default procedures. So what we are looking at, it's more towards a fully collateralized or slightly under collateralized lending pool right now, instead of what we envision to be under collateralized or unsecured. And the KYC component still stands.
00:35:42.326 - 00:37:01.902, Speaker D: I think this is something that will go on, and it's something that I do see that more institutions will take it actually more seriously going forward, rather than less. And what we want to do is we start to want to look into using initially RW backed lending, where, for example, we would take us treasuries and then having tokenized of that, and then because it's already yielding in the Trefi sense, in the off chain sense. So what we can do is basically we are using that yield and then basically using that to back lending on chain. And so what ends up happening for lender of these sort would be they would deposit their USt tokens and then they would be able to borrow more liquidity out of the onchain ecosystem, where they would be able to make bets or basically do a little bit of new farming on top of that. And another thing that we're looking to build out. It's a fixed rate, fixed term loan system where CKLN institutional, it's going to be acting like a loan syndicator. Ultimately, what we want to do is we want to create a longer term, possibly in the range of three, one to six months long term already in crypto sense, where we would have a fixed rate loans.
00:37:01.902 - 00:38:09.926, Speaker D: And on the back of it, what we can do is we can actually create a lot of more short term interest rate swaps against these long term positions. For example, once we have a three months or six month loan, we'll be able to have, let's say, one week or three weeks or four weeks interest rate swap against our fixed rate loans on the other side of the protocol. So ultimately, what we're doing is for anyone that wants to lock in a fixed rate, we will be able to offer the product of a fixed rate loans on top of the floating rate, low underlying that we have. So ultimately, what it's actually bolting on, it's both the DeFi component and also the institution component. But the institutional money is going to be rate fence and you will only have a creditory, but they're adding on top to add flexibility to it. So I think this will be the angle that we want to push towards, because to be very frank, I think institutional lending is still not going to be mainstream anytime soon. And what we would envision for institutions to come in more easily would be more on the derivative side, where they will be able to take small bet on large notional.
00:38:09.926 - 00:39:14.446, Speaker D: And the ultimate question is how do we guarantee or being able to protect against these position? And that will be using, for example, fully collateralized ERC tokens or RW backed tokens to back these loans, back these fixed rate loans. And that would be something that we would start to work on, I would say, for next year. The reason we haven't fixed a date for it is because I think the market is still quite fluid in terms of how we see the institutional markets play out. I would say when interest rates start to decrease second part of next year or towards the end of next year, a lot of current protocol where they're using USD tokens and then being able to offer you on chain will not make sense. And we start to look into basically having the RW rail against other assets. And I think that would start to get interesting, where we would be able to tap into a lot of different financial assets and then be used as collateral and creating leverage on it.
00:39:14.548 - 00:39:31.650, Speaker E: Hey guys, right now there's no token released for zk lend just curious if one of you can kind of walk us through what the plans are for the token, and if you can share any utility that it may have or any other details that you're comfortable sharing.
00:39:32.390 - 00:40:56.074, Speaker A: So we don't have a token live right now, but we will be launching a token at some point. Although it is not our priority right now. I think the priority for us is just to grow on Starknet as much as we can really get as much dominance as possible, and then think about product features. But in terms of going back to token utility or why we really even need a token in the first place, I think as with a lot of defi protocols, tokens are a big part of incentives and being able to incentivize the right way is important for us, right? So if there's a huge demand to, let's just say borrow wrap, staked ETH, but the pool is extremely small because it's being dominated by potentially another lending protocol or users, rather stake it to an lp position on an amm, then we need certain ways to be able to incentivize, to grow the pool, not only in terms of the utilization of the pool, obviously there's going to be a natural interest rate that comes with it, but other ways to really be able to draw in users. In terms of token design and utility, though, I would say one of the observations I've had is over the past two years, is that some tokens, token holders and protocol users can be quite disconnected sometimes. Just because you hold a token doesn't necessarily mean you actually use the protocol. And one of our goals is to make sure that the incentives there are completely aligned.
00:40:56.074 - 00:41:52.938, Speaker A: So some of the things that we are looking at, obviously besides the obvious, which is governance, we want to think about how stakers of our token would be able to earn different types of rewards. So potentially you may only be able to earn our distribution rewards if you stake these are some ideas that we've definitely gotten from other protocols, some other very successful protocols in the space. Other parts include potential if we were to, let's just say, launch on an app chain in the future. Potentially the token would help us guarantee certain things, or stakers would be able to help us guarantee certain things on the network. And last but not least, obviously we also have the safety module. So users who stake into the Zen token pool would be able to help us guarantee the protocol in case of any liquidity shortage. And in exchange they'll be able to earn staking rewards.
00:41:52.938 - 00:42:01.346, Speaker A: So these are some ideas that we are all exploring right now, but I can't really be certain in telling you exactly what's going to happen because we don't have a token just yet.
00:42:01.448 - 00:42:28.598, Speaker B: Jane and Brian, this is probably a good place for us to start to wrap up. First off, thank you for joining us. It's really exciting to start to get some insight into the emerging defi ecosystem on Starknet. I want to remind listeners that they can learn more by going to zklend.com. They can follow zklend on Twitter. It's just zklend. They can follow Jane on Twitter.
00:42:28.598 - 00:43:08.610, Speaker B: It's Jane Zero macmac. And then Brian is at BFU underscore f U. Brian, I want to give you then the last word. Anything else you can share about the roadmap over the next six to twelve months and any other deadlines or milestones we can look forward to through the rest of 2023. Given that now folks can start to lend and borrow wrapped stuff, and we know that you've progressed now to this next phase of your deployment with all of those Cairo smart contracts rewritten.
00:43:08.770 - 00:44:02.794, Speaker A: Thanks Defi dad. Yeah, I think just to wrap up very quickly, over the past year, year and a half, a lot of our work has really been to build this fundamental Lego piece on Starknet. And now that it's done, I think there are a lot more exciting things to look forward to, especially when it comes to innovation, at least for the rest of this year. I think users can be expecting a couple of feature changes on our permissionless protocol on Starknet. Things like potentially like loan swap, being able to swap your position when you repay, adding different kinds of asset support. These are all things that are in the pipeline, not to mention a couple of Ux UI changes that are in place as well. In the medium to long term, though, I think one thing I want to stress is we see the success of Ave and compound and we have tremendous respect for these guys.
00:44:02.794 - 00:45:04.798, Speaker A: And I admit that we definitely have the advantage of building on the shoulders of giants because we were able to borrow a lot of their ideas. But I think in the next phase of ZK Len, it's really about how do we make it like a next generation lending protocol. And there are a couple of vectors that we are looking at, especially when it comes to the narrative of omni and cross chain. This is something we haven't brought up before, but we believe that zk rollups are extremely powerful, especially when it comes to scalability and privacy. And one of the things is how do we actually enable users to leverage the ZK tech beyond just users on Starknet alone. So this is something that we will be working on very much in 2024, but it's going to be around aggregating liquidity through the CK role of technology. I'm sorry I couldn't share more, but this is a little bit of a glimpse into what to look forward to.
00:45:04.964 - 00:45:17.610, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for tuning in. If you're a talented founder or developer, please consider reaching out to our team at Fourthrevolution Capital. And for future episodes of the Edge podcast, please check out our link tree at Edge pod.
