00:00:00.250 - 00:00:32.258, Speaker A: Welcome back to the future of Defi Fireside chat series. The following is a conversation with Joseph Lupin, co founder of Ethereum and founder of Consensus. Consensus is one of the world's leading blockchain technology companies and focuses on building infrastructure, developer tools and decentralized applications on the Ethereum platform, including inferior, saving over 350,000 developers, and metamask, saving over 20 million monthly active users.
00:00:32.354 - 00:01:03.646, Speaker B: In this conversation, Joe shares his personal experience of his journey from the early days of Ethereum to consensus. Today, he further shares his views on the evolution of money and on the future of community backed currencies. We dive into the idea of a multi chain universe versus a winner take it all future and explore his experiences with building a global, remote work environment under a decentralized management culture. Here is our conversation with Joseph Lubin.
00:01:03.758 - 00:01:07.780, Speaker A: Hi Joe, thank you so much for joining us. It's really great to have you here.
00:01:08.150 - 00:01:10.500, Speaker C: Hi Don, happy to be here.
00:01:11.030 - 00:01:34.278, Speaker A: Great. Okay, so first, consensus has been such a great enabler of web3 as a whole. And thank you so much for all the amazing efforts over the years. And you were present at the very birth of Ethereum as well. Can you share your story about the early days of this groundbreaking endeavor and also how you subsequently started consensus?
00:01:34.374 - 00:02:44.062, Speaker C: The very birth of Ethereum was somewhere in November 2013, and I was not present for that. I believe that was Vitalik writing furiously on his laptop in a hotel room, putting the first iteration of the white paper together. I plugged into that about a month later. So I am a Torontonian. Vitalik's a Torontonian, Anthony Diario, also a Trontonian. Anthony and I spoke a little bit before January 1 of 2014, and he indicated to me that there'd be a meet up at which Vitalik was going to discuss this new project, Ethereum, that he was putting together for, in some sense of putting it together, wasn't really clear what it was going to be at that point. And I went to the meetup and spoke with Vitalik and heard about Ethereum and read a version of the white paper that he sent me that night, and it was a very compelling vision.
00:02:44.062 - 00:04:07.830, Speaker C: I and many others stayed close to the project over the next few weeks, and we all ended up spending a bunch of time together around a week, I think, at a house in Miami in advance of the North American Bitcoin conference. And Vitalik was scheduled to deliver his paper at that conference. And so it was, I think eleven people were staying at that house, but they're regularly 20 and 25, 30 people in and around the house, talking about general excitement, but a lot of Ethereum excitement. And when he delivered the paper, it was a very big room, and it was a few people deep at the back. There was that much excitement even that early, and it seems to have gained traction over the last few years. So Ethereum sprung from Vitalik, based on his explorations of the bitcoin and related protocols ecosystem before Ethereum, and he put a lot of that learning to good use, and he remains probably the most capable multifaceted blockchain professional on the planet.
00:04:07.910 - 00:04:17.150, Speaker A: So what do you think? What attracted so much excitement even back then? And also tell us about how you subsequently started consensus.
00:04:17.490 - 00:06:46.000, Speaker C: I became aware of bitcoin in early 2011, and it was a very immature space back then, so it didn't make sense to me to try to jump in and build a business. I stayed very close to all the developments in the ecosystem, and it was possible to read pretty much everything. It's soon, a year and a half later, it started becoming clear that this new invention, decentralized protocols, the issuance of decentralized tokens, a new kind of money system, and the establishment of a new kind of trust foundation based on massively decentralized protocols, should be applied to everything, not just a narrow implementation of money or a financial instrument. And so there were a bunch of projects in that era, there was made safe, there was bitshares, counterparty, Mastercoin, there were a bunch of colored coins projects, and a handful of others. And they were all effectively trying to add little bits of functionality to something that looked a bit like enough like bitcoin, rather than taking a much more general approach of building a computationally complete virtual machine at every node of a decentralized protocol, like similar to bitcoin, but with greater capabilities. And so it just became inevitable that we would, as an ecosystem, as a planet, really move in the direction of building our infrastructure on protocols that were sounder in terms of trust. For millennia, we built protocols that were either realized on parchment or on stones, or on centralized databases or pieces of paper.
00:06:46.000 - 00:09:09.850, Speaker C: And those protocols were all based on subjective and centralized trust systems. The major breakthrough was really to be able to build a new kind of ledger system, a new kind of set of protocols that would be massively decentralized across lots of different dimensions of decentralization, such that everybody using those protocols could inspect them directly and agree on exactly what happened and when it happened, and that the economic aspects of maintaining those ledgers would be sufficiently expensive so that overturning history of the ledger, history of the economic transactions would be prohibitively expensive, simply very difficult to do. And so that's the sort of fundamental background. That's why Ethereum, in its powerful expression and its ability to represent quasi touring complete programs, became of such interest to people who really knew what was going on, because it had not solved the problem, but it had made a breakthrough in solving the problem of building a more trustworthy, decentralized compute infrastructure for the planet. It did so in a monolithic form, where it combined security and computation, or execution and guaranteed data availability, all in the same monolithic system. And we're sorting that out right now as we tease out execution from the base trust layer, the security and the guaranteed data availability, which can be guaranteed at different levels of guarantee. But that really makes the layer two execution capabilities much more scalable.
00:09:10.190 - 00:09:13.654, Speaker A: Would you like to talk a little bit about the consensus story?
00:09:13.712 - 00:10:31.110, Speaker C: Consensus, sure. So I spent about a year directly on the Ethereum project with a whole lot of people trying to figure out how to build the Ethereum project, the Ethereum ecosystem, stand up, the Ethereum foundation. And when it looked like we were getting pretty close to launching version one of Ethereum, I started consensus to gather a whole bunch of people to try to figure out what smart contracts were like, how to build these decentralized applications, how to potentially build companies that were based on decentralized applications. So we gathered a lot of philosophically aligned people from around the world. It was very organic early on, and we tried to build little things like an accounting system and an App Store, and we realized, hey, it's really hard to build applications with no developer tools and effectively in an ecosystem that didn't yet exist for customers that were non existent. And so we ended up just building tools for ourselves. We scratched our own itches.
00:10:31.110 - 00:11:35.942, Speaker C: The DAP store was built by Tim Coulter, who started building a set of scripts to aid him in development of his own software. These scripts evolved dramatically over the years to become the truffle developer tool suite, which many, many people have used. Infura ended up being started by a bunch of people who recognized that, hey, at consensus, we were all running applications after syncing to mainnet from our laptop. So we were downloading the client, we were downloading the whole network. We'd sync. And then even in testing, we're just trying to run things against a very inefficiently maintained infrastructure. And then there were several teams at consensus that were trying to do this, and so each tried to put together its own little test net for development.
00:11:35.942 - 00:11:54.654, Speaker C: And inferior really came out of the need for consensus to get more efficient in having its own test net. And then we quickly offered that to the world and effectively, for several years, paid the AWS bills for the rest of the industry.
00:11:54.782 - 00:12:12.790, Speaker A: Yeah, it's amazing how you started really early in the space and led to all this great development. So when you started, could you share? What were your expectations? Do you expect that ethereum and consensus would be so successful just a few years after Oys?
00:12:13.130 - 00:13:51.270, Speaker C: So when I read Satoshi's white paper, I felt like pretty immediately that, hey, this would change everything. I've always been a technologist, mostly cared about technology and science, but I did spend some time in the world of finance, and that led me to believe that, hey, we were all in a lot of trouble because the monetary systems looked like they were end of life and going bankrupt. There wasn't a lot of trust in the system. There was way too much debt in the system to be serviced. And the likely outcome at the sort of end of a major debt super cycle like where we were, was either that governments would devalue the currencies in order to pay off the debt, or that there'd be one or more awful nonlinear events that would cause some sort of collapse. And essentially, when I understood the Satoshi white paper, I realized, hey, we could get busy building a parallel economy on alternate infrastructure that would be based on sounder foundations. And I was a little bit depressed after my conclusions from working in the finance world, and I regained my optimism and excitement.
00:13:51.270 - 00:15:14.990, Speaker C: And what we've ended up doing is building a sort of democratized governance layer for the planet, the trust foundation, which is very different from the current siloed governance systems on the planet. It admits technologists, entrepreneurs to try to figure out how to imbue transactions and relationships with trust, either at the pure protocol layer or at more social layers, where staking and other sorts of mechanisms can be applied to governance. And on top of that, it's really enabled a global, decentralized financial system to emerge. And again, similar to how the web technology enabled democratization of access to information, the ability to publish, et cetera, do ecommerce, social networking. That was a major revolution that democratization drove in the web era. Starting in the 90s as applied to governance, and now very actively as applied to decentralized finance, democratization is enabling us to rearchitect those really important layers of society and the economy. So that's exciting.
00:15:14.990 - 00:15:34.550, Speaker C: And as governance or trust and DeFi get built out and mature, then essentially existing businesses can rearchitect themselves in many new businesses that we can't even fathom at this point can build themselves on these new foundations.
00:15:37.050 - 00:15:38.370, Speaker A: So were you expecting?
00:15:38.450 - 00:16:50.990, Speaker C: Was I expecting? Yeah. When I read the white paper, Satoshi's white paper, I was like, yeah, this is going to just change everything. When I read Vitalik's white paper, I realized that instead of having to sort of move bits around in bitcoin script a sort of variation on fourth, move bits around with a scanning tunneling microscope and build smart contracts, that way, we could just be software engineers and we could build software relatively quickly. It certainly had a bigger attack surface, but humans are really good at innovating and building things, and we always have breakers who track the builders, and the breakers are essentially security consultants that hack things and steal money and excise their consulting fees in that way. And so that interplay between the builders and the breakers would enable us to build that first trust layer. And the layer ones have been really solid in our industry. Pretty remarkably solid.
00:16:50.990 - 00:18:00.120, Speaker C: There's a lot of complication at the DFI layer, and so it's going to take quite a while to build out different layers and harden those layers, which is very similar to essentially, the early wild west days of money, where you had banks, safes, stagecoaches, and other ways of securing money, being pretty easily attacked by the hackers back then. They would take their consulting fee and they would show the builders how to build a better safe or a better stage coach. So we're at that stage. And it all seemed that the power of the technologies was just so obvious and so many orders of magnitude more profound than the architectures in the age of silos or the age of trusted third parties that. Yeah, it seemed like a slam dunk to me. I just wasn't really clear how long. Yeah, that's a question it would take before.
00:18:00.570 - 00:18:04.230, Speaker A: Sorry, that was a question. How long did you expect?
00:18:04.300 - 00:19:55.062, Speaker C: Yeah, it wasn't really clear how long it would take for this to really gain traction. We had, before COVID the way things were operating, sort of moving towards end of life, Covid accelerated that quite dramatically. It caused rapid movement to remote operation and digitization. I think of the way the web evolved for the first 20 years of the century as a sort of hangover from the economy of the 20th century, where the economy of the 20th century was all about atoms, the future economy is all about bits. The economy of the 20th century was all about getting atoms configured just right and delivering them just in time to meet consumer demand. And if there isn't enough consumer demand to make enough money, then you manufacture some consumer demand with advertising and sell people more atoms that they probably don't need. As automation, robots, et cetera, start to make it possible for our physical needs to be met increasingly and expensively and easily, it will really free all of us as humans, as embodied intelligences, human or otherwise, to be creative, to focus on constant education, gamification of everything, essentially the world of bits that we're emerging into is going to be really exciting.
00:19:55.062 - 00:20:31.794, Speaker C: And so the economy of old, it's not over. We certainly need to continue to handle our physical needs, and that'll get easier and easier for a while. But with DFI, with NFTs, with dows, we really are moving into the more natural business model of the web. And so our technology is going to play a huge part in web3 and web four and beyond. And yes, it's happening faster than I think we all expected.
00:20:31.922 - 00:20:43.660, Speaker A: So now let's move on to NFT. So what's your take on NFT and metaverse? What value do you think these technologies bring to society? Why are they important?
00:20:44.350 - 00:22:14.310, Speaker C: So non fungible? Tokens are probably a profound innovation in programming. The ability to have software objects that are unique, globally unique, that have autonomy, that are guaranteed to operate, that can pay for things autonomously, that can be paid for doing certain things, that can vote on things, or that can be voted on in order to command or affect behavior. That sort of autonomy in software objects is really profound. These systems can serve as digital twins for physical things. So I could both own my house or my car through an NFT representing title effectively, but I could potentially also operate my house or my car through such a programmatic construct. I could lend you my car and keep the trunk and the glove compartment locked up via some sort of programmatic interface on my phone or something like that. Digital twins representing people or other sorts of things are potentially really valuable.
00:22:14.310 - 00:24:01.100, Speaker C: The artist community has been profoundly moved by this technology because for the first time in probably human history, well, maybe early on, they had more direct relationships to their customers without the intermediaries sucking up all the value. But for the first time in recent history, artists are able to directly interface with their fans, with their consumers, whether the artists are musicians or video or visual artists or sports artists. They can essentially package up their work, sell it, monetize it in other sorts of ways, directly, without major music companies or film companies, et cetera, getting in there and dictating the rules. The ability to unbundle different kinds of rights around art is going to be really exciting. So being able to programmatically unbundle, how something is displayed, when something is displayed, under what terms, that sort of granularity is going to be an art form in itself, really. And I know some artists right now are playing with really interesting ways of conducting auctions and other sorts of things. So not only will making the art be an art form, but how the art is monetized will be an interesting art form.
00:24:01.100 - 00:25:01.594, Speaker C: And how the financialization of the art industry or the creative industry evolves will be fascinating as well. So I expect that there will be community backed or tribal currencies related to these art forms. Stablecoins built against certain kinds of art forms. And artists are often technologists to some degree, or like the gamification of things. And so I anticipate that NFTs will have a huge role in Defi. Essentially, non fungible tokens in the legacy economy are trillions of dollars worth of value, whether they're titles on homes or cars or whatever. And so I expect NFTs to play a huge role in Defi.
00:25:01.594 - 00:25:11.066, Speaker C: And Defi will not be identical to defi for fungible tokens, but it'll have a lot of the same mechanisms. It'll rhyme significantly.
00:25:11.258 - 00:26:06.100, Speaker A: Yes, it's amazing to see all these new applications and capabilities that this type of new technologies can bring. So now let's talk a little bit about the different aspects of the blockchain world. So, in the beginning, there was bitcoin, and then you are there for the early days of ethereum as well. But now we are seeing a proliferation of different layer one, layer two, and bridge solutions. So what future multi chain topology do you expect? Will there be one or a few significant winners, or you think it'll be a wide, collaborative and decentralized ecosystem with many blockchains and platforms serving different use cases and so on?
00:26:06.550 - 00:27:07.350, Speaker C: Sure, I think there'll be very many winners. I think the design space of computation, bandwidth, storage, et cetera, is vast. Now we're bringing trust into the mix and digital assets into the mix. So very exciting, likely explosion of innovation ahead of us. As I said earlier, we started thinking about blockchains as monolithic architectures where all the functionalities were glommed into the same protocol. And essentially, you ran a piece of software that was the blockchain. Everything you could possibly ever want to do would be handled by that node and its sister and brother nodes.
00:27:07.350 - 00:28:58.220, Speaker C: But just like everything else in human history, modularization makes a lot of sense in making things more effective and more efficient. And so one big aspect of modularization separates the trust layer from the execution components and from the data availability systems. And so it is looking a lot like Ethereum has a really big lead winning the trust layer Ethereum as a project and bitcoin as a project have both focused assiduously on maximizing decentralization. Neither of these projects have taken shortcuts, reducing security or decentralization so that they could crank up the number of transactions per second. It's great that some of those projects have taken those shortcuts because they've been able to onboard more people to somewhat decentralized and somewhat secure platforms, and a lot of bridges are being built between those different systems and one another and to Ethereum. But the future, especially post merge of ethereum one and ethereum two, which is looking like it's going to happen in q two of 22 the future will very much look like a small number of maximally decentralized layer ones. Ethereum may be joined by others, who knows, maybe bitcoin will get its stuff together and figure out how to support more expressive programs a little bit better.
00:28:58.220 - 00:29:51.926, Speaker C: But Ethereum has a massive lead in being that security layer. Post the merge, Ethereum also has a massive lead in providing guaranteed data availability to this whole network of interoperating blockchain systems. Execution is happening in cool projects like Nier and Polkadot and Cosmos and Solana and Algorand and Avalanche and all of those projects. And oasis. Oh shoot, sorry about that. I was just teasing you. So all of those projects, in my opinion, compete with the layer twos that are emerging on Ethereum.
00:29:51.926 - 00:31:11.006, Speaker C: And so the loop rings. The optimisms, the arbitrams, the Zk syncs, et cetera, are bringing lots and lots of transactions per second. Ethereum will be at 100,000 transactions per second when all the 64 data shards, et cetera, make their data available. And those transactions are really cheap. Dirt cheap. So Polygon has got dirt cheap transactions going on, and they're moving to migrate their architecture to Hermes to essentially a Zk sync roll up type architecture with different kinds of data availability. So whether it's validiums or volitions or guaranteed data availability on Ethereum two, the likely future, from my perspective, is the security layer as indicated, and that lots of these systems that call themselves layer ones will either figure out how to massively decentralize or become niche players subserving a low value set of use cases.
00:31:11.006 - 00:31:42.640, Speaker C: Or they'll figure out how to anchor into the full security guarantee of Ethereum. But that's my bias. If your audience wants to read about that, there's a great blog. Polynia medium. Polynya medium does a really brilliant job of laying out this vision, essentially for the architecture of web3.
00:31:43.570 - 00:31:56.482, Speaker A: So just a little side comment, I don't like to blow my own horn. However, normally, actually on the podcast, on the fireside chat, I never actually talk about Oasis, just to keep things.
00:31:56.536 - 00:32:02.420, Speaker C: No, I know, that's why I left it out. I was taunting you, teasing you, to see if we could bring it out.
00:32:03.430 - 00:32:58.662, Speaker A: One thing about the monolithic, like Ethereum's monolithic architecture, though, Oasis was the first one. And actually from the beginning, as you may recall, we talk about separating execution from consensus. So we actually separate out the layers, the consensus layer, the compute layer, and the storage layer, which is for data availability. So that's exactly how Oasis network architecture was designed from the very beginning. Recently we also wrote a paper, actually with colleagues from inferior, called validating bridge. So essentially summarizes this roll up and all these concepts. The more general form is validating bridge, and Oasis actually is the first and only layer one that actually has this concept built in, that has the, essentially has a roll up of this validating bridge built in into the layer one.
00:32:58.796 - 00:33:42.770, Speaker B: Thank you so much. Yes. So, moving forwards to regulation, you mentioned earlier the free speech, free speech being, I'm sorry, developing like open sourcing software being an act of free speech. So we've seen some rumors or maybe ideas that developers, that the open source software could be punished for doing. So if the DeFi protocol is later on being used in whatever ways, which obviously for developers, might be quite shocking. Right. So we were wondering, what's your take on defer regulations as a whole? Right.
00:33:42.770 - 00:34:07.450, Speaker B: Whether it's under regulated. Over regulated. What challenges would you identify in regulating it at all, if possible, right? I mean, you beautifully laid it out earlier. If it's too tightly, maybe looked at, it might choke, or it might push people to go fully decentralized, which is probably dangerous even in some aspects. What's your take on DeFi regulation?
00:34:08.270 - 00:36:08.722, Speaker C: So first let me make it clear that I think there's 0% chance that a software engineer will get in trouble for publishing a DFI protocol because somebody used the proceeds from that protocol improperly. So that's just not the world we live in. There may be countries where that could happen, but not in western liberal democracies in terms of general regulation. Again, publishing a DeFi protocol is likely to be protected free speech if you are managing interactions with it, if you're making money from providing an interface to it, potentially, if you're custodying assets for anybody, then those kinds of activities could become subject to, could be seen to be subject to regulation. I think there are a lot of I. A lot of scrutiny and discussions to be had to try to understand how this fits in with existing rules and whether existing rules make sense for these innovations. Hester Pierce of the SEC has been a strong advocate of something like a safe harbor approach, where we recognize, as we did with the Internet and web protocols, that, hey, this is something fundamentally new, and we should enable the innovators to experiment with this and give them a little bit of time to figure things out.
00:36:08.722 - 00:37:35.770, Speaker C: And what that could look like is, okay, you're standing up a d five protocol. It might look a little centralized right now, but if you get it sufficiently decentralized in a reasonable period of time where nobody's really controlling it, it's just mechanism on a network, then you should be given a pass potentially to go ahead and do that sort of thing. So bottom line is, it's a powerful technology. And when powerful technologies emerge in a society, society has to decide how it wants those technologies to fit. And so we're having those discussions right now. The infrastructure bill in the United States was really great for driving awareness of a, the power of the technology, b, the power of the people behind the technology, the massive financial, energetic, and political power that could be wielded remarkably quickly by tech savvy people in our industry. And unfortunately, also it elucidated the cluelessness of certain people who are making rules based on their 70 or 80 years of experience on the planet.
00:37:35.770 - 00:37:39.358, Speaker C: For the next 50 or 80 years.
00:37:39.524 - 00:38:34.340, Speaker A: It'S really important to ensure the freedom of innovation and also the speed of innovation. So now let's move on to talk a little bit about some of your personal experience and lessons in particular at consensus. Consensus, as I understand, has a presence in over 30 countries and is known to truly embrace the remote and global work culture and a decentralized management style. It's really forward thinking. Consensus started this remote work way before the COVID shift. So, can you share how you decided to take this approach and your vision and goals for this approach? And what challenges did you face when implementing this approach? And what are the lessons that you can share from this experience?
00:38:35.110 - 00:40:11.722, Speaker C: So consensus has evolved and been a bunch of different things over the years. It started in early 2015, and we were hoping to embody the characteristics and principles of decentralization. And so, first of all, we were trying to operate in an ecosystem that was profoundly immature in terms of the technology that it was building and being built on, and so running a lot of experiments, having a freewheeling culture of innovation and experimentation was the right thing to do. It wasn't easy and it wasn't even the point to try to build a corporation that would make money, sort of traditionally architected corporation. Early on we knew that there would be time for those sorts of things, but we had a culture that attempted to govern itself, attempted to source talent and experience internally to allocate capital to cool projects. And we did a lot of learning from those many projects. We invested in or incubated way over 100 projects, and some of those projects have become pillars of the industry, and other projects have become quite successful.
00:40:11.722 - 00:41:45.440, Speaker C: We spun out many projects. I think we spun out somewhere like 35 projects from Consensus mesh, the original mothership company. And a lot of those, maybe 30 of those, are still either standalone, operating, or functional in some useful form. We recognized that the ecosystem that we worked hard to open up, this new it infrastructure ecosystem for the planet that we and others, including yourselves, helped open up, was starting to gain traction a few years ago, and more established companies and lots and lots of startups were flooding into our ecosystem, and we needed to figure out how to compete and start thinking about how to monetize and become financially sustainable. And so that first company, consensus mesh, continues to operate, continues to incubate some projects, and mostly what it does these days is it manages a portfolio of equities and tokens. It also does look for the occasional new project to incubate or invest in. It spun out a handful of projects into a company called Consensus Software Inc.
00:41:45.440 - 00:42:39.920, Speaker C: And those projects were starting to coalesce into a blockchain stack two or three years ago. So those are projects that are basically our Ethereum client. So we call both the public mainet version of it, as well as enterprise friendliness extensions. We call that Quorum. And there's a go version of Quorum and a Java version of Quorum. The Java version is based on Hyperledger Besu, which we built and contributed to the Hyperledger Foundation. Infura is an important element of our developer group, our developer enablement group, as is our diligence security audit team, our customer success team, and the Truffle developer tool suite team.
00:42:39.920 - 00:44:28.142, Speaker C: We essentially think of those groups as enabling us to build applications and enabling the world to build applications on what we think of across all the decentralized protocols as a global open source, decentralized super app. And so what we do inside of consensus Software Inc. Right now is operate a flywheel that ideally enables more apps to be built, and then we provide the user interface to those apps, non custodial user interface to those apps via metamask and via Metamask Institutional, which has a bunch of institutional trader type icds. We also have another group called our NFT unit, which we actually have a name for it, but we got a good name for it, and it is doing some really exciting things in the NFT space, which will get launched pretty soon. Metamask essentially, we just announced that it's at around 21 million monthly active users, and it essentially is able to sit above the DFI ecosystem and aggregate different DFI protocols. And so we will provide metamask for free forever. But there are some pieces, some added functionalities, like the ability to swap between tokens with really the best execution in the ecosystem.
00:44:28.142 - 00:44:56.950, Speaker C: Because we operate the full stack, we can make sure that transactions are much more likely to execute properly than many of the protocols themselves can, just because we have a broader view on how to make sure things get done. So for some value add things for different financial primitives, we'll continue to offer those in Metamask.
00:44:57.110 - 00:45:30.978, Speaker B: Thank you so much for laying out this broad ecosystem that you've built up right, which really shaping web3 as a whole. That's quite impressive. So you've just mentioned Metamask. Metamask growth, I believe also in the last twelve months was like super impressive. Infuria alone just recently surpassed, I think, over 350k developers. That is helping, right? And serving over 10 million users. If I recall correctly, you've built so many successful products and teams.
00:45:31.074 - 00:45:39.590, Speaker C: Infiro services way over 10 million users. Because metamask services way over 10 million users.
00:45:39.750 - 00:46:00.960, Speaker B: So many of our students have a strong entrepreneurial spirit. So what leadership lessons can you recommend for our early entrepreneurs and students that you think are helpful? And maybe in that line, you might want to share how your average day at consensus looks like.
00:46:02.950 - 00:46:43.598, Speaker C: Follow your passion, do things that are really interesting to you. The world is exploding in terms of potential and innovation. So just pick something that you like because you'll be able to dedicate a lot of attention and passion to it. Be nice, considerate, sensitive, kind to the people around you, make everybody better around you, and that kind of positive feedback loop will help them make you better as well. Kind of all you need, really.
00:46:43.684 - 00:46:52.400, Speaker A: Would you like to add a little bit like how your average consensus day looks like you have so many things going on.
00:46:53.170 - 00:47:52.538, Speaker C: There are no average consensus days. Every day at consensus is pretty epic. Surprisingly epic. There are very few I can't remember many bad days, that there were certainly difficult periods where we in the ecosystem struggled, but a lot of the struggles were about the more speculative aspects of our ecosystem, the people piling in and buying tokens and wondering when those tokens will moon and running away when those tokens drop in price. But really, throughout we at consensus have been mostly builders, and the builders have just stayed busy building and growing the ecosystem. My day sometimes has literally 18 meetings. Some days I only have four or five meetings.
00:47:52.538 - 00:48:36.500, Speaker C: Zoom makes that a lot easier, and I do my best to stay in the details as much as possible, although that since early 2011 that's gotten increasingly difficult exponentially. And so I guess I prioritize more, do more high value things, trying to reduce attention to some of the details so that I can continue to try to access the bigger picture of what's going on and try to make links and keep the whole thing in execution space.
00:48:36.950 - 00:48:47.106, Speaker A: So there's one question that we ask every speaker and so what are your favorite books that you would like to recommend to the students and the audience?
00:48:47.298 - 00:49:47.480, Speaker C: Probably won't be surprising. Maybe this is everybody's answer, but my favorite author has been Neil Stevenson for a long time, and I probably like Snow Crash more than the Diamond Age, but I've read a bunch of his books. Snow Crash essentially laid out a pretty detailed vision of what the metaverse might end up being. The metaverse wasn't just a pure VR construct. It also had people cruising along in meat space on motorcycles with cameras and gathering data and uploading data to some sort of shared database system. Might have been a decentralized protocol even, and essentially monetizing how they moved through the world and captured and shared data.
00:49:49.930 - 00:50:07.070, Speaker A: Great. Yeah, thank you. Thanks a lot. Yes, I think it's no crash, definitely on top of many people's reading list and so on. Thanks for the recommendation. So thanks a lot, Joe, thank you so much for the wonderful fireside chats.
00:50:07.730 - 00:50:08.510, Speaker B: Thank you, Don.
00:50:08.580 - 00:50:11.930, Speaker A: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you so much for sharing.
