00:00:01.840 - 00:00:39.152, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Today the topic I want to expand on is building on chain games for masses. Twelve lessons I've learned. But first of all, who is this guy talking to you from the stage? My name is Daniel. Nice to meet you and I want to share some fun facts about me, crypto and games. I was studying information security university and one day at a crypto conference I won the prize, one bitcoin. And for the student it was a huge amount of money, around $100.
00:00:39.152 - 00:01:28.630, Speaker A: And the very next day I spent it all on a good restaurant. Yeah, I may not have been a good investor, but I was definitely a solid dota two player. Yeah, I spent a lot of years playing the games. But don't worry, I'm not just a gamer and failed crypto investor. Let me share my latest success with solo hacking fuel network and the hackathon with the price pool around $1 million. I love code and coding, and today I live in the dream that probably many it engineers have founded the game studio and named it evolut. Today I don't want to dive deep into technicalities, but rather share some of my stories and my modest experience with web3 gaming and thoughts about its future.
00:01:28.630 - 00:02:19.990, Speaker A: I've organized these insights in twelve lessons to reference the book twelve rules for life from GB Peterson, and I hope you'll enjoy following my character's journey from level one to level 30. In my first year of studying information security, I understood that university becomes boring and I start looking for a job. That time. I like two things, games and programming. And after receiving my first rejection from game studio, I decided to try my luck in web development. I spent years building a solid software engineer career, but I almost missed the rise of crypto and web3. But I always knew that crypto is the future, especially after that one bitcoin dinner.
00:02:19.990 - 00:03:04.230, Speaker A: So it was the first lesson. I always trust your gut feeling. I joined web3 venture studio and started doing a lot of progress in Polkadot ecosystem. We built a lot of infrastructure for dapps and for smart contracts. And around the time the word metaverse suddenly popped up and everywhere and everyone started talking about it. Especially after Zuckerberg decided to rebrand his entire company. And I remember how I was impressed by the idea of infinite number of worlds connected in one universe.
00:03:04.230 - 00:04:16.020, Speaker A: And the idea of bringing web3 and games suddenly struck me as a perfect match. Those days I met my friend Ilya, who came to our venture studio with his Metaverse project called Asylum, and I was intrigued by the idea of nfts that can be in game items and can be used in different games. We easily received the grant from Vapri foundation and started quickly crafting our prototype. Technically, the idea seemed perfect to us. Assets along with the game code was stored on chain. We used the trusted execution environment as a dedicated server to host our PvP sessions and we even invented the protocol for nfts which have lots of interpretations and can be used in different context in any game. We spent so much time tailoring our idea to fit the grant application that almost forgot why we started in the first place.
00:04:16.020 - 00:05:04.514, Speaker A: We always wanted to make fun games that people play and in the end we ran out of budget and failed to find customers for our idea. And I've learned through lessons from this unsuccessful startup, you should never do the things to satisfy any grand or accelerated commissions. You just spend money of time, do only things that correspond to your vision. And if you are at the very beginning, don't build too complex stuff. Try to iterate. It's better to battle test your ideas. But it wasn't only our metaverse project that failed to there were huge expectations from meta Horizon World and tone of investments.
00:05:04.514 - 00:06:01.626, Speaker A: Can you imagine $36 billion they paid just for 900 daily active users. So why did they fail? Gamers were arguing a lot about meta ton of technical issues and bugs. You remember those freaky avatars? And the biggest problem was lacking of the good content. Despite the initial interest to Decentraland and the sandbox, they have the same issues with the content and thus retention results into low daily and monthly active users. The most famous example for sure is Axie Infinity. And one day I did my research on why their economy failed and here is my list. The project's profitability relied heavily on new players.
00:06:01.626 - 00:06:51.710, Speaker A: This is some kind of ponzi schema. Once new player influx stopped, the game market is collapsed. The game have a very narrow target audience and supporting its expansion was extremely hard. And the crucial point is that they built an economy which is vulnerable to global economic factors. The good working in game economy have to be isolated. That means that in game currency is always a value inside the game but not separate from the game. Although there were a metaverse project that succeeded is Roblox with its user generated content and games and even their internal currency.
00:06:51.710 - 00:07:52.570, Speaker A: But they have been growing their audience, their community for many years. So the best way to learn is on other people mistakes and try not to repeat them. We understand that most of gamers don't need technology and don't care about the budgets. Gamers need only one thing, it's fun which some of the examples above are lacking. Another big point is we have to build an isolated in game economy in our web3 games. Your assets should always hold a value for players and not rely on cryptocurrency fluctuation. The solution here and what we do in evolut is implementing the game specific token and pegging the value of this token to the internal game metrics rather than external crypto prices.
00:07:52.570 - 00:08:42.082, Speaker A: Armed with this knowledge, together with my partner, we started building a game and I remembered a ton of books. I have read about the game design and here is my list. The art of game design by Jesse Skell mf one blood, sweat and pixels. A very interesting book, very inspiring that I recommend everyone if you even not a game designer. We learned a lot about the metrics, how to do the technical launches, CPI, dau, MAU, RPU, etcetera. We joined the game camp and during the series of hackathons and game jams we finally created our first prototype, gravitation IO. We didn't choose the genre and platform by accident.
00:08:42.082 - 00:09:43.590, Speaker A: We wanted to target the largest audience, which is mobile. Hybrid Casual is the most popular genre, the most popular growing segment in the market, and we learned that profound Metagame is the way to generate players retention. We decided to present the game at the game conference and even came up with a competition where we gave away the t shirts with our cyberpunk characters and the result I couldn't even imagine. We were awarded for the best mobile game on the big stage. The irony was that at the time I thought it was a win. The only thing left is get off the stage and just have time to respond for investor proposals. But I was disappointed the same day because when we start talking to investors and explaining our web3 ecosystem, they just turn around and go.
00:09:43.590 - 00:10:26.356, Speaker A: This episode taught me two things. Firstly, today you should never sell nfts to the true gaming community. They will just reject it. There should be at least a dozen of good web3 games to dissipate this flaw created by such games as Axie Infinity. Secondly, you have to seek for right investors and move together with the people who share your ideas and vision. Everything we did for gravitation IO was on our funds. In a few months we started to run out of budget, so we decided to try our luck in Singapore and Tolkien.
00:10:26.356 - 00:10:45.760, Speaker A: 49 what I can say about this event. I was enjoying the city. They are definitely living in the future. But it was a deep bear market and the sentiment during the small talks was depression. Quite a boring event. We found no investors. So when we come back to Europe.
00:10:45.760 - 00:11:29.910, Speaker A: We came to decision to freeze development and let go of the entire team. Lesson eight, don't lose hope. After returning from Singapore, my friend decided to focus on another project in Defi and I decided to take a rest in Greece. I spent a week with my friend who is working in Celestia. This was exactly the time that I go to Mainnet and I was shocked by the people reaction. The community I thought was asleep is actually alive. My friend told me a lot about modular blockchain and the projects they build in their ecosystem.
00:11:29.910 - 00:12:05.490, Speaker A: And I was very enthusiastic about the modular design and red tone of materials. In a couple of months I was introduced to Scott from Argoslabs who was building actually the blockchain for games. And I understood that this is exactly what we need for our games. In evolut. We make competitive games with multiplayer. We want to have each single movement a transaction and at the same time have a low latency. And this is how Argos addresses this issue.
00:12:05.490 - 00:12:53.940, Speaker A: They've built a loop driven runtime where we can update the game state on each single tick. This is basically how dedicated servers works in real multiplayer games. They have the assurance architecture for balancing the load. They're storing the sessions data on Celestia for the fraud proofs and as a result we have 60 to 100 milliseconds network latency for the fully on chain games. And this number can even be improved in a while. We created a pool of angels and enlisted support of Santor and preserve capital. And it's so wonderful to move with the people who speak the same language as you.
00:12:53.940 - 00:14:13.140, Speaker A: And here are a few more lessons that I've learned during dozens of lectures and discussions with the people who actually build web3 games web3 games critically depends on community and retention in evolut. We address this by targeting the largest gaming community who is lovers of casual games. We believe that this huge group can create a great momentum to regain the trust in web3 games for other players. Secondly, choose the most flexible and extensible blockchain technology and build the games fully on chain. In evolut we leveraging Argos world engine, which is designed exactly for building fully on chain games. We believe that building a sustainable economy is only possible when you say the proof about each single moment of your players on chain. And the last thing which is not obvious is to craft the engagement game, the persistent component of your game from the day one, especially if you are building indie or casual games.
00:14:13.140 - 00:15:01.220, Speaker A: In evolut, we implemented an infinite metagame with a series of seasonal casual games. This creates a deep connection between the player and his character, encouraging them to evolve his character but not to sell. This is an unfinished story and we stop at the interesting part. But we gained a lot of experience and upgraded the level of our character and I want to finish with the last lessons I gained during this path. There is no right economy model and technology for web3 games experiment. You are doing right and don't be afraid to be creative. Thank you for attention.
