00:00:00.410 - 00:00:54.938, Speaker A: Okay developers, welcome back. Today's sponsor, the SX network, are bringing us the world's first polygon L2 blockchain. The same team that built the SportX bet platform have now built a purpose built blockchain for scaling DFI, NFT and betting applications. They are the first public network that has combined a smart contract platform with an onchain community treasury and a native prediction market protocol. If you're new here, I'm Calvin and on eat the blocks we help web two developers transition into web3. The SX network is compatible with the Ethereum virtual machine, which means we can use all of the same tools that we're used to, the wallets, the block explorers and the tokens. Built in collaboration with Polygon, the SX network is integrated into both Polygon and Ethereum for added security.
00:00:54.938 - 00:01:53.242, Speaker A: They have an on chain ecosystem fund that funds dapps through the SX treasury and network decisions are made by SX token holders. The SX network is natively integrated with the Onchain treasury, which means that SX token holders have control and transparency into its operations. 55% of all SX token supply is vested to fund the project over the next four years, which is equal to about $250,000,000 today. This helps to fund things like direct investments into projects that are deployed on the SX network, allowing token holders to directly benefit from the activity on the blockchain while giving builders access to a new source of funding. Transaction fees are currently 1000 times cheaper than Polygon without taking a hit on security. They achieve this by being the first blockchain to launch using the Polygon SDK. The SX network will be the obvious choice for Polygon Dapps because it's the first L2 blockchain available on Polygon.
00:01:53.242 - 00:02:47.470, Speaker A: They already have 20 businesses that have fully deployed on the SX chain, so adoption is picking up really quick and we can view all of their stats and transaction volume over on their block explorer. As a developer, if you're building any betting related or prediction market related Dapps SX chain seems to be the best blockchain to build on. You'll get access to the largest existing community of blockchain betters in the world that is also aligned with Ethereum and Polygon. If your DAP is already on Polygon, you can use their SX network bridge to easily port over your project and users. You then get the benefits of three different projects, Ethereum, Polygon and the SX network, all at the same time. The SX chain is an obvious choice to expand out to as it's Polygon's first layer. Two, you get to build on one of the newest secure blockchains, while taking advantage of their low transaction fees being both secure and cheap to build on.
00:02:47.470 - 00:03:09.380, Speaker A: There's no doubt their growth is going to explode soon. The team behind the SX network have already built a category leader DAP variance, along with the current affordability of the SX network, as well as the benefits of owning the tokens. This project is definitely one to watch this year. We'll have a link in the description below so you can go and check them out. That's all for this video. Thank you for watching and we'll see you in the future.
