00:00:05.210 - 00:00:05.946, Speaker A: What up, coordination?
00:00:05.978 - 00:00:41.718, Speaker B: How you doing on the pod? Today we have Rocco, who is the founder of Spruce. Rocco and I go way back. We're both incubated at consensus. Gitcoin was incubated at consensus. Rocco worked at consensus back a couple market cycles ago. And so we've been friends for a long time following his work working on Spruce ID and more recently Sign in with, which is an open standard for how you can prove to an app that you own an account and you can give it information associated with that account. So we're talking about decentralized identity, decentralized reputation, decentralized society, all of the good stuff that decentralized reputation could enable in this episode.
00:00:41.718 - 00:01:17.874, Speaker B: So just really quickly revisit that thesis. Decentralized identity is regen because it's going to enable more positive sum games and repeat interactions between participants in the decentralized society that is being built on web3. And that is why sign in with Ethereum Matters. It is the portal through which an application can get access to your data in a privacy preserving way and create a more decentralized society and regenerative crypto economic internet. So Rocco is one of the unseen voices and unseen heroes of decentralized identity. And so I'm just really excited to be on this episode and talk about signing with Ethereum and Spruce and Spruce ID with him. Also just a great guy.
00:01:17.874 - 00:01:25.090, Speaker B: Like I said, I've known him for years and it's been really fun to follow their journey. So, without further ado, I give you Rocco and Spruce. ID. Enjoy coordination.
00:01:25.170 - 00:02:03.870, Speaker A: Working in web3 is awesome. It's freeing, powerful, and so much fun. But working outside of the typical W two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many people. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best their work, while Opolis manages the back end. There's a lot of nation state overhead when working in web3, and Opolis takes care of all of the back end stuff, freeing you up to do what you do best your work. Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. So do what you love and maintain your financial security with Opelis.
00:02:03.870 - 00:02:46.786, Speaker A: You must be authorized to work inside the United States to receive Opelis's benefits. But Opelus is expanding its services to Canada starting on June 1 of next year. So book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opolis experts and join Opolis by December 31 to get 1000 work and a thousand bank tokens. Go to connect Opolis co bankless to get started. Goldfinch is a decentralized credit protocol with a mission to connect the world's capital to the world's growth. Goldfinch focuses on real yields from real companies, so start lending your USDC to real businesses, driving growth worldwide. Goldfinch's borrowers are proven fintechs and credit funds in emerging markets who need access to goldfinch's capital to drive economic growth in regions faced with barriers to financial access.
00:02:46.786 - 00:03:20.746, Speaker A: In just under two years, goldfinch has loaned over 100 million USDC, reaching over a million people and businesses across 28 countries. Goldfinch is doing what DFI was always meant to do expanding financial access to those who have historically been shut out of the TradFi system. So become a Goldfinch member to put your USDC to work, empowering real businesses growth. Join Goldfinch's new member vaults to be an active investor and take part in supporting Goldfinch's security and expansion. Receive yield enhancements generated by protocol revenue, plus access, exclusive communication channels, and more. So go to Goldfinch Finance to get started.
00:03:20.928 - 00:03:22.550, Speaker B: All right. What's up, Rocco?
00:03:22.710 - 00:03:24.350, Speaker C: Hey, how you doing, Kevin?
00:03:25.010 - 00:03:31.854, Speaker B: Good. Really excited to talk to you about Spruce. So tell us what Spruce is and how you got to be working on this problem.
00:03:32.052 - 00:04:06.220, Speaker C: Spruce is working on decentralized identity and data, and one of our core tenants is we want to make sure that users control their identity and data across the web. You see a lot of what's going on in the crypto space, especially around assets. How can that also translate over to users owning and controlling their identity as well? Probably the core way of summarizing what we're working on at Spruce, a lot of it being developer focused purely on bringing open source software to the world and letting users implement these kinds of workflows into their DApps and regular applications, too, and try to make it as easy as possible for them.
00:04:07.310 - 00:04:12.080, Speaker B: Yeah, let's maybe spend five minutes on your history and how you got to be working on this problem.
00:04:12.610 - 00:04:26.206, Speaker C: Yeah. So before Spruce times, I was at a different tree known as Alpine over on the Consensus side of things. So my co founder Wayne and I worked over at Consensus years back, and.
00:04:26.228 - 00:04:35.518, Speaker B: I just have to interject that you and I worked together at Consensus. I think you were out in Boulder for a summer, and we hung out for not a summer, but, like, at least a month while we were both at Consensus.
00:04:35.694 - 00:05:08.602, Speaker C: I do remember that. I do miss the mountain views, too. The views out there are beautiful. And we were working on decentralized identity at the time over at Consensus. And Consensus was probably one of the leading organizations putting resourcing into decentralized identity that many years back. Like really early to the trend with the folks over at Uport and the work they were doing way early on in. Terms of bringing decentralized identity over to the ethereum ecosystem and beyond and understanding that the keys we use in crypto land translate well to these decentralized identity paradigms.
00:05:08.602 - 00:06:05.754, Speaker C: And some of the focus we had at consensus, wayne and I were on platform economies, namely that a lot of companies in the space were trying to rebuild a lot of different forms of platform economies at the time, but in a decentralized manner, like tilting some of the things towards users more so than platforms. Reaping a lot of fees. And one of the things that was missing at the time was the trust portion of the transaction. How do you handle knowing who you're dealing with on these platforms? If it's all decentralized and namely a lot of these things, we could operate as like a public key, like know, yada yada yada. But let's say you kind of have the example of like a decentralized airbnb where folks want to stay at a place over time. We're trying to reduce the amount of fees that platforms take and really keep it between the owner and the person renting the space. You're going to need a couple of things, namely the legal portion of the identity, which is, does that person actually own the space and have the rights to rent that space out the reputational identity.
00:06:05.754 - 00:07:17.442, Speaker C: Does this person have a good reputation over time of being a good renter or being a good person, leasing the space out to someone and everything is kind of in order as it should be. And lastly, you have certain safety checks with reputational identity, like you're not going to get serial murdered overnight. So beyond kind of just us sending assets to a smart contract, kind of locking it up and having this decentralized airbnb, how do you slowly reintroduce just the right amount of information for the counterparties to make sure that the transaction is safe in different ways? And that was a big part of how we got started over at Spruce and around 2020, we were an independent organization specifically working on libraries to bring these decentralized identity paradigms into play and implementing them on applications. And most recently, a lot of our work for the last year focused on sign in with Ethereum. And what a lot of that has to do is the first part of kind of identity, especially when dealing with apps and services on the Internet, is around signing in. That first interaction that you take when you interact and interface with something is that sign in portion. And that's been a lot of the focus of our work ever since and it's been a pretty wild ride.
00:07:17.442 - 00:07:31.870, Speaker C: But I love kind of how the space is slowly evolving into these two areas and folks realizing that at the center of all these things are keys, that all the stuff you do on the financial side deals with keys and all the stuff that you do on the identity side is also using that same key pair.
00:07:33.570 - 00:08:50.614, Speaker B: Yeah. While we're sort of traversing this design space, I guess I'll just say out loud what my thesis of So Green Pill is all about regenerative web3 and things that are pro social with Web three. And the reason why we've been spending some time this season talking about identity is that if you can track identities and I don't just mean like, I'm Kevin and you're Gregory Rocco identities, but also, like, persistent pseudonymous identities online, then what you can do is you can start to have repeat interactions between these actors, and you can start to track okay, this is the social attributes of this counterparty that I'm working with. And you can start to have through repeat interactions, you can also start to have positive sum games between the actors in the ecosystem, which wasn't possible in DeFi without collateral. And so if you can complexify the identity space, then you can start to take the positive sum actors and put them in a certain bucket, give them access to features and protocols. And that's where kind of like the regen one plus one equals three in that kind of world with identity. And so I know that we're talking a lot about the technology private keys sign in with Ethereum here and I just wanted to make sure for the listener that we connect the sort of like regen thesis to the identity piece there.
00:08:50.614 - 00:08:55.640, Speaker B: And so I don't know if you have any comments on that. If not, I have more questions about your work.
00:08:56.010 - 00:09:32.686, Speaker C: No, and I think that's important too, because for a user, how does someone show up to an app or service with what they have already and show that service exactly what it needs to know for that interaction without oversharing, without doing too much. And really you have these kind of privacy preserving items in there as well. How do you bring everything together? And the user can go across these different interactions and make sure that they have the ability to show themselves and what is needed just for that interaction without that oversharing for each instance as well, like user protections as well, especially as we move way more digitally.
00:09:32.878 - 00:09:55.210, Speaker B: I think that that's really a key point as we start to build this more regenerative positive sum world, that it doesn't have to come at the cost of privacy and sovereignty of the user's data, which I think is something new that people don't necessarily realize when they get into checking out this design space. And to me that just makes it all that the more exciting.
00:09:56.270 - 00:10:44.860, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think a lot of it deals specifically with especially with identity and data. How do you reverse the login where instead of a user logging into a platform or site, that platform or site now has to log into that user's data vault or wherever they're holding their data, where the user brings everything with them to the session rather than the app kind of storing it on their behalf. Having kind of a fragmented version of you across different apps, how do you just come to an app and present it yourself and be like, here I am, this is everything associated with me that I'm consenting to give you and that's kind of the end of it. And these apps don't even have to hold user data anymore. Users can just bring it with them for that session. And now apps can. Instead of competing on how much data they can store about users, apps can now compete on the services they offer, rather than competing on how much data they can store.
00:10:46.430 - 00:11:32.178, Speaker B: Yeah. I mean, I think in our world, and we just need to say it out loud this might be obvious to me and you, but with all the data leaks that have been happening, where people try to hoard all this data about their users and then they get hacked and they accidentally I think it's equifax it's one of the big three has leaked my identity data and their whole business is storing identity data and credit scoring data about me. And so that should tell you how broken the security paradigm of web two and before data is. And I think that people don't even realize it because it's like a fish being in water. Like, you don't even realize that it's water around us. There's everyone storing all of my data all the time. It's like all we've ever known.
00:11:32.178 - 00:11:36.826, Speaker B: So there's a little bit of an opportunity to show people that there's another world that's possible here. Yeah.
00:11:36.848 - 00:12:20.760, Speaker C: And a lot of it came from when internet standards were coming out, when apps were starting to become a dominant force in the web two era, there was no standard way of doing user controlled identity. So every service just was like, okay, I have to onboard you in some way, shape, or form, get you onto this app or service here, fill in your name, your last name, your username, your password. So every app just slowly began to have a different version of you, and then all of them built moats around those particular versions of you. And then it wasn't until later on that user controlled identity standards kind of came into the play where it's like, okay, what if we flip this model? And what if the user just presents themselves? But a lot of it came from everything being built so quickly, and just that became the moat. Like, user data just became the moat for a lot of these apps and services.
00:12:22.170 - 00:13:26.266, Speaker B: Yeah, and it's worth stating that if each app isn't building its own moat, then what happens is that all web3 apps are building up their own data modes together. And I think that what's really exciting for me about that, is that there's been a whole era of web two applications that have just cornered their categories because they have such big data modes and no one can compete with them anymore. I'm sort of subtweeting Facebook and twitter and all these other social networks that have this network effect where all my friends are in twitter, and because of that, I'm going to be at twitter, and because of that, all my friends are at twitter. There's like this infinite loop of this network effects that's being climbed. But you can imagine someone, I don't know, let's say lens protocol, building a web Three social network and making the social graph open source so that anyone can derive from it. And then anyone who starts a Web three social app can just start on third base because they've got all of that data and network effects there. And so I think that it really builds a more pro consumer and pro citizen web when you can take your data from site to site and you're not locked into these little walled gardens.
00:13:26.458 - 00:14:19.982, Speaker C: And that's exactly what it is too. From the crypto space. It's like we have a lot of these different apps you could use that rely on the same smart contracts, but are just kind of different front ends, different experience for folks. But the second you go to that other front end, that other application, it's kind of the same rails behind everything, the smart contracts that are on like let's say the Ethereum blockchain, for example. And like you're saying with this, you could have these open social media protocols where you can have the green pill social space where a user kind of brings their posts, followers and everything with them. I could have a different social media app and it's all the same data that's being brought back and forth, but we're just kind of different purpose built, different themes, different services we may have on each application, but the underlying data is just coming to each one. It's kind of unlocked as part of that equation and it really gets rid of those bad incentives for hoarding data.
00:14:19.982 - 00:14:49.400, Speaker C: And like you're saying, you and we go to Twitter because we know that's where all of our tweets are, all of our followers are, all of our network data is. But in this kind of new open world of unlocked data and user control data doesn't matter the front end because all that kind of comes with you. And these data formats and standards are all interoperable is that my platform and your platform read the same thing and understand the same language. These standards are almost like the BabbleFish for data.
00:14:50.750 - 00:15:06.320, Speaker B: So maybe let's dive in on one of those specific standards and it's sign in with Ethereum that I hear you always talking about. So is this like I go to an app and instead of just connecting my wallet, I actually sign in with Ethereum and then the app gets some sort of data about me.
00:15:07.010 - 00:15:49.114, Speaker C: So the sign with Ethereum standard, a lot of it deals specifically with how do you prevent big login? Is a joke we use kind of internally and sometimes talk about is like how do you go away from large login providers where if you were using a Google account to sign in with things and Google ever decided, it to pull the rug on you. You wouldn't just lose access to Google services. You'd also lose access to everything. You signed in with Google to. So every time you hit that Sign with Google button, even if it's a total third party service, you lose access to that Google account. You just lost your Identifier. The thing you're using to tell that app who you are in the sign with Ethereum case, these are keys you control, and these Ethereum accounts that only you control to get into these apps and services.
00:15:49.114 - 00:16:00.986, Speaker C: And a big part of what we're doing with that is kind of bridging the gap from actually, first, it'd probably be good if I talked about the difference between connecting a wallet and signing in with Ethereum.
00:16:01.018 - 00:16:01.966, Speaker B: Let's do it.
00:16:02.148 - 00:16:56.110, Speaker C: Because there are two different actions that sometimes get mixed up a little bit sometimes. So when you connect a wallet to an app or a DAP rather, you're not kind of giving the DAP anything other than the means to serve you a transaction, like some kind of on chain transaction, saying, yes, you're trying to make this trade here's a transaction to make that trade. When you're signing a message, you're actually proving you are the owner of that account. And by doing that, the app can trust that, yes, it's you. It could potentially remember things about you, like preferences, for example. The goal obviously being to move this towards the user, bringing all that with them. But it's the first step in having experiences of DApps rival that of traditional apps, that the DAP can remember something about you that when you set up a profile, it's all there for you when you come back.
00:16:56.110 - 00:17:34.320, Speaker C: One of the good early examples of this was OpenSea. So on OpenSea, you could use OpenSea by just connecting a wallet and using the NFT marketplace and trading things. But the second you want to set up a profile on OpenSea, it requires you to sign a message. And that message is, know I'm signing into OpenSea, a couple of other details. And then once you sign that message, OpenSea is like, oh, this person controls that account, they are now logged in, and we could remember these profile details about them. So when they come back, it's all there for them when they get back. And what the whole Sign with Ethereum initiative was, was standardizing that message format, that when you get served that thing in your wallet that's like, sign this message.
00:17:34.320 - 00:18:42.370, Speaker C: It's very much. How do you standardize that so that wallets can then tell the user, hey, you're signing into this where it's getting just that much better with UX, so that the wallet's not like, sign the random message, but instead saying you're actually signing into this app or service and even providing users with better UX around signing in, such as domain binding. And what that means is that if you're on a phishing site that's trying to scam you, and it's asking you to sign off on something that doesn't match the site you're on, like, if it's a phishing site for OpenSea, for example, the wallet being able to warn you and say, hey, you're on a phishing site right now. You're getting scammed. So just getting that much closer to more of a traditional login experience. But using your Ethereum account, using the wallet that you control, the Identifier you control, where we move even deeper is that's the authentication? That's the login you're logging into a site or service. The second part of that is how do you actually bring data with you? So we're working on a couple of standards as well to help to make it so that you're not just like logging in, but also authorizing access to a data vault that you control.
00:18:42.370 - 00:18:55.474, Speaker C: And you can bring this data to a session with you that even if it's even if it's something like the first name, last name thing, even if it's something like dark mode or light mode, that you're able to do that just by signing in with Ethereum. So the first step was how do we get the login?
00:18:55.522 - 00:18:55.878, Speaker B: Right?
00:18:55.964 - 00:19:05.430, Speaker C: The second step is we brought our Identifier. Second step is how do we now bring our data with us. So, a little bit of background on the kind of Connect Wallet signing with Ethereum differences.
00:19:05.590 - 00:19:31.138, Speaker B: So, as a developer, the way I conceptualize this is that Connect Wallet simply has the wallet tell the site that I am user Owaki ETH. But sign in with Ethereum actually has me sign a message with my private key to prove that I'm awake ETH. And it's a stronger guarantee than the connecting, which is just the wallet attesting for it. Is that the technical difference or am I directionally right?
00:19:31.304 - 00:19:39.566, Speaker C: Completely. So it's like I could always spoof a walkie ETH if I just have the Connect Wallet flow, someone can come in, put an extension in front of like MetaMask.
00:19:39.598 - 00:19:42.246, Speaker B: I fork MetaMask to have it lie about who I am kind of thing.
00:19:42.268 - 00:20:03.470, Speaker C: Yeah, exactly. There's like an extension out there that I am vitalik ETH. It's just kind of like can sit in front of existing wallets, connect to that. So the app is like, okay, I guess you're vitalik ETH, but as soon as you send them a transaction, they can't actually sign on that and make that transaction. So the signing the message part is like, yes, I am in fact able to demonstrate control over this wallet.
00:20:04.050 - 00:20:20.580, Speaker B: Right. Beautiful. Well, so, I mean, it seems like signing with Ethereum, let's maybe talk about all the really beautiful data that can piggyback on top of me signing in with Ethereum, could we maybe get into that ecosystem and what use cases you're really excited about there?
00:20:21.910 - 00:21:40.826, Speaker C: Sure. So some of the early stuff around the space that I see kind of popping up, especially with the work over on the Gitcoin passport side, some of the work we're doing on Credentialing and others in the space is how does a user some of the early cases is like two. I see a lot of it first being around creator authenticity. So how do creators in the NFT world have assurances for other folks buying their works that they are who they say they are in these places? That you're not doing an onboarding every single time you go to a new NFT marketplace and instead you're bringing things like a Twitter account that's associated with your name or a Dribble profile or a DeviantArt account that's associated with your name and bringing that with you no matter where you're logging in. And all these platforms just recognize that immediately because they're able to verify that you have that credential, that it was issued in a way that makes a lot of sense to them, and that you, as a user, can. Use that across all these services in the NFT side and even on the Dow side. How does someone create a profile with enough assurances about who they are, so that when they do put up a proposal or they do get involved in the discourse going on about voting on a proposal, even if it's like funding public goods, for example, that folks have the ability to know that they are who they say they are or have assurances.
00:21:40.826 - 00:22:25.738, Speaker C: About who this person is making these statements about certain things and kind of joining these kinds of these conversations about what's going on. Especially, like, in the immediate low assurance credentialing use cases like, I'm bringing social media accounts with me. We're not even at the point of driver's licenses, government documents, reusable KYC, those are like the big big. How do we eventually make all this stuff kind of open and easier to use even down to the small low assurance use cases like a social media account? How do we even take that with us throughout all these interactions? Because even that's super powerful. Especially as we do a lot of these social coordination games around things we work on in the space that I think that's even those are powerful in and of themselves.
00:22:25.904 - 00:23:16.570, Speaker A: Coinshift is a leading treasury management and infrastructure platform for DAOs and crypto businesses that need to manage their treasury operations. Every crypto.org needs to manage its treasury and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible and efficient multi chain treasury management platform built on top of the highly secure Gnosis safe. With Coinshift, your organization can go from primitive single chain treasury management to expressive, flexible and multi chain treasury features such as global user management, global contacts, proposal management and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization, allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs. Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it operates. Used by industry powerhouses such as Uniswap Grants, Balancer, Consensus and Masari, coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it. You have to keep up with the frontier and Coinshift makes that easy.
00:23:16.570 - 00:23:54.066, Speaker A: So sign up at Coinshift XYZ slash bankless. The world has woken up to refi and Celo is here for it. Celo is the layer one for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet positive, and built for the real world. Celo has committed to producing a sustainable future from day one and has built its technology around one of the lowest carbon impact consensus mechanisms and is the world's first carbon negative EVM compatible layer one blockchain. Celo is a movement to create the conditions of prosperity for everyone. Whether it's tokenizing carbon credits with Toucan, providing capital to underserved communities with unicorn, or building for millions of users around the globe.
00:23:54.066 - 00:24:15.646, Speaker A: Celo was created to transform crypto enthusiasts into a movement of change makers. Follow along on Twitter@cello.org to learn more about how Celo is accelerating refi for a positive, lasting impact on people, communities and the planet. And if you're a builder interested in refi, be sure to join the build with Celo hackathon live now with a prize pool of over $100,000.
00:24:15.748 - 00:25:19.970, Speaker B: I mean, it seems like there's such a diversity of different data writers that we could have once more apps integrate with, sign in with Ethereum that I'm really excited to see this ecosystem flourish. And of course, the one I'm more familiar with is Gitcoin Passport, because back when I was at Gitcoin, we were kind of starting to think about what would have to be true for Gitcoin to take the civil resistance data that it has and make it accessible to other applications. Of course, with the permission of users authorizing their data silos. And so you can imagine that someone signs in with Ethereum and if they authorize the app to have it, then you could get their Gitcoin Passport score from that application and then all of a sudden that application knows, oh, I can treat this user as a civil resistant user instead of just a regular user. And it just seems like there's a totally broad design space, but it could get really deep in each of these individual application niches just depending on what kind of data is emergently created and what users will authorize.
00:25:20.550 - 00:26:20.790, Speaker C: Yeah, and I'm thinking too about if you could even blend things from the Gitcoin Passport like credentials with even on chain information. Like for example, you have assurances around civil resistance from these social media accounts, from these accounts across the web, tied to this Identifier, this key. What if you could also blend that with on chain information as well? What if it's kind of even drilled down to beyond, just like has made a transaction, to has made over ten uniswap trades within a certain period and that gets issued as a credential and that used on chain, blended with off chain to get even higher assurances about civil resistance. Like that a user is in fact a unique user and just kind of showing up to something with that, with enough assurances for whatever the application is. Let's say it's an AirDrop, let's say it's for increased benefits on an app. Or service. Now you could even not even just use the off chain stuff, the stuff that's coming from Web Two, but also natively Web Three things and kind of have this blended experience from both sides.
00:26:22.970 - 00:26:54.000, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that gets pretty interesting. And it might be worth just for the listener who doesn't spend their full time on this talking about the difference between on chain credentials and off chain credentials. I don't think that we've covered yet, but Verifiable credentials stored off chain on something like ceramic are different from something that's stored on chain and directly connected to your address. And the big difference there to me is the privacy implications of having something connected on chain that anyone can just read versus an off chain thing that I have to sign in to give access to.
00:26:54.690 - 00:27:24.810, Speaker C: Yeah, is that right or close? Yeah, no, that's completely right. And one of the important things too is when we talk about credentials like this, they are off chain. So users have these privacy preserving ways of using them. And a big thing about the on chain credentialing and you could actually represent stuff that happened on chain as an off chain credential. Like I could issue you, Kevin, a credential that said you made more than ten uniswap trades. I'll issue that off chain. But the evidence for that will be some on chain information.
00:27:24.810 - 00:28:06.946, Speaker C: Maybe we'll hit an indexer, maybe we'll hit some service that gives us the evidence for that information. But I think where it gets even more interesting is when you could start using these off chain credentials on chain in different ways. Like, let's say you have a fully autonomous system with smart contracts. Imagine if you could use those credentials with that smart contract. Now that smart contract has to have a Twitter account associated with the public key. The only way for that smart contract to understand that is if it's on chain in some way or if there's an oracle, something that feeds off chain information on chain in some efficient way. So there's like a huge mix and match design space of what can be off chain, what could be on chain.
00:28:06.946 - 00:28:33.134, Speaker C: But I'm more along the lines of things in terms of personal information remaining off chain in different ways, so long as it could be privacy preserving at the end of the day that the user kind of has full control over the information. You might have some emerging things to somehow get that on chain in a privacy preserving way. But I think that's just kind of the core of it. As long as that information is protected for that person, then kind of the format is whatever is easier. But as long as that information is.
00:28:33.172 - 00:28:50.680, Speaker B: Protected and we should say that for on chain data, there is ways to protect the privacy. I mean, I'm thinking of zero knowledge proofs when I say that out loud, but yeah, I know that when the DSOC paper came out. This was a big controversy that happened.
00:28:51.450 - 00:29:18.990, Speaker C: Yeah. Soulbound tokens that was probably the one burning question was like, how do we make sure that whatever's going on chain stamped in the ledger of record forever isn't my Social Security number? And that isn't ever possibly leaked in any possible way. And that's probably still one of the most important things, especially for the folks experimenting with on chain credentials to just always make sure designing for privacy first is super important because you don't want to this immutable stamp.
00:29:19.490 - 00:29:42.230, Speaker B: Yeah. And this is not like when you're designing for a web two app where the server goes down and it goes away. The blockchain is forever. Well, depends on the blockchain. But the ethereum main net, I think we can assume has reached escape velocity and is going to be around forever. So you just have to take privacy way more seriously because you're going through a one way door when you deploy something to a blockchain.
00:29:42.890 - 00:30:08.814, Speaker C: Yeah, exactly. And I think that's as long as that's kind of the core of folks looking to do identity on chain, as long as that's at the core of their principles and reasoning and philosophy around it, then it's cool. As long as we're just not personal information on chain that's not encrypted not private by default. Just very scary when it's immutable like that. But there are a lot of folks working in that space right now and making sure that is a possibility. So definitely hats off to them.
00:30:09.012 - 00:30:19.940, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. What are the categories of things that sign in with ethereum enables that you're most excited about right now?
00:30:20.630 - 00:31:33.260, Speaker C: I think one of the things that I'm a big fan of is how do you log in on behalf of a dow? I think this has been a little bit of a problem for a while, where if you have a multi SIG or a multi SIG wallet so, like, let's say in order a multi SIG wallet, you just need multiple people to sign off on something or multiple wallets sign off on something to make a transaction go through in a multi SIG wallet. So if you and I set up a multisig, we can make it two out of two. So both of us have to sign and approve something in order to make something go. But this has been a problem for a lot of dows and a lot of organizations or even individuals who use multisigs is how do you sign into apps or DApps using that multisig? Traditionally in corporate world, it's like we always have the designated social media person, but it's one person representing the organization. It's not like 100 of us are sitting around a computer and all 100 of us have our hand on the mouse and clicking on things on the app or service. It's always one person. And this really never translated well yet in terms of DApps, where multisigs can just take off chain actions and have an account on a platform.
00:31:33.260 - 00:33:01.046, Speaker C: Folks did it in a couple of bespoke ways. But one of the things I'm super excited about is if the workflow where a multi SIG is able to say these keys, these people are the ones that can log in on behalf of this multisig. So if a Dao had a member that can control the social media accounts, like the decentralized social media accounts, if a Dow had a member that did the proposal drafting in certain instances or even managed the profile of that dao on a governance platform, that now there is a workflow where an individual can do that. The dao or multi SIG can say, yep, that's the individual that can log in. And when that user goes to sign in with ethereum, the DAP can ask them, hey, did you mean as yourself? So let's say me, Rocco or on behalf of the multi SIG or one of these multi Sigs that you are a delegate of and I'm also very excited to start splitting that out. So you could have one person be the social media person, you could have one person manage the Dow profile on this website and have these very narrow scopes for each of these things. Before this was a very difficult thing but thankfully working with the folks over at Nosisafe, this has now been enabled, which is great, but now it's like what are the even deeper use cases of single delegation to certain apps or certain verticals? Again, social media app like the profile management app, the proposal management app that each individual can now represent a different thing similar to how we do it in traditional companies.
00:33:01.046 - 00:33:44.980, Speaker C: Like there's a social media person, this person managing this account, but now kind of fully Web Three enabled and having this design space happen. And also, again, just using wallets and I think that's a core basis for a lot of what excites me about sign with Ethereum even just beyond the identity stuff is how do you take these wallets that folks are using and beyond just financial transactions, what else can you do with them? I think that's the core of a lot of this work, for all the folks working on identity, for all the folks working on decentralized data is how do you take individuals using wallets and say, hey, wait, there's a ton more you can do with this? That is this mode of sovereign operation beyond just finances and having someone like full user control.
00:33:45.430 - 00:34:40.950, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. I mean as someone who's worked on Enterprise, I'm shuddering but I'm thinking about my corporate America days. But Enterprise access management was something that there was whole teams at this corporation I worked at and just having that all be open source and permissionless I think is really a huge step forward. But when I think about what decentralized identity is going to enable, I think about things like Web Three social, being able to take my social graph from site to site or under collateralized lending or civil resistance, like a little bit more consumer oriented applications. But it's amazing to have this sort of consumer stuff and the enterprise stuff on the same structure because that enables you to do whatever innovation you enable for your Dow can be enabled for you as an individual user and vice versa. But I'm wondering if there's anything in that category of more consumer oriented stuff that you're really excited about being built on top of. Sign in with ethereum.
00:34:42.010 - 00:35:53.358, Speaker C: No, I think you kind of hit the nail on the head there, especially around the social space is that the one thing that I saw the space take a great turn, I'd say probably in the 2019 2020 was more into the social space. And not even just social media, just like pure interactions as individuals beyond just adapt and could kind of make money go from point A to point B, which is super important in its own right. I never want to downplay the finance side of crypto, but I think signing with Ethereum really represents that other side of those interactions, those social interactions, like decentralized social media artists in the NFT space and how we communicate. I think that's kind of the world that's unlocked here outside of the financial use cases. Like how do we start having these more contextual interactions in the space as opposed to just connecting a wallet and making a transaction? How do we go levels deeper than that, especially on the consumer side like that? I think it's all the social interactions, all the contextual interactions when you need just a little bit more of yourself than just the public key, just the wallet, I think, is when this gets really, really powerful and kind of signing with Ethereum is just kind of that root of it. It's just kind of the standard. It's just a standard.
00:35:53.358 - 00:36:06.160, Speaker C: It enables all this. But I think what it enables, like we're talking about now, those contextual interactions are super important, especially as the space evolves to bring people closer together in everything we're doing here.
00:36:07.330 - 00:36:28.120, Speaker B: So I know that you spend a lot of time thinking about this and I know that because when we hang out, we geek out about this a lot. So I'm wondering if you could take me into the future. It's the end of 2022 right now. Say it's 2032. It's ten years from now. If sign in with Ethereum is maximally successful, what will the world look like? What kind of impact will it have on the world?
00:36:29.290 - 00:37:34.160, Speaker C: I think if signing with Ethereum is maximally successful, we really have a world where large companies aren't extracting the value they are anymore from users. I think it's a little bit of kind of blue skies, but I think that's really the case because I think, as we mentioned earlier, now that users control their own Identifier or have ways of doing it. I think wallets get to the point where key management is a complete breeze in terms of not worrying about like, oh no, did I write those twelve words somewhere? I think we've reached that point in that time where wallets have created such great experiences around recovery, around managing these things. And I think we have this world where users are always in control of their Identifiers, never worrying about a large company pulling the rug on them or having a data breach, and instead are just worrying about new features. That are dropping to make the apps and services that much more better for users that we're not constantly in this world of fear of oh, no. Is something going to happen to my data? Oh no, I forgot about that account five years ago. And now that app or service has shut down, or their data is now posted on the Dark web somewhere, I think it's less on that and more about the experiences we're talking about.
00:37:34.160 - 00:38:37.746, Speaker C: More on oh, what app am I going to be using today that's offering me so much value and social value and if I don't like it, that within 10 seconds I can move over to the next platform. And the experience is nearly the same in terms of the things I've brought with me to this platform. And these platforms are just purely competing on services and what they could offer the user instead of being extractive from the user, that it's more focused on the user and more focused on benefiting users than benefiting the bottom lines. And that's what's great about this space, is that it bends all incentives towards that on the experience rather than how extractive a service can be. And I think the ten year view is if you get to that point, if these standards are working as intended, and if key management is in place to make it a breeze. And I know we all kind of use the default of like, can my mom use this? And I think in ten years, absolutely, I think that'll be the case. I'm very hopeful for the wallet space in terms of getting it right for users, making sure that design patterns are great, making sure that recovery is great.
00:38:37.746 - 00:38:50.840, Speaker C: And I think if we're all there, I think we're really in a great spot with how we interact on the Internet, how we take control of ourselves on the Internet, how trust gets redefined on the Internet, and how experiences evolve as well.
00:38:51.370 - 00:38:59.530, Speaker B: Beautiful. Well, is there anything I didn't ask that you want to say or anything else that you want to say before we wrap?
00:39:00.750 - 00:40:12.560, Speaker C: I just want to say that I think what often goes underappreciated in the space are the folks working on open standards that we talk a lot about generally when new standards drop. I know folks are talking about account abstraction, folks are talking about what's the new thing going on right now is I think the human coordination cost to bring these standards to life, like signing with Ethereum, often goes unnoticed. I also want to shout out to all the EIP editors, the folks who have been keeping the Ethereum standards going and making sure that they're reviewed, making sure there's a process for them because all this stuff is built on open standards. And the nice thing about this space is that it moves at the speed of light in terms of a bunch of companies coordinating on bringing something like sign with Ethereum to life, bringing other standards to life, really just making sure that everything works so seamlessly. And I just want to definitely shout out to all the folks besides myself working on open standards, using open standards to really try to give users a better experience than what's out there because there's a lot of human coordination costs to it. And that coordination cost is definitely there.
00:40:13.490 - 00:40:15.518, Speaker B: Yeah, public goods are good.
00:40:15.684 - 00:40:16.382, Speaker C: Public goods are good.
00:40:16.436 - 00:40:18.590, Speaker B: Setting work is a public good.
00:40:18.740 - 00:40:21.470, Speaker C: EIPS are one of my favorite public goods.
00:40:22.530 - 00:40:23.274, Speaker B: Totally.
00:40:23.402 - 00:40:24.854, Speaker C: That's definitely one of them.
00:40:25.012 - 00:40:29.430, Speaker B: Yeah. Weird. Well, Rocco, keep up the great work. And so great to have you on the pod.
00:40:30.010 - 00:40:31.380, Speaker C: Thanks, Kevin. Thanks for having me.
