00:00:13.960 - 00:00:14.926, Speaker A: Hello, everyone.
00:00:15.070 - 00:00:47.054, Speaker B: I hope you're ready for the next part. Today we have a lot of interesting topics. That's loud. We have a lot of interesting topics coming up. All of them are really grounded instead of being on chain while they have an on chain connection. So we have a lot about cities, about housing and real life use cases. And it's a big pleasure to announce the first speaker of this very interesting series, clarity, an architect with a Solarpunk vision who will present how we can enhance co housing with web3.
00:00:47.054 - 00:00:49.094, Speaker B: A lot of applause.
00:01:02.464 - 00:01:46.254, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. So today I'm going to talk about the current housing challenges that we are facing in gentrified areas around the world. And how through self organization and web3, we can move towards having societies that are more virgin, sovereign and fair and advance into this Solarpunk vision. My name is Clara. I'm an architect. I work creating cooperatives of social housing and also working in the web3 space in a Dao called de Orc that we provide web3 development services to many clients. I'll tell you more about later, but let's start with the Solarpunk vision.
00:01:46.254 - 00:02:43.544, Speaker A: I just realized that I don't have the. Is somebody like, sorry, but I just want to start setting a little bit of the vision of the Solarpunk in terms of applying into the architecture field. And I like to always start with the tradition because this is like knowledge that has been iterating for years to come up with solutions that are comfortable, are efficient, and also are economical using materials that are already in place. And I think we should. Thank you. We should strive to set like this as the vase and then adapt these principles to our current needs mixed with the current technologies that we have. And I'm going to try this.
00:02:43.544 - 00:03:50.638, Speaker A: Okay, so these are like examples of traditional architecture that we have back home. I'm from Spain, and then, as I was saying, like, using all this knowledge to advance to having like, Soyuz bank societies. And then I'm going to tell you, like, some principles to get there using a different scale approach. So at the city level, we can, you know, create a strategies that move urban environments towards more human centric and environmentally friendly homes. And one of the first actions is to distribute services in various centers from sort of like decentralizing the, you know, more like the american city model. And this is like a map from Barcelona where you can see, like, how neighborhoods are distributed and city centers, so you can reach all the things you need in a walkable distance. The second strategy is to push for public transport.
00:03:50.638 - 00:05:08.674, Speaker A: And then, so we are able to remove cars and vehicles both park and in movement from spaces to create more spaces that are livable for humans and then enhance nature and restoration, like this project from sew, where they remove this highway to create this linear park. Another example of how to approach environmentally friendly nature spaces in cities is this project from Singapore, where here they designed the space already, taking into account the resilience in climate. So, for example, when there's, like, the rainy season, you can see, like, how the park gets floated in order to be able to drain the water easily. So it's made on port that it gets floated on the neighborhood level. We can create neighborhoods that, you know, generate their own resources in terms of, like, power, heating, etcetera. They store rainwater. They create places to, you know, have grow your own food, waste management, public and shared transport as well.
00:05:08.674 - 00:05:59.852, Speaker A: Like this neighborhood that I'm presenting here in Freiburg, Germany. And I'll show you, like, how it looks like. And then when we reach, you know, like, the building scale we need to strive to have in buildings that are some sort of, like, as self sufficient as possible. So zero or net carbon and then mix it and also bring, you know, natural materials, because, like, the industry of consumers is responsible for the 40% of the CO2 emissions worldwide. And I'm going to present some, you know, let's call it alternative materials. Hopefully one day they stop being alternatives. But here you can see a project made with timber structures that it's called CTL.
00:05:59.852 - 00:06:26.568, Speaker A: You can build a skyscraper until, you know, a certain, certain level. You can also use a straw. Like, these homes here are made by straw. And this is like, a really good material because it's highly isolated. And then it's one of the most cheapest materials to build with. So basically, like this is combining a straw with timber frame structures. Another material, it's Earth.
00:06:26.568 - 00:07:05.990, Speaker A: And you can see here with a school in Bangladesh by Anna Heringer. Earth construction has, like, thousands, thousands of years of history. And it's really cool because can regulate the comfort, interior temperature and humidity in this space. And also works wonders when we are, like, working in seismic environments because it vibrates at the same frequency as the earthquakes. This is another project made by Earth. This is from Luis Auquet, back home in the studio where I collaborate. And here we are mixing as well, like, timber structure with earth construction.
00:07:05.990 - 00:08:26.926, Speaker A: In this case, ram earth. And when we mix these old materials and traditional materials with the current technology, we can have 3d printed homes made with earth. Another material that is considered, you know, like the 21st century still is bamboo and you can see, like, what we can build with bamboo, and the last one is cardboard. And you can see that there's this architect called Shigeru ban that he builds, you know, whole buildings with carpet. But also it's really cool because he can create rapidly, like, homes for shelter, emergency homes with this material. And here's a question for the audience from these two pictures. Which one do you think? It's more solarpunk? So the one on your left, it's a concrete structure that is basically like a not super sustainable material that had to be oversized because of the weight of the earth that you need to allocate on the balconies to be able to grow trees.
00:08:26.926 - 00:09:28.084, Speaker A: Apart from that, there's no much like solar prong strategies. Here. On your right hand side, you have a building in Barcelona that it's made with CLT timber structures, the ones that I show you. Also, the design follows passive home principles and also stores rainwater and has their own centralized heating made with powered with biomass. So this is my point here when we are prompting on mid journey about solarpunk realities, just to go a little bit over the mile, beyond the greenery and the round shapes. So this is, I try to briefly convey, like, some of the principles of the Solarpunk realeries, but I want to also some sort of like, touch ground and see where we are right now. Because like in many countries around the world, we are seeing how rents are getting higher and higher.
00:09:28.084 - 00:11:05.006, Speaker A: Properties are ending in hands of great, great tenures, if not, like global investment funds, our salaries are extended and add to that gender salary difference, and also like the inflation and then the construction costs that had skyrocketed in the last four years. And if we want to build solar pancreas, that comes with an added cost. So with families that are getting more vulnerable, and then, you know, housing being a fundamental human right, some people can rely, like, on governments for, you know, social housing, emergency housing. Like the Netherlands, they have like a great 30% stock of social housing, but countries like mine, we don't even reach like, the 2%. So when you cannot rely on governments, or you don't fall into the enough vulnerable use cases, you don't want to go into the mortgage pathway, or maybe like, you can go into the mortgage pathway, what are our alternatives? So the short answer is self organization. And I'm going to walk you through how is it possible to transition from a market that is speculative towards a market that is owned by community warranties? Fixed prices ensures for long term stability, and also pushes for solar punk principles. And the first step is to organize ourselves in tenants unions.
00:11:05.006 - 00:11:50.910, Speaker A: And we've seen like how around the world, in many cities, tenant, state union are defending the rights to. Against like tenants. And then usually like these, like these things that we need to defend ourselves. Because like there are. Sorry, I can't find the word, but they are lapusive practices perpetrated usually like by corporate landlords. So we've seen as well, like here in PRAc, we have an example of like initiative that it's working towards like this goal. And the second step is to impose laws that regulate and limit long term and short term rents.
00:11:50.910 - 00:12:35.362, Speaker A: And we've seen again like the successful use cases around the world have happened because of bottom up initiative and proposal that come up to the parliament. And if we raise the bar, we can create intentional communities. And what's important here, or social housing cooperatives. And what's important here is to wrap these entities as cooperatives, or CLT. So the ownership is retained by the legal entity. And then members of this entity can have the right to use this place. So with these two features, we are ensuring the long term stability and then the fixed prices.
00:12:35.362 - 00:13:22.744, Speaker A: Because members, we are sort of like moving from ownership towards a stewardship. And this is a project that we are imposing back home in a very small village. It's 16 units of social housing. Where people are going to have like their own home. And they are going to share some of the amenities and facilities to cut costs and still attain a degree of self sufficiency in the buildings. In this case, it's social housing because the plot is owned by the administration and they are leasing it for 90 years. And then members are going to pay for it with a refundable down payment and then a monthly fee that's still like lower than the rental market price.
00:13:22.744 - 00:14:09.714, Speaker A: And then these also type of communities, also add the benefits of having a community next door. And to me, what's more important is like housing. It's like community housing is really impactful. Because it directly triggers so many verticals like the mobility, food sovereignty, land management, education, child elders care, etcetera. And the first step would be to leverage all these intentional communities into networks of sovereign communities. Like this example in back home. Again in Fundacion Privs, which is a network of cooperative intentional communities that are wrapped into a foundation.
00:14:09.714 - 00:15:05.996, Speaker A: And this is the legal entity that that enables to lock properties outside of the speculative market. And make sure that we retain the properties. And we retain like the fixed prices, even beyond our lives. This foundation in particular is managing lands, properties, knowledge and tools as commons. And then if we center into the community homes, it comes as well with some challenges, and most of them are in the face of the incubation of these projects. So we have ownership, governance is limited, the access to funding, it's only recognized by ethical banks, coordination, trust staff. Still, we are struggling to self organize and to raise this collective mindset, not educated for it.
00:15:05.996 - 00:16:09.698, Speaker A: And the whole thing makes that this is a super long process. And that's why if we want to achieve like, let's say a major adoption of these projects, we need tools and we need to accelerate the processes to be able to scale the model. And that's why I think we can do that with web3 technology. So I'm going to list like some of the proposal to overcome these current struggles that we have current challenges. And one is to build customized setups for stewardship. So we know that if we tokenize a property, then those who have more tokens, who have buy more tokens, have more governance power, but we have to go beyond that. We can also tokenize the value added, for example, the value added in imposing these projects, the value added in, you know, dedicating time for care for elders or children, or even time for, you know, taking care of the orchards and stuff like that.
00:16:09.698 - 00:16:45.286, Speaker A: And we can do that with tokenization. We can also combine permanent and temporary stewardship. And in the future, maybe we can, you know, create Dao federations or even like sovereign network protocols. I'm going to put the example of TDF. It's traditional dream factory, a co living organized as a Dao in Portugal, where they follow the same model on a stewardship. So they have a legal entity. In this case, it's an SPV that retains the ownership and then members can buy tokens.
00:16:45.286 - 00:17:52.286, Speaker A: So one token equals for the right to access as the property for one night per year. And then they have like some mechanisms that enhance the governance through the proof of presence and the proof of sweat. Proof of presence is like, how many nights are you spending there? And then they have like a function decay that sort of like wedges down your voting power based on how long it was that you were there, you were staying there. And then the proof of sweat is like this way of measuring how much time and effort you are dedicating, you're putting in, in your community. So then you can also have more diverse and inclusive communities where everybody has a representation of governance. When we are trying to solve, like how we access to more funds. As I was saying, the only way right now, in my country is through ethical bank, and that's limited funding funds.
00:17:52.286 - 00:19:08.674, Speaker A: So if we strike that communities, when they are in the incubation phase, that they can pull money or stake it in borrow and lending protocols, we can ensure that while we are creating and imposing these project that could last from two to four years, we are generating interest. Also from these tokens listed, we can use it as an asset, assets as a collateral, and to ask for loans. And here is what is important in these projects, we usually aim for fixed interest rates. And if I'm not wrong, Ava is already providing for some of this. We need to, you know, strive for longer periods of loans so we can apply for, I don't know, like 30 years mortgages at a fixed interest in a DeFi protocol. Why not? And the also struggle, and that could be like an opportunity, is, you know, like a smoother on and off ramp, because, you know, members of community are non tech savvy people, and we are already helping people struggling with Google Drive. So imagine switching networks, metamask, sending money here and there.
00:19:08.674 - 00:20:28.764, Speaker A: We can also tokenize the property to access to direct funds, and also use this token again as a collateral to ask for loans in the Defi CoFi and Refi space. This project is not collective, but still, I think it's relevant. It's like the first property that was tokenized here in Europe, it was in Paris in 2018, and they created a joint stock company to retain again the ownership. And then they issued tokens that were like €6.5 or so. And a heads up here, like, I'm talking about, like, tokenizing properties to get into the ownership, not to, you know, democratize investing into real space so we can have, like, more speculation even. And then when it comes to slow coordination and decision making, I think we are going to move, you know, we see more of these projects moving into hybrid decision making spaces to accelerate these processes, and also use token based voting and anonymous voting, because otherwise we fall into, and we've seen this in all daos, how, you know, people who retain more tokens in the DAo can influence the results of the others.
00:20:28.764 - 00:21:46.514, Speaker A: And then we also need to strive for more UX and UI coordination tools. And what I see is like a feature of web3 being more like web two UX UI tools with a blockchain in the backend. And the example that I brought, that I bring is Bogdoni, which is a voting protocol that, since 2018, is being used by organizations like football club Barcelona, or Omni and cultural, which is an entity back home that has 180K members that are voting through a blockchain protocol with a UX UI that it's up to. And in terms of self organization and collective mindset, for me, it's like, just get a skin on the game, right? Just get there, explore, test work from others and keep improving processes. And the use case I want to bring is de York, which is like this collective that I mentioned I'm part of. We are 120 members running the business as a workers cooperative. And what's interesting here is like, unlike the traditional cooperative, the access is not warrantied by an economical fee that represents, like, the governance and ownership.
00:21:46.514 - 00:22:37.134, Speaker A: Instead, it's based in meritocracy. So that means that for each dollar that you earn contributing at the Dow, you earn one token of non transferable governance power. And those members who have been contributing more to the DAO have more governance power. And I think that's super useful and super powerful as well in order to, you know, get more diverse and diverse organization and also to distribute wealth around the world. So we've been around for, since 2019, working for more than 100 clients. So far, we've generated more than $10 million on chain revenue. And all of this has been like bootstrapping and with self organization.
00:22:37.134 - 00:23:23.854, Speaker A: So to wrap up here, imagine like a part of the housing stuff would be affordable and ruled by community. We would move towards, you know, having community benefits that serve for creating new homes. We could ensure long term and affordable model of housing. We can push for regenerative architecture and restorative ecosystems. And we can also leverage the impact of housing communities in many other verticals, as I explained to you. And these, I think could be possible thanks to web3 and technology. So if you are working or building any tool, any protocol that you think could help housing communities, please feel free to reach me out.
00:23:23.854 - 00:23:41.634, Speaker A: And also, if you want to know more about Dorc or you need to accelerate your roadmap, feel free. Free to also reach me out. And that's it. That's my goal into advancing into having more fair, sovereign and regional societies. Thank you.
00:23:49.054 - 00:23:58.014, Speaker B: Thanks a lot for this presentation. We'll be back in a couple of minutes to zoom out from housing to cities and greenery. So see you back in the five minutes.
