00:00:00.170 - 00:00:23.578, Speaker A: Our Dow Hacks Workshop. Day one. We have David here from Lens who will be doing a workshop on building on Lens Protocol. So David will be taking questions in the zoom chat, so if you have any, drop it in there and he'll try to answer them throughout the call. But if not, he'll definitely address them at the end of the workshop. And with that being said, I'll hand the mic off to you, David.
00:00:23.754 - 00:00:55.790, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks, Santa. So my name is David. I'm a product manager for social products over here at Ave Companies, which includes Lens Protocol. And super excited to give you guys an overview of the Lens Protocol as well as some ideas on things you can build with it and how to work with our recently released Lens API. So why did we build Lens Protocol? I think before we can even understand what's going on in the system, we need to know how we got here. We all know that Web Two social media is broken.
00:00:55.790 - 00:01:22.658, Speaker B: We're trapped into using these platforms that we don't really necessarily like. They have all of our data, they're selling it, we're not really getting much out of it. And there's three kind of big problems. The first, user data is not portable. I can't bring my videos that I've posted on TikTok over to YouTube or Instagram Reels or any other service. I'm kind of locked where I'm at and if they choose to kick me off a platform, I can't then take my audience and take my content with me. That's a huge risk for creators.
00:01:22.658 - 00:01:45.374, Speaker B: Networks are selling my data and I'm seeing zero upside for Facebook. You are the product, you're not the user. Their users are advertisers and that's kind of who they design around first and foremost. And lastly, the data is centralized. When it's centralized, it's controlled by a singular entity. We've all seen how that's turned out. Tons of hacks and the last thing I need is more spam email to go through.
00:01:45.374 - 00:02:38.830, Speaker B: And so with Web Three social, we're bringing the power back to the users. We're empowering creators and we're doing it through Lens Protocol. It's a new protocol to allow developers to build social apps, tools and other applications on a composable, decentralized social graph that allows you, the developer, to focus on user experience and building a great application rather than user acquisition. And building up this graph, Lens Protocol for the creator side is going to empower you to own the links between your community and this is going to be able to bring your content from platform to platform, allowing you to monetize everywhere. I think this is really key. We're going from companies owning data to users and creators owning their data and having it interplay with the rest of Web Three. You can bring all your NFTs, you can connect out to all of the DFI applications and everything else that's yet to be invented.
00:02:38.830 - 00:03:01.602, Speaker B: And the way this works is our social protocol ecosystem revolves around an NFT infrastructure layer. We make heavy use of NFTs and this isn't like the board ape NFTs. These are NFTs as powerful smart contracts. We have a profile. NFT represents your profile. It looks pretty similar to working with ENS or Unstoppable if you've worked with either those before. I'll have my profile NFT.
00:03:01.602 - 00:03:27.594, Speaker B: Let's say it's at David. It's got some metadata that I can put in so I can know this links to my Twitter, this links to my YouTube, this is my Ethereum address. But it's got two kind of unique things to it. It's got a publications array that gets dynamically updated. It's append only with new publications. Publications being content that can be text, MP3, audiovisual, a podcast, anything. Lens doesn't care where this is stored.
00:03:27.594 - 00:04:03.686, Speaker B: It could be stored in AR, We IPFS ceramic or again storage solutions yet to be invented. Additionally, you can control your follow logic with a follow module. We're going to get into what that is later. Following builds the social graph and we represent following by follow NFTs. So if I want to go follow, if I wanted to follow Anna, I would do the transaction and if that follow succeeds I'm going to get minted a follow NFT. It's going to say this is the Anna follow NFT I'm follower number one. So I have ID one and it might have other metadata.
00:04:03.686 - 00:04:39.830, Speaker B: It might say that this was created by this specific app along with a signature to show authenticity. It might say that this represents a bi directional follow, something like a Facebook friendship compared to a unidirectional Twitter follow. You could have other data in there. This is a premium know it represents that I paid for it as opposed to a free one. This follow NFT contract also has built in governance power with delegation. This allows me to plug into Aave governor openzeppen or compound governor or snapshot to build social DAOs and social dao strategies. So as a creator I can pull my following.
00:04:39.830 - 00:05:36.770, Speaker B: One of our engineers, Josh, does really great solidity content on YouTube videos. He could pull his Lens audience and say should I be making more videos on Ave V three or should I instead go over should I instead go over maybe Alchemyx V two and you can take a proper Dow vote. Or conversely you could actually have no need to do a social token to organize a group. We could have the profile NFT live inside of a smart contract and a Dao vote occurs and it grants somebody the ability to follow that Dow that profile them joining the Dao. So we can have these kind of on chain social DAOs organized around a graph and interaction as opposed to a social token. Lastly, we have post, comments and mirrors. So there's three types of publications a standard post that's just a reference to some content, a comment which is the same data structure as a comment as a retweet with quote.
00:05:36.770 - 00:06:26.434, Speaker B: So that would be I'm referencing another piece of content and creating my own on top of it. And the last is a mirror, which is our version of Retweet, which is just a reference to another piece of content. All of these can be fully monetized. So if I post a great image, let's say, of my last trip to London, I can say, hey, this can be minted ten times into its own NFT. And if you mirrored it and somebody collected it off the mirror, minted it off the mirror, there's a referral fee in order to encourage good curation. There's a question in the chat about why we decided to make only profile and follow NFTs as opposed to one for each publication. A publication can turn into an NFT if it's collected, but the idea is that all publications live inside the profile.
00:06:26.434 - 00:07:01.710, Speaker B: So the profile is your entire feed and all of your publications are there. We don't want to necessarily have NFTs owning other NFTs, but we allow publications to be minted into NFTs, standalone NFTs using a thing called a collect module. And that actually flows really great into how you can extend lens on the smart contract level. So I spoke a little bit about modules, and we have three types, and I think they're really powerful. Modules allow you to bring in arbitrary logic into Lens. The first one is the follow module. This is attached on the profile.
00:07:01.710 - 00:07:31.030, Speaker B: So I'm david EV ETH the wallet and I own the at david profile. And I may set a follow module, a bit of logic that will run some program and return a boolean. Answer zero or one. And if it's one, the profile NFT gets minted. If it's zero, we revert the transaction. What are some things I can do here? Well, I could have the basic situation, the free mint. Anybody can mint unlimited number of follow NFTs from my profile.
00:07:31.030 - 00:08:17.370, Speaker B: I could have a paid version, so I could say you have to send me five matic in order for me to mint you a follow NFT. I could say mint me five matic, take the matic deposit into Ave, and then put the A tokens in my account, and then mint the NFT. And then the last one, this is a true one that somebody in our community built as followlogic. Charge five matic for the follow, figure out the amount of gas being used, convert it to carbon credits, buy BCT from Toucan and retire it, and then send the remaining matic to my address, making the entire action carbon neutral. Arbitrary logic is arbitrary logic you can plug into DeFi or any other smart contract. And that's just for follows. Reference and collect are going to live on the per publication basis.
00:08:17.370 - 00:08:49.134, Speaker B: Reference is if another post or publication wants to reference a given post. If I'm commenting on your post or mirroring it in order for that transaction to succeed, it has to clear the reference module linked to that post. A way to think about this is if I publish a tweet today, I like to use Twitter as an example. We're all familiar with it. If I publish a tweet today and I can set who's allowed to reply to it, think of that as your reference module. I can decide who is allowed to comment on my tweet or retweet my tweet, my publication. And again, I can do any type of logic.
00:08:49.134 - 00:09:22.826, Speaker B: We have people who say I can only comment on this post if I hold two board apes where I hold these specific board apes number 62, 128 and 4072. I can say that you have to have more than 32 FWB to comment on my post to be a member of a community. Again, I can also do payments as well. Collect is the mint functionality. That's what turns a publication into a standalone NFT. So here's where I could define any arbitrary Mint logic. I could say here's the whitelist of who's allowed to mint my posts into standalone NFTs.
00:09:22.826 - 00:09:44.658, Speaker B: Here's how much it costs. I could do a bonding curve, I can do an auction, I can really do anything. And I can also specify what happens to the output funds. A really cool example that a developer in our community did. 99.9% of all NFTs are sold in stablecoins US dollar stablecoins or ETH. They created one called alternate currency collect.
00:09:44.658 - 00:10:36.710, Speaker B: So if I'm a creator in Europe, I can specify that I want my NFT or my publication to be for sale for 50 USDC. And then as soon as the Mint occurs, it will use the zero X API to auto swap into Euros and put that in my wallet. And you can actually even cause the price on the sale side to be variable given the exchange rate at a given time. So that's collect. And the overall goal with Lens that I like to get at is we're really trying to foster a broad, diverse and evolving social ecosystem. Everything is fully composable and transferable on chain. That means that more than just us being able to plug in through these modules to existing ethereum, existing EVM data, other applications can plug into us can plug into your social following.
00:10:36.710 - 00:11:22.310, Speaker B: I can say you can only access this DAP or this Dao if you follow the Dow or if you've engaged in a certain positive way. Or we can start doing snapshot strategies that reward contributors and DAOs for how they engage as opposed to necessarily what tokens they have. And we can now have some quantitative means of doing that on chain. As I mentioned, follower NFTs have built in governance mechanisms, and that can be really interesting in terms of building these new social DAOs. A special interest here for Dow hack users can take their graph to whatever experience they want to engage in. I can take my content between any front end built on top of Lens. I can take my following to any front end built on top of Lens, the ecosystem builds itself.
00:11:22.310 - 00:12:07.800, Speaker B: We called it Lens, after the lens Calaris plant which fertilizes the own soil it grows in to encourage other plants to grow around it. And that's how we view Lens apps. Each one in the ecosystem helps the ecosystem at large by bringing in more data and more integrations and more ways for you to share your content and as a creator, for you to have more distribution. And for developers, the key sale here is you can focus on the experience on the front end and leave the network effects network building up to the protocol. There have been so many times we've seen great innovations in social tech only for that company to fail to capture the market due to not having a strong social graph. We can even look. As recently as the past couple of years, clubhouse walked so Twitter spaces could run, clubhouse couldn't grow fast enough.
00:12:07.800 - 00:12:49.730, Speaker B: We can go even way back in the day and say that meerkat walked so Periscope could run so that twitch could fly. We don't really remember those previous two experiments as much because they couldn't capture the graph in the same way that later ones did. More than just that. We also have an API. We built our own API. It's the same tools that we actually use internally at Aave when we are building a front end that we've said that is coming, why did we build it? Well, social media is a long game and we want to make sure that the developer ecosystem has the ability for people to build who don't know solidity. I think that's pretty critical.
00:12:49.730 - 00:13:24.774, Speaker B: We've exposed Lens protocol itself is going to be open and decentralized. We want to make sure that people are going to be able to build anything they want on it with a more familiar setting. So what is in the Lens front end API? You don't have to worry about indexing or querying data or reorgs or the speed of fetching data. We're built on polygon. It's a much faster blockchain. You have to deal with reorgs sometimes up to 200 blocks in depth. The graph is an option, but the graph isn't necessarily the greatest at real time query.
00:13:24.774 - 00:13:54.002, Speaker B: And for a social app you need to have that real time responsiveness. We have an API to help with that. You don't have to worry about prefilling contract data or validating it, especially if you're using with SIG functions to do metatransactions or a cleaner UI UX. We're using a web two style interface to allow people to interact with the protocol. So if you are familiar with a regular GraphQL API, something like maybe Twitter or Facebook's, you are going to feel right at home with the Lens API. The entire graph is queryable. Our documentation at docs.
00:13:54.002 - 00:14:32.962, Speaker B: Lens dev is super great and all of our back end devs are regularly checking the discord and we'll build new features on the fly if you need them. And the key thing there is there's really no huge learning curve. Just focus on what you want to build and you can build it really quick. No need to know blockchain or solidity. It helps. But at the end of the day, if you know how to use the Facebook or the Twitter APIs or another GraphQL API, building with Lens is going to be really fast. And that's part of our vision, is to let people build applications that are going to use the power of blockchain and the power of Web Three to create great features that an app should be able to win on its feature set alone, not just marketing itself as Web Three.
00:14:32.962 - 00:14:58.342, Speaker B: And that's really what we're trying to do here with the Lens API. Ideas for things to build. You can build great front ends if you're looking for inspiration. The community manages a front end at Leninster. So I think that's Alpha Lenster XYZ, that's a way to play around with the social graph. You can make extensions to the protocol, think about different ways you can use modules to build on top. Maybe you want to build the ability for subscriptions.
00:14:58.342 - 00:15:47.178, Speaker B: That would mean send the follow NFT to a smart contract that has some logic requiring a recurring payment. Maybe you want to integrate a DeFi app you've built into, you know, incoming creator money can be deposited in increasing your TVL, or really kind of push this experience of social DAOs. What does it mean for a shared profile to exist? How do we do on chain governance via a social graph? And really think about moving away from the current model of we just have a social token that's an ERC 20. I think those are some great areas to explore and I'm really looking forward to what you guys end up building. And the last thing I want to add, I think Stannie says this a lot. The biggest thing we learned when we built the Ave Protocol is you're never building alone. You're building with an ecosystem, with a community.
00:15:47.178 - 00:16:16.382, Speaker B: Lens is on testnet, and we've kept it on testnet for a while because we really want to hear from the community. We really want to hear the feedback. What features do you want in the contracts? What features do you want in the API? We're hoping to obviously freeze and go to Mainnet in the next month or so. But we did a hackathon. We just had a hackathon previously with eGlobal. We're here with this next one. We actually entirely revised large parts of the contracts and launched a brand new testnet for those features based off feedback we got from hackers in the previous hackathon.
00:16:16.382 - 00:16:29.900, Speaker B: And we'd really love to hear from you, especially if you're building on top. What are we missing? What should we add and where else should we go? If there's any questions, I'd love to take them. If not, happy hacking everyone.
00:16:36.040 - 00:16:51.190, Speaker A: Feel free to come off mute if you want to ask your questions lived.
00:16:51.790 - 00:17:22.260, Speaker B: I could add a few things, I guess. Key places to find us. Lens Dev kind of has the overview docs. Lens Dev has some incredible great information on how to get building and if you go to the discord, tons of different places to get helped. Our developers are always there. The URL mentioned for where to get a look. I believe it's Alpha Leinster XYZ is a community run front end.
00:17:22.260 - 00:17:41.820, Speaker B: Keep in mind we just relaunched testnet three literally last night based off a ton of feedback we got from ETH Global Hackers. And we'll probably do another testnet based off the feedback we get from you guys in the community to make sure that we're really building something that works for everybody, not just that suits what we're building.
00:17:49.730 - 00:17:53.600, Speaker A: We'll give it another minute for any other questions that you guys might have.
00:18:03.030 - 00:18:19.400, Speaker B: You guys have any questions? I think a bunch of us are in the ETH global discord at Davidv ETH. Same on Twitter and on other means of communications. Happy to answer questions or provide help in any way. Happy hacking everyone.
00:18:20.090 - 00:18:49.960, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, we'll end things here then. Thank you so much, David, for taking the time to do this workshop with the dial hacks hackers. And yeah, definitely excited to see what you guys build, especially with LUNs. And with that being said, we have an idea brainstorming session happening in about an hour, so if you guys are free, definitely join that if you want to help get some ideas for this weekend's hackathon and otherwise. I hope everyone has a great rest of your Thursday or Friday, depending on where.
