00:00:00.330 - 00:00:42.966, Speaker A: The last part to understand unisoft b three fee is to understand how the fee growth is initialized. So in this video we'll derive some equations that we'll be using in the later videos. Let's start with some review of what we derived so far. We'll define f alphabi to be equal to the fee growth outside at tick I. The algorithm to track f alphabi is the following. To initialize f alphabi we set it to the current figure of f of g if the current tick ifc is greater than or equal to tick I. Otherwise, if the current tick IFC is less than tick I, then we initialize it to zero and when the current tick IFC crosses tick I, we update f alta.
00:00:42.966 - 00:01:23.734, Speaker A: By the following rule, we set the new f alphabi to be equal to the current fee growth f of g minus the current f alphaby. By following this algorithm we'll be able to accurately track f alphabyte. Okay, next let's review how we calculated phi inside. We'll define f of I lower and iupper to be equal to phi inside, tick I lower and tick iupper. We saw that this was equal to f of g minus f of b of I lower minus f of a of I upper. F of b is the equation for phi below and f of A is the equation for phi above, which I will explain. Now let's start with phi below.
00:01:23.734 - 00:02:12.214, Speaker A: So we found out that f of b abi was equal to f out of I if the current tick I of c was greater than or equal to tick I. Otherwise we saw that it was equal to f of g minus f alphabi and likewise for phi above. We saw that phi above was equal to f of g minus f alphabi. If the current tick I of c was greater than or equal to tick I. Otherwise this was equal to f alphabi. Now using these two equations, I want to simplify this equation for phi inside and considering the three cases when the current tick I of c is less than I lower, when the current tick I of c is in between I lower and I upper, and the last case when the current tick I of c is greater than I upper. So let's start with the case when the current tick ifc is less than I lower.
00:02:12.214 - 00:02:50.178, Speaker A: And we'll simplify this equation for phi inside. Okay, imagine the case. The current tick ifc is less than tick I lower. So here I have an example graph and let's say that the current tick I of c is less than I lower and phi growth will be somewhere over here again, the equation for phi inside between I lower and I upper is defined to be f of g minus f of b of I lower. Minus f of A of I upper. Okay, what we're going to do is simplify this equation using these two equation. So, going back down, this is equal to f of g will be f of G.
00:02:50.178 - 00:03:37.650, Speaker A: How about f of b of I lower? Well, let's scroll back up. F of b of I lower. When the current tick I of C is less than the tick, I will take on this form. So, going back down this part, f of b of I lower will be equal to f of g minus f out of I lower. How about f of a I upper? Well, scoring back up, when the current tick I of C is less than tick I of iupper, it will take on this form. So going back down, f of a of iupper will be equal to f out of iupper. So when the current tech I of c is less than I lower, phi inside, I lower and I upper will take on this form, f out of I lower, minus f out of iupper.
00:03:37.650 - 00:04:05.098, Speaker A: How about the case when the current tick Ifc is in between, I lower and I upper? So, here we have I lower and I upper. And in between, we have the current tick Ifc and phi growth, let's say, is somewhere over here. Again, we want to simplify the equation for phi inside I lower and I upper. So this will be equal to f of g. Will be equal to f of g. How about f of b of I lower? So, scrolling back up. F of b of I lower.
00:04:05.098 - 00:04:43.480, Speaker A: Now, remember that in this case, current tick is greater than or equal to I lower. So it's going to take on this form. So going back down, f of b of I lower will be equal to f out of I lower. How about phi above of I upper? Well, the current tick ifc is still less than I upper. So it's going to take on this exact same form as the case for when current tick ifc is less than I lower. So going back down, f of a of iupper will still be equal to f out of iupper. Okay, so when the currentic Ifc is in between idolware and Iupper, phi inside will take on this form.
00:04:43.480 - 00:05:16.210, Speaker A: In the final case, what is phi inside equal to when the current tick ifc is greater than tick upper. So here we have current tick Ifc, and you can see that it is above tick I upper. Again, here's the equation for phi inside. And this is equal to f of g. What is f of b of I lower? Well, this condition is same as this condition over here. In both of these condition, we have that the current tick I of c is greater than I lower. So f of b of I lower will be equal to this, f out of I lower.
00:05:16.210 - 00:06:03.610, Speaker A: Fb of I lower will be equal to f out of I lower. How about fa of I upper? Let's scroll back up and says over here that fa of I, when the current tick I of c is greater than or equal to I upper, it's going to take on this form. It's going back down. So f a of I upper will be equal to minus f of g minus f out of iupper. Now, notice that f of g over here and f of g over here cancels out and we're left with f out of I upper, minus out of I lower. So when the current tick I ofc is greater than I upper, phi inside will take on this form. In the next video, we'll use these equations to calculate the phi inside I lower and Iupper.
