00:00:00.160 - 00:00:36.210, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where recap Litx News and Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 19 April 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, a bit to talk about, actually over the last 24 hours with regards to the SEC, Gary Gensler, and regulation in general. So there was a House Financial services committee meeting with Gary Gensler present, and this was the first time that he came before the committee in 18 months. Now, I clipped pretty much the best part of that hearing, and I shared it on Twitter. Here, you can go watch it if you haven't yet.
00:00:36.210 - 00:01:14.158, Speaker A: Obviously, as you can see from the tweet, it went quite viral. Over 2.6 million views on this video alone, which is, which is pretty crazy, right? Well, I mean, almost a million views on the video, sorry, 2.6 on the tweet. Not sure how Twitter counts views there, but still, a lot of people saw this tweet and watched this video, which, I mean, I didn't expect it to go this crazy, but it was, it was pretty crazy there. Now, what this video basically shows is Mister McHenry here, who's the chairman of the, of the committee, basically asking Gary Gensler whether he thinks ETH is a security or a commodity. And he asks this repeatedly in various different ways, you know, not just constantly asking the same question.
00:01:14.158 - 00:01:48.178, Speaker A: He rephrases the question. He tries to give Gensler away, you know, the easiest way possible to answer this question. And of course, Gary does not answer the question. He just keeps dodging. He deflects. And then at, and then at one point, Mister McHenry here asks him, okay, well then how do you think there is clarity for crypto when you can't even answer a question, you know, this question about ETH, because Gensler kept saying things like, we have to look at, you know, such and such properties of an asset to declare a security, blah, blah. So obviously, Gensler didn't want to answer this question.
00:01:48.178 - 00:02:39.470, Speaker A: Now, I'll link this and you can go watch it. It'll be in the YouTube description below. But, but this, what this whole kind of hearing, I think showed was that the, I guess crypto generally has become a very partisan issue in the US now between the Democrats and the Republicans. It's unfortunate that it has become like this. But I think given that the US political system is already very divided, given that it's already very tribal, what ends up happening is that anything that one party is for, the other one is automatically against. And that happens for a lot of different issues, not just crypto. Now, in the crypto context, during this hearing, pretty much all of the republican representatives were grilling Gensler, right? And they were grilling him not for, not, not just for anything, but for, like, literally everything that we've been saying in crypto and what people working in crypto have been saying.
00:02:39.470 - 00:03:52.196, Speaker A: All the lawyers have been saying that there's no clarity, that the SEC's approach to regulating this industry is abhorrent or all they care about is bringing enforcement actions against companies, even if companies try to go to them and say, hey, how do we register? How do we do this? How do we become, be compliant? All that sorts of stuff. So all the Republicans were grilling Gensler about this, and then you had pretty much all the Democrats doing the complete opposite, and they were praising Gensler, saying that he was doing a good job. And there was one Brad Sherman, who I believe is a representative in California, who had his nose so far up Gensler's ass, you could see it coming through his mouth. Like, seriously, it was, it was so bad. I watched that, and, and Sherman was just constantly praising Gensler, saying that he was doing an amazing job, all this other stuff. And I was like, are you, like, paying any attention at all, or you just saying this because Gensler is a Biden appointee and you don't want to go against your, your party, right, party over, over country, as they say, which obviously is what the political landscape is like a lot of the time, especially in the US. So while a lot of people were saying that this whole hearing generally was political theater, and while I agree with that to an extent, I think what it does is it just lays bare exactly where people stand on these issues and exactly where the SEC stands and where Gensler stands.
00:03:52.196 - 00:04:41.048, Speaker A: So I think anyone with a normal, non, you know, normal functioning brain that is trying to look at this critically would watch this hearing and easily come to the conclusion that Gensler is not wanting to answer the questions. And that means he's either trying to hide something or he has his own agenda that he's trying to push. Uh, and, and he's just not open to, to basically giving clarity on anything. And once you see that, you would, uh, potentially dive in deeper and see, okay, is what Gary Gensler saying true? Like, is there actually a way for companies to register in crypto? Uh, are these things actually securities? Uh, how are they regulating this blah, blah, blah. And that then shifts votes, right? That then can shift policy, because, yes, a lot of it is political theater. A lot of it is bullshit politics. But what, what can come out of this is a change in policy.
00:04:41.048 - 00:05:22.020, Speaker A: Now, of course, I don't expect Gary Gensler to be, to be going anywhere unless the Republicans win the Senate and, or the presidency kind of next year, next year's election, late next year. I believe if they don't win that, then I don't expect Gensler to be kicked out. I don't think that the Democrats are going to basically say, okay, well, let's get rid of Gensler, because one, they're praising him and two, it looks bad, right? If the, if the, the SEC chairman that was appointed by Biden gets kicked out for doing a shit job, it looks obviously really bad on the Democrats and it becomes a point of attack for the Republicans and blah, blah. Right. All the political bullshit that we're all used to. So really, the only chance. Well, I mean, there's two ways.
00:05:22.020 - 00:06:00.282, Speaker A: From my understanding that Gensler is, is removed here. He either gets promoted, which, he's just hilarious when you think about it, but he either gets promoted and goes to the Treasury, Treasury Department, potentially become, replaces Jeanette Yellen there, or he gets removed if the Republicans win. And in the next year. And that's a kind of two shitty choices, right? Because it's like, okay, if you're, if you're a Democrat and you align more with democratic policies, and I'm not trying to get too political here, I'm just trying to give the context. But you're really into crypto, and crypto is like your livelihood in the US. Well, you've just become a single issue voter, right. The Democrats don't seem to be too progressive on crypto at all.
00:06:00.282 - 00:06:25.994, Speaker A: They are praising a regulatory body in the SEC. They're praising Gensler for doing a good job when all the evidence points to the contrary, right. That they're doing a terrible job at even giving any guidance or anything for crypto. And then you become a single issue voter. So let's say that you, obviously, your whole livelihood is crypto, but there. But, you know, you're going to have to, if you want something to change, you're going to have to vote Republican. But let's say you align more with democratic social policies, for example.
00:06:25.994 - 00:07:01.878, Speaker A: Right? So this is, again, a really shitty thing about the two party system in the US, where essentially you have to choose between two shitty outcomes. But in saying that, as I said, like, even though a lot of it is theater, it does translate into votes, it does translate into policy. It's just a slow moving machine. So I really do appreciate the grilling that these people gave, gave Gensler. I really appreciate that. It wasn't just like the Democrats there, just, you know, and praising Gensler for all the apparent good work that he's been doing. It was Republicans actually saying, hey, you, you're know, doing a really shit job because of this, this and this reason.
00:07:01.878 - 00:07:26.486, Speaker A: And we are, you know, we are looking to basically get answers to this. And he didn't give them answers. Now, on that note as well, there was, I don't know if it was Warren Davidson or. No, it was, it was Tom Emmer here. No, no, I think it's Warren. One of them introduced a bill to remove Gensler, I believe. I don't know if it was Warren Davidson or Tom Emma.
00:07:26.486 - 00:07:59.658, Speaker A: There's two clips here which I'll link in the YouTube description below of them also grilling Gensler about his, I guess, like shitty work within the crypto ecosystem here. And you can watch both of those clips. But yeah, they were on fire. Honestly, like, Tom got me fired up watching him go basically grill Gensler here. And honestly, it was a bit of a funny thing for people in crypto. Obviously, Gary Gensler is like one of the public enemies or one of the biggest public enemies for crypto because he's not really doing anything positive for crypto at all. And we all know, we can all see all the negative stuff that he's doing.
00:07:59.658 - 00:08:33.844, Speaker A: So to see him be, you know, actually asked the questions that we ask on crypto Twitter, like, people replied it to Gary Gensler's tweets, we know he's not going to see them, but we reply to those tweets with certain questions and certain remarks. And to see those remarks and questions repeated by these various politicians was, was really refreshing. And it wasn't like it was buried deep in the hearing, either. The video that I shared here from Mister McHenry happened very, very quickly, I believe, in the, maybe the first 20 or 30 minutes of the hearing. So it wasn't hours into the hearing or anything. And they came out swinging. They really came out.
00:08:33.844 - 00:09:33.418, Speaker A: I almost was getting the feeling that McHenry was like an ETH maxi because he was going, he was asking Gensler so bluntly is like, is ETH a security or a commodity? And that's exactly what I would ask him if I got into a room with Gary Gensler and he had to answer my questions, I would say, I would ask him, like, is it is either security or a commodity in your view? And the fact that he kept deflecting and couldn't, couldn't answer. Speaks volumes, right? It speaks volumes about what the SEC and Gary Genza's approach to regulating is. And what it basically is, is regulation via enforcement. And also having this kind of like Schrodinger, Schrodinger's cat approach to regulation where, you know, when they're observing something, it's potentially a security, and when they're not observing it, it's potentially not a security or it's a potentially a commodity or it's not a commodity. Right. So this is just a really, really shit way to regulate not only crypto, but, but financial markets in general. So I'm hoping that this hearing can lead to more positive action here, can lead to more clarity.
00:09:33.418 - 00:10:02.958, Speaker A: But as I said, I'm not holding my breath because there's really only two ways that Gensler can be removed. I mean, there is that third way where you can introduce a bill that gets voted on to remove him. But I'm not, I'm not across the actual specifics of that, but I would assume that it would require a majority of Congress to vote on that and then for it to pass. And that's not going to happen because the Democrats aren't going to vote for it. Right. And the Republicans vote for, and then there's like a tiebreaker that ends up happening, or maybe it's just too much one way to another way. So, yeah, I'm not holding my breath for that there.
00:10:02.958 - 00:11:09.310, Speaker A: But if you want to have a bit of enjoyment watching Gensler get grilled after being so hostile towards crypto, and not just grilled for the sake of it, but good with facts, you can watch these videos from Mister McHenry here, Warren Davidson, and, and Tom Emma, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And last thing on the, on that, on that, that hearing Phil, Diane here from flashbots put out a tweet where he said, SEC chair Gary Gensler says he doesn't see the opportunity in crypto for small businesses. How about the fact that an 18 year old kid can walk into the community? Discussion underlying a $250 billion financial system and be an equal at the table. Does Goldman Sachs provide that? And this is something that I don't think gets talked about enough within the crypto ecosystem, especially within the ethereum ecosystem. It's a merit based system, right? It's a meritocracy, or at least it tries to be. Obviously, nothing's perfect, but Ethereum really tries to be a meritocracy. So what that means is that exactly as Phil says, here, anyone can basically walk into a community discussion on the research side, on the development side, and wherever, and give their ideas and be listened to, as long as those ideas are good.
00:11:09.310 - 00:11:58.292, Speaker A: There are plenty of examples of anons in this industry that build successful products, that do really great research, that do a lot of great writing. I mean, just to pick one off the top of my head, Polonia, right, does a lot of great writing and research on crypto, has, has, has amassed a huge following and has coined a few different terms and popularized the modular framework and things like that. And they're completely a non, I mean, I don't know who they are. I don't think most, if not all people know who they are, right? And even when they did interviews and things like that, they protect their anonymity there. So there are various examples of these types of people that can come into this industry and make a huge impact. You can't do that at Goldman Sachs. You can't do that at any point, pretty much any centralized financial institution, let alone maybe centralized institutions in general.
00:11:58.292 - 00:12:41.528, Speaker A: So that is a superpower that we have in this industry. And what's even cooler about this is that anyone can submit an EIP. So if you think that you have something that could improve the Ethereum network at the protocol level, well, you submit an AIP, you get it reviewed by, by various people, you talk about it to various people, you do the research, and, and maybe it gets included one day, right? You can have a profound effect on a $250 billion financial system. And just to pluck another example out of my head of where this has happened before, Eric Connor, my, my, my good friend and co founder of, of Ethub. A lot of you will know who he is, of course. Um, a lot of you would have listened to the, into the Ether podcast back in the day. He was actually a co author for EIP 1559.
00:12:41.528 - 00:13:13.172, Speaker A: And he was, I mean, not to undersell the work that he's done for the Ethereum ecosystem, but he was an Ethereum community member, right? He didn't work for the Ethereum foundation. He didn't, he worked at Gnosis, which is a, which is an app layer project, right? He didn't, he didn't, he wasn't part of the core devs or anything like that. He was a regular community member that kind of worked in the industry that was like, hey, ip 1559 is awesome. You know, I'm gonna. And then ended up co authoring it with, I believe, Vitalik. And I think there was a couple of others on there. Can't remember exactly who they were.
00:13:13.172 - 00:13:43.652, Speaker A: And then two and a half years later, that EIp went into the network, and that's there forever now. Well, unless it changes far into the future, but we obviously don't think it's going to change. So that kind of profound effect can't have that anywhere else. So great tweet here from, from Phil, Diane, I believe. All right, moving on to staking. So stakewise v three has shared an update, they say here with Chappelle, officially a success, it's time to focus on what comes next for stakewise. Introducing the road to mainnet for stakewise v three.
00:13:43.652 - 00:14:39.914, Speaker A: And let's dive in here. Now, I've been talking about stakewise v three for quite a while now about how you can spin up your own vault. Whether you spin up your own private vault or your public vault, you can mint an LST called Ose. So this basically gives the ability for solo stakers or people that are solo staking to mint a LST against their, their estate in a private vault, if they would like to. And then there are public vaults as well, which can basically make anyone into a lighter operator, for example, right, where essentially, to be a lido operator right now, you have to be voted in by the Lido community, and it's a permission process, whereas with stakewise v three, it's completely permissionless. Anyone can set up a vault and start getting people sending ETH to them and then stake on their behalf, which I find very, very cool. Now, stakewise has shared this road to Mainnet, roadmap here that you can, that you can see there's a bunch of different milestones here about when this is going to happen.
00:14:39.914 - 00:15:17.142, Speaker A: Obviously, the last part before Mainnet launch is a Dow vote, but I believe they are very close now because they're at the Pacific public test net for stakewise v three, second round of audits and patching. So they're basically almost at the finish line here with getting this thing launched. And I am super excited for it. As I've said plenty of times on the refill before, I am planning to spin up my own v three vault, my own public vault for the daily gray community that you can stake with, if you would like to. And I'll take a small commission of five to 10%. And that commission will be going towards funding public goods on Ethereum, protocol, guild, git coin, maybe a few other things out there. If I come across them.
00:15:17.142 - 00:15:47.752, Speaker A: I don't want to send it all to just one thing. I mean, I have donated a lot to the protocol guild so far. I think with my rocket pool rewards and the first year anniversary proceeds for the NFT that we, that we did, I think I've donated maybe 200,000 plus us dollars so far to the protocol guild. So I want to spread that love around. I want to spread that to Gitcoin grants and to other organizations. So I are we looking into that? As as I, after I launched the actual pool here. But that's something that I'm definitely very much looking forward to.
00:15:47.752 - 00:16:13.292, Speaker A: And of course I'm looking forward to stakewise v three going live because it's another decentralized staking service that can take market share away from the centralized ones. Obviously we have rocker pool live already, which I'm going to talk about in a sec. But I want more than Rocketpool, right? Like I love rocket pool, but I want more than them. I don't want to just have rocket pool being the only decentralized staking service out there. We need many. And that's not to say that all of them are going to succeed. All of them are going to be massive.
00:16:13.292 - 00:16:45.558, Speaker A: But I would love to see at least two or three of these things, preferably. Preferably three of these things having five plus percent market share, at least on the Ethereum beacon chain. I would love to see that just at least in the foreseeable future. Obviously as time goes on. I would love to see the decentralized pools be the biggest on the network and obviously next to solo staking, but, and the centralized ones be smaller. But we'll have to see how it all plays out with the great reshuffling over the next year or two here. But yeah, you can go check out stakewise's latest update.
00:16:45.558 - 00:17:19.610, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And speaking of Rockerpool. So the Rockapool Twitter account tweeted out saying the flawless launch of Atlas has been a resounding success. It marks a great step forward in Rockerpool's mission to reduce barriers to entry for permissionless staking on Ethereum and contribute to its decentralization. 28,000 new ETH has been staked with 1000 new mini pools launched. And Jasper also put out some stats saying that in 28 hours, and this was in 28 hours to 01:00 p.m. Which is about 10 hours ago now, 16,480 ETH in staking mini pools.
00:17:19.610 - 00:17:52.580, Speaker A: Seven over 17,000 ETH impending mini pools. Which means that over 33,000 ETH has been staked with rocket pool in just 28 hours since Atlas went live, which is obviously huge milestone here for, for Rockerpool. Now this is very cool because as you can see in the comments as well, how many net new node operators were spun up? There was, there was 21 net new node operators. We want to see that number keep going up. Right. But it's great to see that there's been a massive inflow of ETH stake into a decentralized service. Maybe I don't know exactly where this has come from.
00:17:52.580 - 00:18:32.740, Speaker A: It might have come from, it might have come from centralized exchanges like Kraken obviously being forced to unstake. It can't have come from Lido unless people sold their steth for Ethan, then go and go into rocket pool. Obviously because Lido doesn't have withdrawals enabled jets. It, it could come from binance and Coinbase as well. But yeah, it could come from anywhere, could come from new stakers coming in because an 8th minipool is something that they can, they can be a part of now or that are 8th premium kind of. I think the premium has collapsed, I believe, so that more people can get involved with it. So, so yeah, I mean rocket pools just had amazing growth over the last, I guess was coming up on probably 48 hours by the time you watch this video.
00:18:32.740 - 00:19:09.190, Speaker A: And it's great to see the Atlas upgrade has gone off without a hitch. I'm planning to convert my mini pools to eight ETH mini pools very soon. I want to add a few more. As I've said before, technically I'm going to be adding four new mini pools to get to 20 because I wanted to get to 1016 mini pools, but now it's going to be eight mini pools. So I'm going to get to 20 there and keep adding as time goes on. But honestly, if you, you been sitting on the fence about getting started here and you have the necessary ETH required, it is so easy to get started. As I've said in the past, you don't need powerful hardware and the smart rockable smart node stack is very, very easy to use.
00:19:09.190 - 00:19:44.758, Speaker A: And I mean, I think it's the easiest way to stake, honestly on your own. Obviously, the easiest way to stake, I mean for better or worse, is just putting your, your coins on a centralized exchange and staking with, with coinbase or something or trading your ETH for, for our ETH. But in terms of kind of like running the actual software yourself, I would definitely say that Rockerpool is by far the easiest way right now. It's easier than solo staking, that's for sure. Solo staking with like a Dapnote or an Avado is pretty easy, but I wouldn't say. I would say the smart note stack is probably, probably easier than that. But that's a close second in terms of like, just solo staking on your own.
00:19:44.758 - 00:20:21.918, Speaker A: We're setting it up all on your own. It is definitely harder than setting up a smart note stack. So this is definitely something that anyone with the required ETH should look into, because I'm sure that you, if you have the required ETH, you would be able to get the required hardware as well. Which, as I've said before, you can get the required hardware for like $500. It's not that much that you would have to spend to do that. And then you can start earning rewards on your e stake, start earning RPL rewards as well, and start contributing to the security of the Ethereum network. All right, Julian here has put out an update on verkle trees.
00:20:21.918 - 00:21:12.014, Speaker A: So it starts off the tweet thread by saying, what's up with verkle trees? We've been working on the conversion from the current merkle tree to a verkle tree. This is a challenging problem because the amount of data is huge, it doesn't find in ram, and needs at least a day for the transaction translation to complete on a beefy machine. And then it continues. By saying, to this end, the unwavering parathosh and myself have revisited the options and dumped our thoughts in these documents, which is a document titled Verkle transition. So if you're interested in learning about the bleeding edge of the verkle tree transition going from merkle trees to verkle trees and what that will possibly look like, you should definitely give this document a read. It is quite technical. If you don't know what I'm talking about in terms of merkle trees and verkle trees, then it might not be something that you will, that you'll be able to understand, but probably still worth reading it, just to get some extra context around this.
00:21:12.014 - 00:21:46.464, Speaker A: And there's also a thread here from Julia where he summarizes this as well. So that might be something that they'll be easier for you to understand there, but great to see the progress being made here. Now, for those of you who don't know who this person is, they are a geth core devs at the Ethereum foundation. So they're not just some, some, some random person talking about verkle trees. They are pretty much one of the main people working on this. So there's not, there's really probably no one better to get the information from then than someone like him here. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out.
00:21:46.464 - 00:22:22.608, Speaker A: All right. Something I came across recently was this kind of app called family. So family, they say here, they've captured this video here with family is great at simplifying complex processes, as shown in this real swap example that leverages the power of zero x in the background. Each step seamlessly transitions into the next, providing clear visibility at every stage of the process. So basically, what they're showing here is a really easy to use interface for swapping tokens with Zero X being used in the background. So you can see here they're swapping ETH for USDC, which of course is sacrilege. You should never do that.
00:22:22.608 - 00:23:00.450, Speaker A: But they're swapping it, they're confirming it on your iPhone with Face ID, and then it's all done there very, very easily. Now, I've talked about all this abstraction that's happening on the wallet level and how it's becoming more and more abstracted over time, but it's great to see another player enter the fray here. I believe family is actually a new wallet that's been launched here. Um, yes, the self custody crypto wallet you'll love. So, yeah, this is something that you can go check out for yourself. I don't know. No, it's not live yet, so you can go check out the website and things, but it's, it's a, it's, it's arriving this year and I think that they're going with the goal of being the most, quote unquote, normie friendly wallet out there.
00:23:00.450 - 00:23:41.000, Speaker A: And I guess there's nothing wrong with more and more Normie friendly wallets going live. I think that there are a lot of wallets already, but at the end of the day, the, the thing with wallets is that one you need to win on ux because winning on fees is not really an option because fees are just going to trend to zero over time. So you really do need to win on ux. And then once you can get people into the front door there, you can charge people or make money off of them in other ways. You don't necessarily have to charge them fees, but you can do things like payment for order flow in the background, which is used in tradfi, which is basically mev. We call it mev in crypto, but it's basically the same thing. There's value added services, all that sorts of stuff.
00:23:41.000 - 00:24:06.794, Speaker A: So capturing that, that kind of market is definitely is definitely a lucrative if you can do it. But yeah, as I said, you can go check out family. Just something I came across that I wanted to highlight for you guys. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here is something that YQ has announced. So they've launched something called ethgpt.org comma, which is a GPT powered chatbot for up to date Ethereum information.
00:24:06.794 - 00:24:33.066, Speaker A: They say here we've taken solidity GPT to the next level by integrating resources like Geth and ETH research, keeping you informed. And then there's a GitHub repository here. So I don't know if this is going to replace me as your source of Ethereum information. I hope it doesn't. But this is very cool because you can type in any question you want, I assume, and get I guess like information about it. So let's type in. They've got an example here of what's the Shanghai Chappelle upgrade.
00:24:33.066 - 00:25:02.200, Speaker A: So let's just type that on in and see what answer they give us here and how fast that happens going. So it's just thinking right now. It's still thinking. Still thinking. I don't know if this is going to be too slow for it to be captured on video here, but essentially it's using the chat GPT technology or open a eyes kind of technology here to run this in the background and to give answers and it's going quite slow. I think maybe they've rate limited it because so many people have been interacting with it. But let's, let's let that cook for a little bit.
00:25:02.200 - 00:25:32.892, Speaker A: I believe Waiku continues in this thread with more information on this as well as linking to a GitHub repository that you can go check out for yourself as well. And I'll actually, I'll go to the GitHub repository and see what's on there right now. Yeah, just basically explains what this is. It has the code there and you can clone it locally and mine it all locally I believe as well and get an API key which is pretty cool. But yeah, this doesn't seem to be processing right now. It's still waiting for a response unfortunately. So not sure if they've rate limited it or what's going on there but you can definitely go check this out.
00:25:32.892 - 00:26:12.560, Speaker A: I'll link in the YouTube description below. But this kind of stuff is very cool. I remember I showcased a couple of weeks ago there was a service that was called crypto feeds that had indexed all of the daily Gwey episodes on the podcast. And basically you can search on there for anything that you wanted and it would highlight where I talked about it on the Daily Gwei. So that's very, very cool and a really cool way of finding things I previously spoken about. And I've actually used that a few times when people ask me, hey, you know, when did you speak about this? Or do you have the link for when you spoke about that? And I quickly find it using that tool. And as I said, that tool, I don't know if I have it have it handy with me right now.
00:26:12.560 - 00:26:28.292, Speaker A: I think I bookmarked it. I'm just going to go over here and check. Yeah, coin feeds. Here we go. It's this website here that I showed. It's doing a similar thing. So queen feeds and I asked that what is Mev? And as you can see, it pops up with a bunch of responses from my own episodes here.
00:26:28.292 - 00:26:46.884, Speaker A: So I'll link this in the YouTube description below as well for you to check out, just in case you haven't seen this before. But this one, you know, this, this new one here, 8th GPT, still loading. It's not, it's probably not going to do so in time for the, for the video here. Sorry about that. But you can of course check it out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, I got a couple of minutes here.
00:26:46.884 - 00:27:08.884, Speaker A: Just something that I wanted to quickly say. I have been seeing all your DM's about the farcaster invites that I offered to you guys. I ran out. Ran out of invites like two days ago. I had so many DM's and I only had 65 invites, so I gave them on the first come, first serve basis. If I haven't gotten to yet, apologies, I will leave your DM's there and I will get to you once I get more invites. I've already asked for them.
00:27:08.884 - 00:27:38.092, Speaker A: Not sure if I'm going to get them or not, but hopefully I do and I'll get back to you through the DM's. Now please, if you want far Caster invite, you can still feel free to dm me. As I said, I don't have invites right now, but when I do get them, I'll be sure to get back to you. But please, when you message me, just message me your email straight away so I can quickly do it without having to ask you for your email. I had to do that quite a few times and it just slows things down. Um, and, and um. So yeah, just when you message me, say, hey, uh, can I please have a five cast invite and then put your email there and I'll invite you.
00:27:38.092 - 00:28:02.516, Speaker A: I only need your email for the invite. I'm not storing it or anything like that. I'm just doing it so I can invite you to the service there. Uh, and please only, uh, dm me on, on Twitter or on discord. You're probably gonna get a response faster on Discord because Twitter is full of spam. So. So, yeah, just want to make that very clear for people who have been trying to get an invite, but I'll let you guys know when I have more invites available once I've gone through the backlog, once I get the invites.
00:28:02.516 - 00:28:13.284, Speaker A: But anyway, on that note, that's gonna be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
