00:00:00.200 - 00:00:28.614, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gay refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and he's Asano. And today's the 17 November 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So the contagion continues from the FTX fallout today with the lending arm of Genesis trading halting customer withdrawals and also Gemini's earn program that was run through Genesis was. Was paused and withdrawals were paused there, which caused a bit of a ruckus over the last 24 hours.
00:00:28.614 - 00:01:04.496, Speaker A: You know, I've been thinking about this kind of, I guess, topic of contagion and where it all started. And it seems to have all pretty much started with the terror collapse, right? That wiped out 3 hours capital, which was doing all their funky borrowing, which then later on, you know, which then had its own contagion, wiped out a bunch of people there. And then a few months later we have the FTX fallout, and then from there there's even more contagion. So, I mean, it's always going to happen like this, especially in the CFI context, because a lot of the time pretty much everything's opaque. So we don't actually know the extent of the contagion and it can take weeks or even months to play out. And we're seeing the result of that. Right, with.
00:01:04.496 - 00:01:37.136, Speaker A: With Genesis trading here doing this. Now, for those of you who don't know who Genesis trading is, they are one of the biggest, if not the biggest, lending desks in the ecosystem here. And they are backed by digital currency group, which also owns Coindesk and has invested in a bunch of different things. They're a very big company within crypto, so this is not a small kind of announcement here. And there was also concerns around Gemini themselves being insolvent and not be able to make customer deposits or anything like that. I haven't seen anything about that. I don't think that's true at all.
00:01:37.136 - 00:02:04.760, Speaker A: But I did put a tweet out saying, you know, Gemini probably picked the single worst time in crypto history to have an outage because they actually did have an AWS related outage over overnight or overnight my time after this news came out. So, as I said, it's like the worst time ever to have an outage. But from what I can tell, there are no issues with. With Gemini in terms of solvency. But we'll see. Like, I mean, I don't even think Genesis is insolvent either. I think they just have like, this whole from the contagion from FTX that they.
00:02:04.760 - 00:02:25.392, Speaker A: That they going to need to plug somehow. Reckon that they could raise money to plug that hole because Genesis as a business is quite profitable and it's quite big and it's quite legitimate as a business. But I don't like, honestly, I don't know for sure what's going to happen here. I don't know if they. If they're. If the hole will be too big to plug, if they will be insolvent. I'm not sure.
00:02:25.392 - 00:02:42.136, Speaker A: Like, I don't, as I said, like c five is very opaque. There's really no way for us to know until things come out later. You can connect the dots as much as you want. Right. But at the end of the day, we don't know for sure until we actually have something, I guess, like announced by these companies themselves. Right. And even then they can lie.
00:02:42.136 - 00:03:01.288, Speaker A: That's what I mean. That's another thing. What I love about DeFi is I don't have to trust anyone. I can just go check the chain and then obviously I can see where the assets are and where they've been and everyone can do analysis on it. That's, I guess, like a major benefit, I think is still undersold within crypto. But yeah, this is the latest contagion that I just thought was worth mentioning. Other than that, I think.
00:03:01.288 - 00:03:28.148, Speaker A: I haven't talked about the FTX drama in a couple of days, but other than that, it seems SPF continues to tweet. There was some photo of him in the Bahamas in a shopping center or in a grocery store or something like that, wearing an FTX shirt of the irony. Right? There was a few articles that came out with. With. With interviews that were done with him. One of them actually showed a bunch of DM's where he basically admits that the whole. His whole image was a farce, which I think if you were paying attention, you would have known that from basically day one.
00:03:28.148 - 00:03:44.656, Speaker A: Like, I don't think that, you know, obviously the effective altruism thing was a complete farce, and he never believed in that. It was always just a way to cover up his profit maximalism. And. And then he was. He even admitted in those DM's that he thought regulations were bullshit. So even the regulatory stuff that he was doing was a. Some kind of front, right.
00:03:44.656 - 00:04:04.264, Speaker A: Or something, which is. Which is just funny there. But FTX also came out, or the new CEO of FTX also came out and said that SBF has nothing to do with FTX anymore. He's not part of it at all. He's been completely kind of gotten rid of. So doesn't matter what he's tweeting about, it make, it means nothing. They're, they're in bankruptcy proceedings.
00:04:04.264 - 00:04:20.912, Speaker A: It's going to take a while to play out. And even SPF apparently said that he regrets filing for bankruptcy because he thinks he could have repaired it on his own. I don't think that he could have done that. That's his, just his ego talking. But yeah, that's the latest on that. There's a bunch of other things around that. There's obviously the conspiracies flying around too.
00:04:20.912 - 00:04:50.702, Speaker A: I did put out a tweet I think a couple of days ago where I basically said that I don't think it's a conspiracy to, to say that, that SPF had like deep political connections, right. Especially to the Democrats who he donated to. And that could spare him jail time because he still hasn't been arrested and he's flaunting it by going into grocery stores. So honestly, like I, there's longer this, this goes on. The, the less and less faith I have that he's going to be arrested and going to actually suffer consequences here. But I really hope he does, obviously. But we'll have to see how that plays out.
00:04:50.702 - 00:05:22.780, Speaker A: But yeah, I don't want to spend too much time on that because I think it's getting stale at this point. Going to move on to the next update which is a tweet from superfizz who said as of today rocket pool accounts for 2.01% of the validators on the network while providing 15.7% of the nodes on the network. 1718 people and entities recognize the value in a trustless and decentralized taking platform. It's great and we can still do much better. I actually really like this, this comparison that super fizz has done here because I did mention, I think yesterday or the day before that Rockerpool is still around 2% of validators.
00:05:22.780 - 00:06:08.364, Speaker A: And I'd love to see that grow more and, you know, grow more because it's obviously a decentralized staking pool and not one of those centralized services. But the fact that the rocket pool, I guess, ecosystem is providing 15.7% of the full nodes on the network is very cool. It means they're batting above their average in terms of validators on the network and full nodes running it. Basically because to spin up rocket pool nodes you need, I guess rocket pool validators and mini pools you actually need to run a node, right? A full node which is very very cool. So you can see that the charts here in the pool distribution where basically it's got like a nice little pie chart of the same stuff that showed on rated, shown on rated.net work of validators, part of rocker pool here.
00:06:08.364 - 00:06:54.270, Speaker A: And then also the, the share of the nodes on the network. Now the, the colors are kind of mixed up here. The, the blue should be red and the red should be blue, but still, it's a good way to illustrate it here. And, you know, I think when looking at, at these sorts of things and looking at networks that are batting above their average, I really do think we should talk about it more and talk about platforms like, like rocket Pool more because, I mean, I've spoken about it a lot in the past, but I mean, is there really any other, I guess, staking service provider that has put in as much effort as rockable has over the years? I don't think so. As I've said before, rocketball has been around for a very long time. They're putting so much effort, and they've stuck true to their mission of making a truly decentralized staking pool, whereas other ones, while they serve a purpose, they've taken shortcuts, especially the centralized exchanges. They don't give a shit.
00:06:54.270 - 00:07:11.348, Speaker A: Right. They just basically say, well, stake with us, we'll take our cut and you don't have to worry about anything. Whereas Rockerpool obviously took the hard path. And, and I think that, know there's, there's good and bad aspects to that. The good aspect is that Rockerpool is actually decentralized staking pool. Right. That's the, obviously the best thing about it.
00:07:11.348 - 00:08:17.122, Speaker A: Um, but some of the bad things are, well, not bad, but like, I guess trade offs, uh, is probably the better term for it, is that rocket pool will naturally grow slower than the centralized entities just by nature of how, how the network works and also by nature of the fact that, uh, decentralized exchanges especially have much more reach because they, they already have the network effect, they already have the user base. But still, in the face of all of that, rocket pool is at 2%. It is, it is growing. They are, you know, they're not slowing down on the building front from what I've seen. And they keep adding more and more features to the rocker pool ecosystem as well, which is, which is very cool. Now, obviously, to address the elephant in the room of ones that have taken shortcuts, you can look at, look at Lido, right, as something that has taken a shortcut, not as bad as centralized exchanges, but has taken a shortcut and basically said I will decentralize later. Look, I just, the way lighter is set up, I think they're going to have a very hard time decentralizing and I don't think they're ever going to be anywhere near as decentralized as something like rocket pool because of the matter of the fact is they used centralized stake providers and they're just the way the whole thing is set up.
00:08:17.122 - 00:09:03.338, Speaker A: It doesn't lend itself to being truly decentralized, but the trade off for them is that they got really quick growth and they are obviously the largest share of network stake on the beacon chain. So there's that aspect to it as well. But then it's not just rocket pool. There are other services like stakewise and things like that out there that basically trying to be your stakewise v three, I should say, that are trying to be decentralized and not, not just, just be another centralized taking provider, which I think is obviously very positive. And I think that competition in that arena is very welcome. But yeah, just a cool little comparison here that superfese put together that I hadn't considered before. All right, so ASN here put out a new research ETH research post today where he said horn is a new BLS signature aggregation system for Ethereum.
00:09:03.338 - 00:09:41.534, Speaker A: The beacon chain can use it to enable up to a million validators to vote on the same slot. Fun new research with Francesco here, and this is posted to the ETH research forum. This post here that that's actually just an image of a, of a horn, but you can see here that basically that it's a long technical post. You can give a read. I don't think there's been any replies yet, but you can go check this out, I'll link in the YouTube description. But why this is cool from like a layman's point of view, is that BLS signature aggregation is what enables the beacon chain to have so many validators on it. But there are limits to it, and those limits express themselves as kind of limiting the minimum stake required.
00:09:41.534 - 00:10:21.310, Speaker A: So the minimum stake required right now is 32 ETH that could actually be brought down, the better the technology powering the signature aggregation gets. And horn is one solution there. So right now we have what I think like half a million or something validators on the network, or almost half a million, 400 something thousand, right? So there are limitations already with the BLS signature aggregation that's being used. It's not like we can have unlimited validators on the network or anything like that. But this is a solution to basically enable the beacon chain to have up to a million validators to vote on the same slot. So slot being a block. So basically vote on the same thing every 12 seconds.
00:10:21.310 - 00:11:02.152, Speaker A: Now, I don't think the current implementation can do anything near that. And why this is really important is that it could enable single slot finality, right, and could enable single slot finality much quicker than we otherwise would have had. And I've described single slot finality before. It's basically the, the concept of taking the existing finality gadget that we're using to finalize the beacon chain, which happens every, you know, 13 or so minutes, right, to epochs and doing it per slot. So instead of having to wait those 1213 minutes, you basically only need to wait 12 seconds to have finality on the beacon chain, which is massive, which is a massive upgrade. And it's also got a lot of positive externalities, such as dealing with things like mev. And that's exactly what ASN kind of alludes to here.
00:11:02.152 - 00:11:29.744, Speaker A: He says, you know, getting a million validators to vote in one slot effectively moves us closer to single, to a single slot finality future, which improves and simplifies the ethereum consensus layer. And he basically takes a snapshot of the merge part of the Ethereum roadmap that Vitalik has shared before. And you can see all the pieces there. But yeah, I just feel. Figured this was worth highlighting. As I said, the post is quite technical, but you can definitely go check it out, give it a read for yourself. If you want to learn more about this, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:11:29.744 - 00:12:03.014, Speaker A: All right, so a big announcement out of the arbitrum ecosystem today, where they said, hey arbnauts, arbitrum. Autumn has been going strong, and as we crest into November, we wanted to share some progress we've made towards decentralization. The TLDR is that they have expanded the validator set on the arbitrum one network. So they've brought in the group of organizations securing the arbitram one chain, which now includes consensus. The Ethereum Foundation, l two b mycelium off chain labs, obviously p two p. Validator quick nodes. I don't recognize this logo here.
00:12:03.014 - 00:12:35.964, Speaker A: Institute for the Future and unit four 10. So the validator set is still permissioned here. It's obviously still centralized, but they've, they've expanded it out, and this has been enabled by arbitrum nitro, which made it 90% less resource intensive to run a validator on the arbitrum one network. So this is very cool. It seems like arbitram one is beginning their progressive decentralization road or path, I guess I should say. And it seems like they're going to be making more moves like this as time goes on. But I think this is great.
00:12:35.964 - 00:13:13.046, Speaker A: It means that there isn't just kind of, I guess like a one validator or just a small handful of validators on the arbitram one network. We now have a bunch of them, and they're also part of very legit companies or foundations or nonprofits within the ecosystem, which is obviously very cool and arbitrary. Notes here. Decentralization is a long process, and while we're super excited about today's update, we're even more excited to keep making progress towards further decentralization. Stay tuned across our channel so you can be informed on our upcoming developments. You know, someone replied straight away saying, guess I'll read the next post. And they basically did a search for the term token.
00:13:13.046 - 00:13:57.708, Speaker A: But we all know what decentralization means, right? It means that a token will come at some point, and as I've mentioned in the past, I think all the L2s are going to have tokens. You know, pretty much everything's going to have a token here. So as they move closer towards decentralization, I would assume that the token fits in some part of that, a Dow fits in some part of that, and then opening up the validator set to be a permissionless validator set and also permissionless sequencer set would play into that as well. So we're going to keep an eye on that. But if you want to learn more about this announcement you can. I'll link this blog post in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, speaking of tokens, Starkware has announced that the Starknets ERC 20 token contract is deployed on Ethereum until further notice by the Starknet foundation.
00:13:57.708 - 00:14:21.630, Speaker A: Starknets tokens are not offered for sale and I don't think there's been an airdrop done or anything just yet. But basically the token is now live on Mainnet. So they've got the token address in this blog post here, I believe. I saw it earlier, or maybe just a link to it. And it's called Stark Strk is the token ticker and oh yeah, that's right. They linked it here on Etherscan. So you can go to the Etherscan link.
00:14:21.630 - 00:14:49.174, Speaker A: It'll be in the blog post that I link. But yeah, we already knew stockware was coming out with the token. I've talked about it on the refuel before but I guess, like, they've done this to help with scams. And their first kind of warning here is, you know, beware of scan scams. Stock net tokens are not offered for sale. It will take time for the foundation to determine the mechanism for distributing its tokens and tokens held by starkware shareholders, employees and by independent partner software developments are locked. Developers are locked for a four year period with a gradual release starting after one year.
00:14:49.174 - 00:15:36.372, Speaker A: So it seems like vesting has started for the, I guess, shareholders, employees and, and partners of, of Starkware here. And I have been quite critical of Starkware's token distribution before. I didn't think it was very fair for, I guess, like the community, I thought it was quite centralized. So I'm curious to see how their foundation decides to distribute those tokens and how fastly they decide to distribute them to the community. Because I do think that during a bear market, especially the, the community is more, I guess, sensitive to these things than they would be in a bull market. We've already seen some of the newer layer ones, something like Aptos, get absolutely slaughtered for their really poor token distribution, but also because Aptos is another pointless layer one. So maybe the comparison isn't fair, but I'm in no way saying that Starknet isn't a really cool ecosystem and that I don't respect all the work stockware has done.
00:15:36.372 - 00:16:27.106, Speaker A: I think that, you know, sometimes people conflate the things, but I think that you can be critical of a token distribution while also being very supportive of the technology of the, of the project, which I definitely am. But, yeah, I just still not very impressed with this token distribution. And I think that, you know, the L2s, maybe not even just the L2s, but like the projects in general are now going towards the, I guess, Dow model where they're basically saying, well, we're going to distribute, you know, such and such percent to our investors and our team, which is fair enough, and then they're going to distribute the vast majority of the tokens, or at least 50% of them, to the treasury as part of the DAO. And then we're going to do a small initial airdrop, and then the rest of the future airdrops or future token distribution is up to the Dow. I don't necessarily like that model, to be honest. I think it is. I, so I've talked, I've talked about token distributions a lot on the refill.
00:16:27.106 - 00:17:11.538, Speaker A: So I don't, I don't, I don't want to rehash everything that I've said before, but the reason why I don't like that model is because basically it doesn't lend itself to building a really good dao. I feel like the Dow would get filled with people who are just interested in extracting as much value from the treasury as possible. And instead of getting good community members, you get mercenaries. Oh, sorry, I should say, instead of getting missionaries, you get mercenaries. And then it just doesn't lead to a very good distribution and a very good kind of, I guess, credible neutrality and credible decentralization of your network in saying that, I think that can be overcome if you have good enough technology and a good enough social layer backing up your thing. But it's a tough slog, right? And I don't know what the solution is to token distributions in general. I feel like it's an impossible problem to solve.
00:17:11.538 - 00:18:12.038, Speaker A: So I think teams have basically just thrown up their, their hands a lot and basically said, well, we'll just distribute it to the DAO so that we don't have to think about it and then they can worry about it, which honestly I don't blame them for doing just because it's so hard for to do proper token distributions. But at the end of the day, I think that as time goes on, it's probably going to be a while before we get to the point where we basically are able to get something that resembles a fair token distribution. We've been trying for years now. We're still not there, I don't think, but maybe we do get there one day. But anyway, just wanted to give a little bit of thoughts there, but you can check out the blog post, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Zksync has a massive announcement out today where they said they have raised $200 million and have a total of $458 million in mission driven funding. They have decided to go full open source at their next milestone, reserved two thirds of the potential future token for the ecosystem, aka the community, and formed a partnership with Open Zeppelin.
00:18:12.038 - 00:19:02.760, Speaker A: So a bunch of massive announcements here, but I think the headline is obviously that massive $200 million raise, which was co led by a blockchain capital and Dragonfly, and which I think invested in their previous and announced ecosystem fund and the other rounds that they've had. So this is a series C round where they've raised $200 million. And as I said, they have. I mean, DK Sync has always commit, being committed to giving away two thirds of their tokens to the ecosystem, to the community. And I've always been a fan of them for that. And they've also announced that they're going full MIT license, open source for all code at their fair onboarding Alpha milestone, which is the next milestone. And they've also partnered with several security companies, including Open Zeppelin, who is conducting a full security audit of Zksync as they prepare for their fair onboarding Alpha and fair launch Alpha.
00:19:02.760 - 00:19:33.670, Speaker A: And also, Stephen Newcomb here, who is the CPO at Matter Labs, joined bankless for an episode titled why we're Bullish ZK sync. So you can go check out that one and then a couple more tweets in the thread here. But yeah, huge announcements out of the Zksync ecosystem today. I mean, if there's one ecosystem I'm really looking forward to seeing launch at Zksync because they have a lot of hype around them right now. They've, they've talked up themselves a lot. They've made a lot of promises, so I want to see them deliver on those promises, that's for sure. And I guess disclosure here, you guys probably already know this.
00:19:33.670 - 00:19:51.020, Speaker A: I am an investor in Zksync. Not this round, but the, the previous rounds I invent, or maybe the round before that. They've done a fair few rounds now and I think it was the previous round. No, it was. I believe it was the Series B here. Then they did an ecosystem round, then they've done this round as well. They've raised a lot of money, that's for sure.
00:19:51.020 - 00:20:37.022, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm an investor in, in ZK SiG and I should have said I'm an investor in arbitrary before as well. But I think you guys know that by now. But yeah, just, just I think this is huge. I mean, what this really says to me is that VC's and funds and people with money that do investing are willing to invest in these L2s with as much money as they've put towards layer ones historically. And I think that obviously it's a much better use of capital to give capital to L2s than these pointless layer ones, which as time goes on, the more and more of them we have, the more point that pointless they become. I can't, as I've said before, I can't believe that people are still launching layer ones in 2022, but here we are, and there's still another two to launch that I know of. Sui and say, I think there's some others out there floating around as well.
00:20:37.022 - 00:21:18.876, Speaker A: But it seems that there's less and less layer ones launching and more and more L2s launching, which I think is a very big positive here. And not just with them launching, but also them being able to raise a shit ton of money. I mean, I reckon any L2 team right now, even in this deep bear market, can go out and raise the same amount of money Zksync has raised at this point. So a raise isn't everything, but still, I think it's a pretty big boost and a pretty big vote of confidence that, you know, big funds and big vc's are willing to put a lot of capital behind L2s, just as they would layer ones in the past. So I think that's a pretty good vote of confidence there. All right, so an update out of Aztec today. They've deployed a new signup flow for ZK money that vastly improves on the user experience.
00:21:18.876 - 00:22:18.910, Speaker A: Aliases have been demoted, long live aliases. So you can go to the ZK money website to check all of this out, but basically the signup flow now demotes aliases, making them option, making them optional ensures you don't have to go through recovery if you don't do lose your alias and exposes Aztec connects architecture to the user. I did discuss Aztec yesterday because of their arbor integration, and I did say that we need to make the onboarding process easier from a UI UX perspective, obviously, just generally. I mean, that applies to everything in crypto. But these L2s taking it upon themselves and the infrastructure taking upon themselves to make the onboarding process more, more smooth for their users, especially around privacy, is obviously a very welcome, welcome kind of feature set here. So I guess if you want to check out ZK money's new signup flow, you can go to, sorry, aztecs new signup flow here. You can go to ZK dot money, which I can probably load up here for you guys right now on, on the stream, but I probably won't go through the onboarding process.
00:22:18.910 - 00:22:35.850, Speaker A: Basically, they've got a shield now button. So if you click shield now, let's see what happens here as we go through. Yeah, you can go basically sign a message from your Ethereum wallet to retrieve your aztec address. Let me see if I'm on sassle dot ETH right now. I think I am. So, yeah, maybe I can do this just quickly. Connect wallet here.
00:22:35.850 - 00:22:55.964, Speaker A: Yep, connect Metamask. You probably, you guys won't see the metamask prompt on my screen, but I'm just going through the, the classic metamask stuff here and then signing the message sign. Um, yeah, they should give me access once that's done. Please sign. Okay, I gotta sign another message here. There we go. Retrieve spending key.
00:22:55.964 - 00:23:07.580, Speaker A: Okay, this is taking longer than I thought it would. Let's go through the retrieve spending key. Copy to click to clipboard. Okay. Your account. This data is not privacy revealing, but please store it somewhere safe but accessible. Next step.
00:23:07.580 - 00:23:28.572, Speaker A: Okay, well, this is basically going through the whole set sign up process. Yes. I'm not gonna go through the whole thing on, on video, but you can see how it looks very nice. It's pretty simple just signing a few metamask transactions, but you can go check this out for yourself. I'm not gonna, not gonna spend too much time on that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, a big announcement out of spruce today, say.
00:23:28.572 - 00:24:07.508, Speaker A: And they've, they've said now commencing phase one of the bring your own data revolution. They've introduced something called SSX, which is self sovereign anything. Now, the easiest way to install sign in with Ethereum is enable DaO, login and more. So what is SSX? Well, SSX. Well, basically it is the easiest way to install sign in with Ethereum, reducing the lines of code required by up to 60%. But it's also a critical building block into the future we're building here at Spruce, where users own their identity and data beyond streamline signing with Ethereum installation SSX offers seamless login for daos to web3 dapps via collaboration with gnosiSafe, the SSX dashboard for web3 devs to measure the success of their dapping. And more to come.
00:24:07.508 - 00:24:50.646, Speaker A: They were only getting started right now. The only complaint I have here is that SSX is really hard to say constantly. So that kind of abbreviation there is maybe not the best one ever, but very cool to see that they've made it easier for developers to integrate sign in with Ethereum. You guys know I'm a big fan of sign in with Ethereum and everything that it can offer and any way that we can make it easier for developers to integrate it is the goal, basically. I mean, the reason why sign in with Facebook became so ubiquitous across the web is that it was basically very easy to integrate. It was only a few lines of code from what I, from what I know. Now, if we can do that for signing with Ethereum, well then we should see signing with Ethereum begin to, I guess, get integrated with a bunch of websites across the web, especially web, two websites.
00:24:50.646 - 00:25:20.652, Speaker A: Oh, it's all well and good for web, three websites to integrate it, which they have they pretty much do by default, right a lot of the time. But web two websites doing it is where, where I think the biggest impact is going to be had. Because imagine going to one of the big web two websites and seeing sign in with Ethereum. I think that would get a lot of free marketing, a lot of good, I guess I shouldn't say free, but a lot of good brand awareness and marketing for Ethereum. Just generally. So very cool to see this update from Spruce. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out.
00:25:20.652 - 00:25:56.170, Speaker A: All right, so we have a fresh update from fire today. They've announced Polygon Pos simulation integrations are now live in the fire extension. So you can simply interact with any dapp on the Polygon pos chain to see the fire simulation in action. So if you've been using the fire extension lately, you can basically now use it with the polygon Pos chain, not just Ethereum mainnet. So if you don't have the extension, they kind of link it in the thread here. But very, very cool to see, to see this live on another chain. I feel like they're going to do this for every chain, right? All the L2s, probably all the EVM compatible networks out there.
00:25:56.170 - 00:26:43.702, Speaker A: And I've been using fire lately through my on chain transactions and it's just really cool to be able to see exactly what's going on, exactly what I'm signing, when I am, you know, confirming transactions and things like that, and exactly what's going to happen in the interactions there. So yeah, you can go check out fire and check out their extension. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but just know that you can now use it on Polygon POS as well as the Ethereum mainnet. All right, last up here we have a git pull up announcement where they've said custom git. Custom git pull ups are now live. Gitpower's platform can now be used as a general service for issuing pops for professional achievements beyond just software contributions on GitHub. So this is a big announcement for GitPop, I believe, because obviously it's all well and good for GitPop themselves to issue these pops for these professional achievements for people.
00:26:43.702 - 00:27:43.666, Speaker A: But that means it's centralized, that means it's very slow because you have to go through a kind of like our permissions way of issuing these things. Or now with custom git pops you don't need to do that. You can go there permissionlessly and issue your own pops for professional achievements and going beyond just software contributions on GitHub as well. So if that sounds like something you are interested in, you can go check out the blog post on how to do this and how to get it all set up with designs and text and basically all the other requirements that are required for these sorts of things. But yeah, very, very cool announcement out of Gitpod, which you can check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below there. Now, just to round out today's episode with something I wanted to end on, basically that I talked a little bit about, about this at the start of the episode, but you know, this contagion thing that everyone keeps talking about when it comes to the fallout of things, I do want to set the expectation here that this is going to go on for months. Like I did mention earlier that I said it usually takes months to play out.
00:27:43.666 - 00:28:10.910, Speaker A: This will definitely take months to play out. Like, it may feel like we're at the tail end of it, where okay, well, FTX was the last domino to fall in the terror collapse. And yeah, okay, Genesis was caught in it, and maybe some other players were caught in it, but we won't know the full extent of it for quite a while. Now. Does that mean that prices are going to go down from where they are today? Does that mean that ETH is going to go down 50% or whatever it is? I don't know. I mean, I personally don't think so, but I don't know for sure. Obviously anything can happen.
00:28:10.910 - 00:28:39.780, Speaker A: I think the fact that prices haven't gone down more in the wake of the FTX collapse is a positive sign. But who knows? I mean, I think that we're probably in for a pretty long winter. I don't know how long that's going to be. Is it going to be six months? Is it going to be twelve months? Is it going to be two years? I don't know specifically. But what I do know is that it doesn't feel like winter in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm still able to do a refuel every single day, and I could go for longer than 30 minutes. I just stopped myself because I like to keep it consistent.
00:28:39.780 - 00:29:15.308, Speaker A: But I could easily go for longer than 30 minutes because there's so much happening, so much to talk about. So if you are focusing on the Ethereum ecosystem, if you are in it for the technology, then this crypto winter shouldn't really be bothering you at all. And you should look at it as an opportunity as well, to grow personally, to possibly grow your stash of ETH. Or other assets that you're interested in. But as I said, the contagion stuff will take months to play out, potentially years to fully play out for us to fully assess the damage. And on top of that, we don't know obviously what the prices are going to do. But don't be surprised if they stagnate for quite a while just because obviously people have lost interest.
00:29:15.308 - 00:30:00.790, Speaker A: Normal people have lost interest in the crypto markets. Maybe they're still around using some of the apps, especially in NFts, but definitely when it comes to prices, the reason we're stagnant is because the demand is basically zero, right? It has been for a little while now, but I don't know what's going to maybe in the new year people feel a sense of new, new sense of bullishness and we get bullish again and the price goes up. I don't know. Obviously I personally am just continuing to stack ETH like I always do, but I just thought it was worth talking about that a little bit because I've seen a bunch of people talking about it in the Discord Channel. So many discussions everywhere that I've had privately with friends in group chats that I'm in. And I really do think that it's worth just taking a step back and realizing the ethereum ecosystem is not in a winter. It's just plowing ahead, full steam ahead.
00:30:00.790 - 00:30:16.214, Speaker A: But the prices obviously are, and there is always a detachment between fundamentals and the market, as we all know. But on that note, I'm going to end up there. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
