00:00:00.160 - 00:00:21.080, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Daily Bay Refuel, where you cap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the designer until the 25th of November, 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So before we jump into the news of the last week, I guess I do want to do a little bit of housekeeping first. So first things first. Obviously, I know that refills have become weekly at this point.
00:00:21.080 - 00:00:45.220, Speaker A: You know, it is called the daily way. Refuel. It's called the daily way, but they've become weekly at this point. And I know a while back I said that I changed the cadence to Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and then that just didn't happen. And now I'm basically doing episodes when I kind of get around to it, I guess you could say. Or maybe not maybe get around to it's the wrong way of putting it. But, like, when I do them, there's no real rhyme or reason as to why I do them or don't do them.
00:00:45.220 - 00:01:16.160, Speaker A: But I think I want to change that now just to give you a little bit of an explanation as to why this has happened. So before I went to Europe for my vacation, for two months there, I was riding my bike a lot and feeling really great, like, physically and mentally from getting out, you know, getting outside, getting off the screens, doing a lot of physical kind of activity there. Then unfortunately, unfortunately, my bike broke and I haven't gotten it repaired since then. So I kind of fell off on the, I guess, physical exercise train, if you will. And that has made me feel really crappy, I guess. Like, I don't feel. I feel tired a lot.
00:01:16.160 - 00:01:40.502, Speaker A: I don't feel very healthy. And my mental health has also taken a bit of a dive because of that. Not really anything to do with crypto, just like a personal thing. But that has definitely affected my ability to do refuels and to just get motivated to do them. Like, I love doing them. I love talking to you guys, I love educating you guys. But it does become harder when, you know, I spend a lot of my time just being like, oh, I feel like crap, right? But, yeah, I mean, that's going to change going forward.
00:01:40.502 - 00:02:04.466, Speaker A: I'm gonna get my bike fixed. I've just been so lazy about it. But I'm gonna get my bike fixed, get back on it, get my physical health back in order, and that will obviously help my mental health as well. And then I'm making a commitment today on, On. On this episode that I will go back to doing at least, I guess, like Monday, Wednesday, Friday in the new year of, of refuels. But I'm going to try to go back to doing it daily. Like, I didn't stop doing it burnt out or anything.
00:02:04.466 - 00:02:21.026, Speaker A: It was more that I. I think what happened was like the fact that I stopped exercising and I just felt like so tired all the time and I didn't feel kind of as motivated to do it. But I really want to try and get back to that daily cadence. Like I did that for so long as well. It's not like. It's not like I can't do it. I think I can.
00:02:21.026 - 00:03:00.842, Speaker A: So just a little bit of background, I know again, I guess context as to why I haven't been doing many refills lately. In saying all of that going forward again until the new year, I will try to do as many as I can. You guys probably remember that I mentioned that I'm going on a trip to Japan in early January that has been booked. It's going to be from January 3rd to the 15th, so there'll be no refills during that time. But then once I get back from that trip, I do want to try and get back to the at least three, you know, three episodes a week cadence and then hopefully rolling into daily cadence again because as I said, I really enjoy doing these and I really want to do as many as possible here. But anyway, enough housekeeping there. Let's jump into the news.
00:03:00.842 - 00:03:22.374, Speaker A: And it's been a bit of a bullish last few days, I think, for, or I guess like the last couple of weeks for the markets generally. Right. I mean, everything seems to be going up. Only there are top signals everywhere. Meme coins are going nuts and there's a lot of really dark stuff happening in the meme coin space. I don't know how much you guys pay attention to it, but it's not looking too hot. It's definitely not something that really interests me about the crypto ecosystem at all.
00:03:22.374 - 00:03:55.714, Speaker A: And I. I try to ignore it, but then everyone on Twitter is talking about it and it's just. Yeah, it's just crazy bull market things, I think. But what I do like to pay attention to and what does interest me is things like this thread from Vivekia. So, as you know, there's been a lot of discussion around a bitcoin strategic reserve that some, I guess, like politicians in the US Are pursuing and a lot of bitcoiners in the US are pursuing with the basic premise of getting the US to put bitcoin on its balance sheet, essentially. And there's been a bill, I believe, introduced or going to be introduced to do this. Who knows if it's going to pass or anything like that, if it's going to happen.
00:03:55.714 - 00:04:25.036, Speaker A: But that's been a thing that's been talked about a lot. Now the Vex thread talks about the fact that ETH or Ethereum should also be part of this and there should be a US Digital Asset Strategic Reserve that includes ethnic on top of btc. And he gives a bunch of reasons for this and essentially the TLDR. I mean, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below. But the TLDR of this is that, you know, ETH is more than, I guess, just a store of value and money, right? Ethan? Ethereum are more than that. Ethereum is a new technology, right? It is a new Internet, if you will. It is a world computer.
00:04:25.036 - 00:05:16.612, Speaker A: It enables so many new things. And one of those big use cases that it enables is the tokenization of real world assets such as stablecoins, Treasuries and others that we've seen on chain that we're going to keep seeing more of now because of this. It means that Ethereum as a settlement layer, as a blockchain platform becomes strategically important for the US Especially when it comes to stable coins, because it has most of the US dollar stable coins on then and those things continue to grow. I don't know if you guys have seen, but the inflows of stable coins have just been going up and up and up and most of it is happening on Ethereum. So Ethereum becomes strategically important to the US through that use of stable coins which are tied to the US dollar because it basically further exports US dollar as a money throughout the world. So that's, that's one big thing there. But then Vivek continues and basically says, you know, ETH provides a new uncorrelated yield for the financial economy through its staking mechanism.
00:05:16.612 - 00:05:46.240, Speaker A: It's uncorrelated basically to anything else in the economy. And that is very unique to Ethereum because Bitcoin doesn't have that, right? BTC does not have any yield. It doesn't have native yield. I know that MicroStrategy and some other companies are doing some, I guess, creative financial engineering to give a yield, quote unquote to btc. But BTC does not have proof of stake, so it does not have a yield. You can't just get direct yield off of BTC itself. You can do some other kind of weird ways, but obviously there's more risk laid on top of that and it's a different thing altogether.
00:05:46.240 - 00:06:07.728, Speaker A: ETH provides this natural kind of uncorrelated yield for the Ethereum economy. And then Vivek also quoted one of my tweets where this listed the major companies that are building on Ethereum right now. And these companies are again strategically important to the U.S. they include the likes of BlackRock, Franklin Templeton, PayPal, Robinhood, Visa, Stripe. These are all U.S. based companies, massive U.S. based companies.
00:06:07.728 - 00:06:28.236, Speaker A: Right. And they're strategically important to the U.S. so that's another major reason why the U.S. it would make sense for the U.S. to have a strategic ETH reserve as well as a BTC reserve here. But I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you guys to go check out. But obviously like, I think this would be a good thing for a the US I think it would be a good thing for ETH and for Ethereum.
00:06:28.236 - 00:07:03.632, Speaker A: There's no guarantee this will happen. There's no guarantee the Bitcoin strategic reserve will happen. But as these technologies continue to grow, as they become more ingrained in society, as they become more important across the broad spectrum of the world, not just within the US but then it begs the question of okay, well when are governments going to get involved? When a nation state going to get directly involved here? They can't just like sit around forever and ignore this thing. Just like they couldn't sit around forever and ignore the Internet. So and, and, and not just the Internet, but computing as well. I think the US made a big mistake for a long time by not on shoring chip manufacturing. I'm sure you guys have seen that they're trying to do that now with their new chips act.
00:07:03.632 - 00:08:02.992, Speaker A: I think they would putting aside $40 billion of the, the government budget to fund construction of these chip manufact because of the fact that a lot of the, I guess manufacturing of, of chips is concentrated in Taiwan. And that's strategically weird, I guess you could say because of the fact that we know China does a lot of saber rattling about wanting to essentially invade Taiwan or take Taiwan back as they claim it belongs to them. And that would obviously be really bad because one of two things would happen. Either China would get access to those chip manufacturing plants and basically own them, or two, there would be a fail safe put in place by Taiwan to blow up those chip manufacturing plants. Which means that I think it's like 60 or 70% of the world's computer chips, CPUs would overnight like be, be unavailable, be gone. Right? There would be a mass shortage and that would obviously be really bad for the world because we rely so heavily on technology. So I think that the US can learn from that mistake when it comes to computing.
00:08:02.992 - 00:08:31.612, Speaker A: And also they were pioneers with the Internet, I'll give them that. But with computing, I think they made a mistake there. They can learn from that and make sure that they're at the forefron of Ethereum, of Bitcoin, of crypto generally. And I think with obviously Trump now being president, I think there's more likely to be the case now that that happens than it would have with the Democrats still being in power. Obviously, because the Democrats have been so hostile towards crypto. I'm really glad that we have a friendlier crypto admin now in a vacuum, obviously. I'm not not discussing any of the politics here.
00:08:31.612 - 00:08:59.498, Speaker A: I'm just looking at it from a. From a crypto point of view, because I do believe that Ethereum especially is strategically important for the future of the us not just eth asset, but also Ethereum, the network there. But you can go give Vivex Tweet that a read for yourself. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on to a bunch of core dev updates. So Christine Kim had a great little summary here of the current status of what's happening in core dev land. So Petra DevNet 4 is being deprecated soon.
00:08:59.498 - 00:09:25.286, Speaker A: The Mekong test net remains stable and is finalizing. This is a test net for Petra or a public test net for Petra. There are one or two nodes with potential issues that devs will be investigating. And Mekong will not be updated to DevNet 5 spec devs are finalizing DevNet 5 scope on the next all core devs call and we'll try to launch the testnet in the next two weeks, which should be happening. Yeah, in the next, I guess like 10 or so days. Devs are targeting Devnet 6 for the inclusion of a blob capacity increase. That's very cool.
00:09:25.286 - 00:10:12.040, Speaker A: You know that we were kind of like on the fence about that, but we may be getting a blob capacity increase in PETRA after all. And Peer DAS and EOF test nets to be rebased on top of petra once Petra Devnet 5 specs are stable. So Peer Dash and EOF are not slated for inclusion in petra, but they will potentially be on these test nets, which is really, really cool to see. So good progress being made on petra. I will stick by my call that we're probably going to see it in like March April of next year, go live on the network. As you guys know, the most exciting eip, or at least the one that I think is the most exciting EIP that's going live in Petra is the Max EB EIP which allows you to essentially stake more than 32 E per validator, which is obviously great for solo stakers, but also great for consolidating down validators on the network. You have the EIP 7702, I believe it is, which is the account abstraction EIP which I'm going to talk a little bit about now, later.
00:10:12.040 - 00:10:57.044, Speaker A: I've got it in my, one of my tabs here and then you've got a few other EIPs as well there, as well as a potential blob capacity increase, which is obviously critically important because if you guys have been paying attention to blobs, you'll know that they've been at capacity all month and they're basically, you know, keep. The demand keeps going up and blob demand keeps going up and we need to scale up those blobs there. All right, so speaking of, I guess like capacity increases on Ethereum, I put out a tweet the other day where I said, or I basically asked for a temperature check on doubling the Ethereum L1 gas limit in 10 million increments, increments from 30 million to 60 million. And I'm in favor of doing it. And we'll be changing my solar staker configurations to target a 40 million gas limit. And I did that. Not that it really counts for anything unless the majority of the network does it.
00:10:57.044 - 00:11:10.612, Speaker A: Hey, but I did it as a symbiote, a symbolic thing and I didn't want to lie and say I'm going to do it and then not do it. No, I did it. I did it for my solo stakers. I didn't do it for my rocket pool stakers, just for my solo staking nodes that I run separate to that. But. But it's done. Now.
00:11:10.612 - 00:11:51.262, Speaker A: The reason I put out this tweet was not to to necessarily advocate for a gas limit increase, but for to more to get the conversation started again so that we can actually move this forward because this conversation tends to stagnate a lot and again things get, tend to get lost. But I'm really glad that I put this tweet out because I had a bunch of people message me about this. I talked to a couple of core devs about this and what's really cool is long standing EIP that's been in development for quite a while. AIP4444 or quadruple four is actually much closer to going live on the network than I thought it was. And it also doesn't require a hard fork. Now I don't know why more people aren't talking about this eip. It's the one that does history expiry in Ethereum.
00:11:51.262 - 00:12:38.926, Speaker A: And why this is relevant to the gas limit increase is because once this is integrated into the network, it basically means that we can increase the gas limit without worrying about the chain size getting bigger because we're going to be expiring some history of Ethereum. So that essentially it works the same as blobs where the chain will get, will get bigger for a period of time, but then we expire it and then the chain size stays, I guess like, what's the word I'm looking for? Stay stable so to speak. Or it stays predictable, so to speak. And that's one of the main concerns with raising the gas limit here. Now the reason why I bring this AP up today is because there is a document here that was published only two days ago and I would not have come across this document if it wasn't for me putting out this question. But essentially goes through the different phases of what the core devs and researchers are targeting with regards to ERP4444. So the first phase is pre merged data expiry.
00:12:38.926 - 00:13:10.682, Speaker A: So the scope of this is to allow for dropping of block bodies and receipts from pre merged blocks by other clients. So this would be of blocks prior to September 15, 2022, so before the merge. And this has been agreed upon by all the major execution layer client teams so far, literally every single one Base, Aragon, Geth, Nethermind, Nimbus and Reth. Yeah, which is great. And Nimbus is actually making an execution layer client, in case you guys didn't know. That's why they're there. This doesn't apply to the consensus layer just yet, but that's, that's phase one and the timeline for that you may think oh maybe, maybe this is not going to happen till like 2026 or something like that.
00:13:10.682 - 00:13:29.806, Speaker A: No, the timeline for this is May 1, 2025. That is not too far away from here. I thought this was way further out than it is. So this is really, really bullish here. And that's just phase one. There are other phases, phase two and then there are a bunch of other kind of a bunch of other information in here about client implementation plans. But that's just the first Phase and then phase two.
00:13:29.806 - 00:14:05.412, Speaker A: There's no timeline set for that yet, but essentially it's, it goes beyond the pre merge blocks and basically does it for all of the blocks I guess in the past. So all previous blocks from today or from the current current head of the chain and expires them until the heat near the until the heat death of the universe is what's. What's said here, which is, which is quite funny. So this is really bullish for the fact that we can increase the gas limit once this is done by quite a substantial amount because as I said you don't have to worry about the chain size getting too big anymore. So really cool to see this. You can go read this document for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:14:05.412 - 00:14:34.072, Speaker A: But this is really bullish guys. It means that L1 scale can go up a lot in the next six months. And this doesn't just apply to L1 scale for L1, it also applies for L2s with blobs and with a gas them increase. So it's going to be a lot better going forward. And another EIP that I wanted to talk about which is potentially coming in for Sucker, which is the upgrade after Petra. So maybe end of 2025, early 2026 is ERP 7732 or EPBS. EPBS has been something that I've talked about for a long time on the refuel.
00:14:34.072 - 00:15:09.612, Speaker A: It is finally in view right now. And this document from POTAS does a really great job of explaining exactly what EPBS is and why we need it. I just wanted to highlight this because it's like a question and answer thing or a frequently asked questions document where essentially it just asks all these questions and answers them and you get a complete overview or maybe like a near complete overview of what EPBS looks like and what the future of of Ethereum kind of block building or the block building pipeline looks like going forward here. So just wanted to hide that document for you guys. You can go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right.
00:15:09.612 - 00:15:47.730, Speaker A: An interesting tweet that came across from Nixo today was this I guess like table that shows the different ways people can solo stake or home stake or I guess like stake generally. And in this, I guess like in this table, Niksko captioned it by saying I think it's important that we retain solo staker as the definition of a node operator who validates without anything between them and the beacon chain contract. It is the most Solo way of staking. And as you can see on the table here, essentially a Solo Staker has 32 ETH. Where it doesn't matter. At home in the cloud, wherever it is, controls the configuration of it. Yes, that, that you need to be able to do that.
00:15:47.730 - 00:16:19.220, Speaker A: And the examples of that is basically just like someone like me, I guess, like a true solo sticker where I control everything end to end. Then a home staker is a 32. You either put 32 ETH up or you put a minimum of the protocol. So for example, in rocker pool will be like an 8 ETH or a 4E, a kind of bond here. And then where is residential? So it has to be done at home, or in this case it's done at home. You control the config. And then the example is a mini pool operator or solo staker staker staking from home remote.
00:16:19.220 - 00:16:38.636, Speaker A: So, so remote stakers are the same thing, same capital requirements, but commercial. So essentially in the cloud or something like that, it's using aws. That's the example given here. And then there are other categories such as managed, professional and liquid. And those are all explained in this table. So I'll link the Tweet in the YouTube description for you to go check out the table itself. But I think this is critically important.
00:16:38.636 - 00:17:02.300, Speaker A: I do agree with Nick. So that we need to make sure that we define these things and keep those definitions fresh in people's minds. Because the lines definitely blur a lot. And especially going forward, they're gonna. They're gonna blur a lot more because of the fact that there are many, many different ways of staking and that is only going to keep increasing. And you could say that, like there could be another thing on this table of the, I guess like E stake with the ETFs. That would be.
00:17:02.300 - 00:17:28.126, Speaker A: I guess that could, that could fall under like the professional or managed. Actually, it would probably fall under managed in this table, if I'm reading it right. But it might be distinct in that it's a lot more complex where essentially you might have a different staking party to the custody party, to the. The party that's essentially taking a feed to like. There's a lot of complexities involved here. We don't have staked ETFs yet, but that could potentially be something there. But anyway, I'll go.
00:17:28.126 - 00:18:04.890, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below and you can go check it out. All right, So I put out this tweet the other day saying one of the biggest and longest standing user experience Pain points in Ethereum such as the Appro token and then swap. The token flow will be solved in 2025. Not to mention all the other things coming along with the below upgrades such as smarter externally owned accounts, sponsored gas payments, advanced permissions and more. And I've linked this, there's a picture here in my tweet and I'll link this in the YouTube description below. That goes through the four major I guess like upgrades coming as part of the account abstraction stack. The first one is ARC 4337.
00:18:04.890 - 00:18:31.386, Speaker A: So this solved most of the account abstraction use case cases and it's used by a lot of serious projects. So it is already live. Then you have EIP 7702 which I talked about a little earlier. This is going live in Petra and will allow EOAs, which is just a normal Ethereum address, to role play as smart contracts. Then you've got RIP 7560. So RIP stands for roll Up Improvement Proposal. So this applies to roll ups which enshrines the ERC 4337 design and becomes a native part of the L2 roll ups.
00:18:31.386 - 00:18:59.608, Speaker A: It is currently ready on a devnet. And then you've got ERP 7701 which is similar to that RIP I just mentioned, but less opinionated targets Ethereum L1 with EOF and feedback is requested right now. So those top three things are basically like ready or there or already live. And then 7701 will be live probably if EOF goes into Fusaka it might go live there. I don't even know if EOF is going to make it in. There's still kind of drama around eof so we'll keep an eye on that. But yeah, this is one of the biggest pain points for users.
00:18:59.608 - 00:19:30.364, Speaker A: And now I know there are a bunch of different wallets and, and interfaces that have already kind of of quote unquote solve this for their users. But this, the, the, the, I guess like the critical thing here is EIP 7702 which basically makes, it makes the network itself aware of this. So you can do this on top of the network. But with 7702 essentially as I said, a normal Ethereum account. So let's say you own MetaMask and you spin up a new Ethereum address that is a normal Ethereum account. That's what we call an externally owned account or an eoa. They will be able to role play a smart contract.
00:19:30.364 - 00:20:08.910, Speaker A: So essentially they'll be able to act as a proxy smart contract so what that means, as I said in my tweet, is that you essentially get things like sponsored gas payments, advanced permissions approved and swap being one transaction, one bundled transaction instead of two. So it's a huge unlock and it's a huge unlock for all the existing Ethereum users that just have an airway that they use and they don't use a smart contract wallet. And it is cheaper as well because deploying a smart contract wallet on layer one Ethereum is quite expensive, so it becomes cheaper there. So that's all like coming, you know, in on devnets, on test, test net. Some of it's already live. So yeah, that's a lot. That's something that we have to look forward to in 2025 for sure.
00:20:08.910 - 00:20:32.308, Speaker A: All right, moving on. Coinbase Wallet has introduced USDC rewards. So essentially for the first time ever, you can now earn 4.7 APY with USDC rewards simply by holding USDC in your wallet on chain. So this is holding it in Coinbase Wallet, I believe. I, I don't think you can hold it in any other wallets from what I know to get that 4.7%. But this is huge guys.
00:20:32.308 - 00:21:25.996, Speaker A: And I want to explain why this is a really big deal. Not only is it a big deal because you get like yield just for holding a stable coin in your account here, but it's a big deal because as I said earlier, Ethereum is the home of stable coins, especially USDC and not just Ethereum L1, but base which as an L2 and other L2s like Arbitrum, OP, Mainnet, etc. Right, it's the home of stable coins. So Ethereum may not be, I guess, quote unquote winning in some different verticals, like the meme coin vertical or the casino vertical. But in my opinion Ethereum is winning where it matters, which is the real, I guess like fundamental long term sustainable business use cases, like a simple yield on your dollars. Right? Like stable coins, like tokenized Treasuries, like tokenized assets generally like real finance, like AAVE for example, and Maker and doing token swapping and stuff like that, like for real assets on Ethereum. Ethereum is winning and growing in that area.
00:21:25.996 - 00:21:45.420, Speaker A: And the Ethereum ecosystem, because of its L2 roadmap, can win every area. It doesn't even have to just win that. It can win all the other areas. Like you can have the degen stuff happening. I mean Base has a mean coin ecosystem, you can do that stuff there. So, so I think that when it comes to the, the fundamental long term Sustainable stuff. It really is just happening like 90 plus percent on Ethereum.
00:21:45.420 - 00:22:20.376, Speaker A: And that's I believe because of the fact that Ethereum is the premier serious chain to deploy these things on, to do these things on the other chains that exist out there. Nowhere near as mature as Ethereum. They don't have the same, I guess, kind of like professional reputation around it and they definitely appeal to a different crowd. Whereas the tradfi crowd, the, the real world crowd, I think that stuff's going to be done on Ethereum and this is just I guess like the latest example of that with the USDC rewards on Coinbase Wallet. Now to, to, to. To I guess like be completely honest here. I, I don't think this is, this is just a Ethereum USDC or base usdc.
00:22:20.376 - 00:22:49.896, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure this applies to USDC on other chains. But as I said, most of the USDC exists, exists on Ethereum or in the Ethereum ecosystem, which is the, the key point I'm, I'm trying to make here. So. Yeah, anyway, you can go check this out. I'll Link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. So moving on and sticking with the theme of sustainable things on chain, Joseph here tweeted out something really cool where he said, imagine getting your salary streamed to you. Instead of $4,000 every other week, you get 0.0033
00:22:49.896 - 00:23:12.756, Speaker A: cents per second again for two weeks straight. Now imagine the stablecoin being streamed is yield bearing. The entire time your salary just increased by the apy of the yield. That's the power of knee, right? And super fluid. Now superfluid's been around for a while, I believe. Nerite is quite new, but they're basically a friendly fork of Liquidy V2 on Arbitrum. And essentially what they're doing is they're putting all these money legos together to give you this.
00:23:12.756 - 00:23:30.048, Speaker A: Now this salary streaming thing, as I said, is nothing new. It's been around for a while. But again, this is the kind of stuff that has a real world impact. This is the stuff that goes beyond just speculation. This is the stuff that applies to pretty much everyone. Right? Like getting your salary streamed to you every week. Sorry, every second instead of every week.
00:23:30.048 - 00:24:04.874, Speaker A: Right. Which if it's yield bearing means a lot because then you're just compounding on that yield. So. And again, like there's money legos involved here. So you can do different things with this. So you could tokenize this position and, and on salad or like take a loan against it or it's really cool because you can do something like, like essentially prove to someone, hey, there is a bunch of funds in this account or in this, I guess like tokenized version of this account, I want to use these funds to borrow against, but I don't have all the funds right now. But hey, I can guarantee that I'm going to have the funds in like a month's time because of the fact that it is being streamed to me on this protocol.
00:24:04.874 - 00:24:49.534, Speaker A: So you can do a bunch of really cool things here, which I think is going to keep growing. But yeah, again this is the sort of stuff that I like to see these kind of long term sustainable things, not things that are very short term speculative, extractive. Because in my mind that doesn't really push the ecosystem forward too much. It may, I guess like push things forward in that it pushes prices up, which brings more attention to crypto, which brings more people into crypto, so on and so forth. But if we're talking about like actual long term sustainable use cases and things that people can I guess, resonate with, like everyday people can resonate with, this is something that I, I think is right up there. All right, last up here, just a new feature from L2 Beat. So no longer are they just tracking transactions per second across L use, they're also tracking user operations per second or uops.
00:24:49.534 - 00:25:32.734, Speaker A: So what are they and why are they different from I guess like transactions per second? So essentially with user operations per second, they're going to be looking at what's happening inside of a transaction. So you can, you can see here they say tracking UOPS gives a better sense of user activity and the rate of usage of account abstraction. So as I said before, there are going to be these bundled transactions that are going to be more frequent and they're going to just count as like one transaction, but or one, I guess one tps, right? So you really want to be able to unpack that and see what's under the hood here. How many user operations are happening per second, not just transactions per second. And they explain this a bit further in their thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But no surprise, this is also at all time high. I mean, I can bring up the L2 Beat website for you to kind of see this.
00:25:32.734 - 00:26:04.126, Speaker A: So if we go to the L2B website and we go the user operations per second, you can go to max and you can see that this is basically at all time high, right? Like not, not exactly all time high, but, but it's, it's trending in that direction. Same same with tps. But user operations per second is probably a better way to track the activity happening on on L2s here. And there's also roll up WTF, which tracks real time activity. They're doing TPS right now or still doing TPS and they're doing mega gas per second. I do wonder if they're going to integrate, I guess user operations per second into this. We'll have to see.
00:26:04.126 - 00:26:37.792, Speaker A: But yeah, that's another site that I use to to track a lot of things in real time and I've gone through this site on the repo before. You can like filter out things that are just using blobs or you know, things that are using kind of Celestial for DA or call data for da, so on and so forth. It's funny, the only thing still using call data is the Polygon ZK evm, which is a little bit weird. They aren't using blobs yet, but I think that maybe when the Polygon POS chain becomes a layer 2 they might use blobs there. We'll have to see anyway. But yeah, you can go check out the user ops thing from L2 beat for yourself yourself if you'd like to. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do.
00:26:37.792 - 00:27:03.072, Speaker A: So now I have a couple of minutes left here of this episode. I don't want to like give another one of my kind of sermons here about the market, but I do want to quickly mention something because the market is definitely heating up in a really big way right now and I feel like we're essentially in the phase of the market that we were in like late 2020. So like December 2020. And I feel that because I was around back then and I'm getting the same feelings now as I was back then. This is the bulk of the bull market happening, guys. Like this is the final stretch. Like I.
00:27:03.072 - 00:27:33.548, Speaker A: I feel very confident in saying that I don't know where we're here. I don't know if the top's going to be in like May again, like it was in 2021 and then we'll have another top in like November. I have no idea. But I do know that things seem like and I'm pretty confident they're going to get a lot crazier from here as obviously ETH begin, you know, goes goes to all time high. It's not there yet, but BTC basically hit 100k. So Eth I don't believe is far behind in getting. I guess it's all time high and then going into price discovery, plus a lot of other things going crazy.
00:27:33.548 - 00:28:21.808, Speaker A: It's just that phase of the market now. The reason I bring this up is to get, you know, not only to get you excited, obviously, because you've waited a long time for this probably, but also to make you a little bit cautious about things. I have on my PINS tweets actually on my Twitter profile here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. A bunch of pro tips for the bull market that I really think you should go review there. I think there's six of them that essentially apply to every crypto bull market and is really the soundest advice that I can give. And I think the number one thing, that number one piece of advice I can give, honestly, and this is not financial kind of investment advice, but just advice generally, is that in these markets it can be very tempting to keep, I guess, increasing your, I guess sell targets and keep increasing in your head like, oh, if I sell here, I'll make this much money. If I sell there, I'll make that much money.
00:28:21.808 - 00:29:00.490, Speaker A: Honestly, I think I said like a year ago you should have had your sell targets or sell spreadsheet done already. But the soundest advice I can give is that you need to be taking profits on the way up. You should not be trying to time a top. If you want to sell things, sell them on the way up. It doesn't matter if you sell too early if you make a profit, in my mind, because it's gonna suck if you don't sell and then it goes down and then you're in a loss again and then you're stuck waiting for it maybe to go up again in four years because of the four year cycle. Right? So, yeah, I wouldn't, I wouldn't do that. That's, that's like the, the number one thing that I try to live by is like as the market heats up, as it goes up, I try to see, you know, I try to sell into thing, into, into a market that is like pretty hot.
00:29:00.490 - 00:29:18.142, Speaker A: But like, I, I don't try to time the top because you always want to try and get the most you can out of, out of your investment. But it's extremely difficult, guys. It is not easy. Investing is not easy because it's easy enough to like buy something and then just sit on it for a while. I mean, I say that's easy. That's not easy either. But like, that's not even the hardest part.
00:29:18.142 - 00:29:38.374, Speaker A: The hardest part, truly, I believe of the all the market cycles is taking profits because you get greedy. You do get greedy. Like I, I, I felt that grade before in my life. I still feel it a little bit today. And I know a lot of people who still feel it. And especially if you're, or if this is the cycle that you think you're going to like make it in, so to speak, you tend to get very greedy. And yeah, I just don't want to see anyone wrecking themselves.
00:29:38.374 - 00:29:55.990, Speaker A: I don't want to see anyone like not taking profits and then the cycle ends and then they're like, ah, I should have sold. As I said, you should have probably thought about this a while ago because now things are crazy. It's going to be influencing your, your thought process. But it's still a good time to think about this and still a good time to make a plan for yourself. Don't get too greedy. Don't get too cocky. You're not a genius investor.
00:29:55.990 - 00:30:11.568, Speaker A: You never are and you never will be. No one is a genius investor are. The best investors that I know are the ones that understand how to keep their emotions in check. And don't get too greedy. The ones who get too greedy blow themselves up. We've seen that time and time again within crypto. But anyway, on that note, I think that's going to be it for today.
00:30:11.568 - 00:30:18.600, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give that a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next time. Thanks everyone.
