00:00:00.200 - 00:00:37.390, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Gwei refuel where I recap the latest news in the ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 4 July 2022 alright everyone, let's get into it. So just a quick reminder here that I'll be hosting this live stream with the ETH staker crew for the Sapolia testnet merge. Now, I did mention last time we didn't know exactly when it was going to take place just because of the hashrate changes. And I could bring up the website here that I looked at last week that you can monitor the hashrate changes on. So it's bordell WtF? So basically we want to get ttd so to achieve ttd by Wednesday, July 6 at 04:00 p.m. I think that's yeah, 04:00 p.m.
00:00:37.390 - 00:01:15.482, Speaker A: UTC or 445 UT pm uTc here. So to do that we need to maintain the kind of like, I guess like hash rate that we have now, which is essentially what we're doing. So I think that some more hash rate came online from either kind of like some of the core teams or just a not a good benefactor here that allows us to kind of reach TTD by that time. But if people decide to join with their hash, this could happen sooner or if someone decides to pull out, it could happen later. So we don't know exactly what time, but here is the expected time right now. Wednesday, July 6 04:45 p.m.. UTC but you can definitely check back at this site and keep checking Twitter for an update there.
00:01:15.482 - 00:01:47.938, Speaker A: But if you want, you can also go to the live stream link here and kind of set a reminder so that you're, you're basically told as soon as the live stream happens. All right, so speaking of the merge, there's a couple of things to get through. So the main net merge shadow fork eight is happening tomorrow, 5 July. So this is going to be exciting. Just I guess like we've done seven of these so far and most of them have run pretty well. This will be the 8th one hopefully. Look, I would really love to see one of these main net shadow forks go like 100%, right? Like no issues, no merge or non merge related issues on any of the clients.
00:01:47.938 - 00:02:16.920, Speaker A: Like imagine if we had all the clients talking to each other and it was all 100%. That'd be really, really cool to see. I mentioned before how some of them had some issues around kind of like configurations, non merge related stuff that isn't a deal breaker, but it would still be really cool to see 100% there. So there's that happening tomorrow. And then as I just mentioned, a couple of days later, the sepolia testnet merge will, a transition will happen and then we'll have girlie. So girly is a bit different in that we don't have to basically rely on hash rate because girly is a proof of authority network. So that'll be easier to merge.
00:02:16.920 - 00:03:03.946, Speaker A: In terms of like timing, I expect that probably late July at this point, if not early August or something like that. If it happens late July, that gives us a nice amount of time until kind of obviously December to get to mainnet merge. If we could do some shadow forks in that time as well. But I feel like we just, like, I know I say this a lot, but like, we're so close, so, so close. Mid September is still my estimation or still my kind of like guestimation at this point, but I'm not going to rehash that there, as you guys have heard me talk about this a million times before. But speaking of staking, Jessica here basically put out a tweet today saying, so what can you do with the new lite client protocol getting merged into ETH two? Nimbus now has a lite client implementation that allows safely determining the head of the chain at 20 to 30 bytes per second. But on its own, that's not very useful.
00:03:03.946 - 00:03:46.550, Speaker A: Enter the light proxy. So basically this thread is about light clients and kind of like Nimus's approach to this and how they're working towards this. This is lite clients, basically, the concept of being able to validate the chain without having to store the whole chain on your device. Now why would you want this? Well, it's good for stuff like, kind of like running a lite client on like a smartphone, for example, like a bandwidth limited and a hardware limited device. But even just generally being able to essentially use kind of like a lite client to validate that the chain that you're kind of like talking to is the, is the valid one, instead of having to kind of run through the whole thing and have like a full node running or something like that, is obviously very powerful. It's something that's been spoken about, spoken about for a while now. It's something that other networks have also looked at.
00:03:46.550 - 00:04:16.164, Speaker A: I believe Polkadot was really big on, like, client design. I'm not sure what status they're at yet, but it's definitely being talked about in Ethereum for a very long time now. And it seems there are things in motion, which is very, very cool to see. So you can go read this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Second thing on staking is that Hill Dobby has added some stats to his ETH two staking deposits dashboard and now includes top deposited, deposited amount, liquid staking, market share, entity breakdown, category breakdown, staking market share, and more. Now this is probably my favorite dashboard.
00:04:16.164 - 00:04:57.226, Speaker A: I think it is my favorite dashboard at this point for keeping up with beacon chain related statistics here ETH two staking kind of like statistics. You can see all sorts of information, like really, really good information, like obviously ETH deposited, validate share, liquid staking share, you know, Lido share all these sorts of stuff. And I've talked about it before on the refill so I won't rehash it again. But yeah, like you can go check this out. I'll link him in the YouTube description, but it's great to see that Hill Dobby has updated this with more relevant stats for us. All right, so super fears put out a really, really great tweet that really resonated with me. I think he put this out yesterday where he said ethereums need to begin preparing media and informational packages for local media outlets.
00:04:57.226 - 00:05:40.758, Speaker A: Now, the merge will change everything the media knows about Ethereum's power use, and we have an opportunity to support them with clips, sound bites, pics and gravit graphics. Everything's changing. The reason why this resonated with me so much is because it's something that I talk a lot about on the refill, right? I talk about narratives. I talk about how the transition to proof of stake, while it won't have an immediate effect, it will have an effect on the narrative of Ethereum and the narrative probably crypto more broadly, because Ethereum, obviously the second largest proof of work network, will no longer be proof of work. Ethereum will be a green network. It will be be using 99.95% less energy, probably even, even more than that, or even kind of like less than that, right? And kind of like, I think that's going to be a very, very positive narrative that plays out in the mainstream.
00:05:40.758 - 00:06:19.496, Speaker A: Especially because every single time I go on, say, a Reddit thread that's talking about crypto, and I'm not talking about the crypto subreddits, talking about like the, just the generic subreddits, or I go to some kind of like comments on a post that's got nothing to do with crypto. But crypto somehow brought up like nine times out of ten, someone will mention the energy usage and someone mentioned how it's boiling the oceans and destroying the planet and this and that and the other. Right. So obviously crypto has not only a bad image problem, just generally, but like a very, very bad problem with the people who care about the environment. And typically those people are definitely on the younger side. And they're the ones that we definitely want to be adopting this technology. We want them to be joining our ecosystem.
00:06:19.496 - 00:06:53.476, Speaker A: We want them to be part of this kind of like mission. We don't want them getting the wrong idea, but they're not going to join, they're not going to use this stuff. They're actually very ideologically opposed to it simply because of the use of proof of work instead of something more efficient. So I think that that's the, I think that's the reason why a lot of people don't like bitcoin as well, outside of the ecosystem. Obviously it still applies to ethereum today, but once we merge, it no longer apply. So we have an opportunity to have like these massive media pushes, massive mainstream media push to get the news out there to make sure people are aware that Ethereum of is no longer proof of work. It is proof of stake.
00:06:53.476 - 00:07:29.778, Speaker A: Now, of course, people are still going to hate Ethereum for various other reasons, right? They're going to hate it because of nfts. They're going to hate it because they probably just think it has no value. But at least we, at least those kind of like narratives, I think are not, because they're not based in kind of like fact and reality. Pretty much none of that. None of the points that I've seen, except, you know, that they always gone about the speculative activity, which I'm going to talk about in a bit, but I'll get to that in a sec. We have just an opportunity to change the kind of like think their thinking and their view of Ethereum's kind of like energy use, which I think is really, really cool. Now, we don't have to explain to them what proof of stake kind of like is how a theorem proof of stake is superior to other ones.
00:07:29.778 - 00:08:02.900, Speaker A: We don't have to explain what validators are, we don't have to explain the 32 week minimum, none of that sort of stuff. All we have to do is be very clear in our message that Ethereum no longer uses proof of work mining, it uses a kind of like separate system altogether called proof of stake, which is 99.95% and, you know, energy reduction compared to what it was using before. And we can prove this to them. We have statistics and facts and charts and things that we can show these people if they want to dive deeper. And we also have awesome blog posts that have already been posted before. There's one that was posted on the Ethereum foundation blog that actually did a study on this.
00:08:02.900 - 00:08:22.960, Speaker A: So we have the proof, we have a way to educate these people, but it's not going to happen if like it's more in long form. And that's what superfiz is saying. Yeah, we need sound bites, right? We need clips, we need nice, pretty graphics. We need all that sorts of stuff. We need to start working on that. I think Super Fizz has actually started working on that. I don't have the tweet here, but if you go to his profile, you should be able to see it.
00:08:22.960 - 00:08:45.456, Speaker A: I think he's working on a repository right now, kind of like an open source efforts you can kind of see. Let's see. I'm just scrolling down here to see if it's here. Yes, I think it's this one. I opened the GitHub repository for media that we can share with our local media outlets related to the merge. So you can go check this out. I'll kind of like retweet this here and also open it so that I don't lose it.
00:08:45.456 - 00:09:04.976, Speaker A: But basically, yeah, you can check that out here right now, he's got a collection here and you can obviously submit your own because it's an open source kind of collection. You can be your own pull requests, all that sorts of stuff. But yeah, superfeeze is 100% right here. Like we need all that information ready to go. So as soon as we switch off proof of work because it literally happens in a block. Right. That's actually pretty crazy.
00:09:04.976 - 00:09:29.664, Speaker A: Still, the craziest thing about the merge to me, and there's so many things that I think are crazy and awesome, is the fact that it's literally one block is proof of work, the next block is proof of stake. And that's it. Like that's. I mean, all the work that we're doing is just to get to that point. And it's taken so long to get to that point, but it's just, it's amazing that that's kind of like you have what you can simplify it down to. Right. Um, but once that transition happens, we can hit hard, hard on it and I'm sure the media is going to cover it anyway.
00:09:29.664 - 00:09:49.838, Speaker A: Like the merge obviously being a very big event, everyone's going to be talking about it. The media will cover it. But we need to make sure they hit on that point that we want them to hit on is the environmental point. And now, I know people have different views about this. I know people say proof of work is not bad for the environment, that encourages renewable energy, uh, all these other kind of, like things. I'm not here to debate that. I'm not here to argue for or against that.
00:09:49.838 - 00:10:24.508, Speaker A: All I'm saying is that the narrative, and the narrative doesn't have to be based on fact or reality, but the narrative that exists in the mainstream is very, very anti proof of work. Like ver, like, I mean, I don't even know anyone from the mainstream that actually thinks that proof of work is a good thing because of the energy use. That's all. It doesn't have any to do with anything else except the energy use. So we can check, we can kind of, like, change their minds here around Ethereum, because Ethereum will no longer be proof of work. They'll be slightly more open to it than they were before. But as long as we educate them, I think that we, you know, we're doing a really positive thing there.
00:10:24.508 - 00:10:53.398, Speaker A: So good tweet from super fears. Just wanted to amplify and also add my touch to it, as usual. So there was this tweet from Will Shehan here, who's the founder of Parsec Finance, who is a chart that basically shows ETH stakers by entry price. And you can see, basically, ETH staking went live December 1, 2020. The ETH price was around $500 or something. But before that, the deposit contract was live for, I believe, two weeks from November. No, it wasn't life.
00:10:53.398 - 00:11:24.808, Speaker A: It was live for a while. But we needed to reach kind of like the minimum by November 24 for us to launch on December 1. But basically, you can see here that most people have deposited their Ethan to into kind of like into staking above $1,000 and $1,052 ETH. So 83% of people who have deposited ethnic that are in loss, quote unquote. Now, why I say lost, quote unquote, is because all this is showing is what the top. What the price of ETH was at the time of deposit. It's not showing when this ETH was bought or purchased.
00:11:24.808 - 00:11:56.800, Speaker A: Like, they. Just because an 8th was deposited into staking at $2,000 doesn't mean that someone bought it at $2,000. They could have bought it at $100 and decided to put it into staking, for example. So it doesn't show that, but it does show the distribution of, of stake. Now you, you're going to need to kind of like do probably more analysis on this. You'd have to run through all the addresses and it'd be very hard to do, especially if ETH came from centralized exchanges, to find out, you know, as accurately as possible when someone bought their ETH and when they staked and what price they bought it for and then when they staked it and what price they kind of like bought it for there. So this is the best information we have available to us today.
00:11:56.800 - 00:12:31.818, Speaker A: So let's just say most people entered staking between 2500 and $3,000. So I kind of like that. That's what it kind of, kind of like shows here, right. It's got like a big hump there and then it's got, it's got like a, I guess a fall off towards, towards the end and also at the beginning, too. Now I commented on this and I said, or I quote, tweeted this and I said, I wonder how many people realize that this 8th can't be unlocked or sold until probably six to twelve months after the merge. Just got to get ETH back above three k by then. So I think a lot of people took from this chart that there'll be people just wanting to sell immediately once withdrawals are enabled.
00:12:31.818 - 00:12:53.786, Speaker A: Obviously post merge. I don't think that's going to be the case for all the reasons I've outlined before. Obviously there's that kind of like withdrawal queue. So not all staked ETH can be unlocked. As I've just mentioned, you don't know what price people bought the ethat, only what price they deposited into the interstaking at. And ETH can be above that price by the time withdrawals aren't able say withdrawals take twelve months from, from now. Right.
00:12:53.786 - 00:13:34.404, Speaker A: Which is probably on the, on the longer end of things. Like I don't know what the price is going to be, but I, you know, I, there is a reality where the price could definitely be back up to $3,000. Like that's, that's not, I mean, twelve months is a relatively long period of time and, and it can definitely happen, but I don't know if it's going to happen. I don't think that staking was ever designed around that. And it's not a strong argument for why people would sell or wouldn't wouldn't sell sort of thing. So I think it's just like a really interesting chart that I hadn't seen before, but I don't know how much insight we can glean from it, considering that for the reasons I just outlined. But also because, like, it doesn't matter what price people kind of, like, deposited into staking at, in my mind, doesn't really matter at all.
00:13:34.404 - 00:13:55.560, Speaker A: But if you take it to kind of like, as a signal of, oh, this is how much sell pressure there will be once withdrawals are enabled, I don't think that matters either. I actually think that by the time withdrawals are enabled, it's kind of, like, hard, I mean, impossible to know what the price of ETH is going to be. It could be back up to 3004. It could be. I mean, it could be back at all time high. Who knows, right? Like, the craziest stuff has happened. So that's why it's very, very hard to clean.
00:13:55.560 - 00:14:23.412, Speaker A: Any real insights from this? But one thing I kind of, like, want to. I want to say here as well is that there are also liquid staking providers. So just because this ETH was deposited into staking and obviously it can't be withdrawn, doesn't mean the people that kind of, like, put the ETH through Lido or through Rocketpool didn't offload their ste through I ETH, for example. And they can do that. I mean, a lot of the. I mean, what Lido is like, what, 30% of the network. So people who entered through Lido at a higher price, they could just sell their ste.
00:14:23.412 - 00:14:40.428, Speaker A: That probably take, obviously, the loss on the dollar term and also the loss on the ETH because Steve is at a discount, but they could exit if they wanted to. Obviously, that ETH stays in the beacon chain because it can't be withdrawn. But. But it. The person who originally put that, Ethan is now effectively exited their position. Right. So that's another thing you can't really account for.
00:14:40.428 - 00:15:07.458, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just thought it was an interesting chart, but definitely not something that I think is a. Is something that we can glean any real investing insights from, for example. All right, next up we've got Ben Edgington with a new what's new in ETH two? Newsletter that you can go check out here. I'll obviously link it in the YouTube description. Just a friendly reminder, I had a talk with Ben Edgington as part of the SSV network merge series. You can go catch that on their profile. I also spoke about that, I think, last week, too.
00:15:07.458 - 00:15:31.360, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, you guys know what's new in ETH two is like the. The kind of resource that I use to keep up with everything happening with the ETH two effort with staking with anything got to do with like the whole kind of a theorem roadmap, really. I mean, Ben is on top of everything. It's really, really awesome that he's still publishing this and it's free, guys. Like, it's crazy that it's free considering how much information he packs into these things. So you can definitely check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:15:31.360 - 00:16:13.820, Speaker A: It's got links to so much stuff. I mean, you could actually spend a good few hours just going through the newsletter and then going through all the links that he kind of places in here. And it's a really, really good use of your time as well. Like, it's not just a good use of your time in terms of like gleaning some, some investing alpha from it, but also just from kind of like increasing your knowledge. Like I know on the refill, I talk a lot about various things, and sometimes a lot of the time I won't actually give much context because I don't want to have to repeat myself every time. And I do go into the weeds a fair bit. But if you want to kind of get, you know, even more into the weeds or kind of get additional context of things that I talk about, especially related to ETH two, then I think Ben's newsletter really, really helps with that and helps you kind of keep on top of things, gives you relevant links, all that sorts of stuff.
00:16:13.820 - 00:16:49.412, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so obviously arbitrum last week had a bit of a snafu with obviously the gas fees getting higher on arbitram than they were on main net. And I explained why that happened last week, and then they had to pause their odyssey initiative because of that. Now, they published a blog post here called understanding arbitram two dimensional fees from Daniel Goldman, who works at arbitrary. So you should definitely give this a read. It basically goes into more technical detail about how arbitrum, the fee market on arbitram works, or how arbitram handles fees and how they're calling them two dimensional fees.
00:16:49.412 - 00:17:21.022, Speaker A: And it's only a three minute read, so very, very quickly here. But I did want to highlight this since I did speak about arbitram last week, and I also had so many people asking me about arbitrary them, especially around how the gas fees could be higher on arbitrary man than on layer one ethereum, which to be fair, is a, is a kind of like, I guess, fair question. I don't blame people for kind of arguing, asking that, or kind of, I guess, like being concerned maybe as well. But I did explain that on last week's refill, so I'm not going to rehash it here on one of last week's refuels. You can go check it out. It's either, it's either one on Thursday or Friday, I think. But you can go check it out.
00:17:21.022 - 00:17:44.190, Speaker A: It's on the, on the channel. Um, and then you'll be able to find it there. But yeah, just go read this blog post after, I guess, like listening to me talk. If you've already listened to it, just go read the blog post and you'll get more details about that. Alright, so. So we got some June 2022 stats for Ens over the weekend. So 122,000 new ETH registrations in June for a total of 1.47
00:17:44.190 - 00:18:04.244, Speaker A: million names, $3.3 million in protocol revenue. All goes to the Dow. 2500 ETH in revenue, third highest monthly. 25,000 new ETH accounts with at least one Ens name, which for a total of 463,099% of Opensea domain volume. Now, you can see the chart here as they always posted. I've kind of like highlighted this chart before.
00:18:04.244 - 00:18:45.166, Speaker A: What I love about this, and I think I mentioned this last time, it just shows the ENS is one of those apps that exist in a kind of like, I guess, in a place where not many apps exist. And that's the non speculative category where I know there is some speculation of Ens names, but for the most part, people just want to register an ENS name to tie it to their address because they want to be part of the web3 community. And that obviously lends itself to a lot of non speculative activity which persists even if we're in a deep bear market like we have been since, you know, November. I mean, look, like, look, Ens is big. Biggest months were the last three months. Pretty crazy, right? Um, which, and this perfectly segue segues me into my tweet that I wanted to talk about today that I, that I kind of put out. And I wrote a newsletter about this too.
00:18:45.166 - 00:19:14.852, Speaker A: Basically I said I would love to see more non speculative Ethereum apps take off during this bear market. So far, the most popular ones I can think of that have actual active users are gitcoin, pull up and Ens. Then I asked, what else is there? Didn't really get great answers from the, from the replies and I'll probably go through some of those in a sec, but essentially, Gitcoin, you guys all know gitcoin. They're trying to build a more open source Internet. They're funding public goods. They're doing a bunch of these sorts of very non speculative things, right? Power. Same.
00:19:14.852 - 00:19:40.222, Speaker A: Same thing. You get a power for different events that you attend or different online things you attend or different things that you do. You collect them. They can be used in raffles and token gating, in, you know, decentralized kind of voting and civil resistance, all that sorts of stuff. It's not inherently speculative enf, as I just explained, people want to register a name, attach it to their address, all that sorts of stuff. Obviously there's a speculative element attached to each of these. With gitcoin, people may donate to a grant because they're expecting an airdrop.
00:19:40.222 - 00:20:10.762, Speaker A: With pop, people may kind of like buy or sell them. With ens, people may buy or sell them as well because they're nfts, but inherently they are not speculative based. There's not many of these apps that exist on Ethereum today, major reason being lack of scale. Like both Gitcoin and Pop were actually kicked off layer one ethereum or out, or priced out of layer one ethereum, essentially. I mean, not kicked off a priced out, right, because Gitcoin had to move to ZK sync. Because obviously it didn't make sense to say to people, oh, well, you can donate a dollar, it'll get matched by $10, but to donate that dollar, it's going to cost you $20. Right.
00:20:10.762 - 00:20:30.140, Speaker A: That obviously didn't make much sense. Pop, same thing. Like most of the, the pops that get minted are worth nothing. Like they're not worth actual kind of like money and. But that's not the point of it. But the thing is is that like no one's going to want to mint a pop for like 20, $30, especially if it's not worth anything. Ans kind of like, I guess same thing.
00:20:30.140 - 00:20:55.774, Speaker A: But Enes only exists on layer one ethereum, and it's not that expensive these days, I guess. And also for people who are registering an Enf, it's like kind of like a one off thing where you register one ensuite to your address and that's kind of like your web3 identity. So it's a bit different. But Gitcoin and Pop definitely got priced out of layer one. Pop now exists on XDAi and a few other networks. I believe they're looking at L2s, of course, and things like that. But that's because the things that priced them out were speculative activities.
00:20:55.774 - 00:21:37.454, Speaker A: For example, it makes sense to pay a $50 fee to claim a $1,000 airdrop, and then it even makes more. It makes sense to go swap it that airdrop for ETH and spend $50 on fees. So you spend $100 on fees for a $1000 airdrop, you still profited dollar 900 from that, right? So that all that activity, and especially a lot of the Mav activity, crowded out the non speculative stuff, which means that we need more scale. And that's why these things went to other networks. Now, something like lens protocol was also a non speculative Ethereum app that exists on the polygon Pos chain today. And there are some others out there, I think, but I'm not sure how active they are. I wanted to focus on things that actually have kind of like product market fit and actual active users for a long time now, which these three apps do.
00:21:37.454 - 00:22:13.834, Speaker A: But I think once we get more scale, once we get kind of like transaction costs, like just collapse to pennies, I mean, we already have that, but like, the infrastructure needs to be built out. We need kind of like more solutions out there. Then we'll see more of these non speculative apps. Because simply put, like any economic activity that happens on layer one, Ethereum is going to compete with each other. Doesn't matter if it's speculative or non speculative. And the speculative stuff will probably always trump the non speculative stuff simply because there's more of a proper opportunity there or much more of a proper profit opportunity than otherwise would be. And some of the answers I got here were kind of like, I mean, I walk you from Gitcoin talked about impact, Dow.
00:22:13.834 - 00:22:40.918, Speaker A: So obviously dows play a big part here as well. But I don't think there's any dow that I would consider to have, like, active users in terms of like, being a really big active collective of tens of thousands of people around the world doing stuff. We're not there yet. Hopefully we will be. And then some other kind of like, things here. I mean, I mean, a lot of them were kind of like speculative based anyway. I think there's some kind of like payments apps as well, which isn't necessarily speculative, speculative based either.
00:22:40.918 - 00:23:11.320, Speaker A: So that kind of like makes sense. But then some other things like doing analytics, which I wouldn't consider an Ethereum app, they're just an, they're an infrastructure provider, right? Someone, you know, I mean, you can see the list here. I mean, like, liquidity is, is like maker like, that's, that's a speculative thing. Most people are using liquidity to borrow again against their kind of like ETH to go kind of like leverage trade. Right. Jpeg, I believe is like a, kind of like an NFT ecosystem or a kind of like a cultural thing. NFTs have a lot of speculation attached to it, but you have to go through each and every one.
00:23:11.320 - 00:23:37.656, Speaker A: I mean, Link, link makes sense. Link is an infrastructure. It's not, it's not speculative, but it does, I guess, like, I mean, it gets its usage from being infrastructure for speculative activity. So there, there are kind of like hybrid approaches here, right? So it's kind of like not a, an exact science. You have to think through each individual application and then things like Polygon ID. I mean, again, I wanted to focus on things that actually have like active users. Polygon ID is very new.
00:23:37.656 - 00:24:07.602, Speaker A: It doesn't, I don't believe it has a lot of users. Someone saying uniswap again, like that's speculative stuff. Like I think people actually get the wrong idea of what I meant here. Maybe I should have expanded a little bit, but it kind of like confirmed my, my theory that there really isn't that many non speculative things. And the reason why I would like to see more of it is because the, the reason we have such violent market cycles is because it's all speculation. Like you can't have a, I guess like a healthy, sustainable crypto ecosystem for the long term. If everything's speculative.
00:24:07.602 - 00:24:27.322, Speaker A: Like if we go up, be based on speculation, then we're going to come down because of the fact that, that going up was based on nothing fundamental, nothing real. It was hollow. Right. And with all that, speculation became a new users. But they all left as soon as the money ran out. Right. As soon as the speculation stopped rewarding them, they left.
00:24:27.322 - 00:24:55.112, Speaker A: And we lose basically 90 plus percent of our users every single time this happens. Now obviously we only gain them because of the speculative stuff, but if we want to move past that, we need to build more non speculative stuff. So people actually come into this ecosystem and use things, whether it's a bull or bear market. Like I honestly really am sick of these bull bear markets. Like, I've been through enough of them at this point and I feel like we really need to just move past it. But I do feel like the, the main limiting factor has been scale and we've got it. We've got it.
00:24:55.112 - 00:25:16.018, Speaker A: It's coming. I mean, there's more coming. Like it's live. We have non speculative apps that have product market fits so we know they exist. We just need to build more of them, right. And I think we will, but it may take another cycle or two. I'm not expecting the cycles to end anytime soon, but I would really love to just try and move past as much as possible because it's not healthy.
00:25:16.018 - 00:25:46.824, Speaker A: It's not healthy for it to be like this all the time. It's not healthy for the crypto ecosystem to basically go through massive boom and bust. Like, it's not just a small boom and bust, guys. This is a massive thing where we literally go through like a massive growth phase for like a year, year and a half, and then we have like a two plus year depression. Like, that's not how a proper economy should function. It's not how a proper ecosystem should function. Long term, it's fine for a nascent ecosystem where there's a lot of speculation going on because no one really knows what's going to take off and not take off, but long term, it needs to be based on fundamentals.
00:25:46.824 - 00:26:15.950, Speaker A: It needs to be less speculative. And I think we'll get there, and I think we'll get there because of the scale. But, but, yeah. Anyway, those are my thoughts on that last couple of things to get through before I wrap it up today. So, speaking of, I guess, like, applications, speculative or otherwise, chain link God had a really great thread out over the weekend where he starts off by saying, tokenized real world assets is how DeFi will scale to a global level. A thread covering my thoughts on the opportunities and challenges this presents. So you can read his thread for a full breakdown of this.
00:26:15.950 - 00:26:45.562, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that, like, real world assets, people say, oh, real world assets on chain can't work for this. This. And this reason I'm like, okay, whenever they say that, I say to them, what's the biggest app in crypto today? And they might. That they may say, oh, uniswap, or something else, right? Or some other, like, big app, like, like, like the curve or maker or kind of compound, whatever. Whatever big app there is at the time. Depends who they are. I mean, obviously, if they've got bags, they'll shoot their own bags, but whatever.
00:26:45.562 - 00:27:06.600, Speaker A: And I immediately say to them, no, it's stable coins. Stable coins is literally the biggest application that exists across ethereum, across every other, every alt l, one, every kind of ecosystem. I mean, it's the biggest thing in crypto. What is a stable coin? Right? What is. Where. Where are most of those stable? It's not die, right? Die is big, but it's not the biggest by far. There are other synthetic stable coins out there.
00:27:06.600 - 00:27:29.968, Speaker A: There are other ones that kind of like, are trying to be decentralized. But what are the biggest centralized stable coins? Okay, what are they? They're real world assets. Because the centralized stable coins are backed by us dollars in a bank account. That's a real world asset. So when people say to me, oh, they don't exist, I can't work like they do work. And the biggest app in crypto, so reading chain link gods there was great because I was like, okay, well, I mean, obviously I see the vision here. Like, it makes total sense to me.
00:27:29.968 - 00:27:59.112, Speaker A: People can keep saying that won't work, but we have undeniable proof that it works and it's huge. And I think stable coins are going to be even bigger than we can imagine. Like they're big today. I feel like they're just gonna keep getting bigger and bigger because at the end of the day, payments is the kind of like the, the heart of an economic engine. Like people buying and selling things like that is the heart of it at end of the day. And what, what do you need payments for, uni payments, to enable that trade to occur? That's why stable coins are so popular. That's why they're going to continue to be popular.
00:27:59.112 - 00:28:50.974, Speaker A: That's why ETH being used as money is actually quite popular, especially in the NFT ecosystem, because you need a unit of account, you need a medium of exchange to process all this economic activity. But yeah, without going off too much on a tangent there, you should definitely reach Hanley God's thread because it makes a lot of sense. But next time someone says to you that there are no kind of like real world applications, you can say to them, yes, there is stable coins. Biggest application in crypto by far, right? Huge volumes, huge market cap growing huge, like hugely over time. Doesn't matter if it's a bear or bull, they are definitely growing over time and have plenty of growth potential left, right? So you can say that to them next time they tell you that. All right, finally here, Mahalo from Polygon shared some interesting news where he said, after Instagram, Facebook officially begins testing a polygon integration. If deployed widely, anyone in the world will be able to connect their polygon wallet to Facebook and display nfts as posts.
00:28:50.974 - 00:29:26.486, Speaker A: Mass adoption infrastructure in the making. And he's right here to say that. And you guys know I'm an advisor to polygons. I'm not going to get too shilly here, but I think that Polygon is really the only, or one of the only teams in the Ethereum ecosystem that is on the forefront of bringing in outside kind of like people, outside organizations, outside companies into crypto, not just with kind of like Facebook and Instagram and other web two giants, but also with gaming, like, and also with kind of, I guess, like payments because they obviously partnered with stripe. Stripe. Yeah, stripe the other kind of like month. Right.
00:29:26.486 - 00:29:47.676, Speaker A: They're doing so much bd effort on these sorts of things that a lot of people doesn't seem to be paying attention to. Maybe because the bear market. But guys, like, this is huge stuff. Like, you may think it's boring because it's not like web3, it's web two, and it's like, just bridging them in. But, like, this is how we get mass adoption. This is how we get more people involved. This is how we get more companies and institutions and developers involved.
00:29:47.676 - 00:30:13.082, Speaker A: We need them to come from the web two world because, I mean, everyone coming into web3, like, most people coming into web3 are coming from that other world. Like, there are obviously people coming into web3 and being web3 first. But the majority of people aren't web3 first from. From my experience. So we need to definitely bring them in from other organizations and we need to bring these organizations on board as well, which I think is really, really cool. And I think that's something polygon definitely excels at here. But as I said, don't to get too shilly.
00:30:13.082 - 00:30:23.714, Speaker A: I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel. And just wanted to quickly mention, we hit 20,000 subscribers. So awesome.
00:30:23.714 - 00:30:32.954, Speaker A: If you haven't subscribed yet, please do so. Let's go for 30k next. That'll make my day, make my year, make my month for sure. So, yeah, I'll. I'll talk to you all in tomorrow's refuel. Thanks, everyone.
