00:00:01.770 - 00:00:32.790, Speaker A: All righty. Hi everybody. Welcome to the Building with Polygon workshop started by our sponsor, Polygon. Here we have Yuling, who's going to be teaching us some really amazing skills. And yeah, if you have any questions, just pop them right into the chat. She's going to try her best to get to them, but if you guys can't get your questions answered during the presentation, then feel free to message her on Discord kuling, your time to shine.
00:00:33.130 - 00:01:01.146, Speaker B: Hey, all right. Thanks Misha for the introduction. And hi, everyone. So my name is Ling. I'm the integration lead at Polygon and it's absolutely a pleasure to be here today. And so then today we're going to be talking about building on Polygon. And as you know, Polygon also has this name, ethereum's Internet of Blockchains.
00:01:01.146 - 00:02:10.806, Speaker B: So then we will first be going through different features on Polygon and also to explain why it's called as Ethereum's Internet of. Then the first thing, I would like to quickly go through the contents that we will be covering today. So then the first is just the overview introduction about Polygon. And then we're going to see how you can connect with Polygon. And then just to be able to do deployment with Remix and also with well, actually we're going to use Visual Studio to do the deployment with Truffle support. And then we're going to see a few features on Polygon and how you can do cross chain asset transfer, like deposit withdrawal on Polygon as well. And then if there's enough time, then we will quickly go through network agnostic transactions on Polygon as well.
00:02:10.806 - 00:03:38.366, Speaker B: All right, so then the first thing about Polygon so Polygon was actually first funded in 2017. So it's been around for a few years, but its name was actually Maddox until earlier this year it got rebranded as Polygon. So then it is just to solve, apparently the high gas fee and low throughput roadblocks that we as developers or the users have to face for DApps on Ethereum. So let's just take a quick look at the current architecture of Polygon's POS Bridge. On the graph here, we can see that there are three layers, right? So that yeah, this is a three layer architecture. So on the Ethereum layer, that's where Polygon deploys its Staking smart contract and also Plasma smart contract and also POS Bridge smart contract. And those are apparently for staking purposes and also just to do the verification of the transactions on the Polygon chain.
00:03:38.366 - 00:04:32.450, Speaker B: And then the middle layer, as you can see here, is the POS validator layer. So it's actually on a separate chain. And then at the bottom we have here says Matic side chain. So basically this is our block producer layer that we call as a Bore layer on Polygon. Right? So then those three layers would just form this hybrid POS Plasma Bridge or the Polygon chain. So then just for all the transactions going back and forth from Ethereum to polygon. They are basically realized on two mechanisms and those two are both state, I would say even driven.
00:04:32.450 - 00:05:48.838, Speaker B: So one is the Stay Sync mechanism and the second one is checkpointing. So then with the Stay Sync, so then if there's transactions, let's say if someone would like to deposit some token from Ethereum to polygon, right? Or to transfer to be more precise. So then this transaction is going to be synced on the polygon side based on an event called Stay Sysync. And the validators would be listening to those events emitted from Ethereum, the Minnet. And once it picks up those Stay Sync event, it's going to propagate the message to the polygon chain. And then at this point it's going to be the block producer layer on the polygon chain, right? The third layer. So then if it's a deposit or if it's a transfer of asset from Ethereum to polygon, then it's going to be a mint step on the polygon chain, right? So then the token at this point is basically going to be minted.
00:05:48.838 - 00:07:23.450, Speaker B: So the question is that if the token is going to be minted on the polygon side, then what's going to happen to the crisp bonding tokens originally transferred from Ethereum side? So the answer is the token on the Ethereum side to be transferred is first going to be locked into a predicate smart contract deployed on Ethereum. So only after that happens, the Stay Sync event is going to be kicked off and then the corresponding amount of token is going to be minted on Polygon side. So then that's how the network or the bridge utilizes the Stay Sync mechanism to do deposit from Ethereum to Polygon. And then the reverse way would be for someone for example, to exit their token from polygon side to Ethereum site, right? So then to do that, of course the token previously minted on the polygon side would have to be burned first. And then with that burn transaction proof, it's going to be checkpointed. Meaning all the transactions that happen on the polygon side are going to be periodically committed through Merkultree route to the Ethereum Minnet. And that's also the reason why Polygon chain is called as a commit.
00:07:23.450 - 00:09:20.830, Speaker B: You know, just with all those transactions in Merko trade route, at any point of time, any transaction that happened on Polygon is able to be verified for its validity on the Etheram chain, right? So then this is our check pointing. So then when user burned their token on the polygon side, they're going to provide this burn transaction and give that to Polygon SDK to create this burnt proof. And then this burnt proof is going to be submitted to Ethereum Minnet, right? And once that is verified to see, okay, this burnt transaction happened on the polygon side, then the amount of the token previously locked in the predicate smart contract is going to be released and redeposit back to the user, right? So then as you can see, that's how the crosschain asset transfer takes place. That's also how Polygon is able to provide decentralization and also security at the same time. Right. And of course it's super fast. The block finality time on Polygon is two second and we currently have 100 and validators in place to validate every single transaction that happened on Polygon before it gets submitted to Ethereum.
00:09:20.830 - 00:10:11.690, Speaker B: All right, so then this is the main structure. I'll just quickly check the chat and to see if there's any questions. So the fees of transaction Polygon will enable the cost of burn proof and allow the condensed merkle tree happens. Okay, good questions. Yeah. So then we'll also go over the fee Polygon in a little bit for transactions that happen only on the Polygon side. Of course, we're going to pay Polygon's own native token which is called matic and that is just like the equivalent of Ether on Ethereum.
00:10:11.690 - 00:11:38.838, Speaker B: And just for submitting or for committing the merkle tree route of the transaction that happened on the Polygon chain as part of the checkpointing process as it involves Ethereum at this point. Right, so then it's going to have some Ether gas fee incurred. So then in that sense, yes, you're going to have to pay know just for transactions coming out of Polygon back to Ethereum. All right, so then hope that answers the question and let's just come to the next slide. All right, so the current skilling problems that everyone's facing and I would like to cover all those for different issues. So for the first one is that different projects would have different needs apparently and multiple solutions should coexist. Right? So then this actually happened with Polygon's own scaling solution because when it was first provided it was Plasma layer two scaling solution.
00:11:38.838 - 00:12:55.060, Speaker B: So then it's great because the security is piggybacked on Ethereum. However, the drawback is that it's not flexible in terms of the withdrawal period. So then there's a seven day challenging period with Plasma solution and then as you can imagine, it won't be a good option for some of the DApps. Right? So for example, for gaming it definitely needs a faster period than that and that's how Polygon is able to offer the POS solution. So the seven day challenging period is no longer existed with POS skilling and then the security achieved by chip pointing to Ethereum at the same time. So we're not sacrificing security while providing more flexibility. And then apparently we want to adopt new innovations in.
00:12:55.060 - 00:14:24.446, Speaker B: And you know, just recently Polygon has acquired a major ZK roll up shop. Right? So then therefore not only we're able to provide POS scaling solution Plasma and there's also FX portal as well, but also we look to provide more and more new innovative solutions all under Polygon's single umbrella. And then the third one is just mainly forks of popular implementations. Scattered and biased information confuses developers. Right, so then this is what Polygon is trying to solve by combining different scaling solutions. And then of course there's Ethereum killer, right, that's constantly trying to take away the resources from then with Polygon's solution, it's called as Swiss Army Knife. So the picture here, you can see it's a big polygon, right? So then each edge would be a different scaling solution, the ones that we mentioned as polygon's native POS and Plasma scaling solution, the side chain.
00:14:24.446 - 00:15:39.930, Speaker B: And also there's shared security chains like ZK roll up chains, optimistic roll up and Plasma, et cetera. And then there's standalone chains, right? So then there's also enterprise chains. So all those different skilling solutions are all going to be aggregated together and the interoperability is going to be provided. And of course the main hub of this polygon is Ethereum itself, right? So then therefore it's turning Ethereum into a fully fledged MultiChain system. So then this is like what we call as internet of blockchains, all right? So then the power of polygon. So then here it gives you some of the attributes on Polygon. As you can see, we have many DApps onboarded at this point.
00:15:39.930 - 00:17:22.358, Speaker B: And then for TVL locked it's over 10 billion at this point. And then for daily transactions it's over 6 million at this point, right? And then for the staking amount, it's over 2 billion at this point. And then there's two second block time finality on Polygon main chain and the average transaction cost might have gone up as a polygon chain gets a lot busier every single day, but then it's basically still like a fraction of a cent. And then there's of course the good news to us, the developers is that as polygon is an EVM compatible blockchain. So basically it means like all the toolings, all the frameworks and the wallets, right? So everything and the libraries, so everything that we're so used to using on Ethereum, they can be used as is on Polygon. So we don't have to learn additional language or tooling, right? So then this is also why Dev loves Polygon. And then here, as you can see that by providing the high throughput and low gas fee on Polygon, it's going to reduce the user adoption friction.
00:17:22.358 - 00:18:12.214, Speaker B: So then it's going to provide a very good user experience for the major adoption of Ethereum. All right? So then before I go on, let me just quickly check in our chat. Yes, I do. I believe in ether too. But then even with that, I would think that just with the amount of transactions that we get right, like more and more so then skilling solutions are still necessary in the future with Ethereum. I mean, like additional scaling solutions. Does it push transactions afterwards on Ether main net? Well, it depends.
00:18:12.214 - 00:19:18.074, Speaker B: Right, so then for chip pointing, of course you're committing all the transactions periodically to the main net, right? But other than that you do not. So then this is only for cross chain transactions. Okay, so the fee, we talked about it. All right, so then let's just move on. All right, so then this is our core team and I would also like to quickly show you Polygon's ecosystem. As you can see here, right, there are just endless icons that we see in the picture here. But the community has made a page to keep track the list of devs currently onboarded Polygon.
00:19:18.074 - 00:20:06.590, Speaker B: As you can see that they put it into different categories as well. Just feel free to browse the different categories here and to see if the DAPs that you like are listed in here. And then if so then you're able to save gas fee on those. And then there's like NFT and gaming as well. Right, so then yeah, I mean just to feel free to check them out and we also support the wallets that are currently supported on Ethereum as well. And then with Oracles like for Chinlink right, and also all the other Oracles you can also just use as is with Polygon. And then, of course, for Dev tooling.
00:20:06.590 - 00:21:21.314, Speaker B: Again just for the ones that you use on Ethereum, they're available for you to use here and those are exchanges that have already integrated with Polygon. So then there should be coinbase as Yep. So I guess this does not have the latest information but then we get the idea. So then, so then I think that's just what I would like to cover in terms of the different features and attributes on Polygon. So now let's see how we can connect to Polygon. So then I would like to point you to our Polygon documentation. So then here the way to access that is Docs Maddok network and then from here just click on Develop and you will be able to get to network details and network because you're going to need this configuration information to be able to connect to Polygon.
00:21:21.314 - 00:22:33.850, Speaker B: Right, and then we're also going to see the different ways to do deployment, right, there's Hard Heads and then there's also Truffle as well. So we will go through Remix and Travel as well. But then to do deployment with Hardhead, just feel free to check this out offline. So then just with this we can just quickly click on MetaMask and once you're here just click on the drop down and you would like to select custom RPC. And so basically at this point you can just copy over all the information that you see from the doc to the text views in here. Right, since I already have this information so I'm not going to do it also because we have very limited time here. But you'll get the idea it's the same way as what you would do just to connect to different testnet on Ethereum.
00:22:33.850 - 00:23:33.406, Speaker B: So on Polygon we basically have two different chains available. So one is the main net, Polygon mainnet and this is the configuration settings for it. And also there's Mumbai testnet as so depending on which chain you would like to connect. Then after you configure this in the MetaMask right, the next thing that you want to do in order to do the deployment on Polygon is of course to get some guest right. And then we will be able to do so through Polygon force it and the link to that is also available on the doc. Right. So it's under tools and it's under then the way to do it is very straightforward.
00:23:33.406 - 00:24:37.954, Speaker B: You basically just copy over your MetaMask account address here, right? And then looks like it's loading. Okay. I wonder if it's under maintenance at this point but it's a little weird. But I'm just going to tell you. So basically you will be able to see a text field where you can paste over your account information the address right? And then there you will be able to specify that you want token on Mumbai testnet and it's going to be the Matic token. And then you can just claim the test token to your account. And then once you check all the information is correct and then you just go ahead and confirm and your account will be funded with the magic token.
00:24:37.954 - 00:25:29.606, Speaker B: It's not huge. I think at this point it's only 0.1 test token but it's going to last you surprisingly a long time. All right, so then after you're done with the configuration and also with getting some fund to do the deployment, you can just come back to remix. And here as you can see, I have the most simple smart contract here in Remix. Basically we're just going to do a quick deployment on Polygon for it and in order to do so, we need to make sure that we select the correct network here. Right, so I do have Matic testnet here, right? So then on the environment you want to choose injected web3.
00:25:29.606 - 00:26:18.230, Speaker B: And here we go. So I would like to confirm this transaction of deployment and pay the gas fee for it. And then my smart contract is deployed. So then let's just copy over this transaction hash and then you will be able to get his information from Polygon Explorer Polygon scan. And this is actually developed by Ether Scan team. So a lot of features will be similar as Ether Scan. So then as we can see this is a contract creation transaction here on Polygon side, right? All right.
00:26:18.230 - 00:27:40.400, Speaker B: So then that is how you would do the deployments remix, very straightforward. And then the next thing is how you do the deployment through Truffle. And here as you can see, I have Truffle config file open. Right, so then all you have to do is to copy over the configuration detail again from the doc. And then here I basically have using Truffle section. Right, so then what you would like to do is that you copy over this matic intrigue to your Truffle config file, right? You can just keep as is. However, you are able to see like mine is slightly different because I purposely leave this dedicated RPC Uri here, right? So then it's free to get dedicated RPC Uri with RPC providers like Medvigil or like Infura, right? But then with this dedicated Uri you will get a smoother experience.
00:27:40.400 - 00:28:36.370, Speaker B: So then that's what I did. And then all the other information is available on the doc. And then once you have this available you can just run as what you would do to deploy a smart contract on Ethereum. So then the only difference is here that I specify network polygon and then I do reset and then you will be able to deploy it on polygon. So then this is a smart contract that I just deployed prior to our workshop. I hope I would have a little bit of time just to show you this smart contract. Okay, so then again, this is a very straightforward smart contract.
00:28:36.370 - 00:29:57.866, Speaker B: Awesome. So then as you can see, I basically just extend the ERC 20 smart contract provided by Open Zeppelin, right, exactly the same way as what you would do your ERC 20 smart contract on Ethereum, right? So then just for web3 Ether JS and all the libraries that we use on Etheram, you just use them the same way on polygon. That covers the deployments on polygon. And then just the last thing, how do you do cross chain asset transfers? Right? As we said, to do the deposit, you basically use a stync mechanism on polygon. Of course you don't have to know the detail about it, all you have to do is to utilize Polygons SDK which is in JavaScript and you just have to call those two API. You first approve this ERC 20 token to deposit and your token is going to get locked into the smart contract on Ethereum. And then you do deposit ERC 20 for user, right? And then you pass in the address of the recipient and then you're good to go.
00:29:57.866 - 00:31:20.886, Speaker B: And then for withdrawal, first you need to burn the token on polygon, right? So then you just call the first API here and then the second is that you provide your burnt transaction hash to polygon, right? And then just with this single API from Polygon SDK you're able to have it to verify this burn transaction on polygon and then just to release the tokens previously locked back to your account. That is it. So just super straightforward. So I think we're running out of time but then just please feel free to check out all the previously made YouTube videos on Polygon and also there are a lot of information available on our doc as well for any questions that you have on polygon. Just please feel free to reach out to us before I end this. Just a quick thing because gas fee on polygon is extremely low, right? So then it makes a lot of sense for you to actually cover the gas fee for the users. Right.
00:31:20.886 - 00:31:47.470, Speaker B: And then you can do this through Meta transaction and the network agnostic feature on polygon as well. And Biconomy provides amazing support for it. So of course you can just use other framework as well. So just make sure that you check that out and try. Yeah, so then have fun building on polygon.
00:31:49.330 - 00:32:08.050, Speaker A: Thank you so much. Yuling. We really want to be respectful of your time and if you need to go for something that's 100% okay, but we have a lot of really great questions in the chat that if you feel like you can answer right now, we can go a little bit overtime and give you some more time to address those.
00:32:08.120 - 00:32:14.440, Speaker B: That'll be great. That would be great because I got the impression that I have to end by half an hour.
00:32:15.450 - 00:32:17.154, Speaker A: You're all good, don't worry.
00:32:17.282 - 00:33:04.280, Speaker B: Okay, cool. Thank you very much. I really appreciate it. So let's see, I should just open this whole thing up. Okay, so then the different site sign chains that we provide polygon are POS proof of stake side chain and then there's plasma chain and also we have FX portal as well. And as I mentioned, we recently acquired a ZK roll up shop. So then that's also offered under polygon's one big umbrella and never enough block space.
00:33:04.280 - 00:34:11.034, Speaker B: What does cross chain mean? Good question for it. So cross chain is just like cross chain, like cross ethereum and polygon. So basically just to be able to cope with a high transaction fee and low throughput on ethereum, a lot of DApps would just map their tokens from ethereum to polygon and once it's mapped to polygon, they are able to just to deposit their tokens from ethereum to polygon. And then once you're on polygon, you basically are free to do all the transactions. Right? And just from awesome polygon, that page that we saw, a lot of DApps that you probably have used are already integrated with polygon. Right. So then once you're on polygon blockchain, you're able to do a lot of transactions with near zero gas fee.
00:34:11.034 - 00:34:57.354, Speaker B: Right? So then once you're done and then you want to access your token from ethereum, then you can take that out by withdrawing the asset from polygon to ethereum. So that is what cross chain means. Right. So this is a great way to scale your DAP and pay less gas. Of course it's not just limited to asset only. Right. So for arbitrary message transfer cross chain, it's also supported with polygon's POS bridge and also it's supported with polygon's FS portal bridge as well.
00:34:57.354 - 00:35:30.120, Speaker B: We actually have a wallet DAP that you can use with polygon and I can quickly show you. Right, exactly. Cross chain means interaction. Awesome. Right, great. All right, so then looks like all the questions are covered at this point. And I'll just borrow 1 second here.
00:35:30.120 - 00:36:30.086, Speaker B: So basically for here, this is Polygon wallets, right? And then from here, once you connect to it just for you to explore this, you may want to connect to the testnet instead. So it's wallet matic today, right. So then here you're able to just connect to Mumbai testnet. And then once you're and so then here is what I meant by cross chain asset transfers. You're able to move funds from Ethereum to Polygon and also the other way around. Right. So then yeah, and then to deposit your token from Ethereum to Polygon, it takes about five to seven minutes for the token to arrive on Polygon.
00:36:30.086 - 00:37:14.726, Speaker B: And for the other way, it's going to take a longer time. It's anywhere from half an hour to 3 hours. The reason for it is that checkpointing process because it has to take time to commit all the transactions to Ethereum and to do the verification about it. Right. So then this is a tool provided by Polygon to do the crowd chain asset transfers. And then of course, this is the tutorial on the Polygon wallets and bridge app. So then feel free to check that out.
00:37:14.726 - 00:37:34.430, Speaker B: And I'm just going to paste the link here for your reference. I think this is the information that I would like to cover about the cross chain as a transfer on Polygon.
00:37:37.650 - 00:38:12.680, Speaker A: Perfect. All right, do we have any other questions for Euling? Okay, if not, then thank you so much, Euling, for hosting this workshop. And thank you for Polygon for sponsoring ETH Online this year. And yeah, thank you everybody, for coming on to listen to this workshop. I do encourage you guys to reach out to Ling in the sponsored Discord Channel. And yeah, have a great day.
00:38:13.290 - 00:38:14.660, Speaker B: Thanks a lot. Bye, everyone.
