00:00:00.480 - 00:00:33.686, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 15 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just wanted to give a quick shout out here to ether global, who are running at another hack money conference here. Conference hackathon here. So if you're a developer or a hacker or just want to, you know, get building, definitely go to apply to this. They've extended the application deadline to the 17th, so on Thursday, and you can compete for over $200,000 worth of prize at this hackathon.
00:00:33.686 - 00:01:00.862, Speaker A: So all you have to do is go to defi dot ETH Global dot Co and you can kind of just click register for Hackathon here. Now this will run from June 18 to July 9. You'll have a lot of time to build your app and everything like that, and there's a lot of prizes to be won as well. So yeah, you can view the schedule on this website and everything like that. Well, in your local time zone too, which is nice, but it's also hilarious because all this stuff always happens when I'm sleeping. This is like 02:00 a.m., 530, which is pretty funny when you look at it in australian time.
00:01:00.862 - 00:01:37.902, Speaker A: But anyway, if you're a dev, definitely go check this out and register. You should, you should get involved here. I think the ETH global hackathons are my favorite. I've judged a few of them. I definitely think that it's something to, to get involved with and not, and something not to miss. So I put out this tweet today in response to something that Michael Saylor said on Coindesk, where he said the US dollar will be the reserve currency of the world and it would move on bitcoin rails. And I'm like, what? First of all, the US dollar is obviously already pretty big part of the world, right? I mean, it is considered the reserve currency for most of the world.
00:01:37.902 - 00:02:09.244, Speaker A: Maybe not. I mean, even, even parts, even, even China, I would say it's still the reserve currency for that. But anyway, even, you know, and Saylor saying that it's just going to be the reserve currency for the world, maybe he means that even more so than today. I'm not sure exactly what he meant by that, but I was focused on what he said about it would move on bitcoin rails. This is simply not the case at all right now, and I doubt it's going to be the case in the future. Because if you see this website, basically money movers website, I did. I was going to have it kind of like loaded up out there, but I had the wrong site loaded up.
00:02:09.244 - 00:02:37.552, Speaker A: But this website basically shows you kind of like, where the value is being settled. And essentially, you know, Ethereum obviously is completely dominating bitcoin here. And this is just stable coin volume. This is not including BTC volume or ETH or wrapped ETH or wrapped bitcoin on Ethereum. This is purely just USDT on, on bitcoin and USDC, USDT and Dai on Ethereum. This isn't even including the other stable coins on Ethereum because there's plenty more. But obviously these are the most dominant ones.
00:02:37.552 - 00:03:16.454, Speaker A: So you can see here that over the last 24 hours, he did $14.34 billion worth of settlements in stablecoins, whereas bitcoin, and it's not even really bitcoin, it's the omni network, did $30 million a day. So that is obviously a very, very major difference between the two here. And obviously we know that USD stable coins are integrated into pretty much every defi app on Ethereum today. So this is in large, and that's a large reason why Ethereum is settling more value here. And even if you want to even go further than this, you can look at something like Tron where tether's been issued on TrOn and it's got some volume on there. I think there's more tether on Tron than ethereum right now.
00:03:16.454 - 00:03:39.334, Speaker A: Fun fact. But even Tron is settling more value in USD stablecoins than bitcoin. So taking all that together, I just don't kind of get this comment from Saylor. And to be honest, like, I don't really expect him to be saying something, anything different here. He's obviously a massive bitcoin bull, uh, all in on bitcoin. But I just thought it was, was quite weird. Um, maybe he doesn't know about Ethereum.
00:03:39.334 - 00:04:07.072, Speaker A: Maybe he doesn't know about Defi, which again, I would consider weird as well, considering how involved he is with, with bitcoin. But people have blinders on. I don't think many people actually know about this stat. I've posted about it before. I'm sure a lot of you have seen it, and I've written a lot, uh, about kind of like Ethereum's use as a settlement layer, as these payment rails, um, in my newsletter before. But really, uh, I don't understand how at this point someone could say, oh, bitcoin is going to be the, the rails that all this stuff operates on. I really don't think so.
00:04:07.072 - 00:04:49.630, Speaker A: And, you know, I often think about this because obviously bitcoin has memed bitcoin as digital gold. Like that was the meme that they kind of like perpetuated. And the narrative that they perpetuated over the last few years, specifically after, I guess, like the bitcoin cash folks forked off of bitcoin. And like the block size debate was pretty much over at that point. The bitcoin is then said, well, if bitcoin layer one is, is basically this kind of digital gold settlement layer thing. And basically it's, it's not for payments or whatever, we'll do that at L2. Now, what I'm seeing from a lot of the bitcoin crowd is that they're trying to basically re kind of, I guess, jig the narrative to include DeFi because they've seen that DeFi is huge.
00:04:49.630 - 00:05:22.616, Speaker A: It's a, it's, it's massive for blockchains. You know, they've seen Ethereum kind of like eclipse bitcoin in fees by, by a wide margin, um, and basically overtake and stay overtaken. They've seen that Ethereum now settles more value than bitcoin. So I think they're just trying to rejig the narrative there, which I don't think is going to work because fundamentally you can't build on bitcoin when you can build on Ethereum. And I know people are saying, well, you can build them on like, um, bitcoin pegged side chains and things like that, like rootstock and, and liquid and stuff, but they're side chains. That's not, that's not bitcoin. You know, technically that's not bitcoin.
00:05:22.616 - 00:05:57.476, Speaker A: And they say, okay, well, the lightning network will build stuff there. The lighting network is so limited and it has some fundamental problems that I haven't seen kind of like solved yet. And it relies on centralized intermediaries to work anyway. So I don't, you know, whenever someone says to me, oh, bitcoin is just going to take all the use cases that Ethereum has and it's just going to do what Ethereum does. But better, I'm like, well, you know what? At this point, bitcoin has been saying this since Ethereum was announced. I do think that we should just like, wait and see how it plays out. Obviously, my bet is that bitcoin is just going to settle into its kind of digital gold narrative and niche.
00:05:57.476 - 00:06:29.720, Speaker A: And I think that because of that, its value is basically where its value accrual is basically capped. And ive said this before where I think that if youre going to set into like, the digital gold niche, then your value cap is essentially those who care about holding digital gold at the end of the day. And that is not a large part of the population, really, because think about how people actually own gold as an investment vehicle. Not a very large part of people, a very large pool of people do. And then some may argue, okay, well, you know, the pool is greater for bitcoin because bitcoin's better than like 100 times better than gold. It's digitally native. And, and that's true.
00:06:29.720 - 00:07:00.502, Speaker A: But. But then you have ETH on ethereum, and you just have ethereum in general. That is a hundred times better than bitcoin at everything in my mind. So I don't know, this isn't just, to me, bashing bitcoin or anything like that, but it's just funny to see that people try to change the narratives when I guess, like, they realize that they've kind of put a cap on on the value of something. Because you should never do that. You should never. And you'll see commonly on Twitter, people will give, like, the ethereum community kind of crap for not having a defined narrative.
00:07:00.502 - 00:07:27.488, Speaker A: Why would we want to bucket Ethereum into, like, one defined thing? It's not. It's Ethereum itself can't be defined by one thing because Ethereum itself is everything. You can build anything you want on Ethereum. So why would we even try to bucket it? Like, you know, we make up some joke memes, like, ETH is money, or ETH is ultrasound money and whatever. Like, those are just like little memes and stuff like that. That's got nothing to do with trying to basically define ETH is just one thing. Like, ETH is money, but it's, like, so much more than that.
00:07:27.488 - 00:08:03.512, Speaker A: So bitcoin is kind of memeing bitcoin as digital gold, and that's it. They've kind of cornered themselves now. I think they're trying to backtrack here, and I think they're not going to succeed at that because there's no, like, bitcoin. I mean, defi on bitcoin is not going to really be anything more than, like, a niche within a niche within a niche. I just, I don't get why out of every single chain you could build on, you would build on bitcoin. Like, I'm pretty sure people would rather build Defi on, or most people would rather build Defi on one of the numerous Ethereum competitors instead of bitcoin, and then obviously, like, just building on Ethereum anyway. So I'll kind of leave it at that for now.
00:08:03.512 - 00:08:41.425, Speaker A: I won't go on too much about this, but I just thought that, you know, there's such a big disconnect here between people like Michael Saylor, who represents what I think, the hardcore bitcoin community. And there's a disconnect, I guess, between people who expect bitcoin to be everything when it's not. It's really just one thing. And I'm curious to see if bitcoin is keep trying to change the narrative around this and keep trying to meme bitcoin as more than digital gold, because I think they will. Because eventually it'll become very apparent to most of them that they've cornered themselves and it'll take over. And I don't think they're gonna win that narrative war. I think they're gonna be seen as hypocrites.
00:08:41.425 - 00:09:12.210, Speaker A: I think they're gonna be seen as, you know, cringy or it's just gonna be really bad for them. So I do think that, you know, I do think that it's positive for a theory and that we haven't backed ourselves into a corner. And I also think that it's kind of like. And I mean, it is a major reason why I believe in the flipping is because Ethereum and ETH just have so much more of a total addressable market than something like bitcoin does. And Ethereum and ETH doesn't have a problem where it's backed itself into a corner and said, well, we're only going to do this one thing and do it really well. Well, you know, that's fine. Nothing wrong with that.
00:09:12.210 - 00:09:24.114, Speaker A: But that's not Ethereum. That's. That's what bitcoin is. But anyway, I'll leave it at that for now. This site is, I think it's called moneymovers. Dot in fo, maybe. I think you can google for it if you want to kind of play around with it because it's interactive.
00:09:24.114 - 00:09:43.866, Speaker A: So definitely go check that out. So the index co op is growing, like, at a rapid pace here. So I've talked about the index co op a lot on, on the refill, of course. And I think I even spoke about it yesterday. Yesterday. But you can see here kind of like a chart of the different kind of products that the index co op offers. DPI is obviously the biggest.
00:09:43.866 - 00:10:12.330, Speaker A: Then there's the ETH, two times fly products, which actually, there's another kind of blog post that was put out about this product. So the ETH two x fly is otherwise known as the flexible leverage index for ETH. You may have come across this before, and there was a lot of chatter about how volatility drift affects the flexible leverage index products. Now what, what's volatility drift? Well, I mean, you can read this blog post for a detailed answer on this. There's, I mean, this is an eight minute read, so it goes into a lot of detail. I read it. It's, it's really, really great.
00:10:12.330 - 00:11:01.142, Speaker A: But essentially what it is is it means, um, that because this is a leveraged product, what happens when, uh, you know, the price goes down and then it kind of rebalances, but then the price goes back up and the index ends up buying like, say, ETH, for example, at a higher price than it, than deleveraged from, that would basically eat into the profits. So that's what volatility drift means here. And I think that's what a lot of people have been, I guess, curious about and wanting a better explanation on this. So I would suggest going and reading this blog post on those products, but you can still see that the products are very popular. Like DPI is the DeFI pulse index that has been very popular in the past. I think that I kind of stalled out because DeFi has kind of, I guess, taken a bit of a backseat lately in terms of the token prices because of the, the crash that we had and against ETH. It's kind of taken a backseat there.
00:11:01.142 - 00:11:44.614, Speaker A: But you can see that the ETH flexible leverage index is an extremely popular product. The BTC flexible leverage index is, this is the third most popular. And then there's a bunch of others underneath that, the MVI, which is the metaphors index. And then there's five other products there which aren't part of the index co op, they're part of competitors. So the point of this kind of, I guess, graph here or chart is to show that the index cop really does dominate its competitors, which is really, really cool to see. So, yeah, definitely go check out this blog post. As I said, if you want to learn more about volatility drift and the flexible leverage index, I think it's a really important topic, especially if you hold the fly, because you may not even notice that this is happening, that you could essentially be losing out because of those rebalances.
00:11:44.614 - 00:12:13.400, Speaker A: So definitely make sure you know the risks and you know the kind of like how this mechanism works. And this blog post will do a really great job of explaining that for you. So, speaking of the index co op, well, I forgot that I had three things I was going to talk about today. The bankless bed index has now been approved, I'm pretty sure, by index co op governance. So this is a new index that basically has 33% bitcoin, 33% e, 33% dpi. And that's why it's called the bed. Right.
00:12:13.400 - 00:13:08.780, Speaker A: Bitcoin ETH DPI. And this will rebalance on the first Friday of every month. And this thread from crypto Texans, a great read on why bed and why, you know, why it's a good thing to hold and why bank was kind of created and things like that. So definitely go read the whole thread. But what I kind of, like, wanted to give a view here is that this kind of index is definitely something that I would suggest some, to someone who wanted low ish volatility, right? Like, obviously in crypto, everything's volatile, but if you wanted lower volatility than, say, just holding random tokens, then this would definitely be the bet here. But also just for someone who's new and doesn't know what to invest in, and they're like, oh, I don't know if I should invest in bitcoin or ETH or defi. It's like, okay, why not get into bed, right? Why not? Why not buy this bed index? And obviously, this product isn't going to outperform any of its singular kind of underlying here, but it's going to give you more.
00:13:08.780 - 00:13:59.628, Speaker A: I mean, over the long term, maybe, maybe not here, but it's also going to give you more certainty, and it's gonna prevent you from doing, like, I guess, like, bad trades. Because it's funny, I see on, on Twitter a lot that people say, well, what's the use of holding, you know, ETH or bitcoin when you can just buy all these other stuff and outperform it? Well, I mean, the point is, is that most people don't outperform bitcoin or ETH because it's very, very hard to do. And I've described this before, I think, on the refuel, where I basically said it's so hard to do because when you're trying to outperform these things, you have to figure out, like, how long you're holding something for. If you go look at most Defi tokens over the last year, a lot of them haven't actually outperformed ETH by that much. And a lot of them have actually underperformed ETH, because I was actually looking at it earlier today in July. July? Yeah, July 17, the wifi token launched. And shortly after that, I'm pretty sure I bought some.
00:13:59.628 - 00:14:34.404, Speaker A: When I bought Wifi, the price of ETH was dollar 265. Now, I didn't use ETH to buy it, I used dai to buy it. But in saying that $265, like, even as ETH crashed here, ETH is still ten times what it was back then. Now, Wifi, if you bought when Wifi first kind of launched at that price against ETH, you would be up. But most people didn't do that. Most people bought the YFI token, you know, much later in like the thousands of dollars, and have underperformed Ethan doing so. Now, this isn't to say that Wifi token isn't, isn't, isn't good, doesn't serve a purpose.
00:14:34.404 - 00:15:16.764, Speaker A: It's not to say that yearn is a bad project. But the fact of the matter is, is that it's just about what people want to hold long term. Most people just want to hold BTC and ETH long term. They don't want to hold any individual defi token. So from that respect, it's very hard to pick which one's going to be a winner. It's very hard to pick something that's going to outperform ETH and USD over the longer term. It's very hard to like, manage taxes around this, too, because for those of us in like in places that with capital gains tax, he's the kicker with this, in trying to outperform ethics, if you buy something and it outperforms ETH by say like 10%, if you end up having to pay more than that in taxes, you're paying the taxes on the dollar amount.
00:15:16.764 - 00:15:41.754, Speaker A: So if you're in the US, you're paying taxes on the US dollar gain. And if you're in Australia, I'm paying taxes on, on the aud dollar gain, I'm not paying taxes on the on ETH denominator taxes. So what ends up happening is that you could end up paying more in tax. That puts you. And even if you've outperformed ethnicity, you could end up buying back less ETH because of the tax hit, because your government doesn't gonna. It doesn't care if you're, if you're up in ETH or down in ETH. It's benchmark is aud.
00:15:41.754 - 00:16:16.648, Speaker A: You're taxed, sorry, you're taxed based on the native, on the nation's currency. So even that's another thing that people don't consider is that you may outperform ETH, but are you outperforming ETH enough to make up for the tax hit that you suffer because you're taxed on the dollar amounts? So, bringing it back to this bet index here, this is just a much, much simpler way to get exposure to the three biggest sectors of defi sectors of crypto, BTC, ETH and deFi. Like, that's it. And I think that's what this is. This is really good at doing. It's. I think this is something that I would suggest to even people that are in crypto right now.
00:16:16.648 - 00:17:08.674, Speaker A: I feel like this is something that I would suggest to them. It doesn't have to be for just total noobs, because at the end of the day, most of us, I'm. I mean, most people, I guess, like, not most of most of us, but I believe most people end up just underperforming due to all those reasons I outlined, like, not accounting for the tax hit, holding something too long, not realizing that they've bought into something that is not going to outperform Ethan, and then they just hold it forever, and then, you know, they give up their precious Ethan, things like that. Because at the end of the day, everyone that I know that speculates on these Defi tokens, they go back to ETH. They don't go to dollars, and they're not holding these things over the long term, especially things that, um, uh, don't have any kind of value capture. People just don't like to hold them because they're very speculative, especially things for early stage projects. And I know I discussed yesterday on the refuel and in my newsletter that there are actually valuable governance tokens out there, and I stand by that.
00:17:08.674 - 00:17:49.252, Speaker A: But are they valuable enough to outperform ETH over the long run, you know, while you're holding them as well? And are they valuable enough to essentially, um, not only outperform ETH, but give you a return for the risk that you're taking? Because it's all about risk reward. If I'm taking a lot of risk, well, you bet that I want to outperform ETH by, like, five x, at least if I'm taking a lot of risk. Because if not, then there wasn't any point for me doing it because I'm taking on, like, just so much risk on these early projects. And I'm not even talking about, like, the brand new ones, like, some early projects that have been. They've been around for a few months. But they can still, still considered early, are very, very speculative. And you know, even, even the, I guess, more mature projects still trade as if they're early stage.
00:17:49.252 - 00:18:25.226, Speaker A: I mean, you can look at things like Aave, which I consider to be one of the, I've spoken about this before, one of the best projects in DeFi, with one of the best token designs in DeFi. I pretty sure it's still down like 50% from its high. And you know, that's, that's one of the best ones out there. And even going further, BTC and ETH, I mean BTC at its bottom was down 50% or over 50% on its all time high. ETH got to like 60% when it hit its bottom from its all time high. So just because these things, you know, are considered good, doesn't mean they can't drop like that as well. So if you're looking at the long term, you know, you're obviously not, not too concerned with these short term movements.
00:18:25.226 - 00:19:01.330, Speaker A: But what ends up happening is that every time you have one of these dumps, people go to ETH, BTC or dollars, they don't go. And then, and then, and then for them to go back and play with the more speculative stuff, the market has to heat up again. And that's the problem. The market only heats up if BTC and ethanol a hot, and BTC and ETH have pumped a lot. So, because it will take their profits from that and put it into other things. And the thing is, if you don't get in and out at time, you end up underperforming ETH, BTC and dollars potentially as well. But anyway, I'm not going to go on too much about that because I don't want to be giving investment advice, because none of what I said is investment advice.
00:19:01.330 - 00:19:32.388, Speaker A: But I just think it's something to consider when playing in this stuff. It took me a while to get to that point where I deeply understood that and understood that it's just much simpler to keep stacking ETH. Like, as I've said before, I just buy ETH every day, then try to speculate on these things. Now, I do hold other tokens, but if I'm being honest, you know, the risks that I took on these other tokens, honestly, I didn't outperform ETH as much as I should have on them. And as I said, I didn't put ETH into them. But the thing is, I could have put that Dai into ETH that I borrowed instead of into these defi tokens. For example.
00:19:32.388 - 00:19:47.918, Speaker A: So yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. Definitely. Go read this thread from cryptotexin. It's a really good one. Goes into a bit more detail about bed here. So Lyra finance officially announced themselves today. These are, this is one of the protocols that it's spinning out of the synthetix ecosystem.
00:19:47.918 - 00:20:22.172, Speaker A: So what this is, it's Defi's first complete options amm. So their core features are unified liquidity across all strikes and expiries. Market driven volatility surface fed into a black scholes pricing model. If you don't know what any of that means, that's okay. I've talked about how options kind of protocols and options are very exotic financial products before. I'm not going to say that I am an expert on them or anything like that. So if you want to read more about them, there's plenty of literature online, but the other two headline features here are automated delta hedging for liquidity providers and instant transactions with long and short options positions.
00:20:22.172 - 00:21:14.144, Speaker A: Now, what I wanted to focus on with, with Lyra is this instant transactions, because Lyra is actually launching on optimism first. They're not launching on Ethereum layer one, which is, is pretty cool because it's been natively designed for a L2 from the get go. And I think this is what the future is going to look like for Ethereum, where projects are just going to completely forego launching on layer one, Ethereum, and just going to a L2, like a roll up or even something like polygon. And I think this is incredibly healthy because it means that these projects don't have to essentially deploy kind of like two layer one, hope they get some kind of action on there, and then, you know, deploy to L2 later. Why not just start on L2 first and be there when all the users are there? Because L2 is going to be adopted much quicker than I think people realize because people are hungry for it, even at cheap gas prices. On layer one, L2 still going to offer a better experience. So I'm really glad to see that.
00:21:14.144 - 00:21:42.734, Speaker A: And it's cool that they're going on optimism because synthetix is going to be on optimism. So obviously they're going to stay in the same home there. And there's a bunch of other protocols that are spinning out of synthetic synthetix ecosystem as well that will be going on to optimism. I think Thales is another one, and there's one more that I can't remember off the top of my head. And then there's also quinta so yeah, that's really cool to see. And as I said, I'm expecting more and more projects to do this as time goes on. But if you want to learn more about Lyra, you can the super linked in the YouTube description.
00:21:42.734 - 00:22:42.520, Speaker A: And you know, if you're an options trader or if you're interested in options, this is definitely something that I'm assuming that you'll be interested in. So definitely go check this out. So Nadar from Edgenode day put out basically a little video showing that he was able to create a sign on with Ethereum gets a proof of concept here which leverages identity index and ceramic network and decentralized identities in general to implement authentication and profiles with an Ethereum wallet. So essentially I've spoken about the kind of sign in with Ethereum concept previously on the refuel where using your Ethereum wallet, because it's a public private key pair, you can basically sign into anything and that would be your login details instead of a username and password. Now this is taking it a step further where you can essentially take your decentralized identity and your profile with you all across the web. So there's no central party that needs to read this. You're just reading this from a decentralized identity provider when you're using your public private key pair to log in.
00:22:42.520 - 00:23:28.314, Speaker A: Because your public ethereum wallet is the wallet that holds the identity, right, the decentralized identity. So it's tied to that. And this ties into like things like ens as well. You know, I've got my ans hassle ETH and things like that, that has my identity attached to it where you can kind of like see my, my profile picture because I have a, I think I have something with three box set up as well. So this is to me the future of like Web three. Because when you really think about it, username passwords have just been like a pretty horrible way to do things, you know, for a long time now because people reuse passwords, people kind of like get their passwords stolen and obviously from databases and there's database leaks and things like that. Whereas with the sign in with Ethereum, that doesn't happen because your private key stays on your device.
00:23:28.314 - 00:23:59.148, Speaker A: All you're doing is signing a message when you log in. And that allows you kind of like access to everything that you want access to. And this works especially well with a decentralized web because a decentralized web shouldn't be storing credentials anywhere. So as long as you have the credential, your private key on your kind of device, like for metamask, you have it sitting on your device. If it's through your ledger, then it's on the ledger device, then there's no way for someone to get your private key like that. So yeah, this is really, really cool. I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:23:59.148 - 00:24:35.180, Speaker A: You can go check it out. It's on GitHub. And you can check out this little video here, which is a pretty cool, pretty cool watch to see how it works. So, speaking of security here, and I mean, I spoke about Bobby Ong's tweet thread yesterday about, um, security, uh, with regards to your crypto, metamask is pushing this new, uh, terminology. Instead of saying, uh, seed phrase, they're saying secret recovery phrase. And this was done by. Can't remember who pushed, uh, this on, um, on Twitter recently, but someone did who said that the words or the phrase seed phrase doesn't actually make sense to most people, and they may not understand that they have to keep this secret.
00:24:35.180 - 00:25:24.578, Speaker A: And if you ever, ever show this to anyone, then that person can have access to your entire, um, you know, ethereum wallets that are, that fall under that seed phrase. So if you accidentally give your, your seed phrase to, to someone or lick it to someone for your ledger, then all of those ledger addresses that you have and all the funds in them, um, would get stolen, or could get stolen because they have the, the seed phrase. So saying secret recovery phrase basically changes the wording here and changes the phrase to make people understand that this is a secret. And you should never, ever, ever show this to anyone. Ideally, when you write this, this, um, this phrase down on a piece of paper or something, you should split this up and into and like leave one at your, like your parents house or something. If you trust them, leave one at a friend's house. And so that you have to basically get them to give you the seed phrase, all of them together.
00:25:24.578 - 00:26:01.820, Speaker A: So it's kind of like a multi sig in order to access kind of like your backup for your funds. Because in doing so, I mean, if you just keep your, you kind of see phrase at your, at your house or whatever, or just on you or whatever, that's just like a central point of failure there. Now. I mean, really, the only way people are going to be able to get it off you is if they know you're carrying it, if you have it on you, which I'd suggest not do, not doing that, but if they know where it is in your house or whatever. But generally, I think people want to be. People end up doing is that they don't want to write it down physically, so they'll actually take a screenshot of it on their phone or something to back it up, or they'll. They'll write it down digitally.
00:26:01.820 - 00:26:49.370, Speaker A: And that's very easy to. To be kind of leaked or for a hacker to get in and steal that. So I think that just changing the language and saying this is a secret recovery phrase and really telling people that, like, you really, really, really shouldn't ever put this thing online, put this into a computer, just write it down physically, and then, you know, and never, definitely don't take a screenshot of it, but write it down physically and you'll keep yourself safe here. So there's a whole blog post, I guess, like, describing why keeping secrets is essential for web3 on about Metamask here. So I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. So, speaking of security, the last thing here is that Zappa announced yesterday that they discovered a vulnerability in their old Polygon bridge smart contract that, unfortunately, would allow an attacker to steal funds that had unlimited approvals.
00:26:49.370 - 00:27:13.226, Speaker A: So the Zappa basically exploited the vulnerability themselves, and. And all the funds were rescued. So this is what's called a white hat kind of approach here, where they found the exploit. They did it themselves. They withdrew the funds, and they've been basically giving users the opportunity to get their funds back from. From Zappa. So if you had previously kind of interacted with this old bridge, you will be notified on your Zappify dashboard.
00:27:13.226 - 00:27:31.984, Speaker A: So you haven't checked. If you haven't checked it lately, please do so in case, you know, you have some funds that you need to kind of claw back here. But I'm really glad to see that Zappa caught this before, you know, a black hat hacker did, because this could have been pretty bad. I'm. I'm not sure how much. How many funds were in there, but there was. There was a, you know, it wasn't a small amount of funds that was in this bridge smart contract.
00:27:31.984 - 00:28:27.886, Speaker A: And again, this just talks to security and how when you're basically interacting with smart contracts, one, you. I mean, a lot of them ask for unlimited approvals of tokens, which I guess is. Is up to the developers to. To do that or not. But two, if you're not using these smart contracts anymore, you should revoke their permission to spend your funds, because if they still have permission to spend your funds, if there is a bug in this contract that allows anyone to kind of steal the funds, then they could steal everything that you've given approvals through. So if you approved the wrapped ether token, for example, and you have, like, ten wrapped ETH in your wallet, that contract could steal your wrapped ether. So definitely something to, to keep an, you know, keep top of mind here and your security best practices, and definitely something that, you know, you should check out and go visit your Zappa dashboard if you interacted with this old bridge, because it'll prompt you to kind of claw back funds if, if you need to.
00:28:27.886 - 00:28:39.254, Speaker A: But I think that is it for today, everyone. So thank you for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
