00:00:00.280 - 00:00:43.488, Speaker A: How all of these assets are coming on chain varies across the board. We're seeing rwas be tokenized as fungible tokens and non fungible tokens. And again, it still is so early that a tokenization standard hasn't even really been set. But currently the rwas that make up majority of the market are fungible tokens. If I had a magic crystal ball, I think what I would see is that real world asset financial products are going to mature and they're going to become more complex and more unique. And once that happens, we'll actually start to see a pivot from fungible tokenization to tokenization as nfts. Let's just take a look at uniswap V two and V three liquidity pools.
00:00:43.488 - 00:01:31.822, Speaker A: Even though this technically has nothing to do with rwas, I think it's going to give a really good idea of how a shift from fungible to non fungible can happen as products and protocols mature. With Uniswap V, two liquidity provider tokens or LP tokens for a single pool were fungible. One LP token for a trading pair like ETH USDT could be exchanged for another ETH USDT LP token. And its the same. I think of this as a bucket of apples, one apple for one apple. But when Uniswap introduced V three liquidity pools became a more complex product with concentrated LP positions and the user being able to set things like ranges and fees tiers. So LP tokens for a single pool were no longer fungible because each position is unique.
00:01:31.822 - 00:02:13.734, Speaker A: And with Uniswap V, three LP positions became tokenized as nfts because theyre non fungible in nature. And that just happened gradually over time as innovation was happening. So the thought here is that for rwas, as these protocols start to develop more complex products, I think well see a gradual shift towards tokenization as nfts, especially with the added composability and flexibility that comes with the non fungible token standard. Plus, if you think about it, a lot of things in our day to day lives are non fungible in nature, and we're just starting to see these assets come on chain as nfts. So super bullish long term for nfts and NFT finance.
