00:00:09.430 - 00:00:50.070, Speaker A: Hello everyone. I hope you're all doing good. Pleasure to be here, pleasure to present you what we're doing within DeFi. So today we're going to look at the question, what blocks people from entering DeFi? I discovered DeFi quite a while ago, when it was the very beginning. I was accessing these tokens, buying all these different types of assets, and they were getting a lot of value. And I was talking to this, to a couple of my friends outside a YouTube channel. So I used to talk a lot about these projects and I discovered that for people to actually buy their first Dex token, it was pretty complex.
00:00:50.070 - 00:01:48.890, Speaker A: And this is the feeling that most of centralized exchange users used to have before what happened with Celsius and Voyager. And eventually I think this will be the case still, probably in a couple of months when DFI will be coming back on top, but that's just my opinion. So today, if you look at crypto users, in 2021 there's 300 million users, and in DeFi only 4 million users. So you still see that there's a big gap. And you see that a lot of these users are just sitting on centralized exchanges and we're not really fulfilling the vision that Satoshi had or even vitalik. So we can clearly see that volume on decentralized exchanges is growing faster, and I think this will grow even faster with Ethereum 2.0 and Scaling Solutions.
00:01:48.890 - 00:02:42.458, Speaker A: So we need a simple way for people to access those decks and that volume as well. Now let's try to compare why today there's not enough traction, enough people entering DeFi. If you look at I tried to make a comparison and try to look at some advantages and things that are good on both sides. And you can clearly see that if users went to centralized exchanges or platforms like Celsius, it's because there were many aspects that was easy for them. The fact of not creating wallets, the fact that they didn't have to pay massive fees, they didn't need to understand and have technical knowledge. And there's many advantages, and I think we can bring some of these advantages to DeFi, to bring more users. So let me ask you this question.
00:02:42.458 - 00:04:00.642, Speaker A: What was your first operation when you got into DeFi? What was the first thing you did? Or swap? Yeah, so what we discovered is that what people actually do is they buy a token on the decks, that's like the first thing they do, and then in general, they generate yield. And if you look at that user experience today, it's a pretty complex one for someone who's not technical. Eventually all of us probably know how to do this, and we are probably like most of the technical people in the world here. And for people who are retail users or on centralized exchanges, this journey is pretty complex. Create an account, wallet set up and all that, and now there's on ramp solutions. So we can skip the one and three, but still you can see that there's a lot of different aspect to it and stages that you need to understand. And in general, what we discovered is that for average people, it takes about one to two hour to actually understand how to do the whole process, create an account, go on uniswap or CoinGecko, find your specific token and all that.
00:04:00.642 - 00:05:10.282, Speaker A: So in most cases, people don't even go through it because it's too complex, because it takes too much time. And in most cases people feel like this after acquiring their first token. So yeah, we see that there's many frustrations. They don't understand the technical aspects, the complicated manipulations, and other different types of things such as the complicated features that you need to set up. So how can we improve this? How can we improve on chain tools? And how can we create a centralized exchange experience but on chain? And that's what we've tried to fix with Ondefi, is to create that experience and to break that entry barrier and to make it really simple for anyone to acquire that first token because eventually that's all what we've done. And so if we can break that down, we can bring on board more users, they can feel more confident and they have something that's really simple. So what they can do if they don't want to go through a wallet setup is just put in your email address.
00:05:10.282 - 00:05:48.386, Speaker A: It creates a wallet for you using Magic Link. So it's the first easy solution. And then they can just use different types of on ramps. We're also working with Jarvis so they can deposit synthetic fiats. So like same user experience as a centralized exchange, people can have fiat directly on their wallets and then they can interact with all the tokens that are listed on CoinGecko. So how does that technically work? We've aggregated dex aggregators, so we have the most liquidity that's available for eight different types of chains. And then we find the best price for that specific token.
00:05:48.386 - 00:06:36.530, Speaker A: And we provide a simple DeFi marketplace so that people can buy a token as if they were on CoinGecko. They can easily search for a specific token and directly exchange it with crypto. And we're also working on a solution where people will be able to buy any token directly with a credit card. And we'll do that and we'll do the routing for that specific user. So let me run you through a quick demo just to show you a little bit what we've built. You can try working it's, working it's in open beta. So still some things we're fixing, but as you can see, you can just connect easily with your email address and then it'll simply send you a link to confirm.
00:06:36.530 - 00:07:17.374, Speaker A: So here I just log in. We've also added two FAS eventually. So if you do more than $1,000 of volume, we force you to do a two FA and then, so you simply log in. There you go, your wallet is created, no need to set up anything seed phrase or set up a chrome extension. And here you go. You can access a marketplace and you can eventually see your wallets with your different assets on different types of chains. And yeah, we've integrated eight chains, but you can also directly deposit as if you were like on a centralized exchange.
00:07:17.374 - 00:07:56.250, Speaker A: So you choose a chain where you want to deposit, choose an on ramp solution. Montpeller is a great solution, by the way. You can buy 1000 Swiss francs or dollars per day without KYC. You can send and receive crypto, just like a typical centralized exchange. So bringing something familiar to users that would come to our platform. And eventually you can do most of the things that you can do with the wallets, but also of the centralized exchange. So demo is a bit slow, but what you want eventually when you want to go into DeFi, is buy a token which is only on the decks.
00:07:56.250 - 00:08:51.226, Speaker A: And so lately I've saw this token which is called Aura Finance, only listed on balancer, took ten x or almost like five to seven x in one month. And so that's cool because you want people to get into these tokens and to get interested by these starting projects. And that's what we're trying to solve, it's to break down the fact that centralized exchanges can decide to list a token or not. Here we want to make that accessible to everyone. And as you can see, what we do here is that we don't tell the user that he needs to set up gas fees or approve or sign any transaction. We want to eliminate that so that he doesn't have to, he feels like he's using a centralized platform, he can just click on exchange and it does the exchange for him. And then he can also go to the Explorer and see that his transaction has been done on chain.
00:08:51.226 - 00:09:43.150, Speaker A: So here what's cool is that it's fully transparent and maybe that's what users will start looking for, what happened with Celsius and Voyager. And yeah, it's a simple user experience so people can feel comfortable and not go crazy, especially when they look at this. Maybe this also we will need to improve as well. So yeah, you can also view statistics on specific assets. So view the price, you can view at what price you bought the token and eventually you can buy that specific token which is only on decentralized exchange directly with Fiat. So for the moment, this feature is not yet implemented. But what we do here is we tell you to buy ETH before buying that specific token.
00:09:43.150 - 00:10:35.634, Speaker A: And here you'll just be redirected to a non Ram solution and ETH will be put on your wallet directly. So yeah, maybe demo is a bit long, maybe you guys can go through it, give it a try here, it tells you which asset you have and where you can get yield on these assets. So it tells you, I have USDC on Polygon and I can directly obtain yield on that asset. So we're using Ave V Three, but we're also thinking of adding different types of yields from other types of protocols. So, yeah, basically that's a bit it about the demo. So things we try to abstract is the wallet creation, the fact of setting up different types of networks, the gas token as well. This isn't something we saw.
00:10:35.634 - 00:11:32.230, Speaker A: Like many users always need, they don't have enough Maddox to swap certain tokens, so we're working on that as well. Setting fees, finding your specific token, because that's also something that it's pretty easy for us, but it could be complicated, especially having the Fiat 20 token feature and also finding the best rate and liquidity and simplifying that Web Three. UX. So, yeah, I'm done. Maybe I went a little bit fast, but don't hesitate if you have any specific question. You can always some feedback on what you think about the products. Thank you for the presentation.
00:11:32.230 - 00:12:38.380, Speaker A: I didn't get where are stored the private key and how you can recover them. Yes, so we're using Magic Link, which actually creates a private key on AWS, and the only way you can decrypt that key is through your email address. So it's a bit of a custodial jewel, but a trustless solution. This is what we had in mind because for a first step, it's simple, but we know that users eventually will look at other types of wallets like MetaMask, and that's why you can test it out, but you can also test the product using MetaMask. But it's a good solution for getting in with a simple first step, then doing all the complex processes for wallet creation. Thank you. Thank you.
