00:00:07.210 - 00:00:38.140, Speaker A: So without further ado, I'd like to bring up Adi and Matt on stage here. And both of them are going to be here talking about all the things that you can actually do in terms of how you can best leverage all the tracks that we have going on and all the amazing ideas. That you can build from a repository of things that we've already set up here to really make the next two and a half weeks super amazing. So welcome Matt and I, and I'll let you all get started.
00:00:39.310 - 00:00:54.574, Speaker B: Fantastic. Thanks very much. Yeah. So my name is Matt Hamilton. I'm a developer advocate with Protocol Labs, specifically working on Filecoin and the FVM. And here I've got Adi. If you want to introduce yourself as well, addie absolutely.
00:00:54.692 - 00:01:03.870, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm Adi Shadam. I'm the product lead for Fem. So you'll see me a lot working with Hungau Kevin and a bunch of the DX team, including Matt.
00:01:05.010 - 00:02:10.850, Speaker B: Cool. So the point of this talk is to quickly talk about the various tracks, some of the project ideas that we've got, some of the Bounties, and also touch upon some of the Bounties, not just regarding Fem, which is the largest bounty here, but also some of the other related Protocol Labs technologies and Bounties as well. Because one of the great things about hackathons is you can experiment, right? That's what they're all about, is it's about experimentation, it's about learning, it's about building things. And there's a whole bunch of different technologies both from within Protocol Labs and within Protocol Labs network and wider field that are a part of this hackathon. So we'd love you to get involved and put together these solutions, these ideas, these projects, these hackathon entries using all of these different technologies and see where you end up. So first of all, starting with Fem Filecoin Virtual machine, we have $22,000 US. Dollars in prizes available specifically for Fem.
00:02:10.850 - 00:02:53.950, Speaker B: So Sarah has just talked about Fem, so hopefully you have a good idea about what Fem is. It allows programmability on top of the Filecoin virtual machine. And we have three grand prizes, $5,000 paid in fill for three teams for the grand prizes, plus 14 runner up projects of $500 worth of fill each. So the categories that we have set out here, if you've been involved in some of our other hackathons, you might recognize these. We've slightly tweaked them a little bit as we've been going on from feedback from the hackathons that we've had so far. But breaking it down, we have Data Dowels. So you will have just heard Sarah talk a little bit about Data Dowels.
00:02:53.950 - 00:03:57.938, Speaker B: So the idea about having a decentralized autonomous organization that has some involvement with storing data, right? So examples might be industry specific for things like decentralized science machine learning or things like a film show or exhibition or film festival or something like that that might want to store things. I'm going to go through each of these and then we'll switch over. I've got a tab of some Fem starter ideas and we can go into a bit more detail on them and then I'll come back and also talk about some of the other bounties we have available here. So DeFi, best DeFi tools on fem. So just like other blockchains, other EVM blockchains, you can build DeFi decentralized finance on top. What is unique about Fem and unique about Filecoin is you have the whole storage provider ecosystem underneath that. So you have three and a half thousand storage provider systems on the network.
00:03:57.938 - 00:04:45.190, Speaker B: They're all providing storage capacity to the network, right? So something that region about 1213 exabytes of data on the network. So this is all backed by physical storage systems, hard drives, SSDs around the world storing data. So you can use that capability as part of a DeFi system. So it might be lending to storage providers, it might be allowing storage providers to borrow based upon future revenue that they can prove through the blockchain. If they take on a storage deal, they'll be paid over time for that storage deal they can actually use that a bit like invoice factoring within traditional finance. So that's kind of where DeFi comes in. The next is tools infra and bridging.
00:04:45.190 - 00:05:55.806, Speaker B: So this is an opportunity to bridge with other networks and other systems as well and bring in some of their functionality. So things like decentralized ID access control for example, from some of the other blockchains and also allows you to export the functionality of filecoin out onto other networks. So using bridges and Oracles and things like that as well. So bridges like Axler for example, oracles like Teller on the network, you can use those to export functionality out to other networks, programmable storage markets. So this is regarding, like we said, storage. We've got the storage providers storage deals generally have a finite lifetime on the network. So programmable storage is building things like auto renewing storage, auto replicating storage, bounties for storage, optimizing storage sectors, right? The way in which storage is stored on the network, there might be a way in which you could optimize the way in which deals are aggregated together, for example.
00:05:55.806 - 00:06:39.690, Speaker B: So let's do with that and then DWeb it. So basically looking at current web services and applications into more open, secure and resilient sort of web3 based, decentralized based systems using some of the other technologies within Protocol Labs as well. Hopefully that covers it. Did you want to say anything addie at this point or shall I switch over to the starter ideas? No, that sounds great. OK, so we've got a series of starter ideas here and they're linked to from the bottom of the prizes. If you go down here under inspiration you'll see list of starter ideas. So that's what we've got here and we've got a number of ideas here that you can kind of go through.
00:06:39.690 - 00:08:02.498, Speaker B: So things like Repair as a service. Like we mentioned, for example, data is stored in the way of storage deals on the network between a client and a storage provider. And you might want to have that replicated multiple times for resilience using something like replication as a storage. But you could use repair as a storage to potentially automatically detect that data might not be stored to the level of replication you need or might have some fault with it, and that you can automatically repair or replicate that so that's those two kind of top ones there renewal as a service. Like I said, storage deals run for a certain lifetime so you might want to have something that automatically renews the storage deal at the end of the lifetime as well. Building off chain storage deals so the filecoin network is built extremely flexibly and it leaves a lot of how the actual storage deal is negotiated up to the users, right, so it doesn't all happen on chain. A lot of it is left to happen off chain and then once the deal is negotiated and agreed that then is published on chain and it's then the blockchain's responsibility to query the storage providers to ensure that the data is stored.
00:08:02.498 - 00:09:10.210, Speaker B: So there may be things that you want to do around how data is kind of aggregated and how those storage deals are actually built before they're passed to storage providers calling as a service. So this might be using things like cron jobs to regularly call functions on the Fem on the filecoin network. So you might have something that needs to run periodically so something like this could be very useful. Endowment Managers so again you might have something that takes in a pool of fill and invests it on behalf of the users. So I might use something like Glyph that have a thing called Infinity pool which is one of the staking solutions there's. Another fillet for example, is another one that does staking. So you might have something that aggregates funds together and invests that on behalf of the users and use the return of that investment to then fund storage.
00:09:10.210 - 00:09:56.554, Speaker B: For example, things like renewable energy certificates, so native renewable energy certificates, storing those on the network and that's part of like Filecoin Green as well as part of that, that's a service that we have. So things that deal with that would certainly be of interest. Zero knowledge proofs. So the Fem is the largest production use, I believe, of zero knowledge proofs at the moment. And there's a lot of other things you can build on top of that as well. And there's a link there to more information about that sustainability. FalcoIn Green have a project called CO2 Storage, and there are ideas that you might want to build upon that.
00:09:56.554 - 00:10:35.990, Speaker B: Again, there's links to some of those ideas around energy validation, for example, certificates, credits, that kind of thing as well. Retrieve.org this is a project that I believe is from Saturn. I think it is addie or related to Saturn. And so this allows retrieval, like a retrieval oracle and retrieval assurances on the network. So this could be something that could check the network and ensure that stuff can be retrieved from the partners on there. IPC is the interplanetary consensus.
00:10:35.990 - 00:11:33.610, Speaker B: So this is a project within Protocol Labs to work on the next generation of consensus mechanism that will take filecoin scaling up to millions of transactions per second and is going to be looking at using horizontal scalability with subnets. And you can have different subnets that allow you to run specific functionality on these subnets. So there's a number of ideas around how you could have a wallet that could run on different subnets. For example, how you can have things like eigen layer for subnets. We've got multi wallet subnets in there twice, I think there's a few in there, visualizers explorers, all these kind of things that kind of fit in with how IPC works there. On chain storage deals, we've mentioned that Data Dows, we've talked about that. There's a bunch of ideas around data Dows Incentivization.
00:11:33.610 - 00:12:12.374, Speaker B: That kind of thing. IPNI disputer. So IPNI is the Interplanetary Networking Index. It is the system that allows you to register. When a system stores a content ID, a CID can register it with IPNI to allow people to find it. And there's some ideas around how you can ensure the integrity of that index and what people are reporting. So think ideas a bit like Oracle's, for example, incentivization for valid response or penalization for invalid stuff.
00:12:12.374 - 00:12:55.138, Speaker B: And then finally ideas around sole bound tokens again for sustainability claims for storage providers. So a storage provider might say, hey, we have 100% renewable energy for our storage system. Well, how can you both prove that and how can you then allow people to access that information and maybe programmatically then build on top of that? So I might have a system that says it's automatically only going to make storage deals against storage providers that can prove a certain level of sustainability, for example. So that might be something they do there. How was that addy? Was there anything else to kind of chime in on there?
00:12:55.304 - 00:13:46.626, Speaker C: Yeah, I would say one thing. Thanks for going through that, Matt. One thing is that we have a couple of workshops next week around a couple of the procural storage market ideas that might be worthwhile going to and talking to people about. If you scroll to the right of this table, there's folks inside PL and SEM that are happy to talk to you about these ideas and want to learn more about how you want to tackle them. We have resources that we've linked to so that you can attempt to brainstorm or learn more about these concepts and what underpins them and keep your eyes peeled. The workshops are going to definitely drive more content, more material away that will help you figure out how and what to build in those particular categories and parts of next week are going to be critical for that.
00:13:46.808 - 00:14:13.758, Speaker B: Yeah. Is June eigth Monday. I can't remember if June eigth, is that Monday? No, it's a bit later than that, I think. There's also some workshops. If you go to the ETH Global site and look through the schedule, there's also a series of workshops on Monday, so I'll be doing a workshop on building there. My colleague Zach will be doing a workshop I believe as well. So there's a number of workshops as well, so keep an eye on the schedule there.
00:14:13.758 - 00:15:07.886, Speaker B: Now just to quickly kind of COVID as well. There's a number of other projects as well within Protocol Labs also have Bounties. So for example, just quickly touching on a few of these Bakiyao, which is a compute over data platform, so they have a prize pool as well. And some examples there of projects around decentralized compute filecoin saturn is a decentralized content delivery network and they have a prize pool there as well regarding applications that build upon their decentralized distribution network. Interplanetary consensus, I just mentioned that that is a scalability, horizontal scalability for Filecoin and they have some prizes there as well. IPFS of course, which is where all of this kind of started. So IPFS have some prizes there as well.
00:15:07.886 - 00:16:04.058, Speaker B: So if you're using IPFS or you are improving what's going on within IPFS there's that there Lib PTP. Many people might not realize Lib PTP is a library that underpins a lot of these decentralized systems and even other networks as well, I believe. I think Ethereum Two and Salana I think both use Lib PTP underneath for how their nodes actually communicate with each other. So they actually have some prizes there as well. Just looking here within here for other PL ones. Oh, Falcon Data Tools FalcoIn Data Tools you might have heard of a project called Estuary, which is an aggregator. Farcoin Data Tools is the next generation of the tooling behind what will become Estuary version Two, and I will be doing some examples of some of that on Monday as well for how you can do aggregation from FDM, NFT Storage and Web Three.
00:16:04.058 - 00:17:04.258, Speaker B: Storage are also aggregators, also part of spun off from Protocol Labs as well, and they specifically work with, well, NFT Storage, as the name might suggest, also specifically works with NFTs, but they have a bunch of prizes there as well. Oh, Drand. Drand. So Drand distributed randomness one last one from within PL and so this is a randomness beacon on the network that allows you to access random numbers in a verifiable manner as well on the network. So this is a functionality that's often included or provided by tools like Chainlink, I believe one of them, while Drand is one that provides native verifiable randomness on the Falcon network, so you can use that. So there you go. That's a quick rundown to hopefully give you some ideas of what to build.
00:17:04.258 - 00:17:28.780, Speaker B: There is lots of prizes there. There's lots of projects there. Please feel free to build stuff that uses multiple different technologies, both from within Protocol Labs and within all of our partners there. If you go through there, there's a whole series of prizes. There a whole load of partners there. So please feel free to kind of join these together. And I really look forward to seeing what you build.
00:17:28.780 - 00:17:48.770, Speaker B: And I'm going to be hanging out in Discord as well, as well as some of my colleagues from the Devrel team specifically. So Sarah, who you heard from just now, and also my colleague Zach. Like I said, we'll be doing some workshops next week as well, so keep in tune with that. Anything else to cover Addie?
00:17:49.510 - 00:18:00.230, Speaker C: No, I think just have a lot of fun building. We're really excited to see what you guys create, and there's a lot of really cool things to build across PL and within SEM.
00:18:00.570 - 00:18:06.200, Speaker B: Yeah, brilliant. Okay, thanks a lot, all. I think that's I think that's us.
00:18:08.330 - 00:18:25.690, Speaker A: Thanks, Matt. Thanks, Adi. This was really cool, and I kind of loved this being a work session and a talk and everything else, because this really is effectively going through everything line by line and talking about all the opportunity. So I really appreciate you taking the time and telling us about all the things people can do. Bye.
