00:00:09.450 - 00:00:52.926, Speaker A: Welcome to the founders of web three series buy out live ventures, and me, your host, Jamie Burke. Together we're going to meet the entrepreneurs, their backers and the leading policymakers that are shaping web three. Together, we're going to try to define what is web three, explore its nuances, and understand the mission and purpose that drive its founders. If you enjoy what you hear, please do subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission that is web three. Today, I'm really excited to welcome Rune Christensen, chief executive officer and co founder of Makerdow. Welcome to the show.
00:00:53.028 - 00:00:54.378, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, Jimmy.
00:00:54.474 - 00:02:16.898, Speaker A: The more I researched having you on the show in advance, to be honest, the more excited I got about it, because I think one of the really interesting things about Maker is that on the one hand, it's quite simple, it's almost elegant, simple solution to a big foundational problem, to the space. But the more you think about it, the more the implications are quite complex, as complex as the global financial system as it is today. So really excited to cover some of these topics. So by way of introduction, I would describe maker as the kind of central bank of defi. It enables decentralized credit markets, and if we kind of look at the constituent parts that make up maker, Makerdao is a decentralized, autonomous organization that issues Dai, the first stablecoin, currently pegged to the US dollar, but native to the Ethereum blockchain. And that Dao is increasingly governed by Maker, a governance token. And we'll kind of talk about that a little bit later, but the goal of Makerdao is to kind of, or die anyway, is to eliminate volatility through a system of smart contracts that are designed to respond algorithmically to market dynamics.
00:02:16.898 - 00:02:54.654, Speaker A: In terms of your role, and again, I think is really representative of how atypical being a founder and a CEO is in the context of web three. So you founded and led the foundation, and you kind of lead the community establishing this vision, but also this organizational structure of the DAO and the economic foundations of DAi. But you kind of see your role as driving towards its complete dissolution, which is fascinating in itself, and of course, not typical to how most founders look at their role and the company typically.
00:02:54.702 - 00:02:55.698, Speaker B: That they're working in.
00:02:55.784 - 00:03:53.638, Speaker A: So several different reasons why I wanted to get you on the show. As I said, I think just the concept of maker is fascinating. But with every year that passes, it's becoming increasingly clear that this is a foundational building block for DeFi to mainstream and to potentially eat the global financial system. Makerdao is kind of two successful innovations, probably the most successful example. So one is this algorithmic stable token, which is Dai, and the other one is the Dao itself, which, as far as I'm aware, you could argue is the most successful, most adopted Dow in terms of the kind of assets that it manages and coordinates. As of last week, which for listeners that might be listening to this at some point in the future, end of July 2020, you passed the billion dollar mark in collateralization, which is a huge milestone. So congratulations on that.
00:03:53.638 - 00:03:58.838, Speaker A: I don't know whether you thought it would happen this soon or not, or was it right on time?
00:03:59.004 - 00:04:53.690, Speaker B: I think it came as a bit of a surprise because of all of this yield farming that's suddenly been popping out of nowhere. So maker hadn't been growing, growing at this steady pace for quite a while. And obviously with coronavirus and this whole crash in the traditional markets and in crypto, that also actually made the system contract a bit. The supply of Dai go down and then it just immediately shut back, because suddenly this new wave of Defi came and Dai became a central component of that. So that's definitely been surprising. And I've actually just today I've been watching in the chat, in the maker communities chat, which is where the community members that run the Dow just sit and discuss this issue. And there's a lot of very heated debate exactly how to deal with this situation, because it's a scalability question.
00:04:53.690 - 00:05:13.530, Speaker B: And right now, what the community has been considering ever since the shield farming began is how do we safely expand the collateral in the system? How do we allow more dye to be created so that we can increase the dye supply in line with the demand that's happening, because that's necessary to keep the price at $1.
00:05:13.690 - 00:05:56.842, Speaker A: And it's fascinating in a way that these tests on the system are going to make it more resilient coming into 2020. And then Covid hit, I think most people were pretty concerned, skeptical about where the market might be. And then, as you say, dfI seemingly came out of nowhere. But the reality is, you could argue that maker enabled that without maker, this wouldn't be happening. And so it's as a consequence of the maturity of maker that this is happening. And of course, you then have the challenges about how you manage your own success. So again, all really fascinating stuff from a founder perspective, but I think it's really important for listeners to understand that this hasn't come out of nowhere.
00:05:56.842 - 00:06:10.626, Speaker A: I mean, it's been five years in the making. And as you say, there's been moments of doubt, I'm sure, within the community, perhaps, with you as a founder, but you successfully navigated through a lot of those. And for me, as I looked at.
00:06:10.648 - 00:06:12.914, Speaker B: Your background, correct me if I'm wrong.
00:06:12.952 - 00:06:19.334, Speaker A: But rather unbelievably, this looked like only your second venture as a founder. Is that right?
00:06:19.452 - 00:06:27.014, Speaker B: Yeah. Well, it's a second, what do you call it, somewhat successful venture. Did a number of field projects as well.
00:06:27.132 - 00:07:31.134, Speaker A: Well, they'll get you here, and we'll go into your background a little bit later. But also, fascinatingly, it's non obvious that it would be you or somebody like you that would be the founder of something so foundational to the space, because it's not like you came from an Ivy League us university. You're not a Silicon Valley insider, you're from Denmark, nor did you spend decades on Wall street or study economics. And yet here you are, and here maker is. And I also heard you talk a lot about ice breaking, which I guess is a good analogy for a dengue, in terms of how you've constantly, with Maker, at least been breaking through into new spaces, and multiclateralization, of course, being the more recent that we'll talk about. So in terms of your background, you studied at Copenhagen Business School in 2011, graduating 13. And I believe during those studies, you did one of your first ventures, which was at Tri China International, which was a recruiting company.
00:07:31.134 - 00:07:40.430, Speaker A: Then you also continued in education, focusing on biochemistry at. I don't know how to pronounce that. University, actually. Could you help me out?
00:07:40.580 - 00:07:41.614, Speaker B: University of.
00:07:41.732 - 00:07:43.262, Speaker A: Ah, that's another way to say. Okay, sorry.
00:07:43.316 - 00:07:43.920, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:07:44.850 - 00:08:37.586, Speaker A: And you looked at complex chemical machines, which sounds fascinating, to be honest. I'd love to talk to you about that for at least half the podcast, but it might not make sense. And as I said, you then had Trichina, and in 2015, you founded Maker Dow, what went on to become the most successful DFI app on Ethereum, and I think you could argue even its color app, as I said, foundational to DFI. So, could you tell us about the journey towards maker? I believe folklore has it that you got interested in stablecoins after losing a load of money in bitcoin and experiencing the wrong end of its volatility in the early days. But how did he land upon stablecoins? And can you talk us through this five year journey of deciding that a Dow would be an important way of governing it?
00:08:37.688 - 00:09:30.222, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think a funny story or funny part of my early days into crypto. And also, I think something to point out is I discovered bitcoin in 2011. That's probably actually what that. And then the fact that I had been doing some startups and trying entrepreneurship already, and then just being very early into crypto was one of the really important things that helped me sort of see earlier than most people, like what was going to be really important with Ethereum, with stablecoins and so on, but also just something to notice. I went to university twice, and I dropped out of it both times. So both of the times, I just quit my studies halfway through. And I have a pretty funny story from the very early days of Ethereum.
00:09:30.222 - 00:10:16.530, Speaker B: Basically, I remember being in China and sitting with Vitalik and some of the initial founders of Ethereum, the initial group that was just trying to get Ethereum started back before blockchain was cool or anything like that. And then there were people talking, and this investor who was hosting this lunch, I think it was, he started realizing, oh, you all dropped out of university, right? And then we went around a table and everyone was saying, yeah, he dropped out of university and then got to me and I was like, I dropped out of university twice. And then everyone was like, oh, that's some founder cred. One thing is dropping out once, but I've done it twice.
00:10:17.430 - 00:10:24.482, Speaker A: What was it that drove you to be a dropout? Was it this curiosity in this emergent crypto world, or was it something mean?
00:10:24.536 - 00:10:59.546, Speaker B: So the first time I went to business school and then I dropped out to try to scale my first business, which was tri China, through this company placing english teachers in China. So I basically went and did that full time. And just like I was, I wasn't able to scale it. And then I basically gave up on that business or wind it down eventually. And then I went back and studied biochemistry. And at that point, that was just when Ethereum had launched. And at some point I just realized that this was the unique moment where there was like this window of opportunity to create a stable coin.
00:10:59.546 - 00:11:42.906, Speaker B: And I remember at that time, I mean, I'd already had this experience where I put all my money from my first business into bitcoin and then on paper, saw the huge gains that were then all erased afterwards again. Right? So I didn't lose anything, but it didn't feel particularly great to feel like you made millions and then lost it all again. So I already understood the importance of stablecoins. And then there was just this constant discussion in the Ethereum community back in 2015 about, oh, yeah, stablecoins. Someone would make that. Right. That was kind of like a given that that was going to be around somehow, and everyone was so excited about all this stuff they were going to build, and then there needed stable coins, kind of like as an extra thing, and that's going to be there somehow.
00:11:42.906 - 00:12:36.558, Speaker B: Right. And so I realized, well, that seems like a good opportunity. I already know that that's the critical missing piece and one of the things you can do to make crypto appealing to regular people. And then just because I'd been in crypto so long, I was actually, like, I had sort of some knowledge about how to navigate the communities, how to actually start a project the way that project was started back then, which is pretty much just, you write a post about it and ask people that want to help out. Right. And it was just like, it's just such a different time back. I mean, comparing what crypto looks like today, which is almost like a normal industry, or at least much closer, and then back in, let's say, 2015 or like 2012 or something, when it really was almost a religion, it was so driven by ideology and driven by things just being completely different.
00:12:36.558 - 00:13:11.274, Speaker B: And this view that five years from now, the nation state would no longer exist. Right. It would have been replaced by autonomous blockchains or something. For me, the biggest journey of all has been moving from this extremely obscure ideological environment and then just slowly becoming more mainstream, becoming more formalized, more normal, more boring in particular, actually. Right. It's been quite incredible to sort of see that happening. I still have a hard time even truly remembering what it was like in early days.
00:13:11.392 - 00:13:35.322, Speaker A: At this point, I wasn't quite as early as you, but probably. Well, yeah, seven years into the space or so. So how did the team assemble? You kind of put out a problem statement, possible solution, and then mobilized a group of people, presumably with some relevant skill set, to kind of solve for this problem. How'd that process unfold?
00:13:35.386 - 00:14:26.798, Speaker B: Yeah, so actually, recently, here in Denmark, I was talking to some business papers about how to do remote work because everyone's panicking, like, what are we going to do? We don't know how to adjust to this new world of working remotely and so on. I was thinking a lot about how do you actually do it and what are the keys to being successful with it? Because unknowingly, that's what we were lucky enough to do in the early days of major. Is that what we wanted to do is we were, like, applying our ideology, essentially, and that just happened to really align well with how to run a distributed team effectively. Right. So the number one thing is that it all centers around the chat room, like slack. Or I mean, right now we use something called rocket chat, but we actually use slack in the early days. And I know that most projects in crypto, they use like slack or discord or something like that.
00:14:26.798 - 00:15:31.078, Speaker B: And it really is, the way I see this, that's actually the office. That's like being in the office is when you're on the chat and you're sort of monitoring the chat. The community, from the very beginning, team and the community and the team completely revolved around this chat room and communicating through text and instant messages. And then we just made sure that there was maximal transparency, right? So there was as much as possible of all the information, discussion was shared publicly, and that was perfectly fine and safe to do back then because that was way before any regulators or anyone were paying attention, right? So it was completely safe. Just talk freely about whatever random ideas we had, because there's like a total transparency of the information. Then it was also just very easy for someone to sort of get into the community and actually start contributing or just start being a part of it. And then because there was this community spirit and inclusiveness and transparency that actually created this.
00:15:31.078 - 00:16:25.042, Speaker B: Almost like a funnel where you just see people who would just join the community start contributing in some way or form, and then eventually you would get to a point where the community as a whole, so the entire group of people that was doing the project would then consider, okay, should we start paying this person? For instance, once there was an actual team and sort of was some level who meant to ban the project, there was maybe like, let's say 2030 people that were sort of like focusing on it a lot. Like, most of them not working full time under anything like that, but just a lot of like, there was some decently sized group of people that were taking the project seriously. We created what we call the governance meetings, which was basically every Sunday, there was this, like this, I believe it was 04:00 p.m. Or something like that. In 04:00 p.m.. UTC. Then it was just like this open call that anyone could join.
00:16:25.042 - 00:16:53.886, Speaker B: No matter who you were or where you were located, you just find the link for the call and you'd join it. And then all decisions for the entire organization were then made by consensus on that call. So people would simply propose something, and then if nobody else said no, it would actually happen. And that would be how the team would initially in a particular, pay out the NPR tokens to salary to people who were volunteering working on the project.
00:16:54.068 - 00:16:59.266, Speaker A: So that had to be complete consensus, 100% consensus, for it to pass.
00:16:59.448 - 00:17:11.480, Speaker B: Yeah. I mean, that was the very early days of the project. Eventually it broke down. Of course, it couldn't possibly scale, right? But when there was about 2030 people that all knew each other pretty well, then it actually worked.
00:17:13.050 - 00:17:15.270, Speaker A: At what point did it not work?
00:17:15.420 - 00:18:09.306, Speaker B: Well, that's like, fast forward a bit in the story, but basically the project started operating in this and started growing and sort of building the initial technology. And then we went through the crazy early days of Ethereum. So one of the things that happened was the Dow hack, for instance, right? It turned out that doing financial applications with blockchain is just a lot more dangerous than people naively thought beforehand. Because actually before the Dow hack, Ethereum was branded as this, like, anyone can make your own website kind of thing, make your own bank, right? Build your own little blockchain thing, don't worry about it. So easy, right? And then after the Dow hack, it was like, do not touch someone else's code. Don't use the code unless you really know it's secure. So we just had to constantly dive sort of deeper and deeper into the tech.
00:18:09.306 - 00:18:54.406, Speaker B: What we want to do is so complicated. It's definitely one of the most advanced protocols and platforms that's been built yet, with so many moving parts and interconnected modules and so on. So it just really requires just an extreme level of sort of like building the entire stack of how to do smart contracts securely from the ground up. So that was really the early days of the project, was just this, like operating in this, I mean, hindsight, somewhat naive, but very ideologically driven and extremely decentralized. Right. Extremely open and transparent governance model where. Yeah, like I said, actually anyone could join the sort of the board meetings almost.
00:18:54.406 - 00:19:52.186, Speaker B: You could call them, right, like the top meetings and just actually have a say and block anything or propose any action. After the Dow hack, after the project got involved for a while, actually, there was a period where then I personally, again, it was kind of like naive in hindsight and driven somewhat ideologically as well. But basically I decided that, well, that's up and running, the developers are developing, and it's getting built, the technology is coming together. And so I actually just started being less and less engaged in the project at that point. Basically the governance model started showing some cracks. And what happened after a couple of months was that this call, this Sunday call where things are supposed to be decided by consensus, it wasn't able to come to a decision about how to pay people for doing the work anymore, so they couldn't agree into how to pay people. Then you suddenly have a problem.
00:19:52.186 - 00:20:56.766, Speaker B: So it turned out that it started breaking down at a bigger scale, basically. Then me and the core team at that time, we then realized that we had to start basically looking at things a bit more pragmatic, rather than just purely through the ideological lens that existed. Well, we'd never been as ideological as other projects, for sure, but the whole space was just so completely dominated by this kind of early crypto ideologies that you couldn't really avoid having that be an important part of almost every project. And we basically realized that we have to also be a bit more pragmatic, a bit more realistic, and focus on what is the real goal we're trying to do. Right. And that is, of course, it's creating a stable coin. It's doing financial inclusion, just improving the financial system, and deliver on the original vision of bitcoin, like some affix to the corrupt financial system that created the financial Cris and so on.
00:20:56.766 - 00:21:14.590, Speaker B: And so the response was, we created the foundation. We started formalizing the organization. We created this separation between the community and the foundation so that now the foundation was kind of, like, had a special position in the community and couldn't just represent the community itself, but rather it was its own unique entity.
00:21:14.750 - 00:21:18.946, Speaker A: So how many years in or months in until you spoke to a lawyer?
00:21:19.138 - 00:21:21.270, Speaker B: That was about two years, I think.
00:21:21.340 - 00:22:03.380, Speaker A: Oh, wow. And presumably that was more about the formation of the foundation and how it would be structured, rather than necessarily, like, a conversation about how to navigate the regulatory piece. Because I know in advance of this podcast, this episode, I said to you, are there any things off limits to talk about? A lot of guests are uncomfortable talking about the regulatory piece, and you said, no, you absolutely want to talk about it, because you think it's really important for people who are trying to innovate in the space to understand. So how was the attitude set towards dealing with regulation or lack of regulation and kind of innovating in that creative space?
00:22:04.150 - 00:22:32.218, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, the early days, my opinion was that a court can't control the blockchain or something, so you don't even need lawyers. They're actually useless. They're going to lose their jobs. After two years, we had to start talking to lawyers about setting up the foundation and also things like establishing the status of the NPR token and so on. Right. But that was, like, the very beginnings of that. And then.
00:22:32.218 - 00:23:28.270, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, it just became like, once we started going the direction of, okay, we have to be a little bit more realistic. We have to not just take this, what do you call it, like, the attitude of a rebel, right? That's just like discarding everything that currently exists, but rather it's more about how can we integrate and how can we augment and piggyback off existing systems and infrastructure. And that's when the topic of regulation suddenly becomes law in general, suddenly becomes all encompassing, because it's just so important for anything that has to do with finance. So we went from not being very well, not really be very well prepared, right, in the early days, because we didn't believe that it was necessary. We just didn't understand enough about what the space would actually look like, let's say, three years later. Right. If you look at how much regulation matters today, for instance.
00:23:28.270 - 00:24:42.440, Speaker B: But once we went in that direction, we were able to really build up a really good foundation. The entire organization is very diversified, you could say, right? So we have a lot of engineering, a lot of development resources, and really some of the best technical talent in the whole space, but then also very strong legal team and community building and communications and marketing that is also very globally focused and very diversified across many different markets. And I think that that's one of our biggest strengths, is that we were able to sort of move away from this extremist ideological starting point and really move in the direction of pragmatism and just focusing on the goal that really matters, which is to deliver an awesome product in the form of a decentralized, stable coin that can then some of the values that the project stands for, that doesn't really have anything to do with ideology, or at least the original crypto ideology, but rather it's just about, again, financial inclusion, equality, that kind of stuff, right? Like ending corrupt institutions, or at least making it easier to discover that kind of stuff.
00:24:42.810 - 00:24:56.982, Speaker A: And do these things become stated goals, rather than kind of things that are just understood or a shared philosophy. Have you got to the point whereby these are kind of like stated aims, strategic aims of the foundation?
00:24:57.126 - 00:26:30.170, Speaker B: Yes. There even is the entire communities, the major governance with the community, which is even more important than just the foundation, actually, in the very early days of when single collateral die had just been deployed, so mid 2018, basically, when crypto was just starting to. After the big bubble and crypto was starting to go a little bit mainstream and was a little bit better understood, the voting system came online for Megadot, became easy to use, and became easy for regular people to use and care and vote with. And then the very first vote that sort of opened the whole voting system was what we called the foundation principles. Basically a document that then broke down some of the core principles of the project and what would sort of be the foundation of how the community should evolve over time and what direction the project should take and why it exists. And the principles are serving the underserved, for instance, which is financial inclusion. And one of the really big advantages of blockchain is the fact that it's a technology that uniquely sort of has this inherent characteristic of benefiting everybody equally with the tech, right? Very unlike a lot of other technological evolutions that tend to favor the established, blockchain actually is a little bit upside down because a lot of the big benefits of blockchains aren't even apparent in the first world, right, because we can already do that with credit cards or something.
00:26:30.170 - 00:27:41.210, Speaker B: But to a lot of people that don't currently have good access to finance, it's just a huge deal to be able to get blockchain based financial services. So that's the first principle. And then there's sustainable finance. So the idea that with the transparency of the blockchain and with the transparency of decentralization and decentralized governance and open decision making, there is an opportunity to just use finance as a powerful good instead of a powerful evil, right, where it can actually have positive impacts on the stuff it's financing, and sort of drive it in a sustainable, positive direction instead of driving it towards short term returns and fraudulent accounting and so on. And then there's scientific governance and focusing on die adoption. And also what we call fragile decentralization are the remaining principles. And I think maybe the most important to highlight is this concept of fragile decentralization, which is something I think has been executed on quite well in maker and the mega foundation.
00:27:41.210 - 00:28:19.606, Speaker B: So basically the idea is the foundation would slowly step by step, release new functionality to the community. So the community can gradually take over different aspects of running the day to day maker governance process. And of course, the system has from the very beginning been controlled by MPI holders. So from the very beginning it's been a DAo that's been under the control of token holders. But there's also an additional layer just beyond what you would call the crypto economic layer. That's the process for how to. It's not the process of saying yes or no to decision, it's the process for what's the decision that's up for debate.
00:28:19.606 - 00:28:54.054, Speaker B: And that process is something that can be a little bit harder to decentralize. And that's what the foundation has been slowly doing ever since basically the beginning of major governance, when the foundation principles were voted in. And then now we are actually at the end. So we're at the final stage where it's possible to sort of see into the future to the point where the foundation will complete. I mean, it will deliver the protocol in such a state that nothing is needed from any external actors whatsoever, and then the foundation can dissolve itself. Yeah.
00:28:54.092 - 00:29:32.558, Speaker A: And I definitely want to go deeper into that kind of pathway. As a dow, I mean, it sounds like the natural conclusion because in some sense, you were never a company. You were never going to be a conventional company. It's much more kind of bottom up. But before I do, I just kind of want to ask a question, which is, do you think that journey, that story about how you were formed as an organization, as a community, do you think that that will happen again? Is that possible today, or is that really a product of the time and that early period in crypto's lifecycle?
00:29:32.654 - 00:29:58.410, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. I think that that was a very unique and sort of almost like random occurrence. Right. It's not very likely for something like that to happen again. Yeah. I mean, mixture definitely is a very strange project that has very strange and idiosyncratic elements to it. A lot of it is just total, like the result of randomness and random occurrences.
00:29:58.990 - 00:30:44.140, Speaker A: And so if we kind of look at that journey of becoming a Dow, was there a point where you sat down and, well, to what extent did you consciously design it? Did you sit down? So there's a lot of theory now around crypto economics and how you kind of design the incentives and the game theory to make sure that the system functions in an orderly way. And people spend an inordinate amount of time on that before they even write a line of code and certainly launch a network. What extent did you kind of think that through? And in your mind, what was the minimal, viable dow? What was the baseline that needed to be in place?
00:30:44.750 - 00:31:34.214, Speaker B: So in the beginning, I started designing, you could say the first draft of the project in the beginning of 2015. And then I then just announced that and sort of announced basically a design on Reddit and just asked for feedback on it. And iterated that maybe for a couple of months pretty much by myself and with some input from people in the early Ethereum community. But then after a couple of months, I was then joined by my co founder, Nikolai Mache, who I knew from the Bitshares community before that. So Bitshares is kind of this earlier project that preceded Ethereum, and that actually invented the stablecoin. My whole thing initially was that I was just going to copy what bitchares did, because then they have a working stablecoin concept. So we're going to copy that and put no ethereum.
00:31:34.214 - 00:32:20.434, Speaker B: That was kind of the very early idea. But then once Napoli got involved, we started having deeper conversations. We were able to sort of look further into the future to some extent, have deeper conversations about how will the space evolve. And then through that, we were able to arrive at the multilateral die design, which actually, I mean, we came up with that in summer of 2015. And what's interesting is then I started writing white papers based off that design. And what's interesting is what's actually implemented on chain today is almost completely identical to the first white paper I wrote in 2015. There's obviously tiny features that are different, but the basic logic is exactly the same.
00:32:20.572 - 00:33:13.514, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, that's amazing, because normally you hear the opposite, right? The intent. And I have heard you talk about how for the last five years, you've really looked at Dai as this test token building up towards this multiclateral vision, at that mean. Now obviously the DAO space is more mature. There's different stacks available where you can roll out a dow, fairly easily issue a governance token, and away you go. And it's got modules. At what point? From a decentralization perspective, and we all know that decentralization is slightly nebulous. It's not easy to measure, but clearly a high degree of decentralization has been important to you as like this north Star.
00:33:13.514 - 00:33:33.774, Speaker A: Looking back retrospectively, are there any learnings that you think could be relevant to somebody that's thinking about starting a new project and rolling it out straight away with a dow. Are there any kind of hard lessons that you've learned that could help somebody on that pathway?
00:33:33.902 - 00:34:46.694, Speaker B: I think one thing that almost everyone will run into sooner or later is just decentralization theater, right? So this idea that you think you're doing something decentralized, but what's really happening is something that looks decentralized, but in fact isn't. And I would claim that almost everything that is being claimed to be decentralization currently is decentralization theater and some followership, right? You could even point to something like bitcoin and ethereum as like the big decentralized flashes of crypto, and then just consider the role that tether plays in this entire industry, right. And very quickly, it's like when you really analyze more deeply, it's rare that people like to put things into these ideological boxes, right. Of decentralized, therefore good and holy, and then centralized, and therefore evil and bad and so on. Right? And the reality is that I think that it's a completely wrong view, because really the way that all of this should be considered is through the lens of risk management, right? It's about what are the risks? And you have to consider all the risks. You can't just consider what's convenient to your ideology. Right.
00:34:46.694 - 00:35:48.826, Speaker B: You have to really just be objective about the risks from the perspective of starting a new project. I think that that's really decentralization versus centralization is not really a meaningful question to think about beyond ideology for some people, right? But the thing about decentralization, I mean, what's often called decentralization, or what people often mean when they say that word, is that it can be a tremendous tool to think like transparency and resilience. And that's very important when it comes to mitigating certain types of risks. So I think with measure, one of the really big advantages we got from this Decentralization mindset or ideology is that it's transparency, it's collaboration that enables this better technology. And it's also just like this ability to attract a completely different kind of team in the early days of the project because of this radical openness and sort of flatness that existed. Yeah.
00:35:48.848 - 00:36:48.234, Speaker A: And obviously increasingly so. The degree of decentralization is important from a regulatory context. So as regulators catch up with DeFi, they even have in their mind that decentralization, good centralization, bad around enforcement and whether people are providing a regulated service or you. If we look at how MKR functions now, the governance token, how it functions from a voting perspective, the kind of things that can be voted on, could you talk through a little bit of that? And it would be good to understand as well, when you're thinking about a change or an update or a new feature, do you do the game theoretics, do you game something out before that? Or do you really just let it into the wild and see and iterate based upon it being out in the wild?
00:36:48.362 - 00:37:28.918, Speaker B: The thing about maker is it's five years old, and that means that there's been a lot of years, a long time for the community to build up very complex procedures and sort of arcane knowledge, in a sense. Right. That's very specific to how to operate a dow at scale in a decentralized community. And so there's multiple processes for how to create proposals. But I guess you can really boil it down to the two sort of most basic type of proposals that exist are, first of all, there's what we call, it's called a signal request. That's just kind of like, I'm not even sure. I don't even know where that name came from, but that just somehow emerged.
00:37:28.918 - 00:39:04.022, Speaker B: And so what that means is someone will actually just go and create a forum post with some idea and then basically see, does this idea make sense? Am I going to get any traction from this? And if it actually happens and people love it and it's great and there's more discussion and the ideas are fine and so on, then ultimately the idea actually gets put up for a vote through these streamlined governance process that ultimately revolves around what's called the monthly cycle and the weekly cycle, which is like, every month there's a big vote, every week there's like a smaller vote, and then you can get into one of those cycles, and that's how your proposal can actually get into the decision making of the dow as a whole. And at this point, there's been just too many of what I would call these purely organic, purely community driven proposals to even count. And I remember when I first started seeing it happen in the wild, so that some community member came up with an awesome idea and they just made the proposal, and then suddenly it's there for voting, and it gets voted in and it's just done. And that was really a tremendous feeling for me, I guess, sort of from the, from the founder perspective, it's like, that's just like an incredible, what I would call something like a force multiplier or something like that. Right. Because it was really just like random people out there in the community just doing work for free, even. And not just doing work, but planning it, debating it, really giving it the full treatment of rational analysis.
00:39:04.022 - 00:39:59.402, Speaker B: And then we just get these really great changes to the system. Because that's the thing about if you have a strong enough process for how to sort of funnel new proposals into the governance is if the filter is good enough, that means that anytime there's a proposal in there, it's almost always going to be like a really good proposal. Yeah, this has worked quite well. And then the counterbalance of this community driven proposals is that there's also this concept of domain teams. So the community elects basically domain experts to sort of make sure that there's actual experts sitting there with being a part of the process and keeping the data safe so you don't just get a bunch of NPR holders voting to do something totally crazy. Right there has to be some check and balances in a system like this, because otherwise it's a stable coin, it has to be stable and reliable. That's also the kind of stuff that we consider a lot.
00:39:59.402 - 00:40:29.958, Speaker B: And the domain teams and these experts, they then handle much more sort of the recurring decisions that have to be made. So things like onboarding new collateral to the system, modifying rates and prices and risk parameters in the system, and then together that just creates this process that's quite sprawling with a lot of different moving paths, but ultimately it all fits together into a single these governance cycles where the actual decisions can get made.
00:40:30.044 - 00:40:58.158, Speaker A: So maybe now is a good point to do a quick 101 on the various constituent parts, the technology that makes this up, because I'd really love to talk about the evolution of Dai towards what is now this kind of multiclateralization, and go into the bigger vision of the possibilities that that unlocks. But could you kind of give a 101 to the audience on the basic building blocks and how they function as a system?
00:40:58.244 - 00:41:41.126, Speaker B: We have the DAI stablecoin, of course, which is really the focal point of the whole project. And it's a cryptocurrency that's just worth $1. The Dow tries to keep it at $1. And DAI is created from a system known as vaults. It's a smart contract system that allows anyone that can access the blockchain to then deposit collateral into the smart contract, into the maker protocol, and then through that collateral generate that. But it has to be over collateralized, of course. Really the analogy is similar to borrowing money from the bank with your house as collaterals.
00:41:41.126 - 00:42:55.158, Speaker B: It's actually similar to taking a mortgage or something like that. You pledge your collateral, so you pledge your house to the bank and you take a loan, and with makers, you pledge your collateral. So that could be some ethereum or some bitcoin, and then you're able to generate some die, and then maybe you end up with, let's say $200 worth of collateral and then $100 worth of die that you generate, and you can then go and spend that $100 worth of diet somewhere else. And that's the really basic dynamics of sort of the basic two sided market of maker, where you have people that want to hold DAi and use its currency, and then people that want to generate DAi and basically use it as a way to access liquidity of their assets or even a way to access decentralized credit. And then ultimately you have. So it's a marketplace where the DAI holders and the vault users, they interact with each other and then that marketplace is essentially regulated by the NPR holders who ultimately write the rules of the game, but then also take on the ultimate risk of the stability of the system. So basically, they set the different risk parameters, the liquidation requirements and the.
00:42:55.158 - 00:43:43.214, Speaker B: The rates and the cost of using the system. And then ultimately, if there is a shortfall in the system, basically, if there's a situation where there's too much dye in circulation, there's not enough collateral in the system, in the vaults to back that dye, then the shortfall of value has to be covered by shareholders, so they have to actually dilute the token in order to raise more funds so that they can plug the hole. And all of this happens fully, automatically, which is, of course, what makes it so powerful. Right? So it's not like you can have your shareholders sort of deciding not to bail out the system, for instance. Right? It's programmed into the code. You can't get around it. It happens completely automatically.
00:43:43.214 - 00:44:59.462, Speaker B: And this critical connection between the MKR token and its responsibility of basically underwriting the whole system was actually showcased on March twelveth when there was the big coronavirus stock market crash, which then also crashed all of crypto and ultimately caused a series of failures in the mega ecosystem when it came. So basically, when the mega protocol tried to sell some of its assets because it was liquidating its users, it ended up, like, selling a lot of assets for nothing, for zero value. And that created a big shortfall, right, where that basically meant that now there's a big hole. And that hole was then automatically plucked by NPR. The NPR side was simply diluted to raise, I think it was about $5 million that was autonomously raised by the protocol to then ensure that the system remained in balance. And that's just such a crucial piece of the whole puzzle, that you have this skin in the game, this alignment of incentives between the people that govern the system, and then the people use the system in that. Those who govern the system, they take the loss.
00:44:59.462 - 00:45:37.266, Speaker B: When things. If they govern it badly and mistakes happen, then they're on the hook for that. And that's very unlike, this is where it's a response to the financial crisis, right? Because that's where we saw this moral hazard and these diverging incentives. And then, of course, because semkiahos are taking on this risk, and they've already seen the effects of dilution, and they're on the hook for that in the future. If there are any problems happening in the future, then of course, there's also an income stream generated by the system into the MKR token, and ultimately that creates this balanced risk reward profile.
00:45:37.378 - 00:45:52.666, Speaker A: And how much did that naturally play out? So as that crisis hit, did you have to pick up the phone and phone around a few major MKR token holders and try to direct what was going on, or did it just happen?
00:45:52.768 - 00:46:59.710, Speaker B: Once that big crash happened, there was definitely the feeling from the foundation was that this is one of those moments where there was a big shift towards the foundation isn't really able to keep up with everything and kind of have to react a lot more and sort of follow the direction of the community and the ecosystem a lot more. There was a community vote to extend the duration of the auctions because there was concern around, just not like it was the first time it ever happened, and there just wasn't that much time to react. And so because there had just been an auction problem with the auctions at celebrate level in the system, then I think it makes a lot of sense that people decided that in this case, the system needed some extra time to make sure that just everyone could be ready to actually participate in those options. While I think something like 70% of NCR was won by a crypto fund, that also still means that 30% of it was really bought by basically random people bailing out the dive holders, you could say. Right. And then in return, getting a lot of newly generated. NPR.
00:46:59.870 - 00:47:26.570, Speaker A: Yeah, fascinating. So, obviously, the systems evolved. Now it has its kind of first multilateral asset, which was backed the basic attention token. Can you talk through how that process happened? Because as I understand it, that was voted in again through this governance process. Some options were presented by the foundation that had been tested, and then it was kind of voted upon. But could you talk about that journey?
00:47:26.990 - 00:48:10.278, Speaker B: Yeah. So just to recap out a little bit, so mega was launched in 2015. Right? And then in 2017, at the very end of 2017, the foundation launched what was called single collateral die. So it was like the first ever stable fund in Ethereum, the first DeFi project on mean. It was quite early that it got launched. Of course, it was also, some would say it's a bad timing because I was at the absolute top of the bubble back then. But in hindsight, it was actually a great time to launch because it proved to be like this trial by fire that the stablecoin actually survived.
00:48:10.278 - 00:49:10.010, Speaker B: Even though it was single collaterals, it was only backed by ETH and nothing else. And the price of ETH dropped from one over the course of six months. And during that time, about 50 million dies were in circulation, was backed by e, and actually managed to stay over collateralized despite the value of ETh just dropping so dramatically. And then the problem with singles level stable coins is that they have correlated risks, right? If ETh completely crashes, then you have a problem because that's your only collateral. So that's why we always knew. I mean, all the way back from 2015, it was clear that the solution is multiple collateral types and diversification of risk, and basically hedging one type of risk with another type of risk. So the foundation, from the moment that the foundation launched single letter die, it was just completely focused on them finishing up and launching the full version of the system, which is multilateral die.
00:49:10.010 - 00:50:11.854, Speaker B: And, yeah, that ended up taking much, much longer than we had expected, but that's, of course, always how it works. But it did eventually get finished, and then right before it finished, when also the governance process of the system really started sort of being fully mature. I mean, it had been running ever since, like I said, since the middle of 2018. That's when it had really started being made very easy to use by regular mkrholders. But about a year later, towards the end of 2019, when multilevel die was about to launch, that was when we started to see the community, some, finding its own voice, right, and actually becoming comfortable with the processes. And so there was this vote to basically prioritize the different options for collateral when multilateral would launch. And this vote was actually, it was more seen as like a technical demonstration than it's sort of a more.
00:50:11.854 - 00:51:13.586, Speaker B: Could be called a long run governance decision. So it was a list of assets that had been decided actually something like a year before, based on technical simplicity, of those tokens as collateral. And then the community ultimately voted for. Yeah, I think they voted bet the highest. And then there were also, like, a number of issues with some of the other tokens. So even though originally, I think people had expected there would be maybe more than just one new token being added as collateral, in the end, that turned out to be the best option to just launch with only bet, and then instead focus on getting the real governance process, getting it going and getting it rolling, and actually getting the community into this habit of routinely onboarding new collateral types. And that took a couple of months, but now we're really in that spot, right? So now, on average, there's about one to two new collateral types being added every single month following this monthly cycle, where they put up with the proposal in the beginning of the month, and then at the end of the month, there's a vote on them.
00:51:13.586 - 00:52:15.750, Speaker B: It's really like a snowball effect, right, where today the community is able to onboard one to two collateral types per month, but maybe a couple of years from now that'll be 20 or 30, who knows how much it will be? But that is really the power of decentralization that you can have so many people working in parallel, right, with full transparency to what's going on. You can use the fundamental dynamics of the maker protocol and sort of this shared governance and shared responsibility and just the structure, which is that the system can protect itself by having a lot of scale and then a lot of diversification. And that just fits well with all the other concepts of decentralization, of community governance and so on. And that's ultimately what the vision is. Through these characteristics, we can build something that can grow beyond and so scale, beyond how finance and financial systems currently look like and hopefully actually have a real impact in the real world.
00:52:15.900 - 00:52:52.722, Speaker A: Yeah, so let's talk about that. So I know obviously, to date, the things that are being added, the collateral that's being added is crypto. And of course the crypto asset class is still highly correlated. I know you've been talking a lot about the possibility to move into cbdcs, central backed issued digital currencies as well as real estate, potentially presumably through things like stos security tokens. Can you talk through some of the possibilities where you think the low hanging fruit is? And yeah, the most interesting proposals that are being put forward today.
00:52:52.856 - 00:54:10.098, Speaker B: It's true that the biggest next step for maker, after having launched multi level diet, the next place where the community needs to go is towards connecting this financial infrastructure that now exists with the real world, because that's what's lacking right now. Right now, Ethereum and Defi blockchain is quite isolated. It's kind of like this self contained little bubble where everything interacts with itself inside this bubble, but there's not that much connection to the outside world and sort of to the real economy. But that's where the real value is. And that's also where things that are not, you can find stuff that isn't all correlated with bitcoin exists. So you're completely right that one of the main things that we're looking towards as just a way to scale the system, basically, and to the point I made in the beginning, right now there is this intense debate about how does the community increase the supply of dye in the short run to meet all this demand that's coming out of the new d five projects. And the answer has always been, I mean, even from something like back in 2016, we identified that we have to move out of the crypto bubble and into the real world, because that's where you can get access to things like real estate, for instance.
00:54:10.098 - 00:54:49.174, Speaker B: Right. And legal claims on companies stocks and bonds and so on. I am particularly optimistic about trade finance as an asset class that just, it's a really good fit for the position makers in right now. So basically, what it looks like is trade minus is financing invoices, essentially between companies, especially international trade. So basically, you have one company that delivers a product to another company and then sends them an invoice. And then if they don't want to wait three months to get paid, because that's how long it takes to get paid for some reason. Still don't know why that's the case.
00:54:49.174 - 00:55:36.600, Speaker B: But that's just the case for some reason, right? It takes a lot of time to get paid if you're a small business and you're working in a supply chain. And so if you don't want to wait those three months, then what you can do is you can go to a trade finance facility and you can basically sell your invoice, essentially. And that's actually a really crucial service. In fact, I know someone myself whose business was going to go under during the coronavirus crash, and the only reason why they survived was because they got trade finance. So they had some outstanding orders. They were able to basically get short term financing for. You could take these kind of operations where basically have, it's known as revolvers, right? Like you have these special purpose vehicles that are just buying invoices from companies.
00:55:36.600 - 00:56:42.058, Speaker B: You could then take those companies like the company itself, the special purpose vehicle itself, tokenize it, and then stick it into major as collateral, and then ultimately have major provide a line of credit to this company that then goes as credit to the small businesses doing trade finance. Yeah, I just think it's amazing because, first of all, this is really delivering on the core goal of the project, right? Financial inclusion, serving the small businesses that are struggling a lot more when, for instance, if there's a financial crisis or something. But it's also just a really great type of collateral to the system, right? Because we're talking about assets that have good liquidity, right? Like short term duration, meaning it's possible for major to actually do things like liquidate them and sort of understand what their value is in the protocol as collateral, the outstanding value. But also because trade finance is just something that, it's not very risky. It's like very diversified. It's not really like crypto, where everything follows bitcoin. Right.
00:56:42.058 - 00:57:19.750, Speaker B: Trade finance actually is based on so many businesses all over the world, all with different characteristics, and it's just very unlikely that they all collapse all at once, for instance. And there is actually, to your point, about what are the actual things that are being proposed right now. So there are actually some concrete proposals. Anyone can go to the maker forum. So forum, maker.com, and check out all the different collateral applications that have been made, basically by companies and people in the ecosystem who have then made these applications to the community that the community is then considering. And anyone can follow those discussions.
00:57:19.750 - 00:57:54.690, Speaker B: And one of the projects that are on there is one called console freight, and that's basically a trade finance project that has created this structure where they can receive a line of credit from maker, and then they can take that line of credit and they can use that for trade finance activity and then sort of take on more of the risk themselves. So that maker is actually exposed to very little risk, but then in return, they can also get a much lower rate on their cost of capital from makers.
00:57:56.390 - 00:59:05.610, Speaker A: If you follow that line of thought. And it's pretty clear that if you look at the current financial system, whether that's trade finance or anything else, just basic lending rates on savings accounts, it looks like it would be very difficult for the financial system as it is today to compete with this new emergent financial system just because of all the inefficiencies it has. But if we look at where we are now with DeFi, obviously we've got this bull run. Who knows whether it's a mini one or it's going to be a sustained one. To what extent? DeFi is primarily oriented towards retail investors at the moment, although those with a fairly high technical competency. To what extent is that even interesting to you at the moment? Does that feel like a fairly short cycle and a bit too small to have your attention versus the almost limitless potential of effectively absorbing the global financial system and as you say, these kind of non crypto related assets, institutional SME type financing?
00:59:06.510 - 00:59:46.470, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely like to think of that as a lot of the stuff we're seeing in DeFi right now is really this kind of fluffy, short sighted and pointless exercise in trying to move around money and pretend you've created value. And meanwhile, yeah, I mean, I exactly believe that the only way that real value will emerge out of crypto is by trying to apply it to problems in the real world. But at the same time, you can just never avoid these speculative bubbles. Right. And all of this irrational behavior. And the question is, what do the projects do with the opportunity they're given, right. With all the capital they're given when they're raising money and so on.
00:59:46.470 - 01:01:04.098, Speaker B: And we've already been through this once before in maker, so maker lived through the 2017 ICO mania, and at that time, we were very focused on keeping our heads down and just building and not buying into the hype, because I think that could actually be a very real risk. If you lose focus and you just get blinded by something that's too good to be true, then you have a problem, and it's very difficult to not let that happen. Right. It takes a lot of discipline to focus on the long term, but in our case, it just turned out that that really paid off for us. Because even though maker was sort of completely forgotten and overshadowed and just, like, considered irrelevant during the ICO mania, because people just too focused on short term gains, then once the ICO mania died down, maker actually emerged as, like, the only project that had actually done anything real. I mean, that's exaggerating, right? There's a lot of other really cool projects, but I guess maker was the only one that had done it and also had some level of scale. And so it really stood out because we had just focused on delivering on the core technology.
01:01:04.098 - 01:01:48.458, Speaker B: And I think that this is kind of a situation where it's not exactly parallel. There's certainly more sophistication and some interesting things being tried out in this cycle as well. I certainly think that the big thing that the big differentiator will be what projects will be focusing on the real world and focusing on real problems, and what projects will be focusing on new ways to move around tokens or new ways to send around tokens. Because the problem is just, you can't create money out of nothing. Right? So someone has to, like, the value has to come from somewhere, and you're going to be much better off if you're focusing on creating that value rather than moving that value around once it's already been created.
01:01:48.634 - 01:02:02.690, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, so linked to that, I kind of have to ask the question because I'm intrigued by it. But do you think this cycle will be as big as 2017? Bigger, or what's your intuition?
01:02:03.510 - 01:02:23.850, Speaker B: I can't really speculate on that because I just never am able to predict that kind of stuff. But I certainly think everything is a possibility, including that it doesn't really go much further from here. That's also absolutely a possibility as well, I think so, yeah. That's just a matter of sitting back and enjoying the ride.
01:02:24.270 - 01:03:27.658, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I mean, I agree. As you said, there's definitely more substance to this, but at the same time, there is a lot of movement of money happening without any kind of core value. It's interesting to understand if it's being driven by new money entering a system or it can attract new money into the system versus this recycling. I think we're both agreed that that's not the most interesting thing about what's happening with maker. So if we kind of zoom out of that and we look at what's happening in a macro environment, you could argue, I mean, there couldn't be a better moment for you to be at this point in your development sophistication, evolution. And I've heard you talk about as more things are collateralized, there's the opportunity to hedge not just from an asset perspective, but also from a jurisdictional perspective. And I think that is really fascinating when you think about what you're building here, what you've enabled as an exit ramp for people who might be otherwise stuck in a hyper localized environment.
01:03:27.754 - 01:04:30.834, Speaker B: Yeah. And in fact, jurisdictional arbitrage and sort of this idea that crypto is global and you can work from whichever place is best for you to work from and so on. I think that has already always been quite at the center of how crypto operated. And I think a really early example is like how Switzerland suddenly became this hub of crypto. Right. Because everybody realized during the ICO mania that you can set up a foundation in Switzerland, and then there's just so many projects doing blockchain in Switzerland nowadays because of mean with what, what it really all comes down to is this fundamental, I mean, almost ideological, you could say question, or maybe ideological isn't the right word, but this existential question of are the governments going to try to shut down maker? Right. Maybe even, not even legally, but politically, you could say, is the US just going to say we're going to shut it down, we're just going to figure out a way to shut it down and we're going to do it right.
01:04:30.834 - 01:05:16.754, Speaker B: And they're going to send out police to every single company or something that has a relationship with, that's somehow doing stuff with Maker, and then they're going to arrest them all or shut them down somehow. Right. It's kind of like an unrealistic edge case. Right. But it's kind of like the starting point for why the community just takes diversification and especially also jurisdictional diversification so seriously. Right. Because it is actually possible to get the system to a state where you can actually absolve the losses of, let's say, a particular jurisdiction just deciding to try to shut things down or something like that.
01:05:16.754 - 01:05:57.770, Speaker B: Right? And that's the power of the decentralized governance of the programmability of the system is it's just a matter of adjusting the parameters, basically. I mean, it's not possible right at this moment for maker governance to decide exactly what jurisdictions they want exposure to. And that's because there's not really anything available. There's nothing unbounded that's highly diversified just yet. Right. There are some stable coins in the system that are under the US jurisdiction, but that's it, right? There's no european assets, so there's not this ability yet to balance between Europe and the US, for instance. But as the system scales, all of that will become a possibility.
01:05:57.770 - 01:06:55.946, Speaker B: And there'll be the tools essentially, and the framework to design the exposure exactly the way that is optimal for the community, for the NPR holders that are trying to escape dilution, but then most importantly for the regular people that use Dai, and to your example, let's say Argentinians. So that's pretty, quite popular in Argentina, right? And the reason why it's popular and the really big selling point is this idea that nobody controls this money, right? You can hold the money and it's not going to get inflated away by the government or seized or frozen or it just can't happen to it, right? Or at least if it happens, you have the MPR holders, you have the entire logic of the system, you have all the collateral. There are so many layers of protection that it's just very unlikely that it will actually happen. It provides a level of protection that goes beyond anything else that currently exists.
01:06:56.138 - 01:07:28.054, Speaker A: Yeah, well, we've shot over what would normally be a 45 minutes recording, and I could stay on for another half an hour asking a million other questions. But I want to be respectful of your time. So rune, thanks so much for coming on the show. I'm almost definitely going to try to get you back on at some point in the next twelve months to talk about the evolution of the community and this dissolution of the Dow. But I just want to give you a big thank you for your contribution to the space. As I said, I think it's foundational. I think DFI is not possible without it and everything else that's going to happen on top of that.
01:07:28.054 - 01:07:29.366, Speaker A: So thanks for coming on the show.
01:07:29.468 - 01:07:30.670, Speaker B: Really glad. Mia.
01:07:33.170 - 01:07:41.420, Speaker A: If you enjoyed today's podcast, please make sure you subscribe rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission of web three.
