00:00:00.840 - 00:00:27.459, Speaker A: What is up guys? Boomer Taiki here. And I know what you're wondering, like what happened, right? Why do you look like that? Like, why do you look like an Asian version of Charles Hoskinson? And you know, I take offense to that. Not because I have anything against Charles. I mean, clearly he's with a beautiful woman at this airport or something. So, you know, clearly he's doing something right in his life, right? Unlike myself. But I'm just offended because I think I look more like Anthony Cesano. Right? But that doesn't matter.
00:00:27.459 - 00:01:37.015, Speaker A: That doesn't matter, right? The point is I've aged a lot in the past week, right? The past week has been very, very stressful for me and I'm sure it's been really stressful for a lot of you. And you know, as I was reflecting on myself and you know, Yesterday I turned 26, right? So happy birthday to me. And I was thinking about it, I'm like, you know, being 26 in this industry, it's kind of this like the equivalent just being a boomer, right? I'm just a boomer at this point. And the whole Luna and the UST fiasco, right? The implosion, all that stuff, like I just, I just can't take risk anymore, right? Like my risk tolerance went from up here to down here, you know, it is what it is, right? Like double digit apys can't be trusted. It's not sustainable. I just have to go for sustainable sources of revenue, safe boomer yield farms, okay? So from this point on forward, as long as I'm boomer Tyche, I'm only going to talk about, you know, boomer farms, right? So you know, like whether you like it or not, feel free to unsubscribe if you want to, right? You know I'm a boomer, right? Like numbers don't mean anything to me, you know. So look, let's go over top farms for risk averse boomers like myself, okay? So obviously not financial advice, right? I'm a boomer, right? Like don't take financial advice from crypto boomers.
00:01:37.015 - 00:02:15.251, Speaker A: So let's pay homage to my spirit animal, Charles Hoskinson by talking about some good farms on Cardano, right? So if you go to Defi llama, right, The Cardano TVO looks like Mount Everest, right? That's totally fine. We can still farm on Cardano, right? But I looked really hard. I looked really hard. There's a. I mean, yeah, like farms are non existent on Cardano, right? I mean, sure, they exist, but you Know, like, they're not really worth putting your money in it, right? Unless you want to lose money. So if I want to earn yield, right, on the Cardano blockchain, I have to look for more creative ways to earn yield. And, you know, Cardano is synonymous to Charles Hoskinson, right? Because now the blockchain itself, you know, it's.
00:02:15.251 - 00:02:52.969, Speaker A: It's getting started, right? But not much exists on it yet. And essentially a bet on Cardano is a bet on Charles Hoskinson. So instead of farming on Cardano, like, what if I farm on Charles Hoskinson, Right? They're basically the same thing. And I was doing some market research, you know, because that's what I do, right? I'm a research analyst, and I saw that, you know, Charles, he has a garden, right, In Sunnyside, Colorado, right? And it needs a lot of help, right? Let's zoom in on some of these photos, right? I mean, like, great posture, right? I can see his man boobs. You know, like, there's a dog at the bottom, right? You know, like those. I mean. I mean, there's like some green, right? That's good.
00:02:52.969 - 00:04:02.749, Speaker A: But, like, what, like, what is this? Right? Like, he definitely needs some farming advice from someone experienced like myself, right? And I mean, why is he posting pictures of this thing, right? Like what, like, what is the point of this? So clearly, Charles definitely needs some farming advice, and that is where I see the point of maximum opportunity. But how can I earn a safe apy from, you know, Charles's clear need for farming advice? And I can answer that with two words, right? Market research, right? Every time I'm looking for answers, every time I'm doing research, I'm looking at the market and I'm figuring out, okay, where can I, like, where's the maximum point of opportunity, right? Like that. That is my motto, right? Maximum point of opportunity, okay? And, you know, we have to look for sustainable yields, sustainable revenue sources with predictable demand. That's the point. Predictable demand, okay? Because sure, I can make $1,000 today, but if I can only make $100 tomorrow, then, like, what's the point, right? Like, there's no point for me to invest in something if there isn't sustainable sources of, like, demand. And, you know, of course, you know, Charles is a mysterious creature, right? He's my spirit animal. And, you know, he.
00:04:02.749 - 00:05:08.065, Speaker A: He has this infatuation with mushrooms. I don't really get it, right? But if you're a businessman, like, you don't really question like, like, the motives of the buyers. I mean, you Kind of do, but you don't really care, right? You're just like, okay, like, you want to buy my mushrooms? All right, I'll just produce mushrooms and sell it to you at a profit, right? And, you know, like, Charles is the type of person to fly down to the south and go to some mushroom lectures, okay? I mean, I respect that, right? He, you know, goes out to the forest, he goes hiking, and he takes photos of mushrooms, and he wants to clone them and add them to the farm box, okay? So now clearly Charles likes mushrooms. And if I can produce mushrooms for him, then he's fucking to buy from me, right? Especially if I can offer him competitive rates to the market. And, you know, he's the Giorgio Mushroom Festival, right? I mean, I don't really know what's going on here, right? But you know, he has a hat, right? If he's willing to buy mushroom hats, then he's definitely going to be willing to buy mushrooms from me. And, you know, he has some photos of him enjoying mushrooms at, like, a mall, right? And, you know, he, like, I don't even know, like, what's going on here, but he just really likes mushrooms. That's the point here.
00:05:08.065 - 00:05:40.165, Speaker A: And, you know, Charles often does his live streams, right? He has hundreds of thousands of subscribers. I envy him. And, you know, one time he was asked a question. Charles, what do you think about magic mushrooms? And I'm not really suggesting that he, you know, takes or doesn't take magic mushrooms, but, you know, like, you know, you know, you kind of. You get it, right? You get it. So obviously, you know, mushrooms, like that is the produce to farm, right? We're all about the fungi here. Yeah, I'm a fun guy, right? Even my sense of humor has become boomer fight.
00:05:40.165 - 00:06:00.963, Speaker A: So let's focus on farming mushrooms. The thing is, I can't, like, earn a living selling mushrooms to Charles alone. He's only one person. Even if he consumes, like, you know, mushrooms every single day, I just can't sustain myself. I need more buyers. Fortunately, Charles, you know, he can help me out, right? He has almost a million followers. Let's round up, right? He has a million followers.
00:06:00.963 - 00:07:07.531, Speaker A: And if you think about the Cardano community, it's a cult, right? I mean, if Charles does something, then the Cardano community is going to, like, tattoo it on their skin or something, right? I mean, so if Charles buys my mushrooms, it's very, very likely that 99% of his followers will also buy him my mushrooms, right? Because, you know, you follow the leader, right? You follow Charles and you know, you guide the leader and his pack follows, right? So assuming that there's a million followers that Charles has, then I can say with certainty, with absolute certainty that I can receive 990,000 customers with recurring revenue. Sustainable, sustainable, sustainable. Now what about my other spirit animal, right? Anthony Cessano, right. He has 200,000 followers. I don't really know what that photo is about. Right? But if that guy comes up, if that guy knocks at your door and offers to sell mushrooms, right? Like you're going to buy mushrooms, right? Not because you want mushrooms, but you just kind of spooked out and you could, you just kind of want him like off of your front porch, right? So, but you know, Cesano ain't no Charles. He does not have a cult like following though, you know, a lot of people do respect him.
00:07:07.531 - 00:07:49.453, Speaker A: And you know, if he buys my mushrooms, I'm sure me, like maybe like 5% of his following will buy my mushrooms. So let's just say 10,000 customers worth of recurring revenue, right? So this is how you do market research, right? I went to business school. I also consulted for some high tech, sort of high growth tech companies. So, you know, I tend to know what I'm talking about. So there's that, right? We have a million customers from mushrooms, right? So I have to produce a lot of mushrooms. But how much, how much mushrooms do I have to produce to sell mushroom, to sell to my crypto community? So upon further research, right, this is a, this is a pretty, it's not a great trend, right. If I'm trying to get into the mushroom business, you want to see this trend go up rather than go down.
00:07:49.453 - 00:08:05.421, Speaker A: Right. But I'm sure Charles can help me with this. But let's just say, you know, per capita consumption of mushrooms in the US roughly 2.5 pounds per person, right. So let's just be conservative. Stick to 2.5 per person, right? And given that, you know, there's a million people that's going to buy my mushrooms, 2.5
00:08:05.421 - 00:08:33.271, Speaker A: million pounds of mushrooms, right? I mean, that's a lot of mushrooms, right? There's going to be a lot of opportunities to make money off there. And you know, I was doing some research on how profitable this industry is and mushrooms, you know this website called Fungi Ally. Right. Great resource, right. I bookmarked it. I suggest everyone do the same. And this person mentioned that, you know, if you take into account, you know, material expenses, labor, everything, the profit margin is roughly $4.76
00:08:33.271 - 00:08:51.745, Speaker A: per pound. Right? So, you know, not, not Too bad, right? Given that there's 2.5 million pounds of mushrooms that I have to offload to the market. Okay. So of course, you know, this article was written maybe like a year or two ago, right. But obviously there's like rising cost, right? Rising cost of material, labor, etc. It's reasonable to expect lower margins.
00:08:51.745 - 00:09:06.283, Speaker A: So, you know, with some room of certainty, right. Conservative estimate of $4.20 per pound. Right. That's my profit margin per for mushrooms. So I'm going to stick to this number and like, let's. Let's keep moving forward and figure out, like, how much revenue can I.
00:09:06.283 - 00:09:23.819, Speaker A: And how much profit can I generate from this? So, you know, just simple math, right? Potential profit here is $10.5 million. There you go. Right. Like, why was I putting money into anchor, right? I could, I could have just done this in my entire life and I could have made $10 million every single year. Right? Like that's, that's. That's called passive income, right.
00:09:23.819 - 00:09:41.915, Speaker A: You know, like, I can just go to Charles's backyard, grow some mushrooms and, you know, I'm sure that, you know, I can convince Charles, right. If I can give him some mushrooms for free, you know, at a discount, he'll probably let me use his backyard for free. Right. So I can cut on costs there that way too. Right. It's like crypto life. It's all about networking.
00:09:41.915 - 00:10:02.855, Speaker A: Right? You just have to know some people. You know, you ask for a favor and then, you know, like, if. If they ask for favor back in the future, then, you know, you have to oblige. Right. That's kind of how life works. Yeah. And I look forward to visiting Charles in Sunnyside, Colorado and embark on this journey to produce as many mushrooms as I can.
00:10:02.855 - 00:10:24.559, Speaker A: Okay. Yeah, yeah. Heavily discounted mushrooms, right? I mean, why not? So summary here is that, you know, I can profitable, like I can farm extremely profitable on Cardano. Right? That blockchain is a gold mine, okay? Like, please don't dilute my yields. I'm just sharing my research process so you can learn from it. You know, I was affected by USD and Luna, obviously. So, you know, please don't dilute my yields.
00:10:24.559 - 00:10:46.533, Speaker A: But, you know, if you want to take 20% of my market share, I'm willing to do so. That's totally fine. So let's talk about farming on Ethereum. Because, yes, Cardano is profitable, but you can't be a Cardano, Max. You have to be Omnichain. You have to look for all opportunities. Can we farm mushrooms On Ethereum.
00:10:46.533 - 00:11:23.031, Speaker A: And the answer is yes. Actually, the answer is yes. I was talking to Anthony, my twin brother from another mother, and he was talking to me about mushroom finance on the Ethereum blockchain, right? Super decentralized mushroom farming. That's the way to go, right? Proof of stake and whatnot. But unfortunately, a couple days ago, with the USTD peg Luna, all that stuff, mushroom finance was exploited and the vaults were drained, right? Unfortunate, right? There was a postmortem analysis. For anyone that wants to read it. I read it and you know, like, I just.
00:11:23.031 - 00:11:46.675, Speaker A: I. I don't want to touch Ethereum anymore, right? It's too risky, right? Way too risky. You know, like Anthony Sasano, right? Was he behind this attack? I don't know, right? Like he recommended to me like days before this exploit. But fortunately I was farming on Cordana, right? I was doing. And I was like preparing for mushroom farming. So fortunately I was not affected by this. But you know, you better watch out, right? Defi is risky, right? Crypto is dangerous.
00:11:46.675 - 00:12:30.937, Speaker A: So you know, Ethereum based mushrooms are susceptible to attack. I'm gonna stick to Cardano, but if you must like steak, eat on Lido or something, right? Like, that's probably the best way to go. Okay, how about safe farms on Phantom, right? Safe mushroom farms on Phantom. Like, do they exist? Wait, what? Where's my Phantom slide? Wait, are there no state farms on Phantom? Oh, fuck. Well, no, let's keep going, right? Let's, let's. Let's go. Let's go to Avalanche, right? I'm sure there are good farms in Avalanche, right? I'm not sure if there are any mushrooms out there, but you know, because you know, Avalanche is right, it's like, it's like a snowy mountain and whatnot.
00:12:30.937 - 00:13:18.385, Speaker A: But let's, let's, let's keep. Let's keep. Let's keep going. So I think the best way to look for good farms is to contact insiders, right? Insiders know the best information and you know, they can tell you the alpha, right? So you know they have Lanceto Defi, right? I did some research and you know this man is named Luigi, right? Like Luigi, right? Literally, like mushrooms are everywhere, right? Because if you know anything about Mario and Luigi, like, they love mushrooms. And you know, though, you know, though there aren't any good forms on Avalanche right now, right? As it pertains to like mushrooms, Luigi, he's a Jets fan, right? So I think he needs all the support that we can give him. So, you know, I'm going to farm On Cardano, maybe farm on Ethereum and also Avalanche. You know, just I'm an altruistic guy, right? At the end of the day, so let's focus on those ecosystems.
00:13:18.385 - 00:14:11.611, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, he just loves mushrooms, right? So let's talk about the road to profitability, right? Because what good is a business if it's not profitable, right? Like it has to be self sustaining. Like there has to be some profitability, you know, and with all. With the trial situation with Ethereum exploit, with Luigi, right, Being a Jets fan now, all roads lead to mushroom farming on the cardinal blockchain, right? But it's easy to create something, right? I can easily make mushrooms in my backyard, right? That's totally fine. But what matters is sales, distribution and marketing, right? That is the most difficult part of any business. Yes, you can create a good product, but how can you sell it, right? How can you let the world know, right? And how can you convince them to buy your product and you know, two words to answer your question, right? Vertical integration, right? Vertical integration. You know, like I went to business school. You can trust me on this one, right? You go to Investopedia.
00:14:11.611 - 00:15:46.359, Speaker A: What is a vertical integration? It's a strategy that allows a company to streamline its operations by taking direct ownership of various stages of its production process rather than relying on external contractors or suppliers. So I want my business, I want my mushroom business to just stick within the crypto community, right? I don't want to try to sell, right? I don't want to spend precious marketing dollars to try to convince normies to buy my mushrooms. I want to stick to the crypto community, right? That way, you know, I can do targeted advertising, you know, I can, you know, create like packaging that suits my crypto and native customers needs. And I think that this is the best way forward, right? This is a good demonstration of, you know, vertical integration, right? Self sustaining, right? It's all in one ecosystem, you know? So how can we integrate this to mushroom farming on Cardano, right? So yeah, sustainable system, right? Everything has to be sustainable, right? That can withstand demand, stock demand, shocks, all crypto native. So this is how I, you know, imagine my mushroom business to go, right? So there's me at the top, right? I'm the operator, I'm the chief executive officer and everything starts with me. And I've identified, you know, three people that can be to my help, right? You have Charles Hoskinson, right? Anthony Sasano and Luigi from Avalanche. Okay? So what I can do is I can produce my mushrooms, right? And I can sell my Mushrooms at a discount to these people, right? And use them as a form of distribution, marketing, sales, right? Because I can't do everything myself, right? It makes sense to offload some of the work to my peers and give them a cut of the profitability, right? So yes, the profit margin per pound per mushroom is $4.20,
00:15:46.359 - 00:16:49.985, Speaker A: right? Per pound. But maybe I can sell my mushrooms at like a $2 profit to these people and, you know, that's going to be incentive for them to, you know, sell my mushrooms and make a profit, right? If crypto has taught me anything, it's all about incentivization mechanisms and tokenomics, right? This is great tokenomics right here. And you know, the beauty of crypto is that we are all, well connected and you know, these people, right, Are I guess, influencers in each respective community and they know a lot of people. So Charles, right, they can probably hit up some of his YouTube influencers, right? Hey, like, you know, I got, I got these mushrooms, right? I eat them every single day, right? It's good for you, right? You know, it makes me loopy sometimes, you know, like, I'll sell you my mushrooms that I got from Taiki at a discount and you can sell it to your followers and make a profit, right? Times are tough out there, right? We all need revenue sources. And Anthony Cesano, he's friends with the Bankless guys, right? They have a pretty good following, right? They have like over a hundred thousand subscribers on YouTube or something. I mean, you know, like this, this is, this is great, right? And Luigi can talk to Emin, Gunseer and his brother Mario. Everything works, right? Everything works.
00:16:49.985 - 00:17:46.221, Speaker A: And you can kind of see like where this goes, right? And you can kind of see that, like, I'm not really spending too much money or too much of my time to profit off of this mushroom business. I am giving my peers a cut and therefore they are incentivized to make me money, right? And you know, their profits are my profits and their peers profits are also my profits, right? It's a self sustaining ecosystem and it all works, right? And, you know, I expect this to keep getting bigger, right? I want my mushroom business to really, you know, I want this to be a monopoly, right? In the crypto industry, I don't want no oligopoly. I just want a pure monopoly, right? And I forgot to delete the slide. But no, let's, let's keep moving forward, right? So no, the earlier you get in, the bigger your profits are. DM me, if you're interested, right? Twitter, YouTube, like, whatever, right? Probably. Probably Twitter, right? This is. This is called passive mushroom income, right? Like, this is the new motto, right? Pmi, right? Pmi.
00:17:46.221 - 00:18:03.139, Speaker A: Yeah, pmi. Passive mushroom income, pmi. That's what life is all about. So, summary, you know crypto is dangerous, right? Like, we should have known this. Crypto is dangerous. Anything can go to zero in crypto. Mushrooms can't.
00:18:03.139 - 00:18:32.615, Speaker A: Like, mushrooms don't go to zero. Right? See what I did there, right? I think I figured it out. Right? Yeah. So mushrooms don't go to zero. And, you know, while everyone is trying to make everything back in one trade, I'm just chilling, right, in Colorado with my boy Charles Hoskinson, smoking a cigar, right? And enjoying my magic. I mean, regular mushrooms, fresh mushrooms, and, you know, like, this is how you farm on the cardano blockchain, right? So that's the end of the video. Hopefully this video is useful.
00:18:32.615 - 00:18:53.615, Speaker A: I'm sure a lot of people can relate with the boomer for boomerfication of crypto right now. Times are tough out there, but when in doubt, right? Like, you just go to mushrooms. Yeah, that's. That's the takeaway. So thank you guys for watching. Have performing out there and buy my mushrooms, please. Right? And if you want to be part of it, please DM me.
00:18:53.615 - 00:18:56.091, Speaker A: Time's running out fast. Bye.
