00:00:00.090 - 00:01:11.854, Speaker A: Um, thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap first headline NFTs Takeoff with mainstream artists The NFT Craze is reaching multiple corners of mainstream culture. Kings of Leon released their new album When You See Yourself in nonfungible token or NFT form Friday, March 5, the day this show drops at noon Eastern Time. In doing so, Kings of Leon will become the first rock band to issue an NFT album. According to Rolling Stone, the NFTs are available through Yellow Heart, a company focused on NFTs for concert tickets and musical artists, and will be priced at $50 for the two week sale. Yellow Heart will also mint 18 unique golden tickets, six of which the band will put to auction, guaranteeing the owner four front row seats to Kings of Leon concerts during each tour for life, marking the first time concert tickets will be officially sold as NFTs. Another big name in music cashing in on the NFT craze is Grimes, the Canadian singer and partner to Elon Musk, who made $5.8 million in under 20 minutes on Sunday through her sale of digital artwork.
00:01:11.854 - 00:02:41.402, Speaker A: Her collection, War Nymph was sold via NFT platform Nifty Gateway, and a percentage of the proceeds from the War Nymph NFT sales will be donated to Carbon 180, a company dedicated to reducing carbon emissions. Street artist Banksy saw a piece of his artwork titled Morons Physically Burned on a Twitter Livestream before being resurrected digitally as an NFT. Morons purchased by Injective Protocol for $95,000 and then promptly destroyed ridicules art collectors for purchasing expensive pieces of art on the purpose of the burning. A representative of the company explained, quote, the main intention here is to be the first ever event where a physical piece of art is turned into a digital piece. The digital version of Morons is currently on openc in an auction that ends on Sunday, March 7. Chris Dixon, general partner at A 16 Z Crypto, published a welltimed blog post about NFTs and how they have the potential to, quote, accelerate the trend of creators monetizing directly with their fans by fundamentally altering the economics for artists. He lists three main ways NFTs can change creator economics one, the removal of middlemen, two, the transformation of customers to owners, and three, the allowance for what he calls granular price tiering, which is like how Kickstarters enable creators to make more money from especially enthusiastic supporters than they can from the everyday fan.
00:02:41.402 - 00:04:03.450, Speaker A: If you're interested in more of the A 16 Z Crypto investment thesis around NFTs, you can hear A 16 Z general partner Katie Hahn discussing NFTs eloquently on a recent Tim Ferriss podcast. James Beck, director of communications and content at Consensus, penned a long blog post this week lauding NFTs for providing a challenge to what Internet ownership is and might be. He believes that NFTs will transform the music industry through the tracking of metadata like the audio file, the rights, etc. Across multiple platforms, allowing artists to receive royalties for every listen and or sale to round out a crazy week in NFTs, Yield Guild Games, a dao or decentralized autonomous organization, is going to be investing NFTs and Yield Guild Games received funding from Scalar Capital, Delphi, Digital, BlockTower Capital, and others. YGG will use the $1.3 million to invest in virtual land and other in game assets. Next Headline A roundup of how traditional finance is coming to crypto Amazon Web Services announced that its product, Amazon managed Blockchain, now supports Ethereum, enabling customers to focus on building Ethereum based applications without going through the complicated process of operating their own Ethereum infrastructure.
00:04:03.450 - 00:04:53.910, Speaker A: PayPal is in the process of purchasing Curve, a crypto custody firm, for a rumored $200 million to $500 million. In an exclusive interview with Decrypt, PayPal CEO Dan Schulman confirmed the launch of a crypto dedicated business unit that will, amongst other plans, expand crypto offerings beyond buy, sell and hold. Users of crypto derivatives platform FTX can also now use the payments giant to deposit fiat onto the exchange. Goldman Sachs is relaunching its cryptocurrency trading desk after a three year respite. It plans to support bitcoin futures by midmarch. After being put into hiatus in 2018 due to regulatory concerns, State Street has been appointed the fund administrator and transfer agent of the Van Eck Bitcoin Trust. A proposed Bitcoin ETF.
00:04:53.910 - 00:05:30.886, Speaker A: Van Eck submitted its most recent Bitcoin ETF filing in December 2020. Not to be outdone by Visa and Mastercard. Discover Financial, the third largest US. Credit card company, posted a job listing for a product manager to develop and deliver upon the company's blockchain roadmap. Charles Schwab, which oversees $6.8 trillion in client assets, is exploring different white label solutions for crypto brokerage. Citibank authored a report titled Bitcoin at the Tipping Point, which proposed that, quote Bitcoin could become an international trade currency as a decentralized and secure form of payment.
00:05:30.886 - 00:06:57.810, Speaker A: Sadie's researchers, however, cited scalability environmental considerations and capital inefficiencies as potential barriers to widespread adoption. Jurian Timmer Fidelity's, director of Global Macro Global Asset Allocation, compared bitcoin directly to gold in a recent research piece, while admitting that bitcoin faces risk from volatility, competitors, etc. He ended his note by writing quote for investors, the question of bitcoin may no longer be whether, but how much. Next Headline The IRS Clarifies the 1040 Question Crypto investors who simply purchased crypto with fiat money in 2020 received clarification from the Internal Revenue Service on Tuesday. On the current iteration of the 1040, the IRS asks, quote at any time during 2020, did you receive, sell, send, exchange, or otherwise acquire any financial interest in any virtual currency? According to the IRS, crypto FAQ taxpayers who solely purchased crypto in 2020 are effectively exempted from answering yes. If the above section stressed you out, perhaps it is fortuitous that Taxbit, a Utah based startup, announced a 100 million dollar Series A investment round. The company offers cryptospecific tax software for both individuals and businesses and in case you missed it, be sure to check out the Unchained guide on everything you need to know about crypto taxes for your 2020 returns.
00:06:57.810 - 00:07:37.114, Speaker A: Next headline wall Street Bets is becoming a dow. A group of moderators from Wall Street Bets launched a new website outlining a plan to decentralize the forum. The group, calling themselves Wall Street Bets 20, plans to use the native tools of DFI to utilize smart contracts and pool investments targeting short orders from hedge funds. The anonymous moderator gives an impassioned argument for decentralization writing. Quote It's time to stop betting against the house and become the new house. It's time to stop using centralized platforms that can shut us down without warning. It's time to stop using a broken financial system that is archaic and inefficient.
00:07:37.114 - 00:08:05.238, Speaker A: It's time to decentralize. Speaking of centralized, Robinhood, the trading platform that fueled the Wall Street bets and GameStop mania, is planning to confidentially file an initial public offering as soon as March, reports Bloomberg. Next headline BitMEX CEO May Surrender to US. Government next month. Arthur Hayes, co founder and CEO of BitMEX, may surrender to U. S. Authorities next month, according to Jessica Greenwood, an assistant U.
00:08:05.238 - 00:08:48.898, Speaker A: S. Attorney. Hayes, along with fellow co founder Ben Dello and BitMEX's first employee, Gregory Dwyer, were charged by the Department of justice last October for violating the Bank Secrecy Act by evading us. Anti money laundering requirements. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission also filed charges accusing Hayes, Delo and Dwyer of operating an unregistered trading platform. Hayes currently resides in Singapore and would travel to Hawaii for the initial stages of virtual hearings if he goes forward with a proposed voluntary surrender. Meanwhile, BitMEX is carrying on trying to remake its image with regulators, according to a profile in Bloomberg of the new CEO, Alexander Hopner, the former CEO of Worse Stuttgart.
00:08:48.898 - 00:09:38.006, Speaker A: His goal is to, quote, amend relationships with global regulators while also expanding businesses ranging from spot trading to brokerage and custody services. He told Bloomberg, quote, I was coming from the regulated and classical world. I have a lot of touch points with the regulators already. Now I'm working on the crypto side and bringing the crypto side to the regulated world. Next Headline DFI Roundup meercat Finance claims to have lost $31 million in crypto assets just one day after launching on the finance smart chain. The Block reports that the hacker drained funds utilizing the smart contract's original deployer account, suggesting that either the private key of the deployer was compromised or that this was an orchestrated rug pool. Additionally, Meerkat has taken down both its website and Twitter account.
00:09:38.006 - 00:10:18.558, Speaker A: Uniswap finished off February with four consecutive new weekly volume records totaling $32 billion in monthly volume. To put that in perspective, February of 2019 and February of 2020 saw Uniswap do $12 million and $144,000,000 in volume, respectively. Fruocombo, a tool built for optimizing DFI strategies, was hacked on Saturday. The exploiter stole roughly $15 million by targeting Fruocombo's transaction batching protocol, the team said in a blog post. It is, quote, committed to compensating all users who were affected. The vulnerability has since been patched. Time for fun bits.
00:10:18.558 - 00:11:14.090, Speaker A: Reminiscence of cipherbunk suggests Satoshi Nakamoto committed suicide. I realize this headline doesn't sound like such a fun bit, but this essay seems to be another worthy contribution towards solving the enduring mystery of Satoshi Nakamoto's identity. It starts by saying that each node on the bitcoin network contains a memorial to cipherpunk Len Sassimon embedded into the transaction data. The pseudonymous author, Le Young, then attempts to connect the dots to suggest that Len may have been Satoshi, while also celebrating Len himself, who tragically took his own life in 2011, two months after Satoshi's last known communication, which said, quote, I've moved on to other things and probably won't be around in the future. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Gil DA Davidson and to read his research note on Coin, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube.
00:11:14.090 - 00:11:24.370, Speaker A: Subscribe to the UN chain podcast YouTube channel today. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Daniel Ness and Dan Edelbeck. Thanks for listening.
