00:00:00.200 - 00:00:30.678, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delhi Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's a signer and has the 6 July 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So I figured I'd start today's episode with a discussion around ETH staking, looking at some metrics that I have highlighted on the refill before, but I figured was worth revisiting since it has been a little while since Shapala went live. I think it's what, been almost two months now actually. Is it been longer than that? April to May? May? It's almost been three months. Okay, yeah, time is getting ahead of me here.
00:00:30.678 - 00:01:10.572, Speaker A: So yeah, almost three months since staked ETH withdrawals went live and things have obviously been heating up in the Ethereum staking space from new LSD protocols coming online and growing DVT stakefi, you know, reshuffling of stake staking being de risked because of withdrawals being enabled and all that good stuff there. So I figured almost three months since then, it's good to kind of like visit these dashboards that I've shown before. And the first one is from Hill Dobby. So this is Hill Dobby's ETH two staking dashboard on dune analytics. This is probably one of the best dashboards that I've come across when it comes to tracking Ethereum staking. Probably the best because there are so many different metrics here. We can start from the top.
00:01:10.572 - 00:01:55.708, Speaker A: Basically it gives you a breakdown right at the top of the current state of ETH staking. It tells you how much ETH is staked, which is 23.7 million ETH staked right now. Tells you how many validators there are, the net flow since Shanghai or since on the beacon chain since then, you have a percentage of the total eat supply staked, which is almost 20% staked through Lido Netflow, excluding rewards since Shanghai as well. Because with rewards, obviously they're automatically withdrawn from, from the beacon chain and deposited into people's withdrawal address without them having to prompt that. That's just done on automatic process and cycles through every block. But yeah, so that's the kind of at a glance.
00:01:55.708 - 00:02:23.652, Speaker A: And then you've also got a breakdown of where the stake is on this section here. So what providers is it with such as lido and centralized exchanges, rocket pool, stuff like that. Got a nice little pie graph here as well. Pie chart here. And you can scroll down and you get more granular information and you can see, like there's the last three. I think this is since, yeah, since Chappella, you can kind of see what the flows have looked like. You can see what the one month change is for eats stakers as well.
00:02:23.652 - 00:02:50.360, Speaker A: And you can just keep scrolling down. You've got a bunch of different metrics here. I just wanted to highlight this again for you guys, and I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But I think really the TLDR of all of this is that e staking has been up only since Chappella and has just been incredibly successful since its launch in December 2020. And I think a lot of people forget that, that estaking has actually been around since December 2020 when the beacon chain went live. Obviously, it was a separate chain. It wasn't part of the main Ethereum network.
00:02:50.360 - 00:03:07.272, Speaker A: It was its own kind of like separate chain that was just the beacon chain. It was just coming to consensus on itself. It wasn't processing transactions or anything like that. Right. But it was still live. And it was still live in the, in the same capacity than that. It was that it was when the merge happened and it became part of the core Ethereum network.
00:03:07.272 - 00:03:48.432, Speaker A: And we're coming up on three years this year. So this year in December, December 1, it'll be three years since the Beacon chain has been live. So it's been quite a while. But in terms of how the stake has kind of, I guess, like evolve or how Ethereum staking has evolved over time, you can kind of go to the Beacon chain website and they've got a bunch of charts here, and you can go to the validated chart, and you can actually see all the way back to December 1, 2020. So you can see the whole life cycle of eats, taking invalidators. I mean, it really has been up only for most of it because there wasn't an ability to withdraw until Schapella went live three months ago. But look, look at this, right? Just, just eyeballing it here, you can see where Chappelle went live, right? You can kind of like point it out.
00:03:48.432 - 00:04:21.044, Speaker A: It was around here because we had like a few weeks where the number of validators laid flat because some people were withdrawing, some things were happening, right? But then on around May 10, validators just started spiking like crazy. So May 10 we were at 563,000 validators. Now we're at 650,000 active validators. Plus the 90,000 that are waiting in the queue gets you to 740,000 validators on the network. So obviously withdrawals was very bullish. Right. Overall, very bullish for ETH staking.
00:04:21.044 - 00:05:02.732, Speaker A: But you can kind of see different parts where it spikes up a little bit here and there, and there are sometimes event driven reasons for that and sometimes not. Generally, the, the kind of a trend obviously has been, and it's just up only. And it's funny because you can go all the way back to December 1, the beacon chain really, I guess, for, for quite a while here, was under 100,000 validators for about, I don't know, for four or five months into, into 2021. And it's funny because the beacon chain launched just before the bull market really got started. And then you had, sorry, this is March 2021, so about three, four months here. And then you had, obviously, the bull market. But like, you could argue that the first top, I mean, the first top, it was in May of 2021, there was only like 150,000 validators on the beacon chain.
00:05:02.732 - 00:05:26.120, Speaker A: So still very, very small. Right? And then it obviously kept growing since then. But by the end of 2021, we were still only at. What was it? Let's go to the end of 2021 here. Just eyeballing it off the chart, right? What, 275,000 validators then through 2022, which was the bear market. Right? Which was the peak of the bear market. If you go to the end of 2022, if I go here, it was almost 500,000 validators.
00:05:26.120 - 00:05:59.576, Speaker A: So we doubled the amount of validators that were live on the network during the bear market. And I remember mentioning this on the, on the refuel, saying that it's kind of crazy that 2022 was so brutal of a bear market, right? It was, it was so brutal. So many people blowing up, so many funds blowing up, so many VC's and obviously FTX and stuff like that and terror and all that sorts of stuff blowing up, right? But, but still eat staking was up only and obviously was up only because withdrawals weren't enabled. But at the same time, people didn't have to put ETH into staking. Right? They didn't have to stake their ETH. They could have sold it. When they didn't, they just kept staking it.
00:05:59.576 - 00:06:20.870, Speaker A: They kept staking it. And we doubled the amount of active validators on the network during that. Now, since then, since the beginning of 2023, it was at around 500,000 validators. And now we're at 750,000 validators, if you, if you kind of, like, count for the ones that are in the queue. So we have added another 250,000 validators in half the time. And it took to add them in last year. Right.
00:06:20.870 - 00:06:35.134, Speaker A: And we're still not in a bull market. Right. We're in a crab market. Obviously things are starting to get more positive. There are, for all the reasons I've outlined recently on the refuel. But it's kind of crazy to see just how much this has accelerated recently, given that the beginning chain has been live for so long. Right.
00:06:35.134 - 00:07:09.344, Speaker A: And as I've said just before, it was because of that de risking event, because of withdrawals, because since withdrawals was enabled, we've added almost 200,000 validators, because before then it was, you know, if you go from the start of 2023, which is around 500,000, to when Chappelle went live, is 561,000. So we only added 60,000 validators in the first four months of the year. But then the pre, the next three months we, we added another hundred thousand, basically. Or more. More than that. I keep forgetting this doesn't account for the, doesn't account for the pending validators. So almost 200,000, which is crazy to me.
00:07:09.344 - 00:07:54.894, Speaker A: Right. And, you know, what does this mean overall for Ethereum as a network, for either, as an asset, things like that? I mean, there are obviously broad implications here. I think that for Ethereum as a network, the questions around how many validators we want to be active on the network at any given time have really kind of reared their ugly heads again, so to speak. And there's lots of conversations happening around that with regards to potentially soft capping the validators on the network. And soft cap would basically mean people could still stake their ETH, but there would only be a set, a number of active validators for any given time period, basically. And it would probably be based on the, the different epics, the different epic time periods there, and obviously with finality and stuff like that. But then there were conversations around increasing the max effective balance of each validator.
00:07:54.894 - 00:08:38.182, Speaker A: So we could basically shrink the number of validators on the network, but still keep the same security guarantees because the same amount of ETH would be staked and it would be the same node operators anyway. So there are those conversations starting. I think one of those solutions will definitely go into the network in the next, maybe 18 months or so, let's say maybe towards the end of next year or something like that. And they're definitely needed because it does seem like we're going to hit a million validators sooner rather than later. We'll probably hit it sometime next year if the pace continues here. And it's kind of funny because looking at the historical data here over, like, what ETH staking looks like in bull and bear markets, we added more validators in a bear market than we have in the bull market. But a staking has been live for longer in a bear market than it has in a bull market.
00:08:38.182 - 00:09:15.598, Speaker A: Because I guess you could say, you could argue that the crypto bull market started really at the. At the first, maybe first half of 2020. So, say, like, when DeFi summer started, maybe June of 2020. But I think before that, I think you could say that if you discount the COVID dump in 2020, the bull market started at the beginning of that year. So you could say that the whole of 2020, the bigger chain, wasn't live right, and then it was only live for around six months of the. The real bull market. I actually don't consider the second half of 2021 to be part of the bull market because of all that stuff I mentioned yesterday around me thinking that it was kind of a fake pump because of all the leverage.
00:09:15.598 - 00:09:55.018, Speaker A: And I really don't think that it lines up with what you see in a typical bull market. But even if you include that, ETH staking has just been live longer in a. In a bear market than it has in a bull market. So it's kind of hard to tell what it's going to look like. Like, are people going to withdraw as the ETH price is going up in a bull market and sell? Like, is the validator count going to go down because of that? I really don't think so, because there are other lsts, and if people want to sell, they sell their lsts. And, yes, that does have an effect on the beacon chain, because if the lsts start trading at a discount to fair value, people will buy them and then arb them with the beacon chain, and there'll be complex strategies that people employ to do this. But at the same time, I just don't see, like, a mass outflow.
00:09:55.018 - 00:10:20.642, Speaker A: I really do feel like a lot of people staking ETH are in it for the. For the long term. Um, and I really do feel like, uh, a lot of these people, uh, even if they sell their ETH, um, when it goes up and they stop staking, I reckon they'll wait until the bear market and buy again and just restake. So I really don't foresee a mass outflow there because the price is high and people are just selling their ethan's things like that. Rewards, for sure. Rewards are a different thing. I'm talking about, like, just a principle here.
00:10:20.642 - 00:11:00.044, Speaker A: Rewards are a different thing altogether. And I'm, I think that's out of scope of what I wanted to talk about today. But yeah, this chart has always been something that I felt I found was quite fascinating just, just watching and seeing how validated trends or how beacon chain trends have kind of changed over time and how it really continues to be up only here. But yeah, you can check out this chart for yourself. You can also check out Hill Dobby's staking dashboard here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But I just figured it was worth talking a little bit about it again today just to keep you guys up to speed on what's happening in the ETH staking space and just maybe refresh your memory on a few of these things. All right, so speaking of staking, Dap node has an update out that I forgot to cover yesterday.
00:11:00.044 - 00:12:06.758, Speaker A: I actually had this tab open in yesterday's episode, but I somehow skipped over it. But Dap node chatted about something called adapt node monitoring back in January and boosting it. They're almost there. So they're introducing something called the Ethical Monitor, which is a privacy focused service for DAP node alerts. And TL Doctor is that DAP node are about to launch a service to receive alerts about the status of your DAP node that is completely ethical and does not compromise your privacy. So what I find really cool about this is that if you want to be like a completely self sovereign staker and you want to maintain your privacy and you don't want to leak any information about yourself when you're staking your ETH, but at the same time, you're not a very technical person and you're using something like DAP node, which makes it really easy to stake your ETH as a solo staker, then this is really cool for you because it means that dapknown users now get access to something that preserves their privacy without having to go to some third party service and link everything together, which, you know, if you're fine with that, that's fine as well. And you can actually link things pretty easily if you know what you're doing.
00:12:06.758 - 00:12:54.226, Speaker A: With third party services like the Beacon Chain website, for example, you can sign up with an address that doesn't link to you at all and then add your validators that way. And it would be relatively hard for the beacon chain operators to essentially track you down, right, or link the address to you. One thing they could do is I guess like link an IP, but they'd have to get the IP details from somewhere else and it wouldn't be easy. Right? So there are ways to do that, but with DAP node, they're just going to make it a lot easier because they're going to build it right into the DAP node stack and they're going to make it easy. People that are running DAP node that, that aren't technical and obviously want to be able to do this in a privacy preserving way. So yeah, as I said, this is going to be live soon. This and this was posted, this blog post was shared again, but this was posted on Twitter on July 4.
00:12:54.226 - 00:13:53.224, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm not sure on the exact date. I don't know if they mention it on the, on the, on the post here, but you can check out the post for the full details of how this is going to work. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I just figured it was something that was interesting and worth bringing up for you guys to check out because I know a few of you definitely run adapt node to be a solo staker on the network. All right, so Georgios from Paradigm here, who is also behind the rest client that I spoke about or spoken about a bit on the refer before the ref execution layer client for Ethereum has run a or Josh here, who he's working with, who's the vp of engineering at lens protocol and Ave, has run a benchmark of the graph versus the versus Reth doing a doing a hosted service here. So you can see the tweet reads. So apparently Josh ran a benchmark versus the graph hosted service and apparently it's 60 times faster. Start at eleven m and 17 m, 18 hours.
00:13:53.224 - 00:14:47.230, Speaker A: So far, 98% is it and Reth did it in 20 minutes. Probably nothing. So for those of you who don't know, the graph is an indexing protocol, basically works as a way to serve different events and indexing and stuff like that to different projects. So for example, when you go to a defi front end and you see all the information on there, such as like total value value locked and aprs and stuff like that, a lot of that is served by the graph itself. But the graph has its own architecture that it works with and it definitely works with Ethereum clients. But the Ethereum clients that exist today on the execution layer side of things aren't optimized for for stuff like that, whereas Reth is actually working to to optimize for these sorts of things and make it faster to, to index things. So this is a ret indexer that is basically 60 times faster than, than the graph and doing the same thing the graph would do, which is the task, is actually, he's actually outlined here.
00:14:47.230 - 00:15:15.886, Speaker A: So what they were doing with, they were indexing rocketpool ETH transfer slash approval events, both starting on block 11 million and finishing on block 17.5 million here. And the graph took 19.5 hours to do this, whereas Reth did it in 20 minutes. That's kind of crazy when you think about it right now. I don't, I'm not an expert on each, on any of this. I don't know the underlying technology of what, of what the graph is using here and why it's so slow.
00:15:15.886 - 00:16:00.038, Speaker A: I do know the graph is trying to be a decentralized service. I don't know how far along they are with that roadmap just yet, but they could definitely integrate Reth into their stack here and make it faster for everyone using the graph as well and make the indexing faster, just generally. But it really goes to show, like, how much more improvement can be had by just improving the clients. And as I've said before, the various ethereum clients that exist, they optimize for different things. On the execution layer side, the only teams optimizing right now for indexing and for things like archive nodes are Aragon and ref. I don't think nether or geth optimizing for those sorts of things. I don't think Beisu is either, but Aragon definitely is as part of their core roadmap, and Reth is definitely doing it as well.
00:16:00.038 - 00:17:02.648, Speaker A: Whereas, you know, on the consensus layer side of things, they don't have to worry about indexing like the execution layer does, because they're just handling the beacon chain, they're not handling the actual transactions that are taking place on the execution layer. That will change in the future, especially with things like EIP 4844 blob style transactions, because those are actually stored on the consensus layer, and there are different kind of considerations there. But generally, if you're looking for indexing transactions and events and stuff like that, that's all happening on the execution layer side. So you would do this in an execution layer client, and that's exactly what Reth is kind of doing here. They're optimizing for these sorts of stuff, optimizing for archive nodes. And I've gone through before, how about how Reth is currently the fastest archive node, so fastest one to sync an archive node, which is also very cool, but just figured it was worth shouting out because as I said, it's worth showing that there are so many improvements that are going to be made around clients over time. There's going to be, it's going to lead to such a more powerful ethereum as such a more powerful way of running archive nodes, indexing things.
00:17:02.648 - 00:17:43.762, Speaker A: And archive nodes could one day become like the default node that people run instead of a full node. Yes, a full node and archive node give you the same kind of guarantees, but an archive node gives you access to more data. But if it's the same thing to run an archive node versus a full node, and you get access to that extra data, we should see more archive nodes come online. It may take up a bit more space than a full node, depending on how much you're syncing. But still, I thought it was something pretty cool to highlight for you guys there. All right, so Axiom has announced their mainnet Alpha released. So for those of you who don't know what Axiom is, they are a the first ZK co processor scaling data rich applications on Ethereum.
00:17:43.762 - 00:18:39.326, Speaker A: Now, if you don't know what that means, the TLDR is basically that. Axiom introduces a new way to access data and compute on chain based on cryptography. All results returned by Axiom are verified on chain by zero knowledge proofs, meaning smart contracts can use them without additional trust assumptions. So from my understanding, essentially what Axiom allows you to do is process everything off chain, slap a Zk proof on it, and then put that proof on chain on ethereum, and essentially have the same guarantees as doing the processing on chain. Now, why you would do this is because obviously it's a lot cheaper to do processing off chain than running the process on chain on ethereum l one, and then just post the proof to, to ethereum l one. Now, if this is ringing a bell, it's because this is what altoos effectively do. They take the execution side of things off of Ethereum, and they do that off chain, and then they just kind of like roll it up, right, and they bundle it up and they post the data and the proof on ethereum l one.
00:18:39.326 - 00:19:52.246, Speaker A: And it makes it a lot cheaper by doing that. And Axiom is planning to do this in a more generalized way, where essentially you can do any computation that you want off chain and still have the same security as you would if it was done on chain, because you have a ZK proof, basically improving the computation, did what it said it was going to do. Now, there are a few ideas that they've come up with here. So they say, we are excited about new types of trust, minimize applications that Axiom enables a few ideas in identity are off chain governance enforced and enacted on chain without the help of a multi sig on chain loyalty systems trustlessly rewarding a protocols most valuable users. And Axiom can also create new trustless oracles for on chain data such as gas price oracles to settle block space markets trust minimize price and volatility oracles for arbitrary assets on top of uniswap liquidity and settlement prices for exotic derivatives or structured products. So this is really cool. I mean, it's basically taking a lot of different things you can do off chain or basically anything you could do off chain and compute off chain, bringing it on chain, something like what Chainlink does, but doing it in a way that it can give you similar, if not the same security guarantees as it can if you were to do the computation on chain.
00:19:52.246 - 00:20:29.304, Speaker A: Now there's a lot of things to digest here. Obviously this is something that is very new, something that you can check out yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But for me, when a lot of smart people that I respect and follow are getting excited about things like this, it's when I start getting excited about it. And I've seen a bunch of smart people that I respect talk about this project and talk about this technology and say, yeah, if this works as advertised, this is going to be huge. And there's no reason why it shouldn't work as advertised, because the technology that they're using is not theoretical, it's practical. It's being used in the, in the wild today and it definitely has a lot of very deep implications for different things happening on Ethereum here.
00:20:29.304 - 00:21:11.254, Speaker A: So you can check out their full blog post here for, I guess, details on what they've launched today, as well as their website to learn more about axiom there. All right, so stock nets has been growing a lot lately, actually, I haven't talked about them in a little while, but I've been keeping tabs on what Stocknet has been doing. They are doing a lot actually. So they announced today that they have basically done something called the Starknet Quantum Leap, which is a major throughput improvement for Starknet. And they've got here Stocknet Alpha version 0.12.0 was released and now increases throughput by ten X. So you can go check out the blog post for more details on this.
00:21:11.254 - 00:21:42.388, Speaker A: But there was influence, which is a game that's running on Stocknet here that's saying that their testnet client is showing a clear ten times improvement in game action finality. What once took minutes is now down to low seconds. So there is already a practical and real world impact here of what stock where has released for Stocknet. And you can see that TLDR at the top of the blog post for what this, what this did. And yes, Stocknet is definitely still in alpha, but they're making big improvements to this. They being stockway. They're making some very big improvements to Stocknet.
00:21:42.388 - 00:22:24.326, Speaker A: As you guys know, Stocknet is a non EVM layer too. So they're trying to do a something different. And they're not just trying to do something different in terms of like not being EVM, but they're also trying to, to make, to make it so developers can, can write applications in their language, which is Cairo. And they're trying to do new things with new primitives, as I said, like there's gaming apps on here that are running fully on, on chain influence runs fully on chain. Guys, this isn't something that has like an off chain component where you do all the computation off chain. No, this is done completely on chain, on Stocknet. And as you, as they said here, what usually took minutes is now down to low seconds thanks to these improvements.
00:22:24.326 - 00:23:05.046, Speaker A: And you know, the cost improvements as well are there and that's coming down all the time as well. But yeah, that's, that's really, really cool to see that there's already that kind of practical improvement there. But as I said, this is only on testnet right now. But it's great to see the stagnant ecosystem continuing to grow. I'm rooting for their success, definitely. I have been kind of a little bit harsh on stockware in the past and I have been a little bit bearish on them, only because it seemed like they were falling behind in terms of adoption, in terms of getting things built out, in terms of getting developer traction. But I think that the reason why I felt like that was because a lot of the developers in the ethereum ecosystem today are like all about the EVM, right? They're all about EVM.
00:23:05.046 - 00:23:37.446, Speaker A: They're all about solidity. They gravitate towards that. But I think that what starkware is trying to do and what they've been pretty successful in doing lately is onboarding developers that maybe they don't know solidity, maybe they're not married to the EVN EVM, and maybe they know rust and maybe they want to learn a new language like Cairo. And I think Starco is doing a really great job of onboarding those people. And those are the ones that I think are going to push the boundaries forward for Stocknet and get adoption there. And in terms of users, there are definitely users on there. There's obviously a lot of airdrop farming as well because starkware haven't, haven't airdropped their token yet.
00:23:37.446 - 00:23:56.678, Speaker A: They have announced that there's going to be a token, but it's not, it's not live yet. So you got to keep that in mind as well. But I think that's true for like, pretty much every, everything that doesn't have a token. Right. But there are definitely are real users there using it, playing with it on both Testnet and Mainnet. There are wallets that support it, such as Argent. So, yeah, just great to see the starknet ecosystem continuing to grow here.
00:23:56.678 - 00:24:59.854, Speaker A: And you can check out this latest update, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, speaking of l two s, well, and l three s, loopring announced today that loopring l three is now officially live on Tyco's alpha three zke evm testnet. So they say here this marks the beginning of our l three journey towards achieving greater scalability and highly optimized experiences tailored for our smart contract or smart wallet and decentralized applications. So it seems like loop ring is. Look, maybe I'm getting ahead of myself here, but I think that what's going to happen with loopering is that they're going to possibly just sunset their l two and go all in on this l three on Taiko. Once it's live on Mainnet, it makes a lot more sense for them to do this, in my opinion, because the l two like looping l two hasn't gotten the traction that I believe loop ring wanted it to get for a little quite a while now, core people from loop ring left and started Tycho. So there's a close relationship there, and it makes a lot of sense for loop ring just to piggyback off of Taiko.
00:24:59.854 - 00:25:31.428, Speaker A: Right. Instead of trying to maintain their own l two in their own l two protocol, they can become an l three on top of Taiko and then just benefit from all of Taiko's growth. Yes. Tyco is not live yet. It's very new still. And maybe Loop is going to just have, like, a wait and see approach here, but I wouldn't be surprised to see loop ring sunset there l two and go all in on the l three, just purely for the fact that it's a lot easier for them to focus on that instead of trying to build out their own l two. And I think that that, and I think that looping wants to be user facing as well.
00:25:31.428 - 00:26:20.900, Speaker A: So an l three is perfect for that because they want to get able to use their smart wallets and use their different applications that they've built out for, for various different use cases. So, yeah, I'm making a prediction now that I believe at some point in the future, loop rings l two will be sunset in favor of its l three, and then everyone will just use their l three on Tyco because the loop ring tech isn't, isn't bad, but I think that Tyco is going to be a lot better in terms of the fact that the Taiko team is just focusing on the l two itself. They're not focusing on being particularly user facing. They're going to let the apps do that. And loopering at the end of the day is, is an app. Right? And they could do their own, a specific l two if they wanted to, but there are trade offs there as well with things. And obviously doing that as, as an l two comes with trade offs, and they could do like an arbitrary Nova l three.
00:26:20.900 - 00:27:05.314, Speaker A: But I think why they've chosen Taiko is, as I said, they have close relationships with the people building Taiko because there is, a few of them are former loop ring people, and it's probably just easier for them to do that and work with them. There's. And maybe the Taika technology also just benefits them and makes more, a lot more sense for what they're building than something else, because it is. I don't know if it is, but it might be built using similar tech because they're both ZK roll ups here. So, yeah, just really cool to see that loop Ring has put their l three live on the Taiko ZkvM testnet. You can check out the Twitter thread for more information on that. And, yeah, we'll see how loop ring evolves from here, and we'll see if they actually do end up sunsetting that l two in favor of this l three sometime in the future.
00:27:05.314 - 00:27:16.594, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode. To thank everyone for listening and watching, be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
