00:00:06.400 - 00:00:33.434, Speaker A: Morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. Great to see you all. Thank you for everyone, for organizing. It's really been wonderful being here in a wonderful meeting. So I'll talk today about a lot of the efforts in my lab, where I sort of think about my lab as having this one very big, overarching goal that we may never achieve. But we will try, is to try to make identifying some of the genetic mechanisms of human disease a routine event.
00:00:33.434 - 00:01:01.558, Speaker A: It's certainly very hard and slow to do. Our goals involve pushing technologies forward, pushing, thinking forward, thinking about where the challenges are that we can try to overcome to start to make this something that happens more as an everyday event. I'll start today. I'm going to talk about a couple of case studies. One's an old example that we've studied for a while. I won't talk about it too long because it's been pretty well published. Then I'll talk about some new work that's largely unpublished.
00:01:01.558 - 00:01:53.234, Speaker A: And then I'll sort of go in a little bit on some of the things that we're thinking about and how we can build some of the past that we can learn from case studies into highways of mass transit. In terms of some of the paths that I'll talk about today, I'll first highlight some examples from common complex diseases, again, studies that we've published several years ago. And then I really want to spend time focusing on really new unpublished work that we've been looking at and trying to find new mechanisms of really ultra rare diseases and of one patients and of two patients, those kinds of cases. So, first, our old example. So, in common complex disease, this is one of the first studies from my lab. We were trying to figure out, can we identify some mechanisms for rare disease? We teamed up with members of the hyperglycemia and adverse pregnancy Outcomes consortium. This is the Hapo Consortium.
00:01:53.234 - 00:02:33.464, Speaker A: Right around 2013, 2012, they had just finished their first GWAS, and this is for one measure of gestational hyperglycemia. This is basically an indicator of diabetes that arises during the third trimester of pregnancy. Now, the GWAS was super clean. In retrospect, this means it was super underpowered. But there was one clear lead hit that was the largest effect. And even with follow up studies and much more elaborated populations and more hits, we still know that this is really one of the strongest odds ratio. Now, we zoomed in on this region.
00:02:33.464 - 00:03:28.234, Speaker A: This is before any kind of high throughput technologies for measuring gene regulatory element activity, and before we really had CRISPR technologies. And so what a student in my lab did was took, in this case, a whole bunch of encode data. This is zooming in on that one particular hit, manually cloned out in green. A whole bunch of regulatory elements, actually, a whole bunch of regulatory elements along this region, stuck them into luciferase reporter assays, basically a biochemical assay where you can see if this element has the ability to impact expression from a promoter. And much to our enthusiasm at the time, we found many, many hits. We found that lots of these elements that were identified with chip seq data, DNA seq data, for example, do indeed have regulatory activity in the region. So we thought we were on to something.
00:03:28.234 - 00:04:07.038, Speaker A: The question was, what gene are we actually going to be looking at here? The gene in the region, HKDC one at the time had four or five. This is all, this is the whole literature review on HKDC one at the time. There was very nothing published on it. And the one really exciting paper to us was this manuscript down here looking at how this particular gene evolved. And it showed that it was a duplication event from a hexokinase gene. Hk one which is a little bit further down in the genome. And this paper was proposing that this might be a new member of the hexokinase gene family involved in glucose metabolism.
00:04:07.038 - 00:04:51.024, Speaker A: Fits perfectly with our phenotype. The problem is they're proposing a fifth hexokinase. I looked at Wikipedia yesterday, according to Wikipedia, only four. And this has been really well established since the seventies, very careful studies alluding out fractions from liver cells and so on, finding four clear peaks of hexokinase activity. Um, there's a group of low km hexokinases, one through three, and then glucokinase. Hexokinase four is the one that we think of that's most involved with glucose metabolism, sorry, dietary glucose metabolism. And we know that variation near some of these other hexokinase has been associated with hyperglycemia and diabetes.
00:04:51.024 - 00:05:35.438, Speaker A: But, you know, but if there's not a fifth one, what is this HKDC one gene doing? And so this is where we took a bit of a leap of faith. The student in my lab ended up cloning out this gene, purifying it, and showed that compared to hexokinase one, it does actually have measurable activity as a glucokinase, or, sorry, as a hexokinase. The activity is a lot lower than hexokinase one, but is certainly still measurable. And then I think our real aha. Moment was we started making a mouse model. This is a collaboration with Brian Layden, now at University of Illinois Chicago, where we made. First of all, we tried to make a knockout for HKDC.
00:05:35.438 - 00:06:26.622, Speaker A: One, it was embryonic, lethal, and so we ended up propagating the mice as heterozygotes and found that only during pregnancy, they demonstrated, basically an inability to process glucose at the correct rate, sort of the classic measurement that we would use to diagnose hyperglycemia and diabetes during pregnancy. Basically, what happened was, across this study, we went, and it took several years, about three years across these publications. We're still working on understanding this today. But about three years, we were able to go from this genetic association into gene regulatory activity, target gene identification, and eventually a mouse model. And I think, to date, this is the first mouse model of gestational diabetes. That's one example. There's many others.
00:06:26.622 - 00:07:05.932, Speaker A: Kira mercenaries. Amazing work working on the sortilin gene and cholesterol. And I was going through all these and figuring out what's the key point, where you're like, ok, you really nailed it. In that case, they were overexpressing the sortellin gene and mouse liver and showing those impacts on lipoprotein distributions. There's some great work from Alina Klossnitzer. Looking at the FTO locus. This is one of the most prominent gwas signal for obesity, and linking it not to a gene in the region, but actually to distal gene regulation, distal regulation of a couple of transcription factors, IRX three and IRX five.
00:07:05.932 - 00:08:01.786, Speaker A: And there's been a whole bunch of work since then linking these to obesity phenotypes, and these go on. There's examples of insulin secretion and so on. And in all of these cases, it seems to me, or my view is that it's really, once we get to these kind of mouse models, molecular studies, that's where the field starts to really open up and lots of people can come in and really nail down these mechanisms. So what do these cases have in common? I mean, they're all non coding. Clearly, there's a huge burden of coding variation, and I'd say studying that is a lot more straightforward. We're deliberately focusing on non coding regions, but these all demonstrate that there are paths forward for all these non coding variants. I think what's been really interesting is, across all these studies, the ones that are getting figured out are these really large effect size hits it provocatively.
00:08:01.786 - 00:08:51.472, Speaker A: Makes me wonder if we should be funding many, many more low power gwas and many diverse gwas with minimal populations, because it's those lead hits that are the ones that are easiest to follow up on, easiest to have impacts on. But what really makes me. And it's something I'm thinking about over the past several years, I do a huge amount of functional studies of gene regulation in my lab across encode. I'm starting to really appreciate how powerful they are as exploratory data analysis. But I'm also starting to appreciate, you know, really how important it is to get back into specific, you know, molecular testing, organismal testing, to really break through the mechanism, you know, no matter how much data we can accumulate in our exploratory studies, you know, and I'll go through a couple examples coming up. It's. It's sort of.
00:08:51.472 - 00:09:48.762, Speaker A: It's. It's these kinds of, you know, molecular organismal testing that you need to convince someone to develop a drug or convince someone to think about changing patient treatment. So, playing on this theme of these very large effect sizes, we started putting our heads together and thinking, well, maybe we should be thinking about the biggest effect sizes possible, and can we really drive up effect sizes as a way to discover more mechanisms of disease? That's when we started thinking about turning to rare disease studies. This is in collaboration with a whole bunch of clinicians at Duke and really around the country. And in our conversations with them, what was really striking is I naively went into these studies thinking, we've got mendelian genetics in the textbook. We know if you have a recessive disease, you have to have your two hits. And it should be relatively straightforward.
00:09:48.762 - 00:10:32.456, Speaker A: What we kept finding, and this varies quite a bit across classes of rare disease. DNA sequencing yields diagnoses in a minority of cases. Certainly in some diseases, it's much higher. But in case after case of studies, we're talking to clinicians, they're saying, well, yeah, these patients clearly have a certain disease. We can look at their biochemics, look at their biochemistry, look at enzyme levels, whatever it might be, and we can find one hip, we cannot find the other hip, we can't find the genetic college that fully explains their disease in most of our cases. I'll tell a couple stories. This is one particular focus we've been working on.
00:10:32.456 - 00:11:18.394, Speaker A: This is with Priya Kishnani at Duke, who's an expert on glycogen storage diseases. We've been looking at a couple of cases. This is with Greg Crawford, a graduate student, apartheid, in the lab, looking at a couple cases of glycogen storage disease, type nine c. So these are all super ultra rare diseases. GSD nine is involved in enzyme deficiency for phosphorylase kinase. It's autosomal recessive and it involves a particular subutent of the complex PHKG two. If you haven't thought about glycogen metabolism since undergraduate, this is our first step in processing glycogen into and getting into glucose metabolic pathways.
00:11:18.394 - 00:11:58.468, Speaker A: Phosphorylase kinase is one of the first steps in that process. And just showing here, there's all sorts of glycogen storage diseases involved with different components of this pathway. We'll just be looking at this first one here. The PHkg two is, again, it's a component of this phosphorylase kinase complex, and loss of function causes abnormal glycogen buildup in the liver that leads to all sorts of issues. I mean, these kids, I'll talk about them a little bit are, they're ten years old and getting liver cirrhosis. It can be really quite devastating. It's extremely rare.
00:11:58.468 - 00:12:23.514, Speaker A: Prevalence for the whole class of GSD nine s is something like one in 100,000. And then you break it out into different subtypes. So you're talking about prevalences that are pretty hard to estimate. So I'll talk about two cases today. This is a pair of siblings. One's nine year old, one's two. Both have fairly abysmal levels of phosphorylase kinase activity from liver biopsies.
00:12:23.514 - 00:13:23.038, Speaker A: In both cases, they have one of the known causal variants in the PHkG two gene. And in both cases, the second variant wasn't identified. After genotyping and sequencing of the genesis, what we thought we would do is look at gene expression of these genes. We didn't have access to liver cells at the time. This is just from whole blood cells, actually. We went and ran rna seq, and one of the first things we found looking, and this is really just a lot of sequence daring, was evidence of some rna seq signal, potentially what we now know to be as a 76 base pair pseudo exon right in the middle of the gene and actually just downstream of one of the exons where there's known pathogenesis. This is interesting, but it wasn't really enough to convince ourselves that this was actually contributing to GSD nine.
00:13:23.038 - 00:14:18.800, Speaker A: And so what apoorva Jenger in the lab did was say, okay, well, let's make a cell model. Can we make a model of this patient? We started with HEK 2093 t cells. We're using a CRISPR Cas nine genome editing strategy that involves driving homologous recombination via a single stranded donor. So you can basically give the donor sequence as a single stranded oligonucleotide and drive homologous recombination. She derived single cell clones. And just to give a sense of how much of a pain it is, she screened over 500 clones, found 80 or 79 with at least one of the, what we think is the pathogenic allele, then proceeded to do Sanger sequencing. You have to confirm both if you get homozygous editing, but with a lot of these CRISPR cas nine strategies, you can get non homologous end joining, get all sorts of indels and weird things going on.
00:14:18.800 - 00:14:43.510, Speaker A: We wanted to exclude those as well. From those 500 clones, we ended up getting nine that were useful for us. Seven homozygotes, two heterozygotes, which has always been interesting to me. Usually with CRISPR cas nine, you get an overabundance of homozygous. A lot of times you either get editing or you don't. It's the heads that are hard for us to get. And so she went ahead and just running simple gels.
00:14:43.510 - 00:15:50.382, Speaker A: Sure enough, in the homozygous variant genotype, this is the genotype that we found in both of those kids on that, because you can do genotyping while you're doing your rna seq. You can sort of see, you can probably see it on the screens better, but there's clearly a band that corresponds with what we think is the pseudo exome. We've gone ahead and sequenced it, and sure enough, it is. That's how we know it's 76 base pairs. You also see a loss of expression of the PHkG two gene, ostensibly due to nonsense mediated decay. And because the 76 base pair Exxon creates a frameshift, what was really convincing for us is we then took these cells, sent them off to the biochemistry lab at the clinic, convinced them to spend a little bit of resources running cell lines instead of patient samples. And sure enough, we see with this genome editing model a massive 90% reduction in PHKG two and phosphorylase kinase activity, which is perfectly consistent with what we see in the patients.
00:15:50.382 - 00:16:30.926, Speaker A: And so we think from this, we're pretty confident now that this intronic variant is actually driving disease on their second allele. There's one question of what we can do with these patients knowing this, but it certainly is valuable for families. And this is an ultra rare allele in the population, but it does exist, and we're trying to push this to get this included into some of the genetic screening now for gsds, that's probably. That is our most well developed example. But we have others. We're looking at GSD three a. This is another ultra rare glycogen storage disease involved with a debranching enzyme.
00:16:30.926 - 00:17:07.024, Speaker A: Further down this complex here, we had a frameshift variant on one allele, a second allele. We didn't find anything from genotyping. Actually, here we went into long read sequencing. This is with nanopore sequencing, and this was incredibly helpful for us. We found about one and a half kilobase deletion in heterozygous in these patients, partially overlapping. What's Exxon 23 of the AGL gene, the debranching enzyme gene. We then went to using Pacbio to do long read rna sequencing.
00:17:07.024 - 00:17:47.786, Speaker A: And sure enough, as expected, about half of the transcripts from these patients. And again, this is just blood cells are missing the AGL exon 23. We don't have as much detailed of a workup on this patient yet, but it should be pretty clear, I think, that from what we can tell, that this Exxon 23 deletion would also cause a frame shift and NMD. So we're still working to validate that. So, you know, I think what's been really exciting for me about these studies, first of all, to be completely clear, we went into these rare disease studies. I was looking for regulatory elements. I was like, let's find, you know, let's.
00:17:47.786 - 00:18:34.534, Speaker A: Let's see what's in there. We have yet to find any in our studies, of course, very, you know, any cases of regulatory elements that are driving the patient phenotypes. What we're actually finding a lot of are impacts on gene splicing, whether it's due to large deletions, whether it's due to cryptic exon inclusion. And it's really making us think a lot more about pathogenicity of splicing in some of these rare diseases here. Our exploratory analysis have really relied on long read sequencing. What's been really striking to us, though, is how far we can get using cell lines that are not relevant to disease. There's an amazing amount of information that we're able to get by looking at blood cells that allow us to infer what we think is happening, for example, in the liver and muscle of these patients.
00:18:34.534 - 00:19:08.220, Speaker A: But again, these are exploratory analyses. In talking a lot with clinicians, just finding these transcripts is not close to enough information to actually change how you might treat or approach these patients, or how you might advise their families. We're really having to do a lot of genome editing, molecular testing to. To kind of break through to mechanisms on that. So, let's see, I've got maybe 510 minutes left. So. So the question then, for us is, you know, how do we build these pathways into highways? And, you know, we've.
00:19:08.220 - 00:19:32.824, Speaker A: We've. As a field, I think, figured out, I don't know, 100, maybe 200 mechanisms at most. We've got 123,000 to go. You know, at the rate of. At the rate we're going, we're falling way behind. The gwas hits are accumulating, and the mechanisms are not even coming close to the rate that we need to keep pace. I think there's a lot we can do in some of these exploratory techniques.
00:19:32.824 - 00:20:14.048, Speaker A: I won't go into it in the sake of time, in too much detail, but there's a lot of effort across the field to develop some high throughput technologies for actually figuring out if there are non coding variant effects on gene regulation. Gene expression. I mentioned we use some reporter assays in some of that hexokinase work. At the beginning of my talk, we use a system where you basically take a regulatory element here in blue. You stick it in front of a gene that glows, like GFP or luciferase. Put that into cells, and if the cells glow, then you have good evidence of regulatory activity that doesn't scale very well to large studies. And so we've been using a high throughput approach.
00:20:14.048 - 00:20:57.052, Speaker A: This is an approach called Starseek, developed in Alexa Stark's lab, and in 2013. And basically what you do is you take your regulatory elements, instead of having them in front of the gene, you put them in the three prime UTR downstream of a stop codon. And you don't clone a single element. You can put a library in here, for example. This is a mixture of green and blue elements. And we know that these elements and these utrs, acting as enhancers, can still control regulation of activity of a promoter, even though it's upstream. But what's really neat about this system, what I love about this system, is that in doing so, these elements are actually driving expression of transcripts that they're themselves embedded in.
00:20:57.052 - 00:22:20.694, Speaker A: In other words, they're really driving their own transcription. And so, and because it's really, you know, compared to looking at different colors of gfps, you know, it's a lot easier to read out DNA sequences. We can do that with, basically, rna sequencing for just this UTR region, and you can start to count up. If you see a lot of, for example, green elements in your hair, in your expressed transcripts, that's evidence that those green elements are driving a lot of transcription of themselves, whereas some other elements might be doing less. And long story short, over many, many years, our group and others have really scaled this up to the point where we can now assay on the order of a billion different fragments in a single assay, somewhere 500 million to a billion, allowing us to cover the human genome at very high depth, something like 500 x coverage of the human genome. And where we're taking this to try to drive genetic discovery of mechanisms of disease is moving from single individuals, but actually now looking to do population scale studies of human regulatory activity. This is work from Kerry Strauss in the lab, where she's developed a strategy to pool limited number of genomes, basically increasing the amount of coverage you can get, while at the same time leaving you sensitivity to very rare and personal variants, which are most of what's in there.
00:22:20.694 - 00:23:15.522, Speaker A: Very briefly, the way this works is you basically shear up the genomes from these patients. You can clone that en masse into these starseek backbones you transfect into cells. This is acute diagram and the reality is these are stacks of cells that are grown either in spinner flasks or in these large multilayer to get enough cells to do this. So it's really limited to cell lines, I think, at this point, at least at this scale. And then we're using very long 250 base pair of paired end sequencing to make sure that we can, when we read out these elements, that we observe the genetics in between them, we're focused heavily on african populations. We really want to maximize the amount of genetic diversity that we can study. And so most of our samples, at least going in, in the first couple hundred, are all going to be african individuals.
00:23:15.522 - 00:24:08.444, Speaker A: And we're working across other consortium that are studying basically the same populations to make sure that our samples overlap with, with the work of others, so we can share information across. You know, as expected, most of the variation that we're studying is rare and very ultra rare. What's exciting for us is that we expect that at the coverage we have, that we will assay all of the common variants in the human population and all of the low frequency variants in the human population many, many times over across these 300 individuals, and even rare variation, we're going to put a good dent in. So we'll have information for tons and tons of genetic variation across the human population. Some of the initial data coming out of these studies has been really clean. This is just a couple loci we like to look at. This is the beta globin locus, and this is just three replicates of the same pool of individuals studied.
00:24:08.444 - 00:24:40.028, Speaker A: And you can see that, sure enough, we're lighting up the HS two enhancer, as you expect. You can see the data is really reproducible. It's really quite clean. And again, these peaks. Now, it looks a lot like DNA seq or chip seq, but what it really is is a quantitative measure of how active these different regulatory elements is. And that's why you end up tagging, for example, a subset of the DNase peaks show up as actually having regulatory activity. We look at the godel one locus a lot.
00:24:40.028 - 00:25:30.246, Speaker A: Again, same idea that the signals are very reproducible, and you can tag a subset of DNase regions, for example, or open chromatin regions as having a strong regulatory activity. Then up here, these are cis regulatory elements actually predicted from Ji Ping's group and Jill Moore and Henry over there. And we can see that there's a strong enrichment for these orange and red candidates, this regulatory elements coming out of that. In our studies as well. So far, we've looked at around 10 million genetic variants assayed so far. What's really exciting is we're getting multiple variants per regulatory element, so we can start to look at combinations and haplotypes in some of these cases. The analytical components of this are a huge challenge.
00:25:30.246 - 00:26:23.234, Speaker A: This is a bayesian model that we published. Bill Maggioros, working with the group, has published to actually call, where you do have evidence of allele specific regulatory across these different alleles. And just a couple examples where you see major skewing between reference and alternate across what goes in and what comes out of these assays. I'll skip this in the interest of time, but, you know, I think that these high throughput techniques for coming up with effects of non coding variances are becoming quite mature. We're trying to do this across huge populations in terms of identifying target genes. There's obviously a huge amount of work that's going on in the field developing CRISPR screens from our group at Duke, but also Jesse Ingrid's group and many others across the field. I just wanted to highlight one particular resource that we published last year, where we actually made a CRISPR editing mouse.
00:26:23.234 - 00:27:06.714, Speaker A: And basically just putting in this case, when we're doing our CRISPR editing, we often do what we call epigenome editing. We deliver histone acetyltransferases, for example, to activate histones or crab motifs to repress genes and delivering those into Rosa 26. And we can bring these mouse up and we can drive now in vivo or ex vivo cultured cells from these primary cells. From these mice. We can drive genome editing or epigenome editing in these cells. We've been using this system. This is part of our encode work to look at aspects of immune cell differentiation in primary mouse cd four positive t cells.
00:27:06.714 - 00:28:10.910, Speaker A: I'll just highlight one quick slide from this. This is Keith Lanka, a postdoc in the lab where we can basically hit all of the potential enhancers that we think might be involved in th 17 cell differentiation. We can start to differentiate these cells and ask where do we see effects on key genes that are involved in th 17 cell activity? We're getting a whole bunch of interesting hits. Interestingly, a lot of these are things that are already known, like IL 17 and Roi gamma. But we're also finding kind of stuck in here, some interesting new distal regulatory elements around, for example, the bad f locus that we think are contributing now to t cell differentiation and immune cell function. Just to wrap up, I think where the challenges is moving forward is coming up with cell and animal models that can really support these studies and really take us from our exploratory analyses to our disease mechanisms. There's a lot of really cool approaches out there.
00:28:10.910 - 00:29:14.056, Speaker A: I think the model organism screening center from the UDN, the ending of Disease network is one great example where you can pair model organism screening facilities with rare disease studies to try to drive discovery of new genes. There's great examples of this saturation. Genome editing is taking these CRISPR approaches and really saturating whole loci. People follow the story with the Bcl eleven a enhancer. Starting from identifying the enhancer, mutating it, turning it into a potential for therapy and others gene editing therapies for sickle cell disease that are using this enhancer to try to reactivate fetal globe and compensate for sickle cell disease and beta thalassemia. The last thing I'll point out is we're finding that we now have to go back and get IPSC's for all these patients, that. That in the end, to really get across this barrier, what we're doing is gonna collect IPSC as we'll start to try to revert patient phenotypes to genotypes, to healthy genotypes and demonstrating effects.
00:29:14.056 - 00:29:31.054, Speaker A: There's sort of a whole bunch of work here. I think this is kind of our. I would predict one of the bigger challenges that we're gonna face in the field. So I'll leave it there and thank my team. And there's been millions of people involved and generous funding from NIH and others. Thank you and happy to take questions.
00:29:44.834 - 00:30:03.642, Speaker B: Hey, Tim, we've been thinking a lot about the relatively low agreement between CRISPR and PRas, and then also, like, animal models where you do a reporter assay in a mouse embryo, for example. There've been a few papers also on this recently. I was just curious to hear your thoughts on that.
00:30:03.738 - 00:30:39.034, Speaker A: Yeah, we've been. That's been one of the big. One of the big focuses of encode as well is not just there's disagreement between, like, the high throughput reporter ax phase and the CRISPR screens, and there's disagreements in vivo as well. You know, I think in the more transient assays we're able to. I think that just has to do with the DNA that you're putting in different. If you use assay kilobase fragments versus 100 base pair fragments, a lot of the difference seems to be around sequence content. We're trying to develop methods to calibrate across these.
00:30:39.034 - 00:31:00.294, Speaker A: For example, in terms of discrepancies on genome editing, I think that's something that is just a huge challenge. And there's a lot of off target effects from some of these things. I don't have a great insight, though, yet on how to solve it. Thanks. Yeah, I guess we'll have the rest.
00:31:00.334 - 00:31:02.038, Speaker B: Of the question at the break because.
00:31:02.126 - 00:31:03.270, Speaker A: We are running late.
00:31:03.382 - 00:31:03.814, Speaker B: Thanks again.
