00:00:00.320 - 00:00:27.870, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Anthony Sino. And today, the 2 November 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, some sad news over the last 48 hours that I didn't talk about yesterday, but I will talk about today. So Alex van DER sand here tweeted out, the premature passing of Nikolai Mushigean is a very sad day for crypto. Now, for those of you who don't know who Nikolai was, Alex lists out his accomplishments here.
00:00:27.870 - 00:01:19.902, Speaker A: So he founded Makerdao. He discovered the reentrancy attack before the Dow, the Dow back in 2016. And White had a maker to prevent a hack, developed weth wrapped Ethereum, founded balancer, and donated $1.4 million to Carnegie Mellon for Defi research. So pretty much all of us have been impacted by Nikolai's work, right? Like, even if you haven't used maker, even if you haven't used balancer, even if you haven't used Defi at all, you've probably used wrapped ETH, right? At some point, obviously, they go hand in hand using wrapped Ethan defy. But still, like, Nikolai's work has touched all of us and unfortunately, he has passed away. Now, I know there was a bit of talk, or a lot of talk, actually, from what I saw about some tweets that he'd been putting out over the last few months, it seemed like he was suffering from some sort of mental illness, whether that be schizophrenia or something else.
00:01:19.902 - 00:02:07.940, Speaker A: And then people were saying, and then I think the tweet that he put out before he died or just before he died was something about this CIA or Mossad after, after him in Puerto Rico or something like that. But I think, you know, people are focusing on that. But as Alex actually says here, you know, let's not descend into conspiracy speculation. It's disrespectful to the family and harmful to, to kind of like, everything around surrounding this. So I just wanted to mention Nikolai, because a lot of you, I mean, I don't think I've ever mentioned him on the refill before, but a lot of you will not be aware of who he, who he is or was. And yeah, it's just a very sad day in, in Defi. Now, look, the, the thing about, like this is that there was a tweet that I read, a convert who it was from, and it got me thinking.
00:02:07.940 - 00:02:42.742, Speaker A: So, as I said, nikola suffered from mental health issues. I don't know if he always suffered from those issues while he was at maker. There's a lot of people who work with him. I haven't really spoken to them, but I'm not sure if he suffered them then. But there was a tweet from someone that I saw in a cumber, exactly what it said. But essentially, it said that you have governments and regulators going after Defi developers, right? And these Defi developers aren't some kind of macho people who are, like, super anti government, you know, freedom fighters with, you know, with guns and riding in tanks and. And, you know, basically fighting in some.
00:02:42.742 - 00:03:20.430, Speaker A: Some physical kind of conflict, right? The. These people are just like normal, regular people. They're more. Not more, nor regular developers who want to build cool stuff, and obviously, they want to build better tools and tools that enable more freedom for people. But the government and nation states are putting so much pressure on these people and putting so much stress on them that it does lead to mental health issues, for sure. I mean, I've spoken about this before in the context of some of the mev boost relays censoring, such as flashbots. Like, I can't imagine the amount of pressure flashbots and other DeFi, or DeFi teams in general are under from there.
00:03:20.430 - 00:04:00.310, Speaker A: Not. Maybe not so much directly from regulators and governments, but from their lawyers basically saying to them, hey, you need to do this, this, and this, or else there is, like, a high chance that you're going to end up in jail or is a high chance you're going to run afoul of some regulator or some kind of nation state. So do this. And we saw this obviously play out with. With the relay censoring the OFAC transactions, sorry, the tornado cash transactions, because it's on the OFAC list. And obviously, the penalty for running afoul of OFAC is up to 30 years in federal prison and massive fine. So you obviously don't want to be messing around with that, especially if you're a known developer, which pretty much, I think, most, if not all of the flashbots developers are known.
00:04:00.310 - 00:04:42.158, Speaker A: Same with a lot of the Defi developers out there, at least the popular ones, especially something like uniswap. So I totally understand that. And then it obviously lends itself to conspiracy theories and stuff like that as well. But I think generally, you don't have to believe in any conspiracy theory theory to see that governments, regulators do not like crypto, do not like DeFi, whether that's because they're uneducated or because they are educated and they realize that it takes power away from them when done right. You know, true DeFi actually takes a lot of power away from both governments and massive corporations and banks because it basically allows us to have a parallel financial system that is decentralized, that he's not controlled by any of these parties. And that's scary for them, right? Maybe. Maybe not.
00:04:42.158 - 00:05:27.540, Speaker A: Maybe, okay, it depends who it is, but maybe scary is the wrong word, but maybe it's concerning, right? So they put all this pressure on. They don't want to outright ban anything, at least in the US, they don't want to outright ban anything because that's bad politically and that jeopardizes their own position. But as I mentioned, I think yesterday or the day before, and I mentioned it plenty of times before, they do this thing through this, this chilling of chilling effect thing, where basically they scare everyone into compliance, they scare everyone into doing things beyond what's actually required. And that doesn't require them to legislate anything. It doesn't require them to advocate for anything, doesn't require them to put any skin in the game at all. And they lose no political points from that, which is obviously horrible. It puts a lot of pressure on the ecosystem, and it means we have to fight back.
00:05:27.540 - 00:06:15.560, Speaker A: And we have been, there's been lawsuits that have been lobbied against OfAC, you know, even if there's a slow chance that they succeed, that still there, there's still a fight in us. We're not just laying down and taking it. But the initial reaction when those sanctions happened were obvious, was obviously definitely driven by fear. And I hate this regulation and enforcement via fear, which governments love, because it's just such an easy way to enforce things, as I said, without having to legislate on it. But that's just the world we live in, unfortunately. And for, you know, whether it's Nikolai or someone else out there building these tools, I think we all need to maybe be more sympathetic to them and realize that they're under a lot of pressure, even though our own ideals are at odds with that. Like, I have obviously been quite hard, for example, on flashbots and other censoring relayers, because I think that they're basically doing something really, really bad.
00:06:15.560 - 00:06:44.470, Speaker A: On ethereum, censorship. Like, as I've mentioned before, censorship resistance is really that, that's it for, for ethereum and decentralized blockchains. That is the thing that we optimize for and that we, we want out of these things. Uh, if you were to just pick one thing, right. Uh, but you know, these, these, uh, relays engaging in censorship, uh, water that down. They. They make it so that people look at that and at least at the social layer and think, wow, okay, well, you know, some of the credible neutrality gets eroded with that, and I've been really hard on them.
00:06:44.470 - 00:07:05.676, Speaker A: But at the same time, uh, and over the last, I guess, few weeks especially, I have more and more, uh, come to have a deeper understanding and a deeper appreciation for the positions these people are under. Because it's all well and good for me to say these things. I mean, one, I'm not a us citizen, right. Which automatically. I mean, I. It's funny whenever I say that, because Australia is basically mini us. I mean, we.
00:07:05.676 - 00:07:23.878, Speaker A: We have so many tree, um, line. We have an alliance with the US, right? We. Without the US, China probably would have invaded us 50 years ago. But just from a pure kind of citizenship perspective, right? I'm not a us citizen. I haven't founded any DeFi protocols. I'm not developing any of these things. I'm purely basically an educator and an investor.
00:07:23.878 - 00:07:41.090, Speaker A: So my risk level is obviously very low compared to the people actually building these things. So I think a lot of. Since the OFAC sanctions happened, they didn't happen that long ago. It was only August. Right? August 8, I believe. And I remember the date because that's my anniversary with my fiance. So I actually remember the date, but, yeah, August 8.
00:07:41.090 - 00:08:04.234, Speaker A: So. Hasn't been that long so far, but it's been yet. I've been thinking a lot about it as things have progressed and has evolved. And I basically, yeah. Come to the conclusion that we all need to be more sympathetic towards these people because they are under a lot of pressure. And this pressure leads to potential mental health issues. And in the worst cases, it can lead to what happened with Nikolai, where, as Alex van DER San said here, it's a premature passing.
00:08:04.234 - 00:08:30.242, Speaker A: We don't know exactly what happened. We don't know if he. If he committed suicide or if he had some health issues or if, you know, if you were to believe the conspiracies, if the, you know, the CIA got him or something like that. I'm not. I'm not going to obviously spread that around and say that that's true or not, but we don't know the circumstances yet, as far as I know. But just. Yeah, an unfortunate event in the Defi ecosystem.
00:08:30.242 - 00:09:10.106, Speaker A: But as I said, Nikolai has touched all of us in one way or another through his work, which I consider to be pretty amazing considering, you know, how big this ecosystem is now and how hard it is to actually make something as impactful as just wrapped Ethereum. Right? Like, that's such an impactful thing, even though it's considered something of table stakes within Ethereum these days. It's such an impactful thing, and it's what made Defi work, basically. So, yeah, not to. Not to this, not that this county's other accomplishments, obviously, founding Makerdao, which is basically the grandfather of Defi, and founding balancer as well, which is a great project. But I think when you look at the list of accomplishments here, obviously there is a lot. But anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that.
00:09:10.106 - 00:09:57.870, Speaker A: Moving on to some more mev related stuff. You guys love this topic, I'm sure. But anyway, I wanted to highlight this website that I came across today called Inclusion Watch. Now, I am so happy that someone has developed this because basically what this website does is it will show you how long it's going to take based on a percentage chance to get your transaction included in a block. If it is part of a census, sorry, if it is a transaction that is being censored by some portion of the network, obviously tornado cash transactions are being censored right now. And I've discussed this before where I've said, okay, you know, what, what are the compliant blocks? So 66% of average block of the network is currently censoring tornado cash related transactions. But that, that means that there is 34% that isn't.
00:09:57.870 - 00:10:35.268, Speaker A: So what are the chances on a per block basis of you getting into a block? So within one block, it will be a 34% chance, right? That's, that's pretty obvious. Then within five blocks, you'll have an 87% chance. Within ten blocks, 98%. And 25 blocks, 100%. And in the longest timeframe here, 25 blocks, it only takes five minutes. So most of them are going to be obviously included between one to two minutes currently. But this is what I guess, like I've been talking about a lot and what people have been pointing out is that even though there are actors censoring on this network, it's not like 100% censorship.
00:10:35.268 - 00:11:05.360, Speaker A: Right? Whereas, for example, let's take PayPal. For example, if PayPal censors you, that's it. PayPal is a centralized company. They're the only one that will process your transactions, that will allow you to use your account. And there they have the sole power to ban or unban you from the platform or to censor or not censor you from the platform. Whereas on Ethereum, because it is a decentralized network made up of hundreds of thousands of validators, and, and many different relayers out there, with more coming every day. We're never going to get to 100% censorship.
00:11:05.360 - 00:11:43.894, Speaker A: Even if we get to something like 90%, there is still a, there is still a chance for you to get your transaction in. And that chance goes up and up and up, the more blocks that are mined. Right? So even if, as I said, 90%, 95% even, I've gone through this before, but even if 99% of the network was censoring, you would still be able to get a transaction in relatively quickly for that, that, that censored transaction there. Sorry for that, um, censored transaction type, I should say. Now, obviously, we don't want to get to that point where the majority is censored. And it depends on the transaction as well. For something like tornado cash, it's actually not a big deal, because tornado cash is more siloed.
00:11:43.894 - 00:12:20.196, Speaker A: It is not a kind of money lego, so to speak. It's not something that interoperates with other protocols directly. Whereas if 66% of the network was censoring Uniswap, for example, that would be a massive effect. That would have a massive effect on the network, and that would degrade network performance considerably. And actually, in that, in that position, I think that the community would come together and start socially slashing in that position. Because right now, as I said, toneto cash, because it's siloed and because you can get your transaction in still and it's all well and good, it's not as big of a deal as something like uniswap. It just depends on what percentage of the network is using it.
00:12:20.196 - 00:12:42.068, Speaker A: And it's not just uniswap. Right? It's. It's opensea, it's the money markets, like Aave, for example. It's other amms. You know, it's everything that would be popular, that is most used by, probably gas usage on Ethereum or fees burned. I should say that would get people's attention more so than tornado cash. But generally, obviously, we want to strive for 0% censorship.
00:12:42.068 - 00:13:15.838, Speaker A: I don't think we're ever going to get to 0%, but we will obviously improve this over time. But yeah, this website will show you how long it'll take on average to get your transaction in, which is really cool. I mean, it's really cool that you can get within with, you know, in five minutes or less. You basically have 100% chance of getting your transaction in, even though 66% of the network is censoring you. And you know what's funny about this is that an average bitcoin block is ten minutes, so you would still be able to get your transaction in faster than a bitcoin block, which. Which I think is pretty funny there. But yeah.
00:13:15.838 - 00:13:40.278, Speaker A: Anyway, that's enough on inclusion watch. You can check out their website for yourself. Second bit of mev news comes from Coinbase. Now, I did mention over the past week or so that I spotted Coinbase turning on our mev boost on their validators, because I went to rated.net work and checked it out there. And they made the official announcement today that Flashbots mev boost software is now live on Coinbase cloud. So they have a thread here about this.
00:13:40.278 - 00:14:25.434, Speaker A: About one tweet in particular that I wanted to point out was that where do they. This tweet here where they said, relay diversity encourages decentralization and tendency of resistance. In keeping with this principle, Coinbase cloud will aim to subscribe to all viable relayers that are operated by known entities and pass our technical requirements. So they're not just going to be using flashbots or, you know, blocks route. They're going to be using, as they said here, all viable relay relays. And I think viable would be a checklist that they would go through, such as something, you know, that has reliable uptime that is, that that actually proposes blocks and actually works, that, you know, is bug relatively bug free over a period of time. And obviously, there's a whole list of things you can, you can have in that checklist.
00:14:25.434 - 00:15:05.938, Speaker A: And then also, they've said, operated by known entities. So this is obviously something that they have to do because of the fact that they're a centralized company, especially. They're on the stock exchange in the US, right? So they're not going to be allowing Sally, they're not going to be subscribing to relays such as relay all, which I've been talking about, the new non censoring one, and any other ones that are run by anonymous people, which is fine. I mean, we expected this from something like Coinbase, but still cool to see that they have turned it on. They made the official announcements and that they're not just going with flashbots or they're not just going with censored relays, they're supporting all viable relays, whether they're censoring or not. So I think that's. That's very cool there.
00:15:05.938 - 00:15:36.842, Speaker A: Now, speaking of Mev watch Dot in Fox, the relay all, which I just spoke about is actually over the last day, up to 0.66% of blocks now beating manifolds. Relay already so very cool to see them growing. And they're actually up to almost 6000 validators now, which is awesome. Like they've been growing so quickly here. And you can go check out the stats for yourself at this website relay or with three o's or WTF, which I'll link in the YouTube description. But yeah, the diversity is getting better, guys.
00:15:36.842 - 00:15:51.838, Speaker A: Like, it's gonna take time. I'm saying this every day, it's getting better, it's getting better, it's gonna take time. But we're getting there, which is the main thing here. And I'm curious to see what Coinbase's diversity looks like over time. Because right now it's. It's heavy flashbots. Like, if I go to raider.net
00:15:51.838 - 00:16:07.604, Speaker A: work, I should have this website up all the time for you guys. But yeah, rated.net work. You can see it's been growing. Coinbases mev boost relay share so flashbots right now is 4.9% blocks, right? Is 0.9%. That's the only two right now that they are that, that have been proposed.
00:16:07.604 - 00:16:31.904, Speaker A: And there's still a lot of vanilla blocks here. But obviously flashbots is ahead. Now we'll, as I said, I'm curious to see what the diversity looks like. Will it look similar to something like Lido, where 59% is flashbots and 10% is blocks route? It's looking like that based on kind of a percentage, but based on the way it is right now. But we'll have to see. I'm curious to see how that evolves over time. And I'll obviously keep you guys updated on that one there.
00:16:31.904 - 00:17:15.460, Speaker A: All right, so just wanted to highlight this video that bankless put out, which is a clip from an interview David Hoffman did with Vitalik at Devcon in Bogota here, where he asked Vitalik, what will Ethereum look like in the year 2032? And Vitalik gave us a glimpse of the future. Now, basically, what Vitalik is talking about here is one of the end game goals of the Ethereum protocol, which is to ZK snarkify everything. Now, what this would allow you to do, as Vitalik states in this video, is basically you can download a set of data. So say you download 3.6 megabytes of data, you hash it, you do a couple of elliptic curve equations on it to check its validity. Sorry to check a snark. And that's it.
00:17:15.460 - 00:17:58.038, Speaker A: You know that the block is valid, and then you can keep doing this for blocks and blocks and blocks. And what this enables is that basically validating the chain from something like a smartphone or a raspberry PI device really, really quickly, which is huge, right? That means that we can keep scaling. And this, this obviously has benefits for scaling because as we scale up more, we can, with dank sharding, we can increase the sigh, increase the data throughput of dank sharding, which increases that the throughput of Ethereum layer one. But this is that snarkifying the base layer that I've been talking about for a while now. I don't mention it that often because as I said, it is more of a definite longer, longer term thing. It's part of the splurge, I believe, which is like the nice to haves on Ethereum. But if we can get there in the next ten years, that'd be awesome.
00:17:58.038 - 00:18:22.942, Speaker A: Because as I've said to you guys before, the Ethereum roadmap is a five to ten year roadmap from basically this year. So snarkifying. Yeah, probably won't happen, and maybe it'll happen in the 2020s, but we'll see. But it's definitely not like critical. It's, as I said, it's a nice to have, it definitely gives us a lot of, a lot of awesome properties. But I do still think we're going to have a lot more scale than demand to use it. And we already do, technically.
00:18:22.942 - 00:19:09.984, Speaker A: Right? And as we scale up through dank sharding and as the L2s get better over time, as I said, it'll be, it'll be just nice to have the snarkifying the base layer in order to validate on a phone. And in ten years, I mean, he's talking like, you know, two, three megabytes of data right now, maybe for a lot of people on a mobile device, on a 4g or a 5g plan, that's a lot. But in ten years, we're probably going to be on like six g, seven g or something like that, right? The, the data that we have, we may even end up having unlimited data form for mobile plans, so you won't even have to worry about it at that point, which I think is really cool. But you can go watch this short clip. I'll link it in the YouTube description. And the full interview is linked here as well, which I'll also link in the YouTube description below. All right, some news out of the polygon ecosystem today.
00:19:09.984 - 00:19:55.598, Speaker A: So Sandeep from polygon has, quote tweeted Ty Lobban, who works at JP Morgan. And Sandeep said, this is a big step for Defi World's largest bank, JP Morgan and Singapore's regulatory authority did their first live trade in Defi on polygon. So on the Polygon pos chain. So you can see Ty's tweet thread here where he said JPMorgan has executed its first live trade on a public blockchain using Defi tokenized deposits and verifiable credentials, part of the Monetary Authority of Singapore's project Guardian. Many world firsts here. And since this is a public chain, you know, these are transparent thread on what they did, which you can read and I'll link in the YouTube description and below. This is really cool because as I said, this is actually on obviously it's not on Ethereum main net, it's on the polygon pos chain.
00:19:55.598 - 00:20:22.372, Speaker A: But the polygon pos chain is a public permissionless chain. This is not a private chain. It's not a private fork of geth or anything like that. It's not an internal thing. This is done by JP Morgan on a public blockchain, which I think is incredibly cool. And as I said, you can check out this thread here. Now, obviously some people will see this and be like, you know, aren't we building DeFi to disrupt the banks, so to speak, or aren't we doing, aren't we building it to replace the banks? And I've always been of the opinion that we're doing both things.
00:20:22.372 - 00:21:09.468, Speaker A: We're replacing and updating legacy financial infrastructure. But that doesn't mean that the companies that use that legacy financial infrastructure can't take advantage of that as well. So for example, banks can update all of their all of their internal kind of software, can update their internal procedures, can update everything they that they do under the hood to use defy rails or to use crypto rails instead of the trad fire rails. Obviously this is going to take a long time, but Defi doesn't necessarily put all of these companies out of business or obsolete them. Just like the Internet didn't obsolete all the companies that came before the Internet. Their companies found novel and unique ways to use the Internet for the benefit of their business. Just like banks will do this, just like other trad five firms will do this.
00:21:09.468 - 00:21:44.392, Speaker A: And this is one of the world. This is a world first, as Ty says here, that the first live trade on a public blockchain from JP Morgan. So I'll link the thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out, but I just thought it was something worth highlighting, even though it may seem uninteresting to us because we, you know, maybe some of you just really hate banks, especially banks like JP Morgan, which are obviously mega banks and things like that. But you know, banks I think have been a necessary evil for a long time in society. Banks aren't anything new. They've been around for a very very long time. And I don't think that they are evil per se.
00:21:44.392 - 00:22:24.830, Speaker A: And it's a longer discussion than I have time for today. But I think if they can adopt the technology that we're building and the technology that we're building can remain neutral, can remain decentralized and even though obviously JP Morgan is not going to be a decentralized entity interacting with it, they're still going to be on a level playing field on the same rails in a more transparent system or more fair system. And I think that is a huge win for humanity generally. Even if decentralized companies are using this because you can use centralized exchanges as an example. They've been around for almost as long as crypto has been around for right. Since bitcoin came on the scene. And what have they done? Well, they've added actually a lot of value.
00:22:24.830 - 00:23:09.744, Speaker A: They've brought a lot of people into this ecosystem that otherwise wouldn't have been. Could you imagine crypto without centralized exchanges? It would still be this niche little thing that only geeks cared about in their basement running the latest Linux distro distros, right. Like it would be nothing. It's only because of centralized exchanges bringing in these people and bridging two worlds, the centralized and decentralized worlds together that we have what we have today. Now is that to say that all these centralized entities are great? No, I think a lot of them are actually pretty bad. And we've seen a lot of them go busts like Celsius and, and Blockfi didn't go bust, I mean, but basically failed and got acquired obviously terror, you know, which like they said that they were decentralized but they really weren't. And you know, it's funny, their centralization didn't even help them in the end.
00:23:09.744 - 00:23:36.288, Speaker A: But that's orthogonal to my point here. I think that there's a spectrum. We're going to have centralized entities forever just tapping into these things. But it's fine as long as they don't have control over the, the neutral infrastructure that we're building. They can tap into it just like anyone else can, just like any other entity can. Alright, so an update out of the synthetix ecosystem that I forgot to cover a few days ago. So Synthetix has announced, has announced and launched a new SNX YouTube channel.
00:23:36.288 - 00:24:21.352, Speaker A: And they have their first video which features afif here going through perps v two and basically explaining what all about perps, the basics of perps current landscape for defi perps SNX perps v two. So you can go check out this video. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the reason I wanted to highlight this is because obviously I'm an educator, and anytime I see a project, especially one that's as big and well known as synthetix, spinning up an educational resource, I always want to point people towards it, especially if you're wondering, you know, what the hell is a perp, right? And how does it play within synthetics? If you're a synthetix fan, maybe you're still confused. Well, this is something that you can check out and go go watch to get a better understanding. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, last couple of updates here.
00:24:21.352 - 00:24:53.998, Speaker A: I've got to do with NFTs. So a project called Nifty Apes has announced their $4.2 million seed round led by variant and fintech collective. Now, in your head, I'm sure you're saying, is Anthony going to say that he was an investor in this as well? And yes, I am. So, disclosure, I am an angel investor in this because as I've said many, many times before, the only things that I'm interested in investing in on the NFT side are infrastructure things, not the NFTs themselves. And I've explained my reasoning behind that before the TL doctor, is that it's just too hard to pick winners in the actual NFT space and I don't have enough time for it. But infrastructure stuff I love.
00:24:53.998 - 00:25:31.274, Speaker A: Now, what is nifty apes? Well, basically, Nifty apes allows people to get leverage on their NFT portfolio and just, you know, obviously leverage I've spoken about before and I've said that you should avoid leverage and things like that. But I'm also not naive and I know that people will keep using leverage. And I know that not all leverage is necessarily bad. You know, for example, if you put money in, make a dow, you know, you put Ethan Makerdao and then borrow against it. Say you borrow some money to buy a car. That's not like degen gambling on ETH, using that money, that's buying a car because it's something that you need in real life. And then you pay off that loan over time, just like you would pay off a bank loan.
00:25:31.274 - 00:26:11.912, Speaker A: So not all leverage is evil. When I talk about leverage and kind of caution against that, it's the going, you know, ten x 50 x 100 x on, you know, speculative crypto coins and then getting yourself blown up, that's where you'd want to avoid it. But if you want to unlock the liquidity of your assets without selling them, that's where leverage comes in handy. And that's exactly what Nifty apes is, is trying to build. Here is a way for you to unlock liquidity for your nfts, and you can go to the website to check it out at nifty apes money here to start borrowing and start lending if you want. And you know, they've got a nice little landing page here to learn all about them as well. But yeah, I wanted to congratulate them on this raise.
00:26:11.912 - 00:26:46.796, Speaker A: As I said, I am an investor, but I want to congratulate them because it's pretty cool to see something like this getting, getting, you know, invested in and getting, sorry, being able to raise money. And as I said, I love seeing these NFT infrastructure projects spin up and, and get, and get traction because I think that something like this is definite value add to the NFT ecosystem. So you can go check this out. I'll link in the description below. But last thing, another NFT related update comes from the nouns ecosystem. Now, nouns is a project that's been around for a little while. I think I've talked about them here and there.
00:26:46.796 - 00:27:21.338, Speaker A: But basically it is a project that auctions off a unique noun Nft every single day. And he's been doing this for quite a while. And they've managed to raise, I think, 20 or 30,000 ETH at this point, maybe more than that. At this point I haven't checked lately. And basically they're a collective that tries to do things with that ETH, whether that's being funding public goods or investing in other projects. Basically, it's supposed to be a community that can come together and do these things. Well, today the nouns community announced something called Nouns Builder, which is basically a way to do what nouns does with their nfts for anyone.
00:27:21.338 - 00:27:44.858, Speaker A: So you can upload your art, start your own dao, and create as a community all on chain with no code required. And you can create your own nouns. Dao nouns build. So you can just take the concept and take basically what nouns does with nouns. Wt, WTF, that's the URL. And apply it to your own cause, your own project. You can imagine doing something, say, for a local charity.
00:27:44.858 - 00:28:19.300, Speaker A: You can raise money for a local charity by selling nfts here and then have a dao that manages this, which I thought think would be pretty cool because I really do like the idea of that. Now, obviously, the more people that get involved, the harder it becomes to scale these sorts of things. And I think the nouns project from loosely following. It has suffered from this in the past because obviously there's a lot of money there. You get a lot of people interested, especially if they're buying. They're buying a noun because any of these things aren't cheap. They have like little nouns, which are the cheaper version, but the actual nouns themselves, I think they're still going for almost 58th and at one point they're going for like 108.
00:28:19.300 - 00:28:44.232, Speaker A: So they're not cheap NFTs. And this is every day, guys, like, money's issued every day. This isn't like a weekly or a monthly thing or a limited thing. Money and a new one is issued every day. So that treasury grew really, really large, the community grew really large, and, and I think they've had growing pain, so to speak, because of that. So that's kind of the thing. That's the thing that I caution, again, not against, but like, that's the one, I guess, like red flag.
00:28:44.232 - 00:29:17.082, Speaker A: No, red flags, not the right term. What's the word I'm looking for? It eludes me right now, but that's basically the one thing that I look at is like, okay, well, what does this look like at scale? Because when things get big enough and when there's enough money involved, there's too much, too many voices. Governance slows down, it becomes hard to do anything. It becomes very bureaucratic, it becomes very ego driven as well because you have different sets of contributors and people want to have their voices heard and all these sorts of stuff. Right. But if you can keep things relatively small, I think that works really well. Like a small and lean daos is what I'm most bullish on.
00:29:17.082 - 00:29:53.452, Speaker A: The really, really big dows that just like let anyone in and anyone can have an equal voice. I don't really think that that was going to work at all. I think small lean daos with a large community is good. And you know, it's funny because that's exactly what I guess, like democracy is like in general. We have, like, obviously in the US, there is 300, 5400 million people, whatever it is right now, but there's nowhere near that amount of representatives in the Senate and in their house and local politicians and all that sorts of stuff, right? There is like a few thousand of them, I think. I don't know how many there are. Maybe there's not even that many to represent that many people, because that's the only real way to scale it.
00:29:53.452 - 00:30:29.186, Speaker A: Could you imagine if every single citizen had and equal say in every single decision that needs to be made around the country and it would just be debated to death? There would. Nothing would ever get done. It'd be gridlocked. And in saying that, there are obviously times where things get gridlocked anyway, even with the decisions that we have. But I don't think daos can just scale up as much as possible, scale up to like thousands and thousands of people, and expect to be able to get stuff done. They need to have a core part of the DAO, which acts as the representatives, and then they can have a large community. But getting bogged down on these things basically kills Dallas, I believe.
00:30:29.186 - 00:30:43.714, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out nouns build if you're interested in starting one for yourself. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
