00:00:00.330 - 00:00:24.270, Speaker A: Marzi is basically looking to revolutionize the due diligence processes. And I know we've got a very short time, so I'm going to try and run through this in south african speed. Right. So our mission is effectively looking to create a network of trust between businesses and clients. Now, what do we mean by due diligence? Right. Let me think about this differently.
00:00:29.290 - 00:00:53.360, Speaker B: Hi, everyone. Thanks for staying tuned. So we've now got a fireside chat with Cindy of Umazi, who is going to take us through in lots more detail all of the really cool things that her and Umazi are working on at the Zinnia. I'll let you take it away, and then once you've run through the presentation, we'll run through some questions.
00:00:55.330 - 00:01:25.906, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So thank you, Chris, again, for having us today. Omazi is basically looking to revolutionize the due diligence processes. And I know we've got a very short time, so I'm going to try and run through this in south african speed. Right. So our mission is effectively looking to create a network of trust between businesses and clients. Now, what do we mean by due diligence? Let me think about this differently.
00:01:25.906 - 00:02:23.260, Speaker A: Is if you were, for example, Coinbase just starting out, right, and you wanted to set up a new entity, because the current entity in San Francisco, you need to have a footprint somewhere else. But in order for that to happen, you have to set up a bank account. And with that bank account, a traditional bank account, because you need to pay the cleaners and the estate agents and they don't accept crypto yet. So the bank will put you through a rigor of due diligence processes where you have to provide your beneficial ownership details, tax ID, et cetera, et cetera. For that bank, the process is just a legal requirement, right. But at the same time, it is quite a burden for corporations to provide that information. Now, what happens is every single time you go through that process, you have to provide the same information all over again.
00:02:23.260 - 00:03:05.106, Speaker A: And it's not just bank, it's the estate agent. So thousands and thousands of information being produced over and over again. What we do with Amarzi is we remove that burden. We take that away from corporations where they normally would provide thousands and thousands of reams of information consent. And we allow corporates to create a digital identity that represents their due diligence credentials. So underlying of that digital identity sits a number of credentials that you can actually then produce as evidence to facilitate that onboarding process. And then those credentials will be validated.
00:03:05.106 - 00:03:58.014, Speaker A: So you walk away with effectively a stamp of approval on your credentials, and you can reuse that information to go somewhere else and open up another bank account or facilitate another estate agent process. What we don't do is we're not looking to disrupt the KYC processes because those are siloed information. It comes back to the panel discussion that we had as well. Right? There is information that's currently held siloed by banks. We can't extract information. So instead, we're building on top and we say we're not competitive, but we're complementary and we'll seamlessly integrate with those solutions and update where relevant in real time. And Accenture has actually been very helpful in actually showing and showcasing where we're leading.
00:03:58.014 - 00:04:35.874, Speaker A: So effectively, it's not the KYC processes that we're looking to disrupt. It is highlighting an untapped market that we're currently looking at. So it is that continuous due diligence process. So the slide that I'm showing here is from worst to bad, and we sit outside of both. Worst, sorry, from worst to good. And we sit outside of that as well, for all of the case generation. So a new onboarding KYC, it is actually sourcing the data that you get from that process, the due diligence process, to verify some of that information.
00:04:35.874 - 00:05:26.710, Speaker A: But the ongoing, continuous KYC process, that's where we sit. And we can take that through. And we've touched on some of those, a number of use cases. The client onboarding, product enablement, multiparty one was one we didn't discuss during the panel discussion, for example, which is if you think about an mergers and acquisitions deal where you've got a law firm, a insurer reinsurer, the private equity firm, all of them require due diligence credentials. But I talk from experience because my partner is an M, a banker. Sometimes you get to a place where just before pen is put to paper, someone puts their hand up and say, we've got outdated credentials. And that whole deal holds because that one party needs to gather the due diligence credentials.
00:05:26.710 - 00:05:55.040, Speaker A: In that case, if Mars existed, they could very easily provision the information and the deal can continue in that process. So, in short, we provide a solution that is cross industry, regionally agnostic and regulatory agnostic. Sharing verified, validated due diligence credentials. Chris, over to you.
00:05:56.930 - 00:06:35.980, Speaker B: That was amazing. Cindy, thanks very much for you. Obviously, you covered a lot of information and really clear and interesting, lots of questions come to mind from that. But I guess first one, and it goes back also to what we were talking about in the panel earlier was just around. There's a lot of focus in the market at the moment on decentralized identity for individuals. But obviously, Umazi's focus and focus of our panel earlier was more to do with corporates. And I wondered if you could just talk us through some of the additional complexities that you're faced when you're dealing with corporates rather than individuals and how you kind of navigate through those.
00:06:37.710 - 00:07:23.210, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. It's a good question. So when we looked at how we want to build Omazi, what are some of the key credentials that organizations often get asked to produce? It's ownership data. It's what kind of products and services they have. They look at AML, anti money laundering, as well as sanctions questionnaires that needs to be filled out. There are corporate policies that needs to be produced and then the pep checks, which is politically exposed people. The moment you go through that by just following the Wolvesburg standard, which is kind of, it's about 13 banks that got together and said they want to start standardizing some of these processes.
00:07:23.210 - 00:08:43.780, Speaker A: That Wolfsburg standard alone, filling that form in, is over 20 pages long. So if you take that and you multiply it by the average number of financial institution relationships a corporate will have, which is eleven, that's an astronomical amount of data that needs to be produced, that needs to be revalidated all over again every time they go through that process. So with Umazi, we actually help facilitate by allowing corporates that one central place where they can put this data, where organizations and other financial institutions can tap into that data with the permission from the corporate. This is also further valuable when you're going outside of the finance industry. And those are some of the examples that we also touched on before, is facilitating that cross industry due diligence process. So a third party due diligence provider, I spoke to a merchant who's actually white labeling their product out to a financial institution. The financial institution is responsible for onboarding the retailer to provide that merchant license, but the actual merchant never sees the credentials, so they've got an AML risk at the moment.
00:08:43.780 - 00:08:50.760, Speaker A: What's the easiest way to do that is to make the data available to the end merchant as.
00:08:54.010 - 00:09:24.130, Speaker B: I mean, to that point about kind of integrating different silos of data and also maybe the various different players in the KYC and AML and general kind of verification space, it sounds like it's quite a challenge. Maybe you could talk us through how you and Umazi kind of work through that complexity, and maybe what you do differently to other providers to kind of straddle that ecosystem that is already existing.
00:09:26.230 - 00:10:32.514, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say the key thing for us is portability is being able to reuse the credentials that was established. We take it one step further and we're actually making sure that the information is validated. And additionally to that, that means sometimes getting that information directly from source. So for example, here in the UK, you've got company's house that manages the creation of new companies. In the UK, you register with them and by law you are required to keep that information updated. So if you're dealing with a financial institution, the law firm, as well as a manufacturer, and all three of those are subscribed to your identity, and by law you've actually updated your company's house details. They automatically get risk mitigating measures in place because they get an automatic update on information the moment you update your company's house details.
00:10:32.514 - 00:11:17.060, Speaker A: So it's kind of like a real time update without these institutions actually having to go through the operational process to ensure that their data is updated. And then from the corporate side, they only have to produce this information once. So they only have to update the corporate profile in company's house and everybody else gets the information automatically. So that's where we are different from someone else who's probably trying to tackle this market. I come from a finance industry where the finance industry has been trying to tackle this solution, but it's always a solution built for the finance industry. It's a solution built for, say, the pharma companies, but it's never the other way around.
00:11:17.510 - 00:11:39.340, Speaker B: Okay, that makes sense. Thanks. Well, I'm conscious we're pretty close to running out of time. So I think just to wrap up, maybe two things. First of all, how can people who want to get in touch with you do that? What's the best way? And then maybe if you just want to give a quick description of what's next for, you know, where you are and what's next would be great.
00:11:40.990 - 00:12:09.214, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So the easiest way to get hold of us, if you want to scan the QR code that takes you through to my contact details. Otherwise you can follow us through Twitter and LinkedIn. After this chat, I can link all that information again into the chat. I did share it earlier, but that's the best way of getting hold of us. It's also through our website, which is Umazi IO. There's about a new week.
00:12:09.214 - 00:13:21.280, Speaker A: You can directly contact with me through email. What's next for Omazi? So Umazi is in advanced discussions at the moment with a number of financial institutions as well as law firms. We're actually tackling law firms first because they've recently come into scope of the anti money laundering directive, so they have to comply with the regulation now and be comparable to that of an Fi in terms of their policies and procedures aligned with that, we're discussing a number of partnerships as well, which will give us the ability to help other institutions port their current clients. They're going to be onboarding credentials very easily. This comes back to the question, the note that Andy made as well, right? When it comes to that competitive edge, if you're an organization that offers this solution to a corporate client, for them to reuse their credentials, they'll keep coming back to you and start raising you when they're trying to expand their footprint regionally. Then one of the other solutions where they have to reproduce this information over and over again.
00:13:21.730 - 00:13:30.490, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, thanks so much, sunny, for your time. I think everyone would have really appreciated. It was fantastic to chat with you and thanks everyone for listening.
