00:00:00.240 - 00:00:38.752, Speaker A: And we actually have, this is kind of not fully, like, announced yet and stuff, but there's definitely a lot going on behind the scenes to integrate roll up technology. But like I was saying, it fits within that framework of the ease to power spectrum. And so we want there to be rollups for people. Like, if they don't need necessarily everything that Appshain gives, we also want there to be an easy option for them to launch a roll up on the Cosmos hub, but then also kind of what cosmos flavored, you know, I mean, we want it to be with Cosmos SDK still and so that they could pretty easily transition their logic up to an app chain if they decide they want to add some more power or functionality or whatever.
00:00:38.816 - 00:01:12.130, Speaker B: The Polygon Community grants program was launched with 1 billion tokens, all for Polygon builders. Season one is live right now and features 35 million in Matic to support the next generation of polygon products. Builders on Polygon. These grants are for you. Join the aggregated future today by applying at Polygon Technology grants. Avalanche is a smart contract platform that has a novel consensus protocol, subnet infrastructure and the hypersdk toolkit, which allows web3 developers to easily launch custom, powerful blockchain solutions. You can start building today by checking out the link below.
00:01:12.130 - 00:01:45.830, Speaker B: Nothing said on Xerox Research is a recommendation to buy or sell securities or tokens. Podcast is for informational purposes only, and any views expressed by anyone on the show are solely our opinions, not financial advice. Boccaccio, Ryan, and our guests may hold positions in the companies funds or projects discussed. What's up, guys? Welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. Today I'm joined by effort Capital, the number one cosmos fanboy at Blockworks Research, and Jahan from Cosmos Hub and Informal systems. Jahan, thank you so much for joining us.
00:01:46.000 - 00:01:47.350, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for having me.
00:01:47.810 - 00:02:16.600, Speaker B: Perfect. Just as a precursor to our listeners, this part is going to be a little bit different than how we usually do it. I feel like usually I'm bombarding developers with very, very technical questions, but I want to hear a bit more of the story of Cosmos and the Cosmos hub over the past year, year and a half. So before we get into all of that, John, do you want to kind of run us through what informal systems is and how you guys got involved with the cosmos stuff?
00:02:18.900 - 00:02:39.220, Speaker A: Yeah. So informal systems is kind of, is a company that does a lot of different things. We have a validator at informal systems, both in, they validate both in Cosmos and also out of cosmos. I think they do ethereum validation and stuff as well. And there's an audit. There's an audit practice as well. So we do audits.
00:02:39.220 - 00:03:09.970, Speaker A: And there's also core Cosmos development that happens under formal systems. So we are like the lead developers on the comet, formerly known as tendermint consensus protocol. And also we contribute to IBC, IBC realtors as well. And then also there's my team, where we work on the Cosmos hub, which is one of the, you know, one. It was the first Cosmos blockchain, one of the main blockchains in Cosmos.
00:03:11.070 - 00:03:29.850, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you. And I guess, like, my number one question is, what's been happening on the, in the Cosmos, on the Cosmos hub over the past year? I feel like there's a lot of both bot fragmentation as well as, like, different directions. Yeah. What's been happening?
00:03:30.400 - 00:04:04.850, Speaker A: Yeah. I could also just give, like, an overview of Cosmos in general, if you're interested. Yeah. So I think, you know, I think Cosmos is, people probably know a little bit about it, but it's, it's been, the Cosmos ecosystem has been around for a while, about five years, maybe, and it was, like, very ahead of its time when it launched. So Cosmos has always been. It's been about the vision is a network of interconnected app chains. And I think when Cosmos came out, ethereum was kind of the newest thing out there.
00:04:04.850 - 00:04:54.630, Speaker A: And it was kind of like the idea that if you were building a blockchain application, you'd want to launch an app chain was a little bit foreign to people. They're like, well, shouldn't I just be launching a smart contract? Isn't that really easy? And it is. It is easier to launch a smart contract than an app chain, but you get a lot of extra power and flexibility and potentially performance for an app chain, which I'll get into a little bit more later. But the other part of Cosmos is IBC, which is the interblock chain communication protocol. And IBC is basically a generalized bridging protocol. So it uses a kind of metaphor of packets between blockchains. And over this, of course, I think token transfer is the main use, but it lets you do a lot of other things which are pretty interesting.
00:04:54.630 - 00:05:39.140, Speaker A: Just as an example, there's something called interchange accounts, which allows one blockchain to control an account on another blockchain. And so, for instance, what you could do is if a blockchain's treasury has a lot of another blockchain's token, it could actually vote in that other blockchain's governance. That's just an example of the power you get from that. And there's a lot of other stuff that runs over IPC interchange security is actually one of them, which we'll talk about as well, more later. But that's kind of, I think, the good introduction to Cosmos. I think one other thing I can stop me here if you have questions, but I can also go into the history a little bit.
00:05:41.040 - 00:05:42.064, Speaker C: I'll keep going.
00:05:42.192 - 00:06:14.572, Speaker A: Okay. One other thing about Cosmos is this doesn't have as much to do with the technology, but it is also a very decentralized ecosystem for a lot of reasons. One reason is just the basic architecture of it's giving founders and developers the power to basically start their own chains. And so that does lend with the smart contract platform, you're not on Ethereum with rollups. It's a whole nother dimension. Also touch on. But in general, stuff that's on Ethereum is kind of on Ethereum.
00:06:14.572 - 00:07:11.556, Speaker A: But with cosmos, you're starting your own chain. It kind of gives you a lot of power to do your own thing. And so that's made the ecosystem pretty decentralized. Then also just there are other more historical or political factors, which is there was kind of a big blow up in 2019, which led to a lot of the, kind of a, a lot of the marketing and promotion of cosmos getting sort of disrupted over the past few years. And the technical development always stays strong. But I think there's also just, you know, if you go to, like, I was at consensus last month, and you go to consensus and there's like, you know, a Solana pizza truck parked outside giving out free pizza, Solana pizza. And so, you know, that's something where Cosmos has been kind of missing from, you know, just missing from the table in terms of doing the marketing spend doing the events, doing that kind of stuff.
00:07:11.556 - 00:07:57.182, Speaker A: And I think that's another factor. Why it may be that you haven't seen as much of it. But yeah, I think that the technology is really strong and a lot of people are also kind of, a lot of people are coming around to the fact that, like, I would say, I mean, there's other ways to do it. I mean, there's Polkadot and avalanche, which are maybe a little bit less sovereign, but kind of the same thing with app chains. But I think that for building an app chain, I think it's safe to say the leading platform is Cosmos SDK. If you're not doing something completely custom, I think the technology is doing strong. And a lot of these app chains aren't even associated as being Cosmos projects.
00:07:57.182 - 00:08:12.840, Speaker A: They're just using the tech. So there's, like, a Barachain is one of them, DyDX is another. There's some, you know, some other projects launching, and they use the tech because it gives you, you know, it gives you a lot of power and flexibility, but you also have to build everything yourself.
00:08:13.260 - 00:08:49.382, Speaker B: Perfect. I, um. One thing that you touched up on is that roll up are on Ethereum, but a chain on Cosmos is its own chain. I kind of want to. We've seen app chains, like, the narrative come up and, like, get popularized, and then it dies down for a bit, and then we get another resurgence of it, especially as, like, chains get more expensive and there's more congestion. How do you view that? Like, a roll up versus a chain? And, like, what's the. Is that, like, on the both technical level as well as, like, something you mentioned was maybe, like, decentralization at a different level as well?
00:08:49.526 - 00:09:17.860, Speaker A: Mm hmm. Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of different levels to it, but I think on a technical level, the way I view it, to make it simple is there's a spectrum of, like, ease to power that exists in, you know, in the way you can launch a blockchain project. And so, like, contracts are on the easy side of the spectrum. If you launch a contract, you know, you. It's a one click thing. There's no. There's no infrastructure to deal with.
00:09:17.860 - 00:09:37.994, Speaker A: There's no. Yeah, you're launching the contract and you write the code and you press deploy, and that's pretty much it. And with roll ups, they're kind of in the middle of the spectrum. They are. There is an infrastructure component. There's more pieces to think about. Right now.
00:09:37.994 - 00:10:30.460, Speaker A: A lot of stuff's up in the air as well. So there's a lot of decisions to make to go through and figure out how it's going to work and everything. And there's also a little bit more of an independent infrastructure component where rollup has some of its own infrastructure, like, potentially a sequencer or whatever. And for that, you do get more power. So you could use a variety of different proving frameworks, possibly different languages to write your logic in as well. And the base layer doesn't need to really know about that. And then also, you can, given that there's more control of the infrastructure, you can do things like improve the performance and also have your own block space so users aren't competing with other applications on Ethereum for fees and stuff like that.
00:10:30.460 - 00:10:58.400, Speaker A: And then app chains are on the power side of the spectrum. So it is more work than a roll up, potentially, although that's a big part of what we are now trying to. We're trying to close the gap a little bit. That's a big part of our strategy. But for that, you get more power. So you have a validator set, and the validator set can run, it can run logic. That's outside of the actual chain's logic.
00:10:58.400 - 00:11:29.992, Speaker A: So some examples of this are you can have oracles built into the chain. So one example is like price feeds. I think I might be wrong. I think DyDX uses Oracle based price fees. There's another project, Neutron, which has price feeds integrated as well. And so you get this ability to have an oracle without there being a third party oracle network, like Chainlink or whatever. It can just be built right into the chain at the base layer and basically be.
00:11:29.992 - 00:12:17.152, Speaker A: There's a lot of advantages that come from that. Sovereignty is one of them, but also performance can be a little better and stuff, too. There's other stuff, like, for instance, like Celestia. They're building a da layer, sort of an l one, for roll ups. And it's kind of a silly example, but you could launch a roll up on Celestia, but you couldn't launch Celestia on a roll up. And what they're doing with Cosmos SDK and with the Cosmos stack is actually, they've gone and modified the consensus protocol to, to have very, very big blocks which are well suited for storing data. And another thing they've done is they've added in the validators can participate in data availability sampling.
00:12:17.152 - 00:12:58.336, Speaker A: So to prove that they actually have the data. And so it's like, I think app chains are a good choice for the most ambitious projects, and the trade off is a little bit more complexity and difficulty. But like I said, we're trying to close that gap. So that's how I view app change versus roll ups. But in some ways, I think that the roll up vision is actually very close to the app chain. It's arriving towards the app chain vision of where people want to have their own execution environment in their own block space and then figure out how to connect to other things. What's nice about Cosmos, too, with IBC is that IBC is just built right in.
00:12:58.336 - 00:13:09.924, Speaker A: If you're using the Cosmos stack, you immediately have a very full featured bridging connectivity protocol, and it's free and it's open and you can connect to anyone else using it.
00:13:10.092 - 00:13:31.770, Speaker B: Yeah, I feel like most of the time, what I hear is that IBC is generally the best bridging experience or messaging experience between blockchains. And as far as I understand it is one thing you mentioned is that you're trying to close that gap. Like, roll ups are easier to launch than app chains, but you're trying, what are some, I guess, concrete steps that you guys are taking towards that.
00:13:32.070 - 00:14:00.622, Speaker A: Yeah. So with the Cosmos hub, one thing. So I guess I should start by saying one of the things, the thing that differentiates an app chain from a roll up is with an app chain, you have a validator set. You have a decentralized validator set. That's actually another benefit I didn't even touch on there. It depends on your perspective on things and what you're doing as a project. But sometimes there's a level of decentralization that you get with an app chain.
00:14:00.622 - 00:14:56.350, Speaker A: With a validator set. You don't always get with a roll up. If you have a single sequencer, for example, a lot of work in the roll up space right now is trying to bridge that gap a little bit more by having shared sequencers, but those are solving that by being a blockchain at that point. But, yeah, there's this decentralized validator set, which is great for decentralization, but it's also like if you're just a developer and you're trying to figure out how to get started, and you're like, man, I gotta, like, we gotta now spend months finding all these validators and just doing this bd effort of going out in the telegram, Smokey telegram back rooms, hunting up our validator set. It's not impossible, obviously, but it can be a distraction that people where it can kind of turn you off. If you, on the other hand, it's like, hey, we can get started right away. So with a contract or a roll up or something.
00:14:56.350 - 00:15:38.708, Speaker A: So one of the things we're doing with the cosmos hub to try to bridge that gap is with interchange security. And I'll talk also a little bit more about that later. It's already been in production for a year, but we're doing a new iteration on it, which is the backend part of it is in production now, but we're also going to put the front end live pretty soon. But basically, it lets somebody, basically, who wants to launch a chain, build their chain and then put it up and launch it on the cosmos hub. What that means is that they put the chain up there. Everybody can see it. We're also going to do integrations with liquidity providers and launchpads and things like that to try to bring things in one place for people.
00:15:38.708 - 00:16:14.260, Speaker A: But then as far as the infrastructure goes, validators from the Cosmos hub validator set can opt in to secure that chain. And so it brings everything to one place. So it's not like trying to, it doesn't become a BD effort to hunt up a validator set. It's just like you launch your chain, validators start opting in. And basically your chain, when it starts running, you have the validator set ready to go. And they're also bringing the security of restaked atom and potentially other assets as well to the chain. And you've got the validator thing sorted out at that point.
00:16:14.260 - 00:16:20.500, Speaker A: So that's part of what we're doing, trying to bridge that gap. I'll let you guys, if you have any questions, I've been talking for a while.
00:16:21.040 - 00:17:07.899, Speaker C: Yeah, I could definitely jump in here. So I do want to touch on and go a little, dive a little deeper into interchange security v one. Replicate security as it's also commonly called in the Cosmos eco, I think between 2019 and up until 2022. 2023. There's obviously a lot of concerns about, like, the growth of the cosmos ecosystem doesn't necessarily translate to the growth of the cosmos hub. And it was always like that value accrual or that alignment problem, I think that the wider crypto space has rightfully pointed out. Can you really explain what ICSV one was? I guess my general understanding of it is that it's really like a generalized, probably the first generalized restaking protocol in the crypto space.
00:17:07.899 - 00:17:34.350, Speaker C: You could probably argue Polkadot was probably, like its first with parachain parasite auctions. But can you, like, briefly explain, like, the difference, like, what is ics v one and what were, like, some of the lessons learned? I think that informal systems, maybe the wider Cosmos hub community has taken from ICSV one successes and its potential failures and how ics V two, which we'll get into in a second, kind of improves on that?
00:17:34.970 - 00:17:55.590, Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah. So, absolutely, ICSV one, we also avalanche, I think should be mentioned as well. But again, like, Polkadot's somewhat like a restaking, but it's not completely generalized, I guess. But like, ICSV one was a protocol. It is still, I mean, we still have it pretty much within ics V two. It's still an option.
00:17:55.590 - 00:18:30.652, Speaker A: But basically replicated security meant that consumer chains, that's terminology for, that's equivalent to kind of like an AV's if you're using Eigen layer terminology. But consumer chains would get the entire validator set of the Cosmos hub and, well, not the entire validator set. It's like 95% by power, which is actually, like maybe half of them by number because there's like a long tail. But basically, they would get the whole security of the Cosmos hub, and it was very high security. It also was launched with, alongside something called Atom 2.0, which was kind of, that was another whole thing. I don't know if we have to get into that here.
00:18:30.652 - 00:19:27.750, Speaker A: It could be fun if we have some time at the end to talk about Atom 2.0. But basically, there was this vision of having it be like, almost like sort of like a super app, like, where you would be adding functionality to the cosmos hub by having these chains that were running secured by the entire Cosmos hub validator set. And I think we learned a lot of lessons. I think we actually learned lessons from that, that, like protocols like Eigen layer will learn in the future. And, well, it'll tell you what that is. But basically, it's like, first of all, one of the issues was we're trying to get the entire validator set to run every chain. And it is a good fit, I think, so that we do have two chains on there that are actually quite successful as far as, at least within the cosmos ecosystem, which is stride, which is a restaking protocol, and then neutron, which is a cosmosm smart contract, smart contract language platform.
00:19:27.750 - 00:19:59.240, Speaker A: And these are good fits for replicated security because they're big projects, have a lot of momentum, have a lot of need for security. And so it kind of makes sense. But we found with definitely some smaller projects then, as we were encouraging them, as well as started to try to get on that. And it requires a governance proposal to pass. So you've got to get, since you're making every validator run it, you got to get it approved. You can't just let people do it permissionlessly. It doesn't work.
00:19:59.240 - 00:20:41.510, Speaker A: And so they found that there was a lot of friction. So validators would be questioning, why should we run this? Is this actually going to be worth it for us, et cetera, et cetera. And it is a large validator set. So if you're making everybody run this chain, you are potentially using a lot of resources in terms of validators spend in their time and everything. And so we found that the level of friction, it was just too high. And that is what we're addressing with ics V two. But there's another interesting lesson which I think we will see play out with Eigen layer, which is, or maybe they've I don't know, maybe they have a really smart strategy to get around it.
00:20:41.510 - 00:21:24.088, Speaker A: We'll see. But basically that is that when you have new projects launching, even new projects that are relatively successful have a lot of buzz and momentum, like stride and neutron, and you have $3 billion worth of TVL staked. The staking rewards. It's hard to actually. It's hard to put out enough staking rewards that once you split it between $3 billion a stake, it's a big number for people arriving in their wallets. And so even with these projects that were pretty successful, it was kind of perception, like, hey, what's it, you know, what's it doing for us? And I think that this is something. There's other restaking protocols out there, like, you know, like Babylon Eigen layer.
00:21:24.088 - 00:21:50.512, Speaker A: And they have even more TVL. They're getting huge amounts of TVL. And, you know, I'm actually. I got to check what the status of Eigen layer is right now. But as far as, you know, when I was really looking at it a lot, like a couple months ago, they're not really in production yet. I'm pretty sure they definitely don't have the rewards going yet. But that's going to be something where we'll have to see how that plays out when that yield starts hitting.
00:21:50.512 - 00:22:00.060, Speaker A: And that yield's maybe not what people expect. That's also something we've dealt with, ics v two. We'll see how it works. But, yeah. You guys have any questions or.
00:22:00.680 - 00:22:53.690, Speaker C: No questions? I think Picacho probably can jump in here as well. But we both were actually on a podcast episode with Sriram. I don't know what it was a month or two ago. We brought this up because this is generally, I think, a lot of things that the cosmos ecosystem, and probably Polkadot and avalanche to a degree, too, have, like, learned about restaking and security as a service is you're putting your assets, your pristine collateral asset, your eth, your dot, your Adam, whatever, at risk for potential slashing. Even though Eigen Lair doesn't have slashing live yet today, there's an opportunity cost associated with doing that. And these consumer chains, to your point, or avss, no matter how successful, are not going to be able to generate meaningful yield, at least sustainably on day one. Right? Like, look at some of the most successful applications out there.
00:22:53.690 - 00:23:41.758, Speaker C: Let's look at Dydx. Sorry. DyDX may be a unique example, but outside of Perpetex's, for the most part, they don't generate enough revenue to warrant the security or the yield required to make securing your chain worthwhile. And I don't think eigenlayer has really solved what that solution is yet. I think there's going to be a partition of like paying security providers first, so like the node operators themselves, and then coming up with a different payment structure for the delegated portion of stake. But really what it's going to come down to, in my opinion, is just liquidity mining, leveraging some type of inflationary token, like what we've seen with a lot of Cosmos app chains to secure their own validator sets. And it's really going to create down only to economics.
00:23:41.758 - 00:24:33.600, Speaker C: So that's why I need to come up with some or down only price action. That's why I need to come up with some other way of aligning the incentives of the re staking platform and also the, the avss or consumer chains themselves, which I think is, this is kind of me, I think showing the cosmos hubs. I think strengths compared to other restaking protocols is other retaking protocols don't have on chain governance. And governance for the most part, is usually a thorn in the cosmos hubs and other crypto protocol sides. Like, nobody likes governance, it's messy. But I do think that some kind of bilateral alignment where you come to some kind of agreement with each other, like, hey, I will secure your protocol for this long and I will maybe take it on the chin for now that, like the yield won't be worthwhile. But eventually, maybe we agree that maybe we change the cost structures.
00:24:33.600 - 00:24:51.130, Speaker C: You kind of let the free market play out. But I think allowing on chain governance to kind of lean into these protocol service agreements is actually something that is a unique selling proposition that the Cosmos hub has that other permission, fully permissionless resetting protocols don't have.
00:24:51.550 - 00:25:21.952, Speaker A: Yeah, we're looking at doing something like that. It's not in ics v two right now, but that is something we may add. But, yeah, so I think, I think it comes down to, I mean, I think the yield just has to be like, I think it has to, you know, I think a valuable service is being provided. Just have to be realistic about, you know, what, you know, how big it's gonna be at first and not try to over. A lot of things will happen with Cosmos. Actually, if you look back at like, Cosmos had a pretty big bull market in like 2022. A lot of chains launched and stuff like that.
00:25:21.952 - 00:25:41.978, Speaker A: And a lot of them had very high inflation at first. And it's like a sugar high or something. I mean, it's like you. It creates, you know, it's like an airdrop. It creates a lot of activity. But if you don't have a plan for how to taper that off, it can be painful later. And I think that's just the thing has to be managed.
00:25:41.978 - 00:26:13.748, Speaker A: These are valuable services, but you just don't want the expectations to get way ahead of the reality. But I can talk about ICSV two and how that works and how we're addressing these kind of things. Yeah, so ICSV two, one of the things about ics V one is that it had the whole validator set securing every chain. And that is more secure than having. So in ICs V two, we let validators opt in and out. So they say, they can say, I wanted to secure this chain, or I don't want to secure this chain. So it's a lot more flexible.
00:26:13.748 - 00:26:41.622, Speaker A: It can be made permissionless. We are making it permissionless. But from the security perspective, it's first of all, like the lower dollar value security. That's not really the important part, though. There's another factor, though, that like, is another factor is that the only thing that's actually slashed for with interchange security is double signing. And that's the case for most restaking as well. I think that's probably going to be the case for Eigen layer.
00:26:41.622 - 00:27:16.650, Speaker A: That's certainly the case for Babylon. The Eigen team did a great. The Eigen token paper is actually a really good look at how this works and why. But it was something we knew about. We didn't maybe have it as clearly articulated as they do in the Eigen paper. But basically, if you have the entire cosmos of validator set validating, first of all, they get slash, they double sign. But also if they do stuff like incorrect execution, which is where a validator basically lies to a bridge about what happened in the protocol, what the transactions were.
00:27:16.650 - 00:27:42.962, Speaker A: It says, yeah, we were given all the money by everybody on the chain bridges. Don't really check for that without ZK proofs and stuff, which don't work yet. That's like in credit execution, there's other things like Oracle attacks. There's a whole class of things that validators secure chains against, which are actually not slashable. And the reason they do that is kind of unclear. But the two leading theories are. I mean, it's like, in the real world, it works.
00:27:42.962 - 00:28:27.072, Speaker A: But basically, token toxicity is one. That's where basically, if all the cosmos invalidators say, we're going to take all the money out of neutron or whatever, then the cosmos atom is going to crash because. Because it's like obviously garbage. If that's the level of security that they're just robbing everyone blind. And then there's also social slashing, which is the idea that somebody's going to start a new hub and it's going to not have the validators who did the bad stuff in there. If you just have a smaller validator set that are opting in to validate, maybe you got 10% of the validators on this particular consumer chain. They may not be as motivated by those factors because they don't know for sure they're going to be removed from the main chain.
00:28:27.072 - 00:29:13.190, Speaker A: And they also don't know they also, the token toxicity might not really be. It might be diluted by the fact that they're such a small part of the whole validator set. That was part of why we launched the replicated security first, because we were worried about these kind of issues. Anyway, with ICs V two, like I said, validators can opt in and they can opt out of consumer chains. And so what that allows is for a consumer chain doesn't have to have the yield to be able to service $3 billion with a TVL right out the gate. They can start with a smaller validator set with a lower staked amount and they can ramp up to the level of security that they need. And the other thing is, it makes a permissionless.
00:29:13.190 - 00:30:03.746, Speaker A: Right now we're in the very first version of ICs V two is you still use a governance proposal because it's DOS reasons, really boring technical reasons. But next release we're making it fully permissionless. And basically you'll be able to start a consumer chain. No governor's proposal, no nothing. And that's also great at reducing the friction. What you do need, if you do that back to the security thing and the Eigen token and everything, is that you do need a way for validators to misbehave on these consumer chains to be slashed, even if it's not double signing. And Eigen's way of solving that is basically, it's kind of like governance, but it involves them forking the entire token.
00:30:03.746 - 00:30:34.370, Speaker A: I think that's going to be really high friction, but I guess probably now is not the time to really get deep into that. That's also possible in theory on the hub, you could just say, well, the entire hub is going to hard fork. If a validator double, you know, if validator does incorrect execution on a consumer chain, the entire cosmos hub is going to hard fork and remove them. That's kind of how Eigen works. That could also work with atom as well. Maybe the community would decide to do that too. But we're also working on a feature right now called fault resolutions.
00:30:34.370 - 00:31:00.380, Speaker A: We should talk about that more, actually, after capital. But that's basically a vote, which is a vote to slash the offending validators. And it's kind of interesting in the eigenpaper, they say, well, voting's not good because people could compromise the vote. There'd be bribery. They could bribe people to vote not to slash them or whatever, stuff like that. But the thing is that here the vote is actually just the first step. Obviously.
00:31:00.380 - 00:31:38.680, Speaker A: Hopefully it never happens at all, because there's like this punishment hanging over people's head. But if it does happen, then first of all, you try to slash them to a vote. If there is this like bribery attack, which is even smaller likelihood that that happens. But if for some reason the governance is not correct, then you can go to forking the mate token. So having those security measures in place, you know, allows us to have it be where, you know, people, you know, validators come in, secure consumer chains secured by atom, bringing a lot of stake to secure those chains and have everything work, be flexible, permissionless and secure.
00:31:40.420 - 00:31:46.560, Speaker C: That's awesome. Yeah, definitely want to chat offline about what you call it, fraud resolution.
00:31:47.380 - 00:31:49.356, Speaker A: Yeah, fault resolution.
00:31:49.428 - 00:31:52.876, Speaker C: Fault resolution. Okay, but we'll chat about that because I have a lot of thoughts there.
00:31:52.988 - 00:32:42.340, Speaker B: Hey, guys. Permissionless, the event for crypto natives, is heading west to Salt Lake City, and we're bringing the biggest names in crypto together for an incredible canvas event. Join me and the rest of blockworks on October 9 to hear from more than 200 industry titans, including Nick White from Celestia, Firam from Eigen Lair, and Keoni from Monad. The conversations at permissionless will be covering the hottest themes in crypto, including modularity, restaking the bitcoin and solon ecosystems, AI and crypto rollups, l two s institutional adoption, and of course, the November election. That will be right around the we couldn't be more excited about this event, and it's happening in one of the most beautiful places in the US. Ticket prices will be increasing towards the end of June, so get your ticket today. Make sure to use their code so I get some credit and bragging rights from the rest of the team.
00:32:42.340 - 00:33:27.242, Speaker B: Use Xerox, ten for 10% off on your ticket. One more thing, we're also hosting the permissionless rehackathon in collaboration with Biddlebox, the theme this year is a multi chain feature to build a better cross chain experience so I don't have to have a heart attack every time I bridge to a new chain. All hacker found participants will receive a free ticket to attend permissions. So if you're a developer, come join us in Salt Lake City, team up with fellow devs and build the multi chain future. Polygon Labs is developing the next generation of open source ZK tech to aggregate crypto, liquidity and user bases, empowering developers to grow in a unified web of interoperable chains with the Ag layer. The AG layer is the machine for network effect. Don't worry about bootstrapping liquidity, just build anywhere in the AG layer to tap the liquidity and users everywhere.
00:33:27.242 - 00:34:13.890, Speaker B: To support the aggregated future and bootstrap quality project, the Polygon Community Grants program was launched with 1 billion tokens, all for Polygon builders. Season one of the community grants program is live right now and features 35 million in Matic to support the next generation of polygon projects. For builders on Polygon or projects interested in migrating, these grants are for you. Join the aggregated future and feel empowered to grow in an infinite web of unified interoperable chains. Apply today at Polygon technology grants. The age of interoperability is here with the launch of Teleporter, Avalanche becomes a seamlessly linked network of many sovereign blockchains that communicate so smoothly they feel like a single chain. Teleporter is an EVM compatible cross chain communication protocol built on top of avalanche short messages.
00:34:13.890 - 00:34:39.350, Speaker B: It allows any EVM chain on avalanche to send messages, assets and data to one another in a simple, fast, affordable and secure way. Teleporter and Avalanche web messaging provide a new foundation for how avalanche blockchains can communicate and how developers can easily build cross chain applications out of the box. Build anything you want, any way you want, on the eco friendly blockchain designed for web3 dapps. Check it out by clicking the link below.
00:34:39.430 - 00:35:23.560, Speaker C: How exactly does Cosmos Hub in this ever growing list of new restaking protocols out there? What is like the pitch? If you're building in the either the cosmos, ideally the cosmos ecosystem, but in general, if you were trying to build your own app chain, why the Cosmos SDK, why the Cosmos Hub? Because there's cosmos chains that are currently planning on potentially leveraging eigen layers shared security solution through ethos, which we won't. We don't have time to probably get into weeds there. But more generally speaking, like what is the differentiator for the Cosmos hub? And maybe this is something you want to probably elaborate on, like what Hydro is maybe, like, other services do security aggregation. Like, I'm sure there's a handful of things we could tap here, but.
00:35:23.640 - 00:35:23.848, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:35:23.864 - 00:35:29.540, Speaker C: Like, what is the differentiator that Cosmos has? The Cosmos hub has that maybe some of those other resetting protocols don't have?
00:35:30.560 - 00:36:40.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we're trying. So what we're trying to do is we're trying to make it, excuse me, a little cold, but we're trying to make it so that Cosmos hub is the best place to launch a chain. And I think, like, you know, I think that security is kind of a slippery topic. It's not necessarily that people, you know, you always need the highest security, or that's necessarily gonna, having really high security is going to make your product successful at your launching. I think you need enough security that is secure. But what we want to provide is the easiest way, the best place to launch a chain, but really the easiest way to launch a chain, fully sovereign app chain, find a validator set and launch your chain. And I think what we're trying to do also is not only, I think the Cosmos has been missing this value capture mechanism for sure with the Cosmos hub, and we want to improve that, but we also just want to improve Cosmos as a whole and look at what's stopping projects from launching app chains and address that.
00:36:40.200 - 00:37:42.806, Speaker A: A lot of our focus now is on how chains deal with the validator set, how the developer experiences around that, and then also things to help chains get launched. So, like I said, we have this new front end that's coming out for it. And one of the features there is we're doing these badges, which will basically allow for integrations with launchpads. So services that provide things like airdrops or liquidity support or whatever it is that'll be integrated there. We want to make it for launching app chain. This is like, you know, for a variety of reasons, the best place to do it. And the fundamental part of that, like the base layer of that is the validator set, is the method to get connected with this validator set, very experienced validator set, and define the validators I want to opt into to run the chain, I think.
00:37:42.806 - 00:38:11.110, Speaker A: Yeah, Hydro. I'll mention that really quickly. That's another thing we're working on again, with the goal of making Cosmos hub the best place to launch a chain. It's kind of more of a defi thing, but it's basically a platform where people can. So it's like a liquidity pool. It holds Adam and other tokens as well. We're bringing other tokens into liquidity sources.
00:38:11.110 - 00:38:38.906, Speaker A: And there are voters who. It's a little bit like curve wars. Washington voters can lock up St atom, which is a liquid stake atom, and they lock it up there and then they vote on where the liquidity held by the contract will be deployed. And so that's something also. That's something. That is something. Be accessible generally to projects whether or not they're launched on the hub as consumer chains.
00:38:38.906 - 00:39:27.020, Speaker A: But also there's a special tranche of liquidity that's devoted especially for the requirement you have to be a consumer chain to use it. And so that's where you don't want to change. Launching a lot of time, you've got low liquidity and either it's liquidity on the chain's own token or it could be if they're launching a trading venue, maybe they want more liquidity in terms of like, stuff like stable swaps or whatever. And so that's. That's a way for the kind of the cosmos public, the atom community, to get involved in voting on how are they going to give these chains that are launching extra juice and which ones are the best ones to bet on, get involved in that way?
00:39:27.320 - 00:39:39.820, Speaker B: The way you guys are thinking about Hydro, is there an attempt to make Adam more money? I don't like saying money, like, but is that the main focus?
00:39:40.600 - 00:39:44.300, Speaker C: I think Ethan likes the term. What? Capital interchange? Capital asset?
00:39:44.880 - 00:40:03.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's part of it. I think our north Star is best place to launch a chain. But that's also. I think there is a side benefit. Adam's already very, very liquid. It does like, I don't know, $100 million of trading volume a day. So it's pretty liquid tokenization.
00:40:03.200 - 00:40:20.428, Speaker A: But yeah, we do. There's a lot of synergy where it can help a project get their liquidity off the ground. It also gets Adam into more places and makes it more of a common token used throughout cosmos and beyond. So that's definitely a goal as well.
00:40:20.564 - 00:40:47.400, Speaker B: One thing I actually wanted to ask for a bit now is Babylon and how you view that as a shared security asset. And do you think it, I guess, ethos also kind of relates to this. Like, is that a worry for Adam at all or is this something that you guys are thinking about? Depending on how much is bridged, obviously, and how much is utilized? But, like, if it was, what are some consequences to that?
00:40:48.580 - 00:41:39.436, Speaker A: Yeah, I think so. So Babylon, we work, you know, we work closely with them, actually. We are cosmos probably like, I think they want us to be like the second av's on Babylon after Babylon chain itself. And so the way we see that is, like, there's a lot of buzz around the bitcoin l two space. And generally where that comes from is that at least how I see it is that you have people who are trying to build for bitcoin users. If you're thinking that, like, you want to build, let's say, a lending market for bitcoin or something like that, and you want a lot of bitcoin capital coming. You want a lot of bitcoiners to use it for bitcoin people, a lot of time, they don't want to use it unless it's on bitcoin.
00:41:39.436 - 00:42:28.120, Speaker A: They don't want to mess with altcoins or whatever. They're maximalists or whatever. I think there's a lot of cache that having it secured by bitcoin can bring to a project. The way we look at that is that, again, for us, it's not necessarily purely about the security. It's about making the best place to launch a chain. With the Babylon integration, what we're trying to do is provide an option, maybe for Cosmos projects that do want some extra bitcoin security as well, but then also for projects that are building bitcoin l two s, we think that the cosmos SDK is, like, one of the best ways to build an app chain, which an l two ultimately is. And so we want to provide those projects with a way that's an easy way to launch.
00:42:28.120 - 00:42:36.800, Speaker A: So get their validator set together, get their chain up, get it running, and, yeah, that's kind of our, that's our north star.
00:42:38.060 - 00:43:07.370, Speaker B: That makes sense. One thing that I feel like we keep touching up on, but it's like, it's not the elephant in the room, but it's their value accrual to Adam. And I know this, like, this is one of the big ones in the cosmos. What's your take on this? How do you see it develop? What are some things that you guys want to actively do and, like, anything that you are very upset about, very happy about? I want, like, everything that you think.
00:43:07.410 - 00:43:10.910, Speaker C: About this, essentially the raw emotions of Jahan.
00:43:11.640 - 00:43:55.178, Speaker A: Well, I mean, a lot of this stuff happened before my time, but I know about it. I mean, I was following the cosmos space since it came out, but I have only been working as a core developer for a couple of years. But, you know, one of the things, you see this a lot still. You see, you see it everywhere, all over the place. It's the most common thing is that, like, you know, somebody's gonna, somebody comes out with a great new idea and, you know, they raise money for it, and they're like, yeah, we're gonna figure out how to make, how to monetize this later. You know, like, I don't know, like in the Facebook movie, you know, where they're like, you know, what's a million bucks not cool? You know what's cool is a billion, billion bucks. Like, that was because, you know, Mark Zuckerberg wanted to put, like, ads on the first version of Facebook.
00:43:55.178 - 00:44:37.820, Speaker A: So they're like, we're gonna figure out how to monetize it later. It's like a good problem to have or whatever. And that's kind of, I think, like, I wasn't there, but, like, that's kind of, I think the attitude that you had with cosmos when the ICO was raised in 2017, and so they built this great toolkit, great platform for building chains. They also built this great communication protocol between chains. And there was originally some thoughts maybe, that the Cosmos hub, maybe there's a benefit with IBC. If it goes through. If it goes through a chain, like it cut a hub chain like that, or the IBC packet goes through that chain before it gets to the other chain it's really supposed to go to.
00:44:37.820 - 00:45:18.648, Speaker A: And you still see this architecture with other connectivity protocols. Like, I think, wormhole. Correct me if I'm wrong, but it's definitely axelar, for sure. It's definitely a thing where it's like, yeah, it's going to go through our chain, but what they found building IVC is that you don't necessarily really need that, and it may even be more efficient if you don't have that. And so they're like, all right, let's engineer this the best we can. And that's been great for the growth of IBC, and I think for Cosmos as a whole, that it didn't have kind of extraneous value, capture things in the middle of everything. But then for the cosmos hub, it was kind of like, well, we don't need this routing hub necessarily.
00:45:18.648 - 00:45:39.862, Speaker A: It could provide a small benefit. Sometimes we won't get into the details of it. It's pretty deep. But, like, in general, a lot of times, direct channels are good. So that was kind of. I think that was the original sin, is probably not having a monetization strategy in the first place. I think that what we're doing, ICSV two, would have actually worked really well back then.
00:45:39.862 - 00:46:42.432, Speaker A: I still think it will work well. But basically, I think for that, the strategy is more like looking at, just looking at, like, what's difficult about starting, not trying to get in the middle like IBC, but looking at, like, what's difficult about starting the chain and trying to address that. And there have been a lot of other also part of it is that it's so decentralized, too, is that there's definitely a lot of people who have a lot of different ideas that they'll have a bright idea and kind of like, you know, wake up one day and post it on the forum. But there isn't necessarily the funding or the execution to actually make it happen. And what that does, it's not bad having all these ideas, but what it does do is it makes it confusing if you're looking from outside and you're like, what does the cosmos hub do? And then you got one guy saying it does this, someone else is saying it does this other thing. So it can be confusing. But I guess I can also lead into what we're doing.
00:46:42.432 - 00:47:10.816, Speaker A: Informal. At informal, we, like I said, we do a lot of core development. There's a core development organization called the ICF, and they pay for the development of the Cosmos SDK and IBC. Obviously, Cosmos would be nowhere without that stuff. But it's not really in their mandate or really their nonprofit charter to actually fund the Cosmos hub. They were funding the Cosmos hub teams, though. They had an in house team.
00:47:10.816 - 00:47:50.660, Speaker A: And then we, we kind of took over last year, informal did, um, and, um. So, but, but for this year, for 2024, we actually, last year, we put up a funding proposal for the, for the community. And so we raised our funding, like, directly from the Cosmos hub community pool in a decentralized way. And so what that's given us is it's given us the ability to kind of really, like, focus in on, like, a particular use case and, like, really make it real and make it happen. And so that's kind of, that's our focus. That's how informal is related. And we have to, you know, we also, you know, we're accountable community.
00:47:50.660 - 00:48:19.560, Speaker A: We have an oversight committee, and we, it's like, you know, we have to present our progress to them, you know, every quarter. Got that meeting coming up, actually. And you know what our plan for the next quarter is and stuff. And also for 2025, we're going to be putting them in other funding props. So it's entirely as kind of the decentralized nature of cosmos. It's entirely community funded and run to some extent yeah.
00:48:19.600 - 00:49:28.526, Speaker C: A year from now, two years from now, where do you think the Cosmos hub is in? In your ideal world? And I would also say what, in your opinion, is like the end game for the Cosmos hub? Think five plus years out. What are the services the Cosmos hubs offering? Consumer chains? Maybe there's some technological breakthroughs on the fraud proof or ZK proof side. What do you think is the real end game for the Cosmos hub? As a security provider and as a service aggregator itself? It's a platform. I think it was the portal to the rest of the cosmos ecosystem. It abstracts away the rest of the IBC or abstracts IBC underneath it, abstracts away the different app chains. But, yeah, we'd love to hear, like, your perspective because you're closer to the metal than anyone else pretty much throughout the entire crypto space. As it relates to Cosmos Hub, what do you think there's certain features you'd like it to see? Yeah, give me your opium take.
00:49:28.526 - 00:49:32.130, Speaker C: But would also love some, like, realist side to it as well.
00:49:32.470 - 00:50:19.620, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I want the Cosmos hub to be the best place to launch a chain, I think, you know, and obviously, as part of that, we want to have a lot of consumer chains. We want to have not only, you know, a few great consumer chains, but also lots of small ones. And really, it's got to be about providing value. And so you and I think we have to provide value to be successful. And so we want it to be like, you can find your own validator set, you can launch your own app chain with your own validator set on the Cosmos tech, and that's totally fine. But we want it to be the easiest way, and potentially the most secure way is to launch it on Cosmos Hub. So that's the vision, at least for interchange security.
00:50:19.620 - 00:50:49.620, Speaker A: And I think that everything has to flow from providing, providing value to someone. I think, in terms of more realistic takes. Oh, I haven't covered rollups either. I think roll ups are really important and ZK validity proofs. Obviously, I'm very excited about the technology, just like everybody in the space is. And we actually have. This is not fully announced yet and stuff, but there's definitely a lot going on behind the scenes to integrate technology.
00:50:49.620 - 00:51:52.650, Speaker A: But like I was saying, it fits within that framework of the ease to power spectrum. And so we want there to be roll ups for people. Like, if they don't need necessarily everything that appchain gives, we also want there to be an easy option for them to launch a roll up on the Cosmos hub, but then also kind of a cosmos flavored, you know, I mean, we want it to be with Cosmos SDK still and so that they could pretty easily transition their logic up to an app chain if they decide they want to add some more power or functionality or whatever. That's kind of my vision. I also like to see Adam used as collateral and as liquidity as well. But personally, me and my opinion is different on this, but I think that the use of a token as liquidity and collateral and stuff like that, it flows from the how valuable that token is in other aspects. And I think for something which is kind of more, I guess, a work token, if you want to use that terminology, it's not just a meme coin like bitcoin or anything.
00:51:52.650 - 00:52:58.770, Speaker A: It's actually supposed to do something, I think that has to flow from providing value. And what I just said about being the best place to launch a chain in terms of more realistic take, I actually feel like Cosmos, like app chains and Cosmos app change. I think in maybe the beginnings of a small upswing right now, like I said, I was mentioning with Barachain, others that are launching on Cosmos, if not the Cosmos hub. But I think the reality is it still is on the power side of ease, power spectrum. I think that by the very fact that you're making an app chain, it does mean that you want to do a little bit more work and there are things you want to customize on your underlying platform. So I think that's like the realistic take is that kind of knowing our place and providing other options. But also I think you could ask questions about, like, yeah, do most projects need, maybe they don't need a lot power.
00:52:58.770 - 00:53:32.650, Speaker A: Maybe a roll up is good enough, or you go further. It's something ethereum, you're grappling with a lot. And maybe most projects don't even need a roll up. Maybe they just need a. They just need a smart contract, in which case, you know, Solana is very fast and good performance and everything. So I think that would be the more realistic take is looking at like, you know, is looking at who needs it. But I think from what we see now, I think we see the idea of app chains, it's catching on more and more, even if that's kind of in the form of roll ups.
00:53:33.350 - 00:54:02.580, Speaker C: Love that. I do have one, I think follow up. We didn't touch on it and I'm not sure where it is, like in the priority queue for developer. Yeah, I guess developer resources with ics V two and hydro, how much work is still being done on megablocks, is that still something that's in the pipeline or is that more so put to the back burner? And if you could explain at least at a high level, what megablox is for those that may not know.
00:54:03.000 - 00:54:58.440, Speaker A: Yeah, okay, so megabloks is, that was a paper I put out last year and I think it's like, I don't know if you guys read the John Charbonneau blog post, we're all building the same thing. And it's one of these things that's in kind of, it's in the sort of universe of, I didn't really even know it at the time, but it's in the universe. There's like a universe that exists this between roll ups and then even some of what Solana is doing to make their single chain thing faster. But mega blocks. Anyway, the point of mega blocks is basically that looking at the market, I was thinking the best place to be is in terms of lock in, I guess. And in terms of value, there's a lot of value in interoperability, like IBC, that's pretty asynchronous. But like there's also like synchronous interoperability is really, really great, I think.
00:54:58.440 - 00:55:31.850, Speaker A: Like, and I think, you know, obviously, like everything can be done, I think in that blog post, I just read it. That's why it's on my mind. But like, you know, John makes the point that like, you know, the Internet is all asynchronous and you don't notice it because it's fast and it works well. But as a developer, I know that dealing with asynchronous systems is always far more complex than dealing with synchronous ones. An example of that, a concrete example is that, let's say I use the example of yearn. I don't even know if urine's around anymore. But yearn is a defi aggregator.
00:55:31.850 - 00:56:19.396, Speaker A: It would basically, you could buy a token which was representing some really complicated arbitrage play between Dexs or something on urine, when urine would run those strategies, those strategies in Ethereum's asynchronous. Ethereum, sorry, synchronous programming model on the Ethereum base layer, you make one transaction that like runs the entire strategy, that moves the tokens all over the place, rebalances everything, gets everything out, gets the yield out. It all happens in one transaction. That's really nice for the developer. You just write it everything you want, basically step by step in the code. But then also it means that if something goes wrong, the whole transaction fails and you're not stuck. You're not stuck just because you didn't have enough gas for a particular step or something.
00:56:19.396 - 00:57:04.304, Speaker A: You're not stuck halfway through with all your shit and a weird token. You got to unwind everything and reverse everything you did. So that's the power of synchronous composability. Megablocks is an effort to look at how do we make lighter weight blockchains that have this synchronous composability with each other. The idea was that you basically have them all run on the same consensus layer. And basically, when you did transactions between them, those transactions would all go, like, in this kind of big, like, mega transaction bundle. So we did a little bit of, a little bit of technical research work towards that in the first quarter of this year, and we looked at what we built.
00:57:04.304 - 00:57:31.634, Speaker A: We just kind of realized, like, you know what? This is actually just a shared sequencer. So that's what's happening. When I was talking about the roll ups that that kind of has gotten spun into that project. And so we're still, you know, we're still working on that. It's actually not even just the informal hub team. There's other teams that have kind of taken it on as well. And so I think that, like, once you're in that universe, you know, there is a lot of complexity and stuff to roll ups, and it's like a lot of stuff doesn't work yet with the proofs and everything.
00:57:31.634 - 00:57:55.200, Speaker A: But I think when you're in that space of looking at how do we make people build something that's a lot like a chain, but maybe is easier to launch and then maybe has more of these kind of synchronization capabilities, but doesn't necessarily have the power, the flexibility of an app chain. I think probably doing that as something that's kind of a roll up related thing is best, and that's what we're doing with microblocks.
00:57:55.780 - 00:58:39.184, Speaker C: So, Johan, we had a really good conversation today. I just want to summarize what I guess my understanding is for what the future state of the Cosmos hub is effectively a year from now. Um, if you want to launch an app chain in the Cosmos ecosystem, you can come to the Cosmos Hub and potentially it's like as little minimal clicks as possible. You're able to launch your app chain, choose the amount of security that you want from the Cosmos hub. You're able to choose the portfolio of assets, actually secure your, your chain. So atom, bitcoin, potentially other assets in the future not only can you get shared security through the Cosmos hub? You're actually going to be able to. There's going to be a capital formation marketplace, which is being coined as the hydro platform.
00:58:39.184 - 00:59:23.926, Speaker C: So you actually raise capital from Atom stakers, which potentially creates this form of money ness, or makes Adam this more capital like asset in the interchange. And then third thing is there's potentially going to be a future state where you're going to be able to launch app change, roll apps or roll ups on top of the Cosmos hub and is going to be kind of like a shared sequencer offering, whether that's either on the Cosmos hub directly or as a consumer chain. But again, maybe that remains to be seen as more future state. Do I have that right? And I guess the overall end vision Cosmos hub, from your perspective, is the best place not just to launch a chain, but to grow your chain, get users and get capital. Is that the case?
00:59:24.038 - 00:59:33.992, Speaker A: We want to bring the, you know, we want to bring the power and the flexibility of app change to, you know, to a greater number of developers and help them, you know, make their. Make their product successful.
00:59:34.016 - 00:59:44.260, Speaker B: Ultimately, is there any place that our listeners should check out to keep up with informal systems? You, your thoughts, the cosmos? Anything specific?
00:59:44.720 - 01:00:02.970, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, we have a Twitter. That's probably the best way for, you know, obviously up to updates of crypto Twitter. And it's osmoshub, I think. I'm pretty sure that's the handle. Yeah, osmoshub. My Twitter is a trendback. I don't necessarily.
01:00:02.970 - 01:00:24.712, Speaker A: I don't tweet that frequently. Like a few times a week, maybe. And also a lot of times my tweets are more like memes or whatever. So probably the hub account is maybe the best place to really get the. And then there's also the. I think it's at informal systems. I guess I should have these, these, these written down.
01:00:24.712 - 01:00:33.824, Speaker A: Remove the handle. But at informal systems. At informal incormalinc. So. Just got it.
01:00:33.912 - 01:00:44.416, Speaker C: One of my 2024 predictions was that you were going to become more of a thought leader in the crypto space. I want to see you tweet more. John, I think you. Everyone knows free rom. Everyone knows, like, all the other players.
01:00:44.528 - 01:00:45.516, Speaker B: A lot of work, dude.
01:00:45.648 - 01:00:48.916, Speaker A: Like, yeah, it's true. But, yeah, your code.
01:00:48.948 - 01:00:57.240, Speaker C: Your code to tweet ratio is too high on the coding side. You need to actually, you get out boots on the trenches on the crypto, Twitter and shitpost more.
01:00:58.020 - 01:01:02.820, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Okay. I'll try to do that, David. Yeah, no problem.
01:01:02.980 - 01:01:03.556, Speaker B: Thank you again.
01:01:03.588 - 01:01:04.716, Speaker C: John, appreciate it.
01:01:04.828 - 01:01:06.120, Speaker B: Thank you for coming on.
01:01:06.540 - 01:01:07.388, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks, guys.
01:01:07.484 - 01:01:25.990, Speaker B: Are you currently building on Polygon or interested in migrating? Season one of the Polygon community grants program is live right now and features 35 million in matic to support the next generation of Polygon projects. Builders on polygon. These grants are for you. Join the aggregated future today by applying at Polygon technology grants.
