00:00:00.760 - 00:00:26.366, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. This is Garvit. I'm the founder and CEO at Electron Labs. And today I'm going to basically present a use case for the restaking concept and how restaking cloud can actually power certain applications. I'm going to talk about one of those applications before I just go into the, you know, the use case itself. I just want to take two minutes to present actually what we do. So electron is basically a ZK powerhouse.
00:00:26.366 - 00:01:10.696, Speaker A: We essentially are building a computation compression engine, which allows you to generate validity proofs for consensus protocol. So what that essentially means in a very simple way is that if you want to run the Ethereum consensus node as a smart contract on some other chain, or any other chain for that matter, you would have a hard time doing that because consensus nodes are massive. And like, you know, smart contracts tend to be quite limited in computational resources. So we actually allow you to, we have this, you know, prover technology, which allows you to create these sync proofs, which are really cheap to verify, you know, anywhere on mobile phones or smart contracts, etcetera. So we're essentially able to compress down the computation significantly, making it really, really cheap to verify as a smart contract. So that's kind of what we do. That's our core engine.
00:01:10.696 - 00:01:46.524, Speaker A: Core technology. And, yeah, like, basically this technology that we have developed can be combined with restaking cloud to enable a very unique application, which is you can basically enable other chains to rent security from Ethereum. And let's try to understand, like, you know, what I'm kind of trying to talk about here. So let's say you're an Alt L1, or let's say you're a cosmos chain. Let's keep it simple. You can actually receive security. Like this is proof of stake security, where the Ethereum consensus, essentially securing the consensus of the cosmos chain.
00:01:46.524 - 00:02:53.136, Speaker A: And this model actually does not require any core changes to the core infrastructure of the cosmos chain, or Alt L1, and allows you to transition to a roll up kind of architecture in a gradual way. And so that's kind of the concept. And this is probably the only technical slide I have today. So, you know, we will just spend some time here. So the idea, you know, the way this works under the hood is that so we know how restaking works, where you lock up stake deeth in a smart contract, which is basically, you know, enabling you to put up this capital for additional slashing conditions and, you know, earn rewards for whatever services you're trying to validate. What we go ahead and do is that we actually run the consensus node of the Alt L1 or Cosmos chain as an ethereum smart contract which allow what this enables, is that this ZK lite client or ZK consensus code can now actually track everything that the old l one cost validators essentially doing now. So let's say they start producing blocks, the Alt L1 is producing blocks, and the validators are, you know, kind of let's say the sign off on malicious blocks that they shouldn't.
00:02:53.136 - 00:03:43.864, Speaker A: This information can actually be tracked by the on chain Ethereum, you know, the on chain Zkliteland of the Aldel one. And once it figures out some malicious action has been taken by the validators, it can actually send this information to the staking contract, which can trigger slashing over there. Right. Similarly, if these, if these costs, you know, if these validators essentially sign off on valid blocks and you earn rewards, that information can again be sent back to the staking contract via this mechanism. On the flip side, we also run an Ethereum lite client or the Ethereum ZK consensus client on the Alltel one, which allows you to track. So just to step back a bit here. So basically the staked ETH that has been given to the staking contract essentially becomes a delegation to the validator.
00:03:43.864 - 00:04:17.078, Speaker A: Let me actually go to the slide. So basically the restakers from the rest taking cloud, they've given some delegations indirectly to these all ten one validators, essentially. And so it's like basically cross proof of stake. So you have simple proof of stake where you're receiving delegations from native coin holders. Now you're receiving delegations in the form of another coin from some other chain. It's just coming over a, you know, ultra secure messaging standard and you're essentially receiving these indirect delegations in the form of ETH and you're paying rewards in your native coin. Yeah.
00:04:17.078 - 00:05:10.988, Speaker A: So basically in order to do that, the all tail one consensus has to track how much delegations has been given to the staking contract. And that information is again tracked by the Ethereum ZK consensus node on the Alt L1, which tracks how much has been, how much stake has been given to each validator. What is the updated voting power as a result of that? And when it comes to distributing rewards, again, it can factor in this information to decide how much rewards to actually give to the stakers on the staking contract. That's kind of how it works under the hood. And in terms of the staking infrastructure, we can of course use the restaking infrastructure by restaking cloud and we can invite all sorts of token holders. You can have your holders, or ETH derivatives, you can have USDC directly staked into this as well. You can actually get l two coins.
00:05:10.988 - 00:06:09.876, Speaker A: Imagine like Samsung L two, which was a roll up, also wanted to set up their Alt L1, maybe some sort of plasma or side chain or something. They can actually get that token to be restricted in this cloud and then start providing security to your alt l one as well. So, and if you are an all del one, you're getting a lot of benefits out of this, essentially. So like with all del ones, like the cost of running an alternative chain is quite high, especially for a small application specific, you have very limited applications. It's hard to incentivize validators to spend all that money in order to own your coin because it's not accruing a lot of value. This model actually allows you to improve your validator revenue because you're increasing the delegation that they have, while at the same time adding no additional infrastructure at all in the entire architecture, anywhere. And you can also issue a liquid staking token against the assets that have been staked on Ethereum.
00:06:09.876 - 00:06:57.702, Speaker A: You can issue this LST on the Alt L1 side, basically unlocking additional liquidity, which can then chase defi protocols and chase LP positions over there. And so again, as I said, it's quite costly to run these all tail ones. And what, what this model enables us, basically, Ethereum is a slightly premium asset as compared to your native coin. If you're running an aldel one and being a premium asset expects a lower yield on the amount stake. And there are any ways earning yield elsewhere as well. This allows you to actually get the same dollar value of security without any increase, actually a reduction in the yield. So you can basically get the same dollar value of security at a lower, you know, token API that you have to pay to validators.
00:06:57.702 - 00:07:36.064, Speaker A: So this reduces your token emissions in general, reducing the operating cost of the network and thereby improving your overall tokenomics. Of course, you know, you're able to market your product to the Ethereum ecosystem as well. There's increased alignment, you get liquidity as well. So it's kind of generally, you know, you're accessing the Ethereum users and liquidity a bit more seamlessly using this model. Yeah, I just want to add here like, you know, in this process, there's no additional infrastructure that you need to run anywhere. Like any additional node infrastructure, particularly this protocol exists entirely as smart contracts. And of course the ZK Pua, which we have to run, you don't have to run that.
00:07:36.064 - 00:08:11.324, Speaker A: So if you're a security provider, if you're a restaker, you don't have to run any additional nodes, any validator nodes, etcetera at all. Like, neither the validators of the AlT L1, neither you as a staker have to do. So. You can simply send a transaction using metamask just like you do any other Defi protocol, and that's it. You can basically start providing security to other chains and earning rewards on top of that. And, yeah, in terms of adoption, like, you know, this can actually be done on Cosmos today. Like Cosmos SDK, which is used to build these cosmos chains, is actually quite modular and it supports.
00:08:11.324 - 00:08:41.468, Speaker A: This is an experiment actually already happening in the cosmos ecosystem, where chains are trying to rent security from each other. It's called mesh security, interchange security. So we just kind of trying to extend those same modules and plug them into the restaking cloud so that you can start renting security from Ethereum as well. So, yeah, and we are actually working with a couple of chains on this archway, Niburu, you know, and bunch of others that we're working with to, to make this happen. So these chains will actually receive ETH delegations and pay rewards in their native coin. Right. So this will actually happen.
00:08:41.468 - 00:09:09.644, Speaker A: And this is possible today on the Cosmos and the substrate architecture as well. I guess from Polkadot it can be extended to other chains. We are not so modular because they were not designed for this stuff in the first place. But with some additional modules, it's possible to do it. It's possible to do it without adding additional modules as well, although the features become a little bit limited. But this can be done in general today. It's not that hard, actually, just talking a bit about, again, a usage.
00:09:09.644 - 00:09:40.768, Speaker A: There's actually demand for this today. Like recently, Celo and Kanto both announced that they're moving away from the l one architecture to the roll up architecture. Now, imagine the actual decision to transition and taking that decision at a leadership level. You're giving up so much infrastructure that you've already been running successfully. Your whole ecosystem is set up around that. Your valid is a large part of your ecosystem, and you're having to give up this infrastructure, which you tried and tested. You moving to the roll up architecture, which is not as tried and tested at all.
00:09:40.768 - 00:10:10.484, Speaker A: This is quite new architecture. The role of architecture. You're giving up your sovereignty. This is a massive, drastic change. And these guys still took the decision to transition. So there's clearly a very strong desire to transition, but it's a drastic change. The approach that we are presenting here actually allows you to transition to a ethereum l two roll up validium kind of architecture in a more transitory approach, in a gradual approach where you can actually take decisions step by step and retain your sovereignty as well when you fully transition.
00:10:10.484 - 00:10:39.144, Speaker A: And yeah, that's, that's all the use case I want to talk about. I'll just take two minutes to present a bit of technical architecture as well and where we are at with, especially with that today. So as I said, this requires running ZK consensus nodes on either side. So we've already built the ZK provers for the cosmos consensus. So consensus is mostly a bunch of validate signatures. So we already done it for the valid signature part. The rest of the consensus should happen within this year.
00:10:39.144 - 00:10:58.224, Speaker A: So the 60 x is where the practicality comes from. If you actually directly ran the consensus on chain, it will cost you significantly higher compared to, you know, if you actually ZK, compress it. And the same thing. So, you know, we have done this for Ethereum as well. Ethereum ZK lite client is available as a custom. Awesome. And a new smart contract.
00:10:58.224 - 00:11:30.384, Speaker A: Just one thing I mentioned here that if, you know, you know, the Ethereum ZK lite client is. The Ethereum lite client is powered by Altair committee, which is not exactly very secure. So we're actually trying to move to something where we ZK prove the full consensus going forward. But yeah, like this is again, like lots of progress. Like from the ZK side, this is an issue to solve problem. We just have to kind of go ahead and build the product and, yeah, next steps for us are basically, we are in the process of onboarding change. We're already making some progress with it and we plan to onboard more going forward.
00:11:30.384 - 00:12:07.204, Speaker A: Going forward, we also plan to integrate directly. So as I said, Cosmos is experimenting with this model called interchange security and mesh security, where chains can sort of rent security from each other and provide security to each other. And since Cosmos SDK is quite modular, they can already build this. They didn't need a rest taking cloud or something like that to make it happen. So our plan is to actually go ahead and directly integrate into that architecture where there's already a community being built around that and that will basically unlock lots of demand for this kind of product. And yeah, if you, if you're interested, like this is just a bit of a technical architecture. I'll skip this one, I think.
00:12:07.204 - 00:12:15.364, Speaker A: Yeah, that's, that's all, you know, I wanted to present. Yeah, if you have any questions, we'll have to take them.
00:12:17.024 - 00:12:58.842, Speaker B: You said Cosmos STP, right? But is it only for you, for every chain? Like Polygon has CDK, now op has op stack. Is it something that you, when you say the gradual transition, how does it help from going from one architecture to another architecture? They still need to do a switch at some point. Complete switch. They cannot. Just like, you know, 30, 40%. But what is the bridge? What are you recommending? Is it the economic security will be based on the ETH or how does this work?
00:12:58.898 - 00:13:35.842, Speaker A: Sure. So I think the biggest transition is actually on the business side, not necessarily on the technical side, where you're getting closer to the Ethereum community and testing that part out, so that when you actually do transition the technical architecture in future, you know, the business part is actually solid, so the justification to that transition will be easier. And anyways, like going forward, we actually, you know, we plan to add more sort of security features into this that will allow it to be in a security model side. Our model is currently closer to a validium, but it will eventually get closer to a roll up as we figure out more ways to transfer security while keeping the pos consensus of the all one in the same place.
00:13:35.898 - 00:13:39.854, Speaker B: And this, you mentioned, is the proof of consensus. Is it operational?
00:13:40.354 - 00:14:04.816, Speaker A: Yes, yes. Yes. We actually operate a bridge on Mainnet which powers near to Ethereum and Ethereum to near transactions. And this is actually running on, you know, this is actually minting the ZK lite lines on either side. So we do have, this is deployed on Mainnet. We have the ZK lite line for near deployed on Ethereum and the ZK lite line for Ethereum deployed on near. And this is actually powering transactions.
00:14:04.816 - 00:14:21.264, Speaker A: And as a result, in that bridge, we actually don't need any multi seq to sort of secure that bridge because it's kind of powered by consensus. So, yeah, so this one is basically. Yeah, this, this thing is actually live, except not for Solana, but nia, this is live today actually. Yeah, on Mainnet. Yeah.
00:14:22.124 - 00:14:22.620, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:14:22.692 - 00:14:22.964, Speaker A: Thank you.
