00:00:00.680 - 00:00:38.864, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 13 April 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So final warning here for those running ETH one full nodes, or ETH one nodes in general, time to upgrade to Berlin is running out. I think there's like one day or two days left at this point. So if you haven't upgraded to the latest kind of client for the client that you're running, sorry, the latest version of the client that you're running, then please do so. And this also applies if you're a two staker as well and running your own ETH one node, don't forget to update that as well.
00:00:38.864 - 00:01:14.474, Speaker A: So yeah, just a final reminder there for everyone. Matthew Feinstein put out a tweet today saying that he's looking for a talented UX UI designer to join him. He didn't say which project this would be on. And some of you may have seen recently he left loopring to work on something special, as he likes to call it. So essentially, if you are a, you know, talented UI Ux designer and looking for work within, I guess like within the space that Matt's working on here, I'm not, you know, not sure exactly what he's doing, but says here, being a theorem experience is a bonus. But, but definitely not a requirement. So, yeah, might be something that you're interested in.
00:01:14.474 - 00:01:49.622, Speaker A: So feel free to DM Matt here if, you know, you fit into this kind of role here. So Scott Lewis put out this really interesting kind of tweet yesterday. You know, I wrote about this in today's Daily Gray newsletter. But basically the tweet reads, ethereum's biggest competitive advantage is a community of people that have motivations beyond just making money. Now, this is really at the core of what I think makes Ethereum special. Right at the core of it, basically at the center of it and something that a lot of other communities have, you know, really failed to kind of replicate. And, you know, obviously people in the Ethereum community aren't allergic to money.
00:01:49.622 - 00:02:39.310, Speaker A: They like money, right? People celebrate when the price of ETH goes up and, and defi and stuff like that. And that's all well and good, but I think at the very core of it, you know, a lot of people in the community are here for the technology and I know that's a meme, but I really do truly believe it. And, you know, that lends itself to I guess, like a different type of community than you'll find in certain other kind of, like, spaces in this ecosystem. So I guess, like, what do I mean by that? Well, basically, if we kind of use some of these other ecosystems as an example, and I'm not going to name names here, but, you know, I'm sure you'll be able to think of what I'm kind of talking about here. But essentially, they are very kind of, like, price sensitive, right, where most of the community pretty much, like, only cares about the project when the price is going up and then when it's going down, you know, most of them just, like, switch off or don't really care anymore. And, you know, that happens in Ethereum as well. You know, don't get me wrong.
00:02:39.310 - 00:03:16.686, Speaker A: I mean, I think what we saw in 2017 was that we had that massive speculative mania. We had a lot of people in the ethereum ecosystem that were basically what, you know, what I like to call tourists. So they were only around for, like, a few months sort of thing. And then during the bear market, you had the people who stuck around with, like, the true believers, right, in 2018 and 2019. And because of that, we've kind of formed this community now of, like, you know, there's still noise there. But, like, the people in the community that have been around for a while, they're, they're here for different reasons than just money. And yes, they've probably made a lot of money if they've held on to ETH from the early days and all that sort of stuff, but their motivations are definitely, you know, run much deeper than that.
00:03:16.686 - 00:03:54.748, Speaker A: And, you know, I definitely fall into that bucket where, you know, money for me is a kind of means to an end. It allows me to do what I do every day with the Daily Gwei and things like that and allows me to do it for free as well, which is, which is the crux of it. And that's, you know, I think what a lot of people do within this ecosystem as well, there's a lot of people working on open source kind of software and things like that, and a lot of it isn't monetized. You know, unless you create a token, it's kind of very hard to monetize. You know, you can have a git coin grant, but even that is like, it's not going to give you the lucrative kind of, you know, kind of money that you would get just like issuing a token or something like that. But at the end of the day, the money is just there to sustain people so that they can work on what they love. Right.
00:03:54.748 - 00:04:32.470, Speaker A: And there's a, there's a, there's a lot of those people in the Ethereum community. I talk to a lot of them every day. They just really do not care about money. They just want to work on things that they believe can change the world and better people's lives. So, but again, that isn't to say that there aren't other communities outside of Ethereum that have this, but I think that, you know, the, the majority of those people are in the Ethereum community at this stage because, you know, even a lot of, there's a lot of these other kind of, I guess, like ecosystems that are, you know, genuinely trying to make a difference and trying to build something meaningful. But the problem is, is that their communities are very price sensitive, and that's because they're just early communities still. Right, right.
00:04:32.470 - 00:05:09.118, Speaker A: Where maybe the project's only been around for one to two years, which means it's only really been around during a hot market. And because of that, it's kind of like being optimized for price sensitive people. Now, in the long run, a lot of these projects will fail. Some of them may kind of succeed. And if they do, they'll have a community that isn't as price sensitive or nowhere near as price sensitive, and they'll have a dedicated community that stuck around while the price wasn't doing much if we go into another kind of long, drawn out, down market here. So, yeah, I think, you know, as I said, I wrote about this in the, in the newsletter today. You can go check it out for some more thoughts there.
00:05:09.118 - 00:05:50.174, Speaker A: But I think in general, you know, not trying to toot, you know, ethereum, the ethereum community's horn or anything like that, and toot my own horn and stuff. Like, definitely, you know, I would say the majority of people do, you know, when they start and come into this ecosystem, are definitely attracted by the money. Right? Like, I guess that applies to the majority of people. But, you know, a lot of people that I see kind of working and sticking around, they, they definitely find meaning beyond kind of money and work on things beyond, you know, for money, monetary kind of things as well. And I think, you know, you don't, you need to look far to kind of spot those kind of people. So, yeah, just a bit of thoughts there. You know, I'm sure, as I said, that, I'm sure that this doesn't just apply to a theorem, it applies to some other ecosystems.
00:05:50.174 - 00:06:25.820, Speaker A: I'm not as involved in other ecosystems, of course but from what I've seen, you know, a lot of the time, I just see, like, the speculative side of it and it just, you know, you know, it's sometimes a bit of a turn off. Right. I think. And, you know, if you have someone, like, shilling you something and then saying it's better than this or better than that, it's like, well, I mean, you know, tell me why it's better in terms of, like, the technology, the products, the adoption and everything like that. Don't just, like, come at me and tell me that it's better because the price has been going up, for example. So, yeah, you see a lot of that during the, during the bull market. And then for those who haven't experienced a bear market yet during, like, 2018 and 2019, it was just crazy.
00:06:25.820 - 00:07:14.066, Speaker A: There was hardly any noise, right? It was all just like fundamentals, talking about technology, watching it grow, watching it blossom. And then, you know, over the past, I think the past three months has been particularly bad. There's a lot of new people coming into the ecosystem and, you know, a lot of it is very noisy because a lot of them are, you know, as I said, like, I like to call them tourists, right? They just here because the market's going up, and whether they stick around when the market goes back down is another thing. And I don't think a lot of them do. I think a lot of them just here for the money, and there's nothing wrong with that. But I think being aware of that and kind of, I guess being aware of the fact that, you know, Ethereum has a very, very strong, non speculative community is, is, you know, is great, because then you can kind of, I guess, kind of realize why Ethereum is so strong still, why the builders are still in Ethereum, why people are still working on Ethereum as hard as they are. But anyway, I'll leave it at that for now.
00:07:14.066 - 00:07:50.068, Speaker A: You know, there's a bunch of other things to get through today, but just something to think about, definitely. So right now, the market is actually really hot and volatile. I mean, ETH hitting fresh all time highs. You know, a bunch of kind of, like, defi tokens are actually making moves as well. So the on chain activity should be spiking, right? Like, usually when we see, I guess, like a very kind of, like, hot and volatile market, we see gas prices spiking. But currently they're under 100, even for, like, a rapid transaction. Now, I don't remember the last time that we saw this during a volatile market, and it probably hasn't been like this for, you know, at least six months, if not longer.
00:07:50.068 - 00:08:52.608, Speaker A: And, you know, I spoke about it yesterday, but I think this is because of flashbots, right? And I spoke about how flashbots, you know, are basically allowing miners and other kind of ecosystem participants to do mev outside of the normal Ethereum mem pool. Now, what this means, and I mean, I explained it in detail yesterday. You can go watch yesterday's refuel to get the full explanation. But what this essentially means is that if the market is hot and volatile, instead of these people who have been extracting mev, being in the mempool, being in the normal ethereum transaction pool with everyone else, they're basically going down a different road through flashbots, which means their transactions don't hit that pool at all. So, you know, even though the market's hot and volatile, it's just normal, normal people's transactions going through now. And everyone else who wants to do the MEV stuff, like, you know, front running and even the arbitrage stuff, can do it through flashbots. So, yeah, this is, this is absolutely massive, right? And, you know, you may be thinking kind of like, how does maybe EIP 1559 play into this? Right? Because that's obviously a major upgrade that's coming to Ethereum's gas market.
00:08:52.608 - 00:09:44.550, Speaker A: And this is why I kind of put out this tweet last night when I said, the amazing thing about EIP 1559 is that while the fee burn is awesome, it's the least interesting feature of the EIP. And this was basically based on Trent's tweet here, but back from February 17, and I remember I spoke about it on the refuel back then. But basically, he lists here basically the short list of the benefits of 1559 outside of kind of the fee burn. So, number one is more predictable, fees. So it's going to reduce the overpayment of fees for the end user, giving better user experience here. And the way it does this is that essentially, you always kind of like, or at least like most of the time, if not pretty much almost all the time, you will be able to get your transaction into the next Ethereum block, because the fee estimation is just a lot easier to do under 1559. Secondly, removes incentive for reorgs in fee heavy environments.
00:09:44.550 - 00:10:30.234, Speaker A: Now, this is funny, because 1559 does this, but flashbots does this as well, right? Because it reduces this kind of, I guess, like, toxic fees that we have on ethereum through meV. So, and I mean, I won't go into too much detail there, but essentially, what Mev is, it's basically a negative externality. And what we mean by that is that MeV exists because on chain defi activity exists and there's, and there's profits to make. There's, there's kind of things to profit opportunities to exploit and things like that. Now, by putting them into flashbots, you remove this negative externality from, from the normal ethereum ecosystem, because now it doesn't just push those costs onto the rest of the users through higher gas fees. So that's that, you know, that's something that flashbots does. But also, 1559 helps with this as well.
00:10:30.234 - 00:11:15.590, Speaker A: The third thing here is the fee burn, of course. And you know, you might be wondering, well, if everyone's doing Mev through flashbots, and they're paying zero fees to the base chain, then won't, like ETH, you know, won't ETH not be burned anymore? Nope, that's not, that's not how it works. The way the fee burn works is that the miners in EIP 1559, the ones kind of put, constructing the blocks and processing the transactions, they have to pay ETH as the base fee, and that is what's burned. So if the base fee is 100 way, then that'll kind of be burned there, that amount of ETH. So, you know, for now, it's just a short term thing, but once 1559 is implemented, you're going to have these ETH still being burned. So flashbots actually doesn't, you know, take that away at all. It's actually probably beneficial for it, which is really, really cool.
00:11:15.590 - 00:12:05.602, Speaker A: And the other benefits here include, you know, an in protocol congestion oracle, which means you can basically have smart contracts relying on 1559 to accurately price certain things on the network. You know, and this is particularly important for L2s that maybe want to get their transactions in, you know, immediately to post their proofs to the layer one. And they can kind of do this much easier with this kind of like, gas oracle essentially on here. So, yeah, those are kind of like the main benefits outside of the fee burn. And I think, you know, it's very important, and they're very interesting. Like, I'm especially, you know, really excited about the more predictable fees here and basically reducing overpayment. Like, I'm sure, you know, we've all done this before where we've put like 70 GUi in as a transaction fee, and then it's all of a sudden spikes up to like 110, and we have to like, speed up our transaction now.
00:12:05.602 - 00:12:48.636, Speaker A: You know, flashbots actually helps with this as well, because it means that the reason why a lot of the time the fees spike is because of these mev things and flashbots takes that away as well. So essentially, in a 1559 world, going to have a very nice user experience on layer one for this kind of fees here. And kind of like, not just the fee cost itself, but interacting with the network and getting your transactions included and all that sort of good stuff there. So, yeah, really just awesome kind of news here from flashbots and obviously with 1559. But also on that note. Right, I think over the short to medium term, this is really great. But long term, as I've said plenty of times, long term, most users are just going to sit on L2, so they're not even going to feel this at all.
00:12:48.636 - 00:13:20.608, Speaker A: You know, on L2, transactions are either extremely cheap or free. You don't have to worry about kind of like having more predictable fees or getting your transaction included. Right. You know, in the current world in L2, and for quite a while, it's just going to be like, you know, super cheap and very quick and very fast as well. So you won't even have to worry about that. But the L2 operators have to worry about that, right? They have to still post product proofs to layer one. And all of these kind of things that are happening, like 1559 and flashbots, helps to improve that experience and lets L2s be, be more secure here.
00:13:20.608 - 00:13:48.484, Speaker A: So it also helps with, it might help a little bit with state growth, I'm not sure there. But in general, I think it's overall positive for the Ethereum protocol. Very, very positive for the Ethereum protocol. So, yeah, bit of an explanation there, but that's, that's the benefits of 1559 outside of the fee burn. So ethereum.org is now live in a bunch of different languages here. So there's 15 kind of new languages, I think, or at least 15 languages that ethereum.org
00:13:48.484 - 00:14:28.770, Speaker A: supports, obviously English. But, like, you can see the list here, Korean, Spanish, Arabic, Turkish, right? I mean, this is, this is awesome because when you think about it, you know, obviously a lot of the ethereum community right now is, is very English speaking, but that's only because we're English speaking. There are entire crypto communities that are like non English and they don't speak English at all, but they're massive. Like, think about the chinese community and how big they are, you know, and you see this play out in the markets where certain kind of things or projects that are based in China are kind of like going up in value a lot. And no one can kind of understand this. And I'm not talking about binance or the bsc ecosystem. I'm talking about a bunch of other projects and people, like, you know, who's buying this? Like, I never hear anyone talking about this on.
00:14:28.770 - 00:14:59.320, Speaker A: On Twitter in my kind of, like, you know, echo chamber, so to speak. And it's because it's not spoken about in English. It's. It's in these chinese communities, it's in these korean communities, and it's in all of these other communities. I mean, you know, a lot of the european kind of people that are in the community speak English as well, so I wouldn't say it applies too much there, but definitely there is this kind of, like, east and west split both down a language barrier and a cultural barrier that. Sorry, there's both a language kind of barrier and a cultural barrier here. So the fact that a theorem.org
00:14:59.320 - 00:15:22.790, Speaker A: is available in more languages is a net positive at the end of the day, because we need to bring in, you know, as many people as we can into the ecosystem that are, you know, not english speakers, that we can't expect everyone to speak English. That's not how the world works. You know, most people actually don't speak English. Maybe. I actually don't know. Maybe English is still the most popular language, but I know that, you know, Chinese or Mandarin is one of the most popular as well. But in general, like, the.
00:15:22.790 - 00:15:44.978, Speaker A: It doesn't really matter how popular language is. If it's being used by millions of people, then we should definitely support it, right? Throughout the ecosystem. And ethereum.org isn't the only one doing this. There's a bunch of defi apps and other apps that are supporting multiple languages, and that's how you get kind of this kind of mass adoption for Ethereum, because Ethereum doesn't care. Right. Ethereum is a neutral, decentralized network, but people can only access Ethereum if it's in their language.
00:15:44.978 - 00:16:25.024, Speaker A: Like, you know, if they don't speak English, then they're way less likely to kind of jump through the hoops to be able to kind of access the Ethereum ecosystem here. So great to see ethereum.org put this together. So ribbon Finance, which is a protocol that's creating structured products in crypto, announced the launch of their Theta vaults today, which is a new type of yield product that generates yields through an automated option strategy. Now, I've spoken about this before and about how Defi is going down the road of extremely exotic financial products, you know, beyond your normal, just like trading on kind of, you know, uniswap and things like that. And you're bought in your lending and borrowing. You know, structured products can be very, very exotic here.
00:16:25.024 - 00:16:46.616, Speaker A: And some examples of structured, structured products are like index products for, for example, that's like a simple product. Then you have like the tokenized leverage products, like from the index Co, the index co op. They have like the flexible leverage index. That's another structured product there. Even things like Uniswap V. Three positions are going to be structured products as well. But we have ribbon finance.
00:16:46.616 - 00:17:26.119, Speaker A: What they launched today and what actually reached mass max capacity, sorry. Was their theta vaults that basically run an automated covered call strategy on ETH and reinvest the premiums earned on a weekly basis, effectively compounding the yields here. Now, their backtests have shown that the strategy could generate more than 30% APY on ETH, which would make it potentially the highest unincentivized yield strategy on ETH in all of DeFi. And I think that's right. I think the only higher ones you get are the incentivized ones. I know that Alpha Finance has been offering ten to 15% on ETH, obviously staking about seven to 8%. But this is, this is riskier, of course.
00:17:26.119 - 00:17:55.802, Speaker A: And if you don't understand this product, you definitely shouldn't, you know, shouldn't put your money into it. So, and obviously, back tests don't reflect future performance, as, as ribbon finance has noted here. But if this is something you're interested in learning more about, you can go check out the, the kind of like a link in the YouTube description to, to this kind of thread. I'm not going to try and kind of like, explain it in any kind of like detailed way because of the fact that I don't fully understand these exotic products myself yet. I will probably mess something up. And I don't want to kind of give you guys the wrong info. So definitely go check this out yourself.
00:17:55.802 - 00:18:24.114, Speaker A: It's something that's on my kind of to do list to, to research more into, because I'm not a trader, right. I don't really dabble with these exotic products. The most I'll do is like, put some Ethan to make a Dow and, and draw stable coins to either farm or maybe buy some, some tokens or whatever. And I mainly do that for tax purposes or because it's more tax advantage to do that. But I know there's a lot of people in the ecosystem that do trade and they trade regularly. And, you know, there's a lot of people who want to get yield on their ETH as well. So yeah, definitely go check this out.
00:18:24.114 - 00:19:16.782, Speaker A: And you know at the end of the thread here they also announced that they have raised a seed round led by Dragonfly Capital with other investors including nascent, Coinbase Ventures, Scalar Capital, Defi alliance and a bunch of angels like Joseph Lubin and K from Synthetix here. So yeah, I guess congrats on the raise. This product looks super interesting and I'm excited to see kind of how this evolves over time. So Nick from Makerdao posted a, basically a tweet today saying that real world, real world assets are now here with, with the Makerdao platform. So essentially what he's referencing is basically a new vote that has gone to MKR token holders here or maker governors where they can vote on onboarding the new silver series to drop, which I'm assuming is basically a tokenized representation of silver. I haven't actually kind of read this yet. Maybe I should all before I kind of covered it.
00:19:16.782 - 00:20:01.374, Speaker A: Yeah. But I think, you know this collateral type focuses on, on silver. Let's, let's see if I can kind of like quickly dig this up here so that I can be more accurate. Doesn't really say anything here, just says silver series to drop. And you know, because Nick is saying that it's a real world asset, I'm assuming that it tracks silver. I may be wrong here, but anyway, I think you know, just on the theme of kind of like real world assets here and getting them on boarded into, into makerdao is incredibly powerful because you know if you're looking at kind of like mega Dao as a whole and seeing what I guess like assets they have backing Dai, it's mostly ETH. WBTC and USDC right now I think e still accounts for 50% of the assets.
00:20:01.374 - 00:20:35.150, Speaker A: WBTC and USDC account for a bit smaller but they're centralized and this is just another centralized kind of I guess collateral asset that can kind of kind of get added here. I actually really think that this is, this is actually a great way to I guess decentralized the decentralized collateral. Right. Because if for example if you have like just say you had just like ethan USDC backing makerdao then it probably would be like a 50 50 split. Right. But you know they don't just have that. They have like ethan, they have USDC, they have WBTC, they have a bunch of others in there.
00:20:35.150 - 00:21:20.518, Speaker A: And you know obviously like the more popular ones are the ones that are going to be more liquid that are going to give you the better parameters when opening a kind of a CDP or a vault here and things like that. And I'm sure that, you know, using ETH is still going to be the most preferable because it's the most decentralized asset. Right. It's incredibly liquid, it's trustless, all that good stuff. But over time, you know, you'll have this thing where it's basically, I still think it's going to be majority ETH a lot of the time. But then you have a bunch of other assets backing it, and if any of those centralized assets gets frozen or something, then it's okay because you have a lot more other assets backing it. And then that can be kind of removed and then the maker system can use as the kind of like insurance mechanism it has by kind of printing more MKR to kind of, if it needs to, to kind of recollectalize the system like that as well.
00:21:20.518 - 00:21:56.056, Speaker A: So, yeah, this is, this is really cool. I'm curious to see what other kind of real world assets get added to make a dow here over time. Obviously, there's a ton that they can add here. Right? There's like so many, but like, a lot of things haven't been tokenized yet. I know this project's working on this, but it's going to take, take us some time to get there, you know, and it's still bound to, I guess, like the kind of like real world legal jurisdictions as well. So, you know, maybe the, maybe maker will have to add KYC for certain kind of collateral types. I don't know if they will, but maybe they'll get pressured into doing so depending on the collateral type.
00:21:56.056 - 00:22:26.688, Speaker A: You know, you could, you could kind of like imagine them including maybe some equities or stocks. Right? Some, some us equities or stocks in, maybe that will require KYC at some point. But yeah, it's going to be interesting to see how this evolves and I'm going to keep my eye on it for sure. So last up here, DyDX announced yesterday that they have added uni and Aave to their L2 perpetual exchange here. So they, before this they only had ETH, bitcoin and link. And I just realized I'm not even following them. That's weird.
00:22:26.688 - 00:23:02.528, Speaker A: But anyway, they had ETH, bitcoin and link and now they have Uni and Aave. And they basically said here that they go, they plan to add one to two additional markets every week from sectors such as Defi emerging layer one blockchains and more. So, yeah, this is just like absolutely awesome because a lot of the time these platforms can be stunted by not supporting a lot of assets. Right? Because at the end of the day, trading ETH trading, bitcoin trading link is pretty easy. You know, you can do that mostly kind of like anywhere. And I know that, you know, Dyds is offering kind of like a different product with the perpetual markets, so that's giving it a massive boost as well. Right.
00:23:02.528 - 00:23:40.284, Speaker A: But, you know, trading perpetuals for ETH, WBTC and Lync can be done in a very easy way. Yes, I know it can be done in centralized exchanges. But if decentralized exchanges really want to attract new kind of users and want to attract like, you know, bigger money, they have to basically add support for, you know, more of these kind of like long tail markets and, you know, uni Aave, I'm sure there's going to be like a bunch of other tokens added, like MKR, for example, SNX. You know, I'm pretty sure they're just going to add what's on Coinbase, if I'm being honest, to their. To their kind of exchange here, which makes sense from a regulatory standpoint. You know, Dydx is based in the US. They buy us people from using the front end exchange.
00:23:40.284 - 00:24:14.850, Speaker A: You know, you can get around that quite easily, you know, but they still have to do that because of regulations. So, yeah, I'm sure they're just going to list everything that's on Coinbase right now and use Coinbase as like a regulatory shield, which a lot of projects seem to do, from what I've noticed. But I don't think that's a bad thing because, you know, Coinbase is more aggressively listing kind of like assets these days, which is really good to see. Yes, they list some, some kind of garbage as well. But, you know, I think in general, it's hard not to list garbage if you're trying to list like, as many assets as you can, because there is a lot of garbage out there. Right. But they've added a lot of like, defi tokens, for example.
00:24:14.850 - 00:24:55.264, Speaker A: You know, Uni and other are both on there, of course. And I think that's what dy Dex is going to do here. They're going to follow Coinbase's path as like a regulatory shield and open up these perpetual markets to people on, on the layer to exchange here. And with that will come more volume. As I said, you know, dy DX had a record day of $16 million of volume over the previous 24 hours. I'm, you know, this is going to balloon up to 100 million plus very quickly. I think as awareness grows, as adoption of the exchange just grows in general, because there's more markets on there and as more people, you kind of use it, there's just an absolute no brainer that it's going to get to 100 million, which is about 10% of Uniswap's current volume on layer one.
00:24:55.264 - 00:25:40.264, Speaker A: And these volume numbers are just going to absolutely explode. If you think about it, the layer one Dex volumes, the fact that they've gone so high, considering how, I guess, congested the chain has been and how limited the chain is, has actually been very surprising to even me, who obviously is a very. Is a very big defi ball. I thought it wouldn't get that high, and I thought we would hit a cap, but we don't seem to have hit that cap and we seem to grow and grow and grow. So what do you think's going to happen on L2? When we have like, you know, massive scalability, we have extremely cheap or free kind of transactions that's just going to absolutely explode. I mean, I wouldn't put it past these kind of like, L2 exchanges to be seeing billions, if not tens of billions of dollars worth of volume, you know, over the next few months. You know, I don't think we even have to wait very long, so that's going to be super exciting to see.
00:25:40.264 - 00:26:08.336, Speaker A: And, you know, I think that the quickest way to get people on boarded into this stuff is to have bridges from centralized exchanges. Right. But maybe it's not in their best interest to do so. But I think, you know, dy DX. I don't know if Coinbase is an investor in Dy DX, but, you know, a 16 z and polychain are, and they are very close to Coinbase. So, you know, you can imagine having like a, I guess, a bridge out of Coinbase to Dy DX. But maybe it wouldn't appeal to very many users because Dy DX bars us users, right.
00:26:08.336 - 00:26:48.560, Speaker A: So maybe the way around that is you have a bridge into something that sits on a theorem as like a proxy to put you into dy DX or something, you know, because like Coinbase, yes, it services non us kind of customers, but the majority of their customer base is us based. So it's not, you know, they're not going to put a direct bridge into Dy DX here because they can't, like, regulatorily not. Not for now at least maybe in the future. So yeah, we'll see how that evolves. Great to see these two assets on there. You know, I hold both of these so just a disclaimer there. But still, I mean in general, I think like a lot of people hold both of these tokens, right? I mean if you used Uniswap and didn't sell your airdrop, you hold uni and Aaves was like one of the Defi quote unquote blue chips as well.
00:26:48.560 - 00:27:06.054, Speaker A: So, you know, I think it's safe to say that most people hold these tokens already so I'm not trying to shill it to you guys there. But anyway, I think that's it for today. Thank you again for listening and watching everyone. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
00:27:06.054 - 00:27:06.794, Speaker A: Bye.
