00:00:00.570 - 00:00:35.480, Speaker A: Um, thanks for tuning into this week's news. Recap the second worst selloff this year, the total crypto markets were at roughly $2.6 trillion on Friday night. By Saturday morning, the market had crashed to a low of $2.1 trillion, marking a 19% dip in less than 24 hours. Bitcoin dropped roughly by $$10,000 during this period to a low of $45,032, which amounts to a 34.5% price decrease for bitcoin since its November 9 alltime high.
00:00:35.480 - 00:01:13.682, Speaker A: It appears a massive round of liquidations fueled the wild price action. In a blog post, Glassnode explained that high open interest in bitcoin futures markets could lead to an extremely volatile event. Glassnode wrote Legacy market weakness on Friday weighed on all assets globally, holding bitcoin's price around $53,000 and near pivotal technical support. When price failed to hold, sell pressure triggered a cascade of long liquidations. And cascade it did. Data from Coinglass shows that over $2 billion worth of long positions were liquidated on December 3. Overall, $5.4
00:01:13.682 - 00:02:04.980, Speaker A: billion in contracts from the bitcoin futures open interest market were flushed out between Friday and Saturday. This accounts for a 24.5% decrease in the total value of the crypto markets, according to Glassnode. The analytics firm calculates that this was the second largest single day change in futures open interest this year. The block's Frank Chaparro reported that trading executives believe large institutional selling was also a factor. Chaparro cites one executive saying that a single institution sold more than $500 million in bitcoin on Friday morning, which resulted in the aggressive liquidations. While the dip was bad news for those who got liquidated, it also left the opportunity to buy the dip, as El Salvador did, scooping up 150 extra coins at a sub $50,000 price.
00:02:04.980 - 00:03:13.770, Speaker A: In a turning point, Congress gives crypto a positive reception on Wednesday. Circle's, jeremy O'leare, FTX's. Sam Bankman, Fried Bit, Fury's, brian Brooks, paxus's chad Cascarilla, Stellar's, Danelle Dixon and Coinbase's. Alicia Haas appeared before members of Congress to discuss digital assets and the future of finance in House Financial Services committee Hearing According to the bloc, the crypto execs and Congress covered topics such as stablecoin regulation and issuance, the idea of a crypto focused regulator, and the overarching theme of consistent crypto regulation across government regimes. Overall, outside of a few straight comments from Representative Brad Sherman, the crypto execs were met with apparent curiosity from most members of Congress web3 can empower anyone, said Representative Anthony Gonzalez. For example, the meeting, which took nearly 5 hours, seemed to be a success. Bankman Free, the CEO of FTX Tweeted I came in expecting some hostility and grandstanding, but instead found the discussion to be, by and large, productive and helpful.
00:03:13.770 - 00:03:58.290, Speaker A: However, not all is rosy with regulators. Coinbase, whose CEO, Brian Armstrong, has expressed unhappiness with us. Crypto regulation and who did not attend the hearing, is launching a DFI platform that will allow users to earn yields on Dai deposits. Customers in 70 countries will have access to yields fluctuating between 2.83% and 5.39%. However, the US Will not be one of those countries, as the SEC recently threatened to sue the exchange if it were to launch a yield product. In related regulatory news, William Burns, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, told the Wall Street Journal this week that the CAA has multiple projects keeping track of the cryptocurrency industry.
00:03:58.290 - 00:05:13.050, Speaker A: In response to a question about ransomware, Burns revealed that his predecessor had set in motion a number of different projects focused on cryptocurrency and trying to look at second and third order consequences as well, and helping with our colleagues in other parts of the US. Government to provide solid intelligence on what we're seeing. Polygon acquires another ZK Platform Polygon, a sidechain working to scale Ethereum, announced the acquisition of Mir Protocol, a zero knowledge proof project, in a deal worth $400 million in Polygon's native token Matic. The move comes after a similar deal with Polygon and ZK project Hermes, which was a $250,000,000 merger. Overall, Polygon has pledged to spend $1 billion on scaling Ethereum. What happens after a Dow hack? BitMart and Badger Dow take two different approaches. BitMart, a centralized exchange, lost $196,000,000 worth of various cryptocurrencies on Saturday, Sheldon Zia, Bitmart's CEO, tweeted that the security breach was caused by a stolen private key that had two of our hot wallets compromised, which led to the loss of $100 million in Ethereum assets and $96 million in finance smart chain assets.
00:05:13.050 - 00:05:47.878, Speaker A: According to Zia, BitMart will use its own funds to compensate victims. To protect against a future breach. BitMart replaced all of its deposit addresses for all tokens. The aftermath of last week's Badger Dow hack, in which the DFI protocol lost roughly $120,000,000, is a bit more complicated. The exploit was a front end attack that allowed hackers to change user transactions made on the website to steal funds. Celsius Network, a centralized lender, was one of the addresses affected by the Badger Dow hack. We are working with Badger to recover all those funds.
00:05:47.878 - 00:06:46.746, Speaker A: We are collaborating with them on the investigation, CEO Alex Machinsky said in a live stream last week, confirming Celsius's involvement on Twitter. There is speculation that Celsius lost roughly $50 million in the exploit. The insurance protocol used by Badger Dow Nexus Mutual will most likely not pay out funds to compensate users, as its insurance coverage does not cover front end attacks. That being said, Celsius network's Twitter account claims that no Celsius client and user assets were affected. The account also says the Celsius network has traced the attacker and reported that information to Batcher. OpenSea is not IPOing In an interview with Bloomberg on Monday, Opensea's newly hired CFO Brian Roberts made a comment about the NFT marketplace holding an initial public offering, or IPO. When you have a company growing as fast as this one, you'd be foolish not to think about it going public, explained Roberts.
00:06:46.746 - 00:07:30.860, Speaker A: He added, I've seen a lot of P LS profit and loss statements, but I've never seen A-P-L like this. Community backlash on Crypto Twitter was swift, as many had speculated that OpenSea will be the next big AirDrop to be released. On Tuesday, the CTO set the record straight on Twitter, writing, There was inaccurate reporting about Opensea's plans. There is a big gap between thinking about what an IPO might eventually look like and actively planning one. We are not planning an IPO, and if we ever did, we would look to involve the community. Roberts previously worked as a CFO for Lyft, where he led the ridesharing app to a successful IPO. A salana bug was patched, saving $27 million an hour in the process.
00:07:30.860 - 00:08:23.434, Speaker A: A bug in the Salana program library, an integral collection of open source code for salana programmers, was patched this week after sitting unnoticed for months. According to Neodime, an auditor, the bug could have resulted in $2.6 billion in total value locked being at risk, with hundreds of millions in potential profit for hackers. In a blog post, neodym explained that one of its auditors initially found a seemingly innocuous bug in June. However, on December 1, neodym noticed the vulnerability was still not patched. The team then calculated that the seemingly small exploit, which looked like a tiny rounding error, could be harvested at a rate of seven $500 a second, or $27 million an hour. neodym quickly contacted the at risk salana projects and got the bug patched, a task that proved tougher than originally thought due to many salana projects being closed.
00:08:23.434 - 00:09:04.214, Speaker A: Source Crypto Adoption Roundup Everyday Web Three crypto, blockchain technology whatever you want to call it seems to move another step toward the mainstream, as evidenced by five wellknown companies making crypto moves this week. First, the tokenization of reddit. On Wednesday, Reddit expanded its Community Points program, opening up a list for subreddits who wish to mint their own token. These points, which are awarded to users for being active in the community, are currently distributed through an ethereum testnet. Looking forward. Reddit is exploring Arbitrum an ethereum layer. Two solution need a crypto consultant? Call Visa.
00:09:04.214 - 00:09:49.434, Speaker A: Visa, the financial payments giant, unveiled a new initiative to help clients navigate the wild world of crypto. Dubbed Visa's Crypto Advisory Practice, the new arm plans to offer expertise in crypto related activities like NFTs or CBDCs. Kickstarter Disrupts Itself Kickstarter, the Web two crowdfunding OG, announced plans to build an open, decentralized protocol that offers the same services as the centralized crowdfunding platform on the cello blockchain. Kickstarter's first step is to build an open source version of its core crowdfunding functionality on which anyone, including competitors, could build. WhatsApp enters the metaverse. A new WhatsApp? Pilot. The Meta owned messaging app allows users in the US.
00:09:49.434 - 00:10:42.490, Speaker A: To send and receive crypto within a chat. Disclosure I write a newsletter for Meta's Bulletin. The pilot is being powered by Novi Meta's digital wallet and uses Paxos'stablecoin USDP. This mainstream game developer is launching playable NFTs Ubisoft the major gaming company behind Assassin's Creed and Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint unveiled plans for an in game NFT integration through a platform called Ubisoft Quartz. The NFTs dubbed digits will be hosted on Tezos. To start, digits will be playable on Ubisoft's Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint PC game. However, the Ubisoft community was unhappy with the announcement with its YouTube trailer about courts receiving a 96% dislike rating over 22,000 votes.
00:10:42.490 - 00:11:47.806, Speaker A: Time for Fun Bits mongoose Coin Brad Sherman, a California representative, was the most dissenting voice regarding the crypto industry during this week's aforementioned Crypto Meets Congress meeting. At one point, Sherman said the number one threat to cryptocurrency is crypto. He added, bitcoin could be displaced by ether, which could be displaced by doge, although I think he pronounced it dodge, which could be displaced by Hamster Coin. He didn't stop there, continuing down the crypto food chain and then there is Cobra Coin, said Sherman. And what could Mongoose Coin do to Cobra Coin, this being Crypto, the home of Memes, a slew of Mongoose themed coins popped up shortly after the session on Binance smart chain Polygon and Avalanche, with Decrypt reporting the BSc version jumping as high as 61,000%. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Jeff Arca and recent events at Sut Schwab, be sure to check out the links in the show.
00:11:47.806 - 00:11:54.330, Speaker A: Notes unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin Webell from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness thanks for listening.
