00:00:00.760 - 00:00:40.846, Speaker A: Welcome aboard your flight with Airztm. You're in for quite a treat, because this trip's destination is the AWS Solutions Architect Associate certification. That's right. Welcome to the zero two mastery AWS Solutions Architect associate course. You're on board today because you're looking to launch your career in one of the fastest growing, highest paying, and most in demand tech jobs in the world, cloud architect. And we're happy to have you joining us because by the time we reach our destination, this all in one course will have efficiently taught you exactly what you need to get one of the most important certifications for cloud architects, the AWS Solutions Architect Associate certification. But this trip isn't all about relaxing.
00:00:40.846 - 00:01:08.498, Speaker A: Get ready to put in the work. With over 125 practice questions, including a full mock AWS solutions architect certification exam, this course will allow you to put your new knowledge and skills to the test before taking the exam. Practice makes perfect. This course starts with a refresher on cloud technologies, and then we'll quickly dive into the fun stuff on your trip itinerary. And by fun stuff, I don't mean sunny beaches and palm tree. Nope. Something even better.
00:01:08.498 - 00:02:04.940, Speaker A: The amazing AWS Cloud technologies you'll learn to master, including advanced EC two and container services advanced s three storage advanced databases from NoSQL to graph to in memory databases, data migration and transfer analytics services like Amazon, Athena, Kinesis, Quicksight and EMR I monitoring, security automation, network routing, application integration, and even machine learning. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. There's so much more. We've ensured that your itinerary is jam packed with all the technologies, information, study strategies, and hands on demos that you'll need to master AWS and ace the AWS Solutions Architect Associate certification. And the best part? You're going to learn it all step by step from an industry expert. Me. My name is Amber Israelson, and I've been a software developer and technical trainer for almost two two decades, teaching students all around the world about AWS and all the amazing things cloud technologies can do.
00:02:04.940 - 00:02:18.060, Speaker A: I'm so excited to help you launch your cloud career well into the clouds. Trust me, you need to learn AWS, like right now. We'll see you inside of.
