00:00:00.360 - 00:00:08.726, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Helium Mobile. They've created a crypto native phone plan for unlimited talk, text, and data for just $20 a month. We'll chat more about them later in the show.
00:00:08.910 - 00:00:47.014, Speaker B: Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my co host, or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed. We are joined today by Cindy and Crisp from Drift protocol. A lot of exciting things have happened with drift over the past couple of months, guys, so thanks a ton for joining us.
00:00:47.014 - 00:01:27.274, Speaker B: Most recently, the Drift foundation has recently launched or announced the launch of the drift governance token. So congrats on getting that out the door. I know it's been a long time in the coming, but I want to maybe start off before we jump into all the fun and exciting news there. I know you guys recently just did a panel at Token 2049 related to the state of capital markets on chain, so I want to get your take. Specifically zooming in on the state of Solana Defi. Where have things moved in the last three to six months, and where are the problems that are still the unsolved problems of Solana Defi as it stands right now? Maybe. Cindy, I'll kick things off with you.
00:01:29.974 - 00:02:20.654, Speaker C: Cool. Yeah, I think the Solana DeFi ecosystem has definitely gained a lot of momentum in the past six months. If you look at a lot of TVL charts, volume charts from prior to six months ago to now, we're eclipsing Ethereum Dex volume now. That was not the case a year ago. TVL has gone up across the board, and what we're seeing is it's being driven by a couple of things. One points, programs by protocols that are sort of pushing more incentives towards people to use DeFi, which prior to the last six months haven't really been used by Solana protocols. This is sort of gamified incentive program to get people to provide liquidity, trade deposit, stake into lending pools.
00:02:20.654 - 00:02:48.494, Speaker C: And that's really seen a big renaissance across the board, especially for drifts and for our liquidity as well. So that's been really great to see. Obviously, a lot of it is driven by sole price going up as well. But as we're seeing kind of the markets dwindle a little bit volatility is starting to go down. Participants are still staying within the DeFi ecosystem in Solana. Volumes are still up from meme coins. So, yeah, we're seeing a lot of really cool growth.
00:02:50.384 - 00:03:30.114, Speaker D: I think maybe a part of that growth is due to a lot of teams maybe releasing some sort of points program and more attention coming to the ecosystem via meme coins. I have been somewhat disappointed by, let's say, the points programs, just overall crypto like throughout crypto, some of them are maybe relatively ambiguous and farming oriented. I think you guys did a good job. So I'm curious, as somebody who's, or as a team that's kind of just done this, what are some lessons you've learned, like how to do it right, how to, or some things to not do going forward?
00:03:32.614 - 00:04:03.198, Speaker C: Yeah, great question. I think the first thing is that points programs shouldn't technically be kind of infinite programs. We were very clear about this from the start, that our points program would end within a three month timeframe. And that gave that sort of jumpstart a couple of things for us. One is that it jump start liquidity. So market makers came in, understood that there was a definite amount of time where they could jump in and start building. The bots needed to get liquidity on board, which was awesome.
00:04:03.198 - 00:04:51.034, Speaker C: And then for retail traders, they saw this kind of time window where they needed to start participating. And the big question for points programs is, are the incentives actually leading to retention versus just a short term boost in metrics? And for us, the reason that we took very long to design a points program that could target the kind of outcomes that we wanted, which is higher liquidity across the board, was because we wanted to make sure that the product was actually in a good place for people to come back from a retention perspective. So, yeah, maybe Chris can talk a little bit about how we designed the specific incentives for market makers, but we were very clear that this needed to lead to higher retention versus kind of just a one and done situation.
00:04:53.374 - 00:05:40.904, Speaker E: Yeah, I would say that it's just very important to try to set clear expectations. So an issue for drift in Q four last year was the liquidity wasn't good enough. So the points for us was really focused on getting more market makers on board and providing a better experience for users. And I think to the extent we had issues, it was around, like, communication about that not being perfect, which is, you know, we iterated on that. But I would say, yeah, the overall issues with points are just around expectations and duration and, like, why are the points even happening? I think you know, OG users can get upset about it because they feel like they'll be crowded out. So it's really just about communication and setting expectations.
00:05:42.164 - 00:06:31.374, Speaker B: It sounds like broadly, with a points program, you can target some specific user action and incentivize that activity. And maybe in the case for drift specifically, it was building market maker liquidity. Let's talk about the specifics of that. When I look at the Solana Dex landscape, it does seem like there's less participation in some of these, uh, specifically perpetuals Dexs. Like, it does seem like there's a little bit less participation than some of the larger, like, uh, let's say, DyDxv four, or maybe vertex or some of these other, what were at least began as EVM focused chains. Is it harder for market makers to integrate, um, something built on Solana, given it's a different runtime or what does that look like? What are the challenges of bootstrapping market maker liquidity?
00:06:34.424 - 00:07:46.054, Speaker C: Yeah, I think one of the key challenges is that the Solana infrastructure is actually very difficult to onboard if you're completely new to building apps and building interfaces with Solana. So, for instance, a lot of the other decentralized exchanges, I almost call them centralized exchanges, are just single server order book that is hosted on a centralized AWS server. So it becomes very easy to interact with these order books because it's a single API call to interact with them. Nothing actually passes through on chain besides having your assets on chain. Whereas in our case, and in a lot of Solana Dapps cases, which tend to be fully on chain, you need to integrate new SDKs or an entirely new stack in order to participate, for instance. And there's a lot of little details, like how you send transactions, which Mert and Chris can probably talk about all day, that a market maker that had no experience with this just isn't able to do. So there's been a lot more technical barriers which we have built products to help solve for.
00:07:46.054 - 00:08:05.834, Speaker C: So market maker vaults were one of the recent things that we launched. You can deposit your money into a vault that does market making on behalf of you. So that abstracts away the entire process of needing to run a market making bot or just in time bot, and you get returns and kind of just sit happily.
00:08:07.814 - 00:08:35.574, Speaker D: Cool. So, actually, talking about maybe the technical difficulties, I do want to maybe briefly bring up the Solana transaction issues. Two things. One, I'm curious how this has affected your guys business in the past, you know, month, two months. I imagine it couldn't have been fun. I know it's not fun for me. And I'm also curious because I think, like, Zeta, for example, announced they're kind of doing l two.
00:08:35.574 - 00:08:44.294, Speaker D: And I think I've seen some creative approaches, let's say, around this issue. What do you guys think this looks like for you going forward?
00:08:47.554 - 00:09:50.060, Speaker E: Yeah, I can speak to the technical challenges over the last couple of months. Uh, it's definitely been tricky, but, uh, I think the issues have kind of, like, accelerated a lot of our tech stack and probably Solana's tech stack overall. So, um, yeah, that includes, like, uh, leaning into stake weighted qos, like, lowering compute units, trying to set smarter, uh, like priority fees, etcetera. So, um, it definitely, there was like, a couple a day there where, like, 80% of transactions were failing on the drift ui, like, and by failing, I mean, like, failing to land, since we have a lot of, like, namers in the, in the crowd. But, yeah, quickly, we made a lot of improvements there and it got a lot better. And then obviously, the, like, the Solana client teams have been pushing out fixes, and I think the improvements kind of got back to where it was before. So we did pretty well there.
00:09:50.060 - 00:10:43.192, Speaker E: And unlike the l two front, I think, I think it's just still very early there. I don't think people probably appreciate how hard it is to actually get something working on any short timeframe. So I don't think something like that could be built in less than six months. There's a lot of research to be done there. So I think it's something that we'll watch and, like, want to see how that progresses. But obviously, as a team that has a Dex completely working on the l one, like, we want to see the l one maxed out on performance, because we already have, like, something built there, and that would be ideal for us. But to the extent that you could build an l two and get better potential performance, faster confirmation times, as Cindy brought up, like, it's definitely hard for your average market maker to integrate on Solana.
00:10:43.192 - 00:11:18.006, Speaker E: Like, for them, if you tell them, like, x percentage of their transactions aren't going to make it on chain, and you're not going to be able to update your quotes, like, they're going to be like, what? What is. That's crazy. How am I going to market make like that? So there's some aspects of, if you did an l two, it'd be easier to, like, there are some advantages, but I think we just got to, like, watch how the research progresses. And it's one of those things where we'd probably keep running our products on the l one, and then if l two research progressed, we could also deploy another instance to an l two.
00:11:18.150 - 00:11:19.190, Speaker B: All right, let's take a quick break.
00:11:19.222 - 00:11:43.996, Speaker A: To talk about helium mobile. Every month I'm reminded of the pain of a phone bill. For someone who is terminally online, those tainted charges are no joke. Well, helium Mobile is bringing a crypto native solution to this. It's powered by a combination of a decentralized wireless network and the nation's largest 5g network to bring reliable coverage to its users. The coolest part for me are definitely the mobile token rewards. They're earned by sharing your location, which allows more people to build coverage where it's needed most.
00:11:43.996 - 00:12:11.600, Speaker A: So effectively, the token rewards end up bringing a better product to the customer. But even cooler, you can take these rewards and pay for your phone bill directly within the app. This is a beautiful showcase of arguably crypto's two strongest use cases, incentivized user action and crypto payment rails. The phone plan is unlimited talk, text and data. Plus, it's affordable at just $20 a month. If this sounds interesting to you, go to hellohelium.com to get three free months of service with the code lightspeed mobile.
00:12:11.600 - 00:12:16.816, Speaker A: Again, that's lightspeed mobile. All caps, no spaces. Be sure to check out the link.
00:12:16.840 - 00:12:18.408, Speaker B: In the show notes for easy access.
00:12:18.536 - 00:12:20.088, Speaker A: All right, guys, let's get back to the show.
00:12:20.176 - 00:13:03.474, Speaker D: The one thing I'm curious about, maybe there's been some sort of a debate on CT about once an app gets maybe big enough, you maybe want to capture more of the revenue from the block fees and maybe go the app chain route like a Dydx. It's unclear how well that's worked out for them. I haven't looked at the data myself. Or you can stay on the l one and maybe take advantage of the composability in the community, et cetera, and the interoperability. Have you guys, assuming you get 100 x bigger. Okay, like a thought experiment, what do you think that looks like for you? Do you think that there's a lot of benefits to the composability that you get with the fast l one? Or do you think maybe more sovereign block space would benefit you guys better?
00:13:07.574 - 00:14:03.724, Speaker C: Yeah. To echo Chris's point about maximizing the l one block space, one of the key things that has driven Drift's success so far is actually composability with the rest of the l one. So we think about the l one as sort of a city. All the assets are held in the same place, and I think one of the biggest success factors for Solana is because everything is on a single chain. You don't need to kind of, you don't need to bridge funds, like, from one place to another in order to use it. And that's how we managed to gain so much popularity, because people could deposit their, their Jito soul, their msoul, or sole is collateral on the platform. And I think the thing against cell two s in this case would actually be how that would impact cross collateral if you had to bridge to another state, essentially.
00:14:03.724 - 00:14:48.424, Speaker C: But that said, there is a lot to be said around owning infrastructure at a certain point when the l one maximizes its capabilities. And that could happen if we're looking to essentially 100 x our user base. So if there's a way to abstract away the asset layer and the execution layer, for instance, abstracting away just the part of our order book, that is matching orders, that could happen potentially on l two roll up av's, but keeping the assets on any of l one, that would be an ideal experience for us. So we're looking at waste and researching how we can actually make this happen without having that asset segregation that makes Solana so special.
00:14:52.484 - 00:15:30.434, Speaker D: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I do want to maybe zoom out a bit, maybe getting less technical. Now, my brother, actually, I've been trying to get into Solana, and he wanted to play around, and he's like, okay, which one of these exchanges do I use? Do I use my name? Like, all these other ones? And, I mean, I recommend to use just the ones that use helios because I know the teams, but. So, like, I guess I'm curious if you were to give the listeners, like, an elevator pitch, there's some competition in this area, not just on Solana, but just overall crypto. It's a big, big area. Why should they use drift?
00:15:36.114 - 00:16:29.664, Speaker C: This is really funny, because in all aspects, we're building something that is unruggable and something that anyone in the world can have access to without needing to KYC themselves or put up information about themselves. We care a lot about building a permissionless system that anyone, including your brother, can hop on and start trading in less than a minute. That isn't the case for centralized exchanges these days. There's still a lot of arbitrary rules around asset freezing, market listings that are opaque in nature. And the goal of drift is to provide a space for traders to come together in a permissionless setting in order to trade whatever assets they want to trade. And we believe that's the most egalitarian that you can use.
00:16:33.764 - 00:17:04.314, Speaker B: Yeah, that's definitely the right direction to be building and it's pretty exciting to see the passion there. And you guys also have a very rich feature set. I want to talk about the circle CCTP integration that you recently announced, because to me that makes it easier because now you've basically created a way to get to drift through the UI with from any chain. So how has that been beneficial for you? And what was the motivation there for really integrating this and kind of giving a more seamless experience to the user?
00:17:08.414 - 00:18:08.234, Speaker E: I think we started this around breakpoint, so it was like a different regime back then, but really the goal was just to make it as easy as possible to get to Solana. So at that time the narrative was like, oh, Solana is great, but there's no users over there. Our goal was just to integrate as many bridging solutions into drift as possible directly into the UI and make it as easy as possible for users to bridge over with the idea being that if the friction is really low and users come over, they'll see how much better the UX is and we'll be able to convert them. So it was really just trying to expand top of funnel and make it as simple as possible to get to Solana because obviously for even for crypto native users, it can be really tricky trying to bridge between all these changes. Kind of confusing. So just trying to make it curated and as easy as possible was our goal there. And.
00:18:08.234 - 00:18:22.124, Speaker E: Yeah, like kind of what we were talking about once. The good thing about being on an l one is like you're co located with all these different apps. So once the user gets over, they get onto Solana, they can try all these different applications and stay in it, it helps boost your retention.
00:18:23.584 - 00:18:38.124, Speaker B: I also know you guys have a light mode and an advanced mode as far as the UI goes, and I'm curious, do you have any stats on which one users prefer? Because I do think that says something about what type of trader is on the platform.
00:18:42.184 - 00:19:40.152, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great question. We just launched it about two weeks ago, so I don't think we have up to date stats on that yet. We can get it after this pod. But the thesis behind us launching Lite mode was actually that a lot of traders came to us and was like, hey, what are all these things? Like, what is the order book? Like, why are we seeing different candles for Oracle? Price versus fill price? I mean, if you tell anyone on the street that it's like no one cares and no one actually is going to click and toggle between hourly funding rate and annual funding rate. Only us ct people will actually care about that and screenshot that or something. So we launched litemote because a lot of these things actually should be invisible to the end user. But with a pro mode, going back to the fundamental principles of DeFi shows you these things that you should be able to see and know at all times.
00:19:40.152 - 00:20:10.004, Speaker C: But lite mode market orders only, you can only see one type of chart, everything is abstracted away, so it feels just like a swap on Amm. And what we really liked about it and what our users really loved about it is that you can have both experiences in one light mode actually sometimes gives you a faster loading speed as well on the website because you kind of don't need to see all the other stuff that is unnecessary for just like putting a trade on.
00:20:11.944 - 00:20:45.868, Speaker D: Cool. So Cindy, you were just talking about being unreggable. So maybe that's a good segue into how you actually execute, then practice. And generally there's some sort of token and maybe decentralized governance such that there doesn't need to be a centralized party that has the ability to rug you. So the drift foundation announced a governance token recently. So first, I just want to be very general and high level for people who aren't even aware. Can you maybe just as much as you can.
00:20:45.868 - 00:20:53.384, Speaker D: Give us some details about what that token looks like, what it's intended to do, qualification criteria for users, et cetera.
00:20:56.364 - 00:22:22.126, Speaker C: Yeah, the goal with launching the drift token was really to kickstart the fully community owned decentralization aspect. I think a lot of people think about a token from a financial perspective, but one important perspective that's often missed is that you want the users to ultimately own and govern the parameters of the protocol. And the way that the drift token is designed at the moment is that it allows users to both vote on and participate in aspects of the protocol that should be that the users are participating in. So one example is leverage limits or market new market listings. So anyone who wants to trade a meme coin is able to propose a listing a market, and is able to trade that right off the bat, propose liquidity incentives, et cetera. And a lot of this is coming down to the fact that traders know best and they should be able to kind of seamlessly see something go live the moment that they want to trade it. So a lot of the reason that we decided to push the token launch is for our users that have been very loyal to the platform to start being able to make decisions that govern the future of the protocol.
00:22:22.126 - 00:22:33.104, Speaker C: And may I can let Chris talk a little bit about the thinking around launching the three branch governance model, including the Futarchy model, which a lot of people have been pretty excited about.
00:22:36.724 - 00:23:18.564, Speaker E: Yeah. So we have multipronged DaO. Part of it is just your standard realms, which for people familiar with Solana, that's the one token, one vote, which is battle tested on Solana because a lot of teams have used it. So that basically governs parameter selection, upgrade authority, et cetera. So it's like very tailored to governing our existing smart contracts. And then futarchy, which I know, I think you had profit on the show, is basically using conditional prediction markets to do governance. And we are just really excited about that idea as a better way to allocate resources and capital.
00:23:18.564 - 00:23:56.244, Speaker E: So when you look at daos passing grants or trying to fund new initiatives, we've seen like one token, one vote not do really well. There's collective action problem where people don't really want to be like, you know, doing the research to decide, are these actually good grants? Are these good funds? So, yeah, we think feed turkey is a better model for that. So we're experimenting with that being kind of our, like, venture based model for doing new initiatives and new grants. And we're. We've been really impressed with what the Mata, the metadata team has done so far. So excited to collaborate with them on that.
00:23:56.944 - 00:24:38.122, Speaker B: So will you be using their futarchy as a surface service, basically? Like, I know they're building out that platform that is kind of specifically designed for this. Like, hey, you know, you're Dao. You have governance needs, and one token, one vote is clearly broken today. So let's try to, like, put these decision markets in place to do that. So first question is, I'm curious if you're using their futur key as a service or kind of running something internally on your own. And the second part to that is the grants program. Seems like, it seems like a natural fit, right? Because if someone comes to the Dow and says, you know, hey, I'm interested in providing this service, will you fund me with this amount of money? Like, there should be like a measurable benefit that comes back to the dow.
00:24:38.122 - 00:24:52.144, Speaker B: So it does seem like a decision market is a pretty natural fit and should be like, I'm personally so excited to kind of see this in practice. So, um, yeah, why choose the. The grants program? And then will you be using the metadata offering?
00:24:53.244 - 00:25:33.726, Speaker E: Yeah, yeah, we're going to be using, um, like, metadata's code. I think they're still making improvements to futurity as a service. But yeah, we're going to be using what they already built. Like, candidly, if they hadn't built all that, it would be impossible for us to do this because it's like very complicated. So that's definitely like a win for composability and open source, like on Solana. So I think because they've done that now, a lot of teams can actually experiment with it because it's like, like when you're trying to build a protocol, the idea of then having to build another protocol to do governance is like so daunting. So yeah, we're definitely using what they built and it's amazing that they're in the community.
00:25:33.726 - 00:26:28.524, Speaker E: And then, yeah, I think futarchy is great for grants because it, it basically is like a very dynamic way of like, like if someone tries to attack you and say like, give me all the money that you, that is in your dow, like futarchy handles that very gracefully where like the conditional markets should just price that accordingly and make it like, like it should make it break even for you to try to do that versus like one token, one vote. If you bought enough of the tokens, you could like pass that vote. So we really think like Futarchy is like a more dynamic and like, like, it's like coming from like a trader perspective when you're building a Dex, we see it very naturally doing a good job of like pricing how to do these, these grants. So we definitely got like nerd stiped and think it's like kind of going to be the future of like allocating capital via daos.
00:26:30.264 - 00:27:06.254, Speaker D: Cool. I do want to ask maybe more of a degenerate question. So with the recent airdrops, people have been quite vocally upset about certain decisions and maybe some entitlement there and how it goes. I do want to give you guys maybe a chance to get ahead of it before it actually happens and maybe just ask clearly what your philosophy is here. And if you guys have, as a founder, I'm actually curious about this, if you guys have given any thought to like the design based on CC feedback.
00:27:10.834 - 00:28:33.104, Speaker C: Yeah, broadly speaking, the whole goal of launching a token in the first place is to give back and to enable the actual users of the platform to have ownership. And there's a lot of pretty key economic decisions when it comes to preventing concentration as well as kind of figuring out a way that is actually fair for large users who have provided a lot of liquidity and done a lot of work in terms of the supply side and then balancing that with smaller traders who might not have done a lot of volume, but have interfaced strongly with the platform over time. So the way that it's broadly been designed is ensuring that the incentives are both kind of bring, keep the supply side coming in. So ensuring that market makers continue to be incentivized to provide liquidity and tier it based on ways that enables the smaller people to also have a fair share of the pie. Because ultimately with governance and with voting, we actually don't want all of the power to accrue to a very small percentage of the population.
00:28:37.764 - 00:29:12.954, Speaker E: Yeah, I mean basically you need to, the little guy needs to be happy and the big guy needs to be happy. Um, and like, you can't just do one or the other, uh, otherwise one of them is going to be angry at you. So it's, it's, it's similar to politics where you got to like find compromise, um, and make everyone happy. And it's uh, tricky. But yeah, our, the program that the foundation is looking at doing is like trying to like make both of those parties happy. And I think that's the best for like the long term longevity of the project.
00:29:15.414 - 00:29:48.064, Speaker B: To me, you also have to consider who the user is in this case, because it's two users, there's traders and there's market makers. And drift has to play this role of meeting both in the middle and bringing them together is a marketplace in some ways for traders to find liquidity and liquidity to find traders. How did you think about that balance between, I guess it kind of is sort of the market makers are the big guys in most cases. But how did you think about the balance between rewarding market makers versus rewarding traders?
00:29:52.364 - 00:30:43.944, Speaker C: Generally, the common thesis, or the common wisdom is that liquidity follows where takers go. I think that's true to an extent, but there needs to be a level of liquidity for traders to even come in. So it's a very reflexive cycle. If there's no liquidity, traders leave and don't come back. They have a bad user experience. But they're also, our thesis about this is that we want to incentivize the base layer of liquidity on the exchange such that takers and traders come in and reward more on the taker side, so that market makers continue to provide liquidity on top of that. Because once market makers get over the initial hurdle of integrating on the exchange, they don't actually need infinite amount of resource rewards to continue market making.
00:30:43.944 - 00:31:30.764, Speaker C: Since the initial hurdle has already been met. And the reason that they'll continue market making is because there is more ticker flow on the exchange. So from an exchange perspective, after reaching initial base amount of liquidity, you want to make sure that takers continue to come in. And this is where go to market is so much more important than endlessly incentivizing market makers. What you see with a lot of other programs and a lot of other perp Dexs is that they incentivize, they over incentivize market makers such that the takers start to leave because the takers don't own enough of the protocol. So our philosophy is very much that we should gear, gear rewards towards takers in a way that is interesting and keeps them coming back.
00:31:33.384 - 00:31:54.004, Speaker B: No, that makes total sense here. And on the liquidity front, I want to talk about circuit, because that pairs into. So circuit has market making vaults that users can deposit into, and they've seen explosive growth throughout q one. But can you expand on how these products work? Exactly. And then what is the ultimate utility that is driving to drift?
00:31:57.524 - 00:33:00.150, Speaker C: Absolutely. Circuit should just hit 100 mil in TVL, which is, which is pretty crazy. And currently, I think it's still a pretty underground ecosystem project, which also speaks to the kind of projects that we want to incubate at drift. That pushes the success of the drift ecosystem forward, but ultimately, sort of third party ecosystem project. How the circuit vaults work is that users can deposit capital into a shared vault that acts as a way that enables a third party to trade on behalf of a shared pool of assets. So the circuit vaults delegate trading access to a market making entity while the assets actually stay in custody of the user. So this is why it's pretty special and hasn't been experimented much before in centralized exchanges, is that the funds actually stay with you while other counterparties can trade on behalf of you.
00:33:00.150 - 00:34:06.634, Speaker C: And so the strategies that are being run are a combination of market making strategies that, quote on the order books on drift. They run basis strategies. So quite similar to what Athena is doing with funding, basis arbitrage and basis capture. If you look at the returns of the vaults, what they do is actually keep prices in line with the oracle price as much as possible. So when we had a huge period of high funding rates this year, from January, I would say up to now, the circle vaults had a short position open, a net short position open to ensure that the funding rates could be kept lower so people coming into the exchange would get a price that is more aligned with the underlying market price. So a lot of this was to kind of correct inefficiencies on the platform. And the goal is to continue kind of running these community owned strategies that anyone can deposit into and do strategies that they otherwise wouldn't be able to run themselves.
00:34:09.414 - 00:34:13.312, Speaker D: I want to ask. Oh, go ahead. Then I was going to say, is.
00:34:13.328 - 00:34:47.853, Speaker B: The net benefit there to the user? You get yield on a trade that you likely wouldn't be able to execute yourself. It's not that easy to run and manage your own basis trade. For example, the user gets access to trades that they don't have to run themselves. Then the protocol in turn is getting both added liquidity, but also if it's, again, putting it in a large, short position at a time when most of the market wants to go long, that does end up lowering funding rates. So it kind of has a net benefit to the drift protocol as well. Is that fair to say?
00:34:49.873 - 00:34:57.893, Speaker C: Yeah, that's right. And then users are also earning that funding rate at the same time. So that increases the yield that we get. So. Yep, makes a little sense.
00:35:00.313 - 00:35:26.514, Speaker D: Okay, so I want to ask, I want to zoom out again. Uh, I'm going to ask one of you each a question. Cindy, I want to ask you what you think are the biggest business challenges remaining for drift on the whatever side is not the foundation. And then, Chris, I want to ask you what you think are the biggest technical challenges that you think you guys still have to figure out going forward.
00:35:30.634 - 00:36:38.848, Speaker C: Yeah, the focus for us is actually just go to market and BD at this stage points and these incentive programs can get you pretty far. But ultimately, if you want this app to end up in the hands of users that don't know anything about DeFi, it takes a lot of handholding on the groundwork and localized go to market. So a lot of the focus for drift protocol is thinking about and working on how do we package this experience and get it in the hands of as many users as possible. These users may not be driving a lot of volume to the platform, but they're individually being able to access the cease markets. That's actually a more important KPI for us. So thinking about a mobile strategy. Mobile is a pretty important theme for us in the next couple of months that sort of abstracted away from what crypto Twitter typically thinks about, but we really care about expanding access to people who wouldn't have necessarily touched Defi at all.
00:36:38.848 - 00:37:14.034, Speaker C: For instance, a lot of Normie friends are actually coming up and saying, hey, I'm trying to use drift, but can you walk me through how exactly to get my funds here. What do I need to download? What is phantom? What is backpack? All these things are just very difficult to comprehend for a person who isn't spending 24 hours a day on crypto. So that's a big focus for us. And setting up localized arms, regional themes, and thinking about more of a centralized exchange strategy to attack this user base is key for us.
00:37:16.694 - 00:38:06.594, Speaker D: When you say more of a centralized exchange approach, like, I guess the thing I'm curious about is like, if I were you, I'm just trying to ask questions that I would ask myself. How would you? Because I mean, obviously binance marketing budget is just insane. And then you guys, you know, you guys have the l one and you can maybe bootstrap off the community efforts there and make yourselves more known, et cetera. But like, how do you think about getting the product in the hands of users that are more, you know, like, I just went to an event and binance signs were everywhere. Right? Like, how do you compete with that? Like you have to get a little smart with the storytelling and the narrative. What are some things that you think you guys should try or just, I guess, like how do you think about it as a founder? Right? Like those challenges.
00:38:08.494 - 00:39:18.904, Speaker C: Yeah. And going back to kind of the airdrop discussions, I think a lot of airdrops, I mean, they're retroactive, right? And I think the cost of acquisition in crypto circles is very high relative to the value that they're providing for a marginal user. Whereas if you think about the value of token treasury and how you can make that go further, the marginal value of advertising to, let's say, somebody in Malaysia or in the Philippines, let's say, is much lower than trying to continue to attract a crypto audience that has sort of like ten products yelling for their attention. So the way we think about it is like airdrops as marketing budget and where we can actually make it stretch further. So attacking smaller communities that don't necessarily have, they're not already farming like ten protocols, more targeted groups of people who we can activate using DeD token as a way forward.
00:39:20.164 - 00:40:24.604, Speaker B: And when you also on the like, what does it mean to say centralized exchange strategy here you can always have the unruggable product that maybe the real crypto natives are like, that's what they prefer. They custody their own assets and say a phantom wallet or backpack wallet and then use the protocol through the typical UI. But are you thinking like to get that next marginal user in like say the same, the Malaysia area that hasn't used crypto before or is maybe like, doesn't care what a wallet is or a private key is like, maybe there's like a middle ground where they just deposit. Yes, it's custodial, but they deposit into like the UI, or they deposit into the interface and can interact with the protocol in like a much more comfortable way. That probably feels like using the Binance UI. Like, is that kind of the angle here is like making a product that just easier for an average person to use. That abstracts away a lot of the very, very crypto native parts that are like, honestly clunky and hard to use as a user that has never touched crypto before.
00:40:28.184 - 00:41:18.028, Speaker C: Yeah, we actually added magic link wallets in our UI where you can connect a wallet, it creates a wallet for you in the background, but you don't actually. You can obviously export your own private keys, but you don't see that wallet pop up. Everything is abstracted away. You can access it with your email and a link that's sent to your email. So it feels a lot smoother than kind of the clunky experience of using a chrome extension. Um, so in, in thinking about alternate, alternate front ends and, um, part of decentralization as well is that you don't really want everyone just using a single front end. You want ecosystem projects to launch separate front ends that, that maybe, you know, are catered towards just users in a specific region.
00:41:18.028 - 00:41:32.064, Speaker C: Um, and we see a lot of that value flow back to drift, the exchange, um, but multiple front ends that are sort of opening the funnel for more people to come in. So, yeah, absolutely in line with how we're thinking about it.
00:41:34.324 - 00:41:37.944, Speaker B: Awesome. And Chris, I'd love to get the technical side of the equation as well.
00:41:40.924 - 00:42:32.494, Speaker E: Yeah, I think from a technical perspective, there's like three things you want to achieve. It's, you want a good ux, which is a lot of just like, how does the design and product feel? You need to make sure everything's like incredibly safe. So risk management. Risk management and safety are really important. I mean, a lot of crypto projects fail because of that. And assuming you have those two, like, the third thing that's gonna like, basically constrain how successful you get is scalability or like throughput. So I think on the drift side, it's like, always a question now is like, how do we get more throughput and scalability? So I think two days ago the drifted like 750 million in volume, which is a lot.
00:42:32.494 - 00:43:32.604, Speaker E: And to think about, like, can we realistically, like ten x or a hundred exit on Solana right now has things work the answer is probably no, just given the state of how everything works. And so it's like, yeah, how can we keep pushing the boundaries such that if there's demand to use drift, like, if Cindy somehow figures out how to onboard all these users, how does it work such that everyone's getting good fills, confirmation times are really fast. It continues to be a good experience. And I think that's still somewhat of an open question in crypto in general, is, like, how do you keep bringing on more and more users without losing out on decentralization? And so I think Myrt brought up the l two thing before. It's like we're following along with the improvements that are going on course. Alana, clients, like, there's a lot of improvements coming, obviously. Fire dancer coming up soon.
00:43:32.604 - 00:44:01.986, Speaker E: The easiest thing would just be, you know, Solana keeps getting better and better, and we just keep deploying our apps on Solana. And, yeah, if that doesn't work out, then we need to, like, get more clever about how you do an app chain or an l two. And so just, like, monitoring the research there and trying to be proactive. But, yeah, like, getting another hundred x drift, doing $70 billion in volume, like, that's.
00:44:02.050 - 00:44:02.314, Speaker D: That's.
00:44:02.354 - 00:44:39.328, Speaker E: We have a long way to go to get there. But, um, I mean, a year ago, we were doing, like, like, 7 million in volume, and no one was even using Solana. So I think sometimes it's, like, easy to be, like, oh, things aren't working perfectly right now. This, like, this sucks, but you gotta, like, zoom out. And even with Solana, if you look back at 2021, like, the chain was doing really poorly, like, there was no priority fees, like, it was super congested. And if you compare 2021 to now, you see, like, a huge arc of progress. So if you just do that again, like, you know, another three years from now, if the improvement stays steady, like, things will be a lot better.
00:44:39.328 - 00:44:44.124, Speaker E: So it's kind of like you just got to stay in the trenches and keep making iterative improvements.
00:44:45.544 - 00:45:10.084, Speaker D: Maybe along those lines. You guys, I believe, correct me if I'm wrong, you have a new LST, right? The drift soul. What is the strategy with that? I think, like, most new teams are using this now to take maybe advantage of stakeweight pos but I believe you guys released it slightly earlier than those patches. So I'm curious what your overall strategies there and how you think about liquid staking on Solana.
00:45:12.824 - 00:46:16.800, Speaker E: Yeah, I guess we heard about stake weighted Qos a while ago. So I think over, like, last summer, we were, like, okay, let's start running a validator, getting prepared for this when we knew we were eventually going to enter like, full block regime where it's hard to get your transactions included. So based on that assumption, we're like, okay, if people are saying this is going to be important, let's start moving on that. So, yeah, the sanctum team came to us and asked us if we wanted an LST, and we were just like, yeah, if you're going to help us set that up, let's do it. And one of the things we did over the course of the last couple of weeks is we started actually using Helios's Atlas TX sender, which like, allows for you to route your transactions using your validator's identity in order to take advantage of the stake weighted qos. And I think that helped a good bit. So, yeah, like, we haven't pushed it super hard, but we just have got it set up such that we can master the DevOps, et cetera.
00:46:16.800 - 00:47:31.074, Speaker E: And yeah, we're going to look to push it more moving forward just because it really does seem like having a good amount of stake will be a structural advantage just in terms of making your Ux better, getting more transactions through, et cetera. So it's something we're looking to push this coming summer. And yeah, I could see eventually future DeFi protocols like charge lower fees and then they just basically have a bunch of stake on their validator and they clip some of the staking yield and that becomes the Dow revenue. So it looks like a weird crypto version of a net interest margin business where you're charging super low fees, you're getting some staking yield, and it's like the user stakes with you because they like your product. Similar to how like you hold your money in a bank or in Venmo, and they're like making small amounts of yield and then like, a lot of the fees approach zero because like they just get to the scale where clipping that yield is sufficient for them. So, yeah, big Z has been talking about this for a while, but I think it's like something we're going to keep pushing towards.
00:47:32.494 - 00:48:00.314, Speaker D: Cool. Well, so it seems like you guys predicted this, right, how it would play out a little bit. So I'm going to make you do it again. Okay, let's say in three years, four years, three years, what do you hope? And this is for both of you, the state of drift is at that point, right? Like when you maybe look back on it, maybe do some daydreaming, like, what do you want the protocol to look like.
00:48:05.434 - 00:49:26.768, Speaker C: I think it would be really cool if we just saw this massive ecosystem of drift projects built on top of drift as an exchange where each one of them is driving different sources of revenue, different sources of yield back to the underlying exchange. I think our thinking has evolved from thinking about drift as just an app to thinking about drift as a layer for more things to be built on top of it. So when we talk about vaults, when we talk about mobile apps, front ends, we just want to see and start seeding the idea within the community that anyone can build an app that composes with drift. Whether, and I think the vision for that is actually looking more like an investment bank and then all in service for DeFi as a whole. One example is adapting to a lot of the trends that are coming through in a way that centralized exchanges just cannot. So imagine a meme coin perp generator built on top of drift that takes place at the same time that a meme is being launched. Really cool products like that can be spun up at any point and kind of write the trend and the interest levels in crypto.
00:49:26.768 - 00:49:53.234, Speaker C: So where I want to see drift is continuing to be really relevant across all the fronts on DeFi, continuing to eat c five market share. Like Chris said, we 100 x our volume from a year ago to today. Can we 100 exit more and bring even more volume to perps and spot than what the largest centralized exchanges are doing today? So yeah, that's, that's my dream.
00:49:56.814 - 00:50:50.412, Speaker E: I think I would love if drift starts to look more like Solana in the sense of it has this flourishing like dev ecosystem. You have all these people building on top, it's very distributed and you have a lot of people that like understand how it works and are kind of always tinkering on it. So like, yeah, as a developer you're always like dreaming of having this like being part of this huge developer ecosystem. So I think that's part of the reason we did few turkey. We think that attracts like certain type of people into the ecosystem. We do everything like open source, try to be super transparent just so we can nerd site people and get them to build. And I think we've had decent success of it and hopefully if we keep growing there's more reasons to pay attention and we'll just like, we'll grow this distributed community of contributors.
00:50:50.412 - 00:51:05.904, Speaker E: Um, like, you know, want to be like Solana totally wanted to be like Linux, I don't know who Linus wanted to be like, but like everyone's kind of chasing this like, you know, pseudo like network state of contributors.
00:51:09.624 - 00:52:03.158, Speaker B: No, that makes a ton of sense. And honestly, when you look at the perps market landscape today, this is a trend that we're seeing. Perps markets are one of the most user rich Defi products today. And because of that it seems like, hey, we have all the users here, we have a lot of attention, how else can we capitalize on that? And it's building out additional services and products. Some of the perp stacks that are built as their own chain or whether it be an l two or their own app chain, they're thinking about this as well. It seems like because you're seeing a push towards being like a permissionless smart contract platform for DyDx or I think it was hyper liquid, who has their own l one, like talking about adding some sort of like permission smart contract system. And because you guys are built on Solana, it already is a place where people can build on top of and very naturally, and there's a large developer community.
00:52:03.158 - 00:52:19.724, Speaker B: Do you think that it's almost like kind of like reverse thinking that because you're not on a dedicated app space, you actually have a larger developer community that already exists around you? And do you think that plays in to your advantage of like actually getting people to come and build on top of you?
00:52:23.024 - 00:53:37.104, Speaker E: Yeah, I definitely think that is one of the most compelling reasons to be on an l one is you get this shared community, there's a bunch of co location, like it's not that hard for people to, you know, be interested in Jupiter or Camino and then become interested in drift. Like there's so much, there's such a dense, it's kind of like, I mean, the blockchains are city analogies kind of a trope, but like there is something about the density of applications and how easy it is to bounce around that's super powerful. And I think it's like if you set out to just be another perp Dex on its own block space, like that's very, I guess that's tired where, like building on an l one where you have all this shared application, shared tokens, a shared economy, like that's wired. So I think it's more compelling being close to where the users, the devs and the community are. Even if maybe sometimes it offer, it makes it more difficult. Right? Like someone, one of these other perp Dex founders could be like, oh, look at the challenges they're having. But it's like they're going to have a lot harder time building the community, I think than we've had, and I think that makes the challenges worth it.
00:53:38.524 - 00:54:02.914, Speaker D: You know, one thing I found interesting was like how Jupiter started maybe vertically integrating more defi products into their suite. Right, the aggregator, and then I guess DCA and then perps. Do you guys ever think about venturing beyond perps? You know, Borrowland, whatever. I'll keep it a little less spicy for now, but yeah. Any thoughts on just different expansions?
00:54:05.814 - 00:55:28.264, Speaker C: Yeah, maybe we can make it a little bit more spicy. But we do think it makes a lot of sense to venture outside of perps given that we have this very, very user base that don't just click buttons all day. Sort of like perps is the beginning of the funnel, brings people in because they maybe want to trade like one particular asset that they want to take leverage on. But after that, after they deposit funds into the exchange, what do they do? Well, you can stake on a borrow land asset, borrow land platform, which we already have. You can trade that for a spot and it sort of already exists within this kind of environment. But thinking more about the liquidity innovations that we've pushed out, just in time liquidity, can that actually be applied to spot as well in a way that it currently just is applied to perps? Spot on chain is actually much bigger than perps. So we think there's a lot of room for potentially another spot aggregator to come into the market that uses just in time liquidity, similar to the uniswap, um, Uniswap x approach, uh, that is sort of market maker driven, RFQ driven, rather than, um, the pure, uh, optimal routes that we, that we see today.
00:55:31.284 - 00:55:41.564, Speaker D: So I guess maybe in the hopes of getting a freudian slip. What do you think? Both of you are the biggest problems, the biggest problem, the singular biggest problem in DeFi today.
00:55:41.684 - 00:56:11.242, Speaker C: In my head, I'm like, there, there are no problems. What are you talking about? Defi is perfect. Um, yeah, I think. I think it's still a very insulated community in a way. And I'm actually excited for DeFi protocols that integrate more outside of Defi satellite. See, DeFi plays or integrate with assets that are, you know, native to a chain. Like the new LRT narrative.
00:56:11.242 - 00:56:34.044, Speaker C: How can defi support these things a bit more? The worry about DeFi is sort of fades into oblivion when there's no actual use case for it. But yeah, I think that's the biggest problem right now. It's that it sort of is only serving its own use case versus broadening the use cases outside of what it is now.
00:56:39.144 - 00:57:34.094, Speaker E: I would say probably just like short time, like time perspectives are like, like everyone's very, just like trying to make it this cycle. And I think that limits, like, the perspective people have. So probably just like more long term thinking and like, not so much just like rinse and repeat what everyone's already doing. I guess that's like kind of a trope on CT, but yeah, I think if, you know, people could think on the time scale of like multiple years and trying to do a good job over that time frame versus like three months, that would just lead to, like, less rushed work, like safer, safer products and, yeah, people like, hopefully building more compelling, compelling products.
00:57:36.714 - 00:58:09.934, Speaker B: I have one more question for you, Chris. On like, the technical sides, the technical side. When it comes to recent problems, how reliable has the oracle providers been during this conjecture, this congested period? Because if transactions are failing to land or not making it to the chain are getting dropped, then have there been Oracle update issues? I guess it's a two part question. What's the state of oracles and how has that impacted the liquidation engine given the recent choppiness or wobbly, the wobbles of the recent market conditions?
00:58:12.994 - 00:59:07.148, Speaker E: Yeah, there has been oracle issues, I think, to preface. I think pith and switchboard are front of it. They're offering new solutions, but it's one of these things where it takes a lot of time to like migrate to the new solution. So how it works right now is all the oracles are push based, which means like the oracle providers need to land transactions to update the data versus poll bases adapt will basically pull the oracle data in when they need to use it. So the push based oracles are like trying to land their transactions, but then they're getting out competed by all the, our bots and with super high priority fees. Um, so it's definitely like you can get very stale oracle data on the like, uh, duration of like sometimes minutes. Um, so basically like, the smart contracts right now need to have, um, oracle staleness guards.
00:59:07.148 - 00:59:34.880, Speaker E: And it's kind of like more of an art than a science. So like how long can you use this piece of data before you should start, like blocking operations? If it's too tight, basically your app won't work. So if you made it, like, you can only be one slot stale, which would be half a second. Like your, your apps not going to work. Um, but obviously if you made it like an hour, you wouldn't want to make it an hour because like the prices can move a bunch. Um, so that's just a part of risk management right now. Is like picking the staleness.
00:59:34.880 - 01:00:44.324, Speaker E: Uh, most of drifts are like around a minute or two. And basically what that means is things will usually work and then there will be periods where like maybe the oracle is five minutes stale and you just can't do anything on that market until it resolves, which is obviously like a frustrating Ux for people that they're like, why can't I do anything? And it's like, well, we can't let you do anything because we need to prioritize safety over UX. But yeah, I think like three months from now, six months from now, most of the protocols will migrate to poll based oracles, which should really alleviate this pain point, because it's like instead of you send an order and you need the Oracle data to have already been posted there, like on the UI, you'll pull the oracle data that you want to use and include it in your transaction. So it's like guaranteed to be fresher. Gets around a lot of these stillness issues. And to the Oracle providers credit, they've been pushing for the solution, but it's like everyone knows devs that they're not going to do shit until things are breaking. So now we got like, we're on a lag of like probably three months, one to three months before we switch that.
01:00:44.324 - 01:00:51.704, Speaker E: So I think that's going to be like, once everyone migrates, there'll be a phase shift in Ux on Solana.
01:00:53.324 - 01:01:10.594, Speaker B: And has that impacted the liquidation side of things today? Or I guess like how? Okay, so let's run through an example, right? Let's say a user should be in liquidation, but the oracle hasn't updated. Like, what would that look like from a, from the risk side, from the protocol?
01:01:12.414 - 01:01:48.114, Speaker E: Yeah. So I mean, say the oracle is not updating. It's stuck at $100 and then off chain is going to like 80. And you're waiting for the Oracle to update. What would happen is eventually the Oracle update will get through and it'll cause, like, then the liquidations will go through and you might have liquidated them too slow. And basically then there will be bankruptcies. So the way drift handles this is basically there's an insurance fund where if there's bankruptcies, it's on the insurance fund to like, pay out for those bankruptcies with the goal of being, like any insurance.
01:01:48.114 - 01:02:43.044, Speaker E: Like, you're clipping enough yield over time that if you do have a drawdown, like you're, you'll have made enough to make it. Okay. So it's like, the reality is if you're building a borrow lender, a perp. Dex, there's going to be bankruptcies sometime. So your liquidation system needs to account for the fact that, like, you're not always going to liquidate people fast enough and then account for, like, account for that. But overall, like, over like 30 days or however long this Lana network congestion has been, is like the drift insurance fund is still up and there's been way more like successful liquidations than bankruptcies. So I think over the last seven days, there's been something like 70 million in dollars worth of liquidations on drift and there's probably been like a million in liquidation revenue and like 200k in bankruptcies.
01:02:43.044 - 01:02:48.820, Speaker E: Right. So it's like, there are issues, but like, there's processes in place to deal.
01:02:48.852 - 01:02:49.584, Speaker D: With it.
01:02:51.324 - 01:03:13.026, Speaker B: That makes total sense. And then like, as the protocol grows, there's opportunity to like, create more efficiency around that. But it's great to see the, the outsized gains from the insurance fund covering all losses. But Cindy. Chris, this has been a fantastic conversation. Congrats on all the success that you've had with drift. I know you're thinking at like 2022, cumulative, 22 billion in cumulative volume.
01:03:13.026 - 01:03:18.674, Speaker B: So here's to the road to 100, but congrats on the success. Guys, this is a fantastic discussion and cheers. Thanks for joining us.
