00:00:00.490 - 00:00:46.554, Speaker A: Welcome to Chainlink Research reports. In this video, I'm discussing the future of sustainable energy in the developing world and the role of blockchain in that future with Dr. Paul Kauf and Ola Kunle Lau, two amazing sustainable energy researchers who study how we can use blockchain technology, smart contracts, and decentralized oracle networks to create a better future. Dr. Kauf is an assistant professor in the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering at University College Dublin in Dublin, Ireland, and is also a member of the Energy Institute there. His research is on the optimization and analysis of electrical energy systems, with a focus on how emerging technologies such as smart contracts and decentralized oracle networks can contribute to energy optimization. Ola Kunle Lau is a PhD student in Dr.
00:00:46.554 - 00:01:21.320, Speaker A: Kauf's lab, and his research focuses on applications of blockchain technology for maintaining and providing funding for sustainable energy projects. And now here's Dr. Paul Kauf and Ola Kunle. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I hope you're well. It's really great seeing you here again. And I'm looking forward to discussing blockchain energy and some of the work that you're doing in this space, because both of you are very important pioneers in this space.
00:01:21.320 - 00:01:35.500, Speaker A: So the first question I had was, could you just tell me or tell the audience a little bit more about your background, where both of you are from, and what your educational background is?
00:01:36.030 - 00:02:20.706, Speaker B: Sure, I guess I'll dive in first. So, yeah, awesome to be doing this, Jason. So I'm here from a messy office in University College Dublin on the Belfield campus, where I've spent a large chunk of my life. I did my undergraduate degree here. It was a be in electrical engineering, then I progressed to doing a phd in electrical engineering, predictably enough, with Professor Andrew Keane here, then a postdoc looking at distribution systems in UCD, and then I eventually got a faculty position. So I don't have that cosmopot and exciting academic cv that one is meant to have. But over that period, starting out really looking at the nuts and bolts, the volts and amps of connecting wind farms to the national grid.
00:02:20.706 - 00:03:22.102, Speaker B: So that would have been around 2010. A lot of wind in Ireland was getting connected at that time to look at managing active power, reactive power, really technical issues about how you bring them online. But in more recent years, I've tried to broaden that out to look at the much wider context of how we get lots of good renewable energy projects into the grid. And so over the last five or six years, I've been seeing different industries doing different things with blockchain and just trying to start asking questions, how might that impact the energy space, the electricity space, and trying to ask questions that goes a bit beyond just this kind of idea or metaphor. You always hear of that it's tokenized energy or that it's peer to peer energy. And there's interesting things that can be said about that concept. But I felt a few years ago that there was all kinds of other things happening in electricity, financial arrangements, ownership arrangements, hedging arrangements that aren't quite just that peer to peer tokenized energy kind of paradigm.
00:03:22.102 - 00:03:53.350, Speaker B: I saw gaps. And so I was lucky enough to win some funding for a project funded by sustainable Energy Authority of know to basically try and fill those gaps to see how can things like blockchain drive value for people who are trying to build renewable energy. And so I have three PhD students working on those projects with me, and one of them is Ola Kundley. And as a supervisor, I'm very lucky because there's nothing better than having three great PhD students to start filling in these gaps in some of my hand wavy type ideas.
00:03:54.490 - 00:03:56.710, Speaker A: And how did you meet Cunlay?
00:03:58.410 - 00:04:16.960, Speaker B: That was a case of advertising a PhD. And at the time, I think I had about 50 applicants, 55 applicants, quite a lot of applicants for three slots. Whittled it down. Whittled it down. And Ola Kundley's cv was fairly near to the top from the beginning. And I can say with retrospect, that was absolutely the right call.
00:04:18.210 - 00:04:18.718, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:04:18.804 - 00:04:21.806, Speaker A: Thanks. Kunlai. Could you tell us a little bit.
00:04:21.828 - 00:04:23.120, Speaker B: About yourself as well?
00:04:23.570 - 00:05:26.834, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks, Jason. Just like Paul, my background is in electrical engineering. My first degree was in electrical engineering. My master's also was in electrical engineering, focusing on power systems. But within the time I was completing my masters, I started this position working on private sector development, particularly in the generation subsector, looking at how private power plants, particularly renewable electricity generators, can come online, looking at the risk like mitigation instruments that can support the bankability of this project. And fortunately, I got the opportunity. I saw the advert for the PhD project.
00:05:26.834 - 00:06:14.100, Speaker C: They were like three teams, research teams looking at PSP trading prediction marketplace using leveraging the wisdom of the crowd enabled by a blockchain marketplace. And the final research team was on smart contract hedging instruments, which was very much interesting for me because I was a bit familiar with traditional arrangements and I felt like I could get good value in exploring how blockchains might improve traditional arrangements. So that's really how I got into this project. And it's been a very interesting ride so far.
00:06:16.310 - 00:06:55.666, Speaker A: So, in general, how did both of you enter the blockchain space? Kunla, you kind of gave us a little bit of background about that. Paul, what is it about blockchain and smart contracts that kind of piqued your interest and allowed you to make this connection between, in particular, blockchain and energy usage? I think it's obviously an emerging field, and both of you are leaders in this field. But for me at least, being a political scientist and a policy scholar, it's hard for me to imagine how you made that connection. I'd be really interested in hearing about that.
00:06:55.768 - 00:07:50.318, Speaker B: Well, so I guess my story is as predictable and basic as you could imagine. It was the time of the original Ethereum launch that the first DAO, the DAO, the decentralized autonomous organization, and was just seeing, I'm trying to think where I probably would have seen the first post about that. Maybe it was off a blog, maybe marginal revolution or somewhere like that, Tyler Cowan's excellent blog. And just, hey, you know, I'm a tech guy. Here's a weird new thing, right? So at that point, I hadn't heard of Ethereum. I don't think anyone had, really wasn't mainstream, right? This was 2016, I guess, late 2016. So just sort of that put it on my radar to say, what on earth is this science fiction bizarre out there? Most of us are still trying to get our heads around bitcoin, right? The idea of digital money is already weird.
00:07:50.318 - 00:09:01.254, Speaker B: Let's just be honest, right? Cryptography, magic, making these tokens that somehow have value. And then you say ethereum, taking that to the next level of saying, we're going to have these smart contracts, these kind of robots that are out there, that not only are digitally handling these tokens, but they can be autonomous in some way. So it's just an idea that it's so provocative, it's so strange, it's so outrageous. I know a lot of time has passed since 2016, and there's been ups and downs and critiques and everything else, but that's what put it on my radar to say, hey, okay, so here's some new way of managing human affairs, of mediating trust between people who don't maybe trust each other. And it just struck me, right, I'm an electrical engineer, a meet and spuds, volts and amps guy, right? That's my background. I'm not a finance guy. I don't know much about business, but just from that being in the background, maybe it's boring, but there's quite heavily regulated marketplaces around how people generate and sell power.
00:09:01.254 - 00:09:32.898, Speaker B: Like in the States, you had your Enron scandal, whatever it was, 15 years ago, 20 years ago. So you've got huge money involved. You've got these different players who are generating power. We're buying power that's happening in and out of these pool marketplaces. It's happening at a particular defined tempo. So that's sort of a substrate, right? The volts and amps, the actual megawatt flows are happening in a way that's somehow managed or modulated by that regulatory environment. And I'm seeing, wow, there's a lot of money flowing around up there.
00:09:32.898 - 00:10:26.450, Speaker B: There's markets that are clearing every hour, and people make a lot of money or lose a lot of money. And you go, okay, these smart contracts, these decentralized autonomous organizations, have some kind of promise that you can do finance in some kind of different way. So I start to think, okay, where are the gaps that you can fill there? And look, it's six years later, and I've got fabulous PhD students and I've worked with some good postdocs. I still don't think I have any kind of definitive answer to this. And I try and hang on to that little bit of, I don't know, the romance or like I say, how crazy and new and strange a provocative idea smart contract is. I'll just say one more thing on it. I can't make any predictions, right? If you ask me in 20 years time, are smart contracts going to be part of the day to day operation of the financing and renewable energy projects? I don't know.
00:10:26.450 - 00:11:40.010, Speaker B: I'm not going to get the finger out and make a prediction. What I always say, though, is if you look at things like the East India Company going back to the 17th century, this trading concern based out of London took over half the world. Most. The indian subcontinent was effectively enslaved for the East India Company became this immense historical power. And that was one of the first joint stock corporations, right? This idea that we could have shareholders and somehow a corporation that has a legal personality separate to the shareholders, that was an idea that was invented, and then that seems boring or legalistic, but because a joint stock corporation is a new way to manage human affairs, risk, wealth, it had this outsized historical impact. So maybe I hope I'm not rewriting history, but reading those early ideas about the original dow, the launch of Ethereum, you go, is that in the same category as like, inventing a joint stock corporation? Is potentially that going to be as world disruptive as the East India Company, even if there's a 1% chance it is or a 0.1% chance it is, that's still a reasonable chance of a crazy disruption.
00:11:40.010 - 00:11:53.250, Speaker B: So it was just trying to say, is there anything in that model that maps over into energy? So seeing all the big money flows here, seeing the scope for disruption here, and just ever since then have been trying to draw together and join the dots.
00:11:54.870 - 00:12:34.398, Speaker A: Yeah, that's really interesting. I find the analogy between the joint stock company and blockchain particularly interesting. I mean, would you say that from your perspective, that the technology itself and everything that comes out of it, like dows and smart contracts and all these kinds of new technologies for, like you said, managing human affairs, would you liken that to the joy stock company? Would you say that is a technology, that if you were to make a comparison, this would be the comparison? It would be as revolutionary as this? I mean, you did mention this just now. Or is there something else maybe that you believe?
00:12:34.564 - 00:12:53.614, Speaker B: Blockchain is not a comparison, Jason? I'm hesitant to say. Comparison. Right. It's not the same. Right. Okay, look, indulge me in another little side here. Ever since the bitcoin white paper came, everyone has been looking for the right metaphor.
00:12:53.614 - 00:13:47.698, Speaker B: Okay? Everyone's been trying to say this blockchain thing, what is it like? What is it a modern version of? Is it a modern digital version of a currency? Kind of, but also kind of not like, is it an asset class? Is it a store of value? Is it a way to mediate trust using smart contracts? And it feels that if you look back over the last twelve years, there's been different waves of people trying to grope towards a metaphor, like the appropriate metaphor for saying what blockchain is. You might disagree with me, Jason. I feel that there is as yet no consensus. Like there's no agreement on what blockchain is a metaphor for or the latest incarnation of. It's its own thing. It's its own strange new technology that has its own strange characteristics to do with how trust is centralized or decentralized. So I'm not saying it's a modern incarnation of a joint stock corporation.
00:13:47.698 - 00:14:34.994, Speaker B: I'm saying that a joint stock corporation was a legal innovation that allowed risk and wealth to be allocated in a new way. I think we probably all agree that blockchain does something a bit like that in a very different way to a joint stock corporation. But it's certainly a new way to look at risk, exposure, ability to extract wealth, ability to distribute wealth. So it's some kind of innovation that's somewhere in that general category. And I'm just saying there's a lot of historical precedent that what seems like small or boring or technical or legalistic changes in that category can actually produce these huge downstream effects. And I think I still can't say what the downstream effects of that are in the blockchain space. I'm not sure I believe that anyone can.
00:14:34.994 - 00:14:45.810, Speaker B: But I'm just saying, while that's still an open question, I want to come in with an open mind and try and think about how that can impact into electricity marketplaces and energy marketplaces more broadly.
00:14:45.970 - 00:16:47.338, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I would like to add to that from a different angle, maybe focusing more on the project. So what has been very interesting for me in this project is the fact that if you look at the electricity sector, particularly in the area of decarbonization and renewable energy development in the last few years, I would say most of the innovations have been in the fiscal layer, looking at reducing the development cost or the component cost of solar power or wind power. But there hasn't been enough focus on financial and legal innovations. And one of the things that I heard about blockchain projects was from a speaker at a conference in Africa, talking about how to accelerate development in front chat markets. And what was very interesting was the fact that the efficiencies in the fiscal layer, I would say, have been squeezed out and there isn't much scope to innovate there compared to the financial layer, where I feel blockchain is very good innovation for I feel like blockchain can create operational efficiencies as we're talking about the distribution of worlds, the interaction between parties in an otherwise centralized organization. With blockchain you be able to remove powers from the big behemoths and decentralize this power to smaller parties. And another thing is interactions between parties.
00:16:47.338 - 00:17:55.620, Speaker C: I would say counterparty risk is very expensive, and the way things are done at the moment means that all this risk in one way or the other, is transferred to the end consumers. But if we can remove such frictions with blockchains, then some of these risks can be minimized and the values from this risk hedging can be transferred to the end users, as I'm talking with respect to electricity generation. So this will be transferred to consumers in the form of lower electricity cost, which is very important, for example, in renewable space, where we're talking about decarbonization and diversifying electricity generation away from fossil fuel in light of energy security challenges globally. That was one of my motivation and still part of things driving my research today.
00:17:57.290 - 00:18:44.260, Speaker A: I know that a lot of your work is very focused on renewable energy financing using blockchain. And one thing that I've been thinking about for a while, doing some research on peer to peer energy using blockchain and renewable energy financing. Reading some of your work is, I wonder if there's any way in which, or if you think there's a way in which the renewable energy financing itself with blockchain can be kind of or will be integrated into web three, the web three infrastructure that's being discussed. So if you have any thoughts on that, I'd be really interested in hearing them.
00:18:46.310 - 00:19:48.598, Speaker B: Yeah, look, Ola Kolne's work sort of started out looking at how to hedge the risk exposure of someone who's selling renewable energy. So let's say I build a wind farm or solar farm, I'm selling that into a marketplace every day, the price of which is fluctuating up and down. I'm also exposed to, is it going to be windy or is it going to be sunny? So I've got a kind of volume component to my risk exposure and a price risk exposure. So that creates a lot of risk, and that can freak out traditional bankers who don't want to back a project unless they can see rock solid, week in, week out, the revenue. So that's kind of where myself and Conley started talking about this and thinking about this to say, what kind of financial instruments can you use to try and hedge off some of that risk? You can come up with a contract difference that says, I'm selling into the marketplace, someone else is buying out of the pool market. So if the pool price goes up, it's a good day for me, a bad day for him, and vice versa. So you can kind of hedge that off.
00:19:48.598 - 00:20:58.960, Speaker B: If you do that hedging off, it's a bit like selling your electricity to that person, the counterparty in that contract for difference. So then you sort of think, okay, so are we democratizing? Is it a hedging instrument or a way to presell electrical power? And in a certain sense, they're kind of the same. And then you say, well, okay, if someone is going to be able to buy on a blockchain the future power output or the future revenue of a certain wind farm, that's like fractional ownership, maybe, in that wind farm, or you can conceptualize it in that way. So we haven't quite pushed it to that level, but you can easily see then, okay, well, fractional ownership in a certain wind farm is that a non fungible token? Is that somehow metaphorically linked to you own that particular wind turbine or that particular solar cell? There's been a sort of movement in that web three direction over the last few years working with Ola Kundlay. I hope you agree with me, Ola Kundlay, on this. It feels like it's been moving in that direction or kind of getting caught up in that current. You're on mute there.
00:21:00.610 - 00:22:26.342, Speaker C: That was like an interesting question that jason asked, but I wasn't able to give a very good answer to because it's not something like we've really explored. I've looked a bit on it, the Internet of things and Webtree, and I feel both areas would complement each other. So for the special purpose vehicle where we're talking about integrating hardware, oracles, smart meters, connecting with the blockchain and things like that in a way that's already in that direction of an interconnected system. And I feel like on one hand, blockchain would improve the trust around systems like that, the web two, compared to the web three. The main difference is the trust and security component that blockchain is introducing. So I feel one, blockchain can improve security and trust with all the systems that are existence is when already connected. Then on the other hand, blockchain also leverage these already interconnected systems where people are already used to communicating on those systems.
00:22:26.342 - 00:22:54.660, Speaker C: Once they see the benefits of blockchain, they'll easily be willing to adopt tree systems. So I think overall, the web tree and what we're currently working on are all connected and would eventually work hand in hand to improve liquidity in the overall network. I think that's how I see things.
00:22:56.230 - 00:22:57.670, Speaker B: I know that both of you also.
00:22:57.740 - 00:23:36.100, Speaker A: Work a lot on, or at least you have one paper that I've seen on using blockchain to help deliver electricity to the developing world and to help fund projects, sustainable energy projects in the developing world, particularly sub Saharan Africa. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the work that you're doing on the developing world and how you think blockchain might actually help deliver energy and perhaps financial resources to build energy or to create energy in the developing world, particularly sub Saharan Africa, if you'd like, or other parts of the developing world.
00:23:39.590 - 00:23:44.930, Speaker C: Paul, while I got on my thoughts, I don't know if you can see. Just say something.
00:23:45.080 - 00:23:51.750, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, this question is for both of you. So if either of you have any thoughts about that, I'd be very interested in hearing them.
00:23:51.900 - 00:24:50.858, Speaker B: So, look, essentially you know, like I said, there's been this trajectory. Myself and con there worked together about three years at this point, maybe a bit less, like I say, starting with these fairly narrow pieces around hedging and kind of inspired. We're working here in UCD in know, inspired by the operation of the irish electricity market that I'm most familiar with and kind of gradually building out to say, okay, is this a case of I'm just financially hedging my risk exposure? How does that become, like, I'm pre selling energy, how does that become, I'm pre selling ownership. So all the things kind of come together in this nexus, right? That it's financing and it's forward selling and it's hedging. It's all sort of the same thing. And you suddenly go, okay, well, when you're writing a smart contract, like what I said earlier, what is the appropriate metaphor or label? I mean, a smart contract handles wealth according to algorithmic rules. So you set your rules and we can decide, is that ownership or financing or hedging? And maybe it's all three.
00:24:50.858 - 00:26:13.870, Speaker B: And so it's kind of coming out of that mindset of saying, okay, maybe there's a financing piece to this. And often you would hope the killer application for blockchain is in lower trust environments or when, for some institutional reason, there's a hill that really should have solar cells on it. The hill is in the right place and the sun shines and it is physically, in engineering terms, a good investment, a proper opportunity. But to say, well, is there an institutional or is there a factor with banking or something that's going to stop people providing the funds to physically procure the hardware, do the capital works and build that, get it connected to the grid? And so Ola Kunde kind of, we wrote that up, framing it, saying maybe those institutional barriers may be more acute in developing economies where the banking system mightn't have as good access to capital. There could be issues with the legal system in terms of how fast moving it is. So I think that's kind of just, we were trying to make this point of saying financing and preselling and hedging, they can all be sort of packaged together into the same offering in terms of a smart contract. And maybe you can make a strong argument for that in countries that should have a lot of renewable energy, but sort of don't.
00:26:13.870 - 00:26:18.786, Speaker B: And to say, is there an institutional gap there that we can plug? Does that align with the way you view it?
00:26:18.808 - 00:27:50.094, Speaker C: Ola Konlai okay, so I'll speak from another angle also, just to also buttress your point. So for me, the project started as the project is funded by the irish government. And in a way, how I first saw it at the start was developing blockchain financial instruments that would accelerate renewable electricity in mainly Ireland and say, the rest of Europe. But as the project progressed, I saw other opportunities, other pressing problems that blockchains could address, particularly in the african electricity markets. So it's a bit personal for me because I've worked in the african power sector for about three, four years now. And in terms of default risk, which is default or counterparty credit risk, which is the possibility of a party, which is, for instance, if you're a buyer, then the counterparty, the seller, defaulting on payment agreements, I think I've mixed that up a bit. But essentially Africa has a low default risk compared to the rest of Europe.
00:27:50.094 - 00:29:20.862, Speaker C: But it's still very hard for banks to finance african power projects because of why they say these products have a high cost of capital. And this high cost of capital in a way mirrors default risk. So if a country has a high default risk, then it would in turn have a high cost of capital. But this, for me, didn't make much sense. So I just went back and looked at how my research could address this. And one very important area was the aspect of decentralizing access to finance. So instead of having these big banks that could say, I mean, they are taking on all the credit risk when they finance projects and continents, why don't we open up finance to different potential investors with different abilities to invest in project in terms of the counter money they can contribute and their risk appetites, why don't you just open it up and allow different people to be able to do their own due diligence? First, we are decentralizing this risk instead of concentrating it to distribute banks, which means that the cost of capital automatically becomes lower and the exposures become lower.
00:29:20.862 - 00:30:17.570, Speaker C: So we are lowering the interest rates, which means the people that would eventually benefit from these fiscal connections would pay like low prices. And also the people that are investing in this project, they wouldn't have had access to such investment opportunities, but because of the distributed nature of blockchains, they can contribute into these projects. So essentially, we're just removing the power from these big banks and giving it to the people, both from the demand side and the supply side. And we potentially believe that this would be beneficial for both the decentralized investors and the people that will be using the power that will be generated from these projects.
00:30:20.070 - 00:30:51.246, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Just to sum up what both of you are saying, in the developing world, blockchain can be particularly useful to fund renewable energy projects because it allows the kind of distribution of risk, and it allows investment in places where banks and other more traditional institutions might be more hesitant to invest in because of this risk. So, yeah, that makes a lot of.
00:30:51.268 - 00:31:34.220, Speaker C: Sense, even if the risk is not as high as people might imagine. Because again, as I said, the default risk from projects, at the end of the day, because most of these projects, traditionally, they are usually built with lots of risk mitigation products and packages. So you'd realize that the risk hedging instruments are very strict and firm, and default risk is really automatically low, but it's just the bias from destruction of financiers. So once we can open up this access to anyone from anywhere in the world, then everyone has a choice on investing in this project or not.
00:31:35.870 - 00:32:26.666, Speaker A: So I'd like to ask another question, but it's more about barriers that you might believe would prevent the kind of work that you're doing from being realized in a broader sense. Do you foresee any kind of problems both either in the developing world or in the kind of more, quote unquote, developed world as it is? Do you see any unique barriers to being able to fund renewable energy projects with blockchain to really ensure that your kind of work becomes more widespread? And how might those barriers maybe be overcome? If that makes sense?
00:32:26.768 - 00:33:22.750, Speaker B: Sure. So even Jason, before talking about the barriers, I might reiterate what we find encouraging about the space. On an intuitive level, very hand wavy. But electricity is the most fungible commodity, okay? A megawatt hour of electrical energy is a megawatt hour of electrical energy, okay? So we're dealing with a very fungible commodity, and it's traded in nearly all countries in a very centralized way according to a regular schedule with clearly defined rules and a great deal of transparency. So if we're trying to come up with some sort of clever, smart contract that's going to mesh in with that. There's a sort of metronome, there's a tempo that we know we're meshing in with, okay, it's not like trying to put seafood on the blockchain where every trawler in the world is going to be hauling out different fish. I mean, that to me is a much bigger oracle problem.
00:33:22.750 - 00:34:17.930, Speaker B: I know Chainlink is all about oracle problems, right. I feel that the surface that you need to oracleize in electricity markets is much smaller. So that's encouraging, right? How do you unlock it? I mean, if I'm thinking of the peer review we've got in some of our papers, there's always this question of saying, okay, so you hold a token which gives you fractional ownership in a particular project. So you're due some revenues that you can claim out of a smart contract. Well, we all know how do the revenues get into the smart contract? Okay, this is always the issue, right? That once something's happening in a smart contract ecosystem, everything's very defined. How that ecosystem connects with the real world is the hard problem, right? Whether in terms of data or in terms of ability to actually move funds. So for me, it's only my opinion.
00:34:17.930 - 00:35:18.430, Speaker B: I think one of the big unlockers is when the regulator or the market operator in a country sees the value in blockchain. So like I say, it's a heavily regulated industry and typically we trust the market operator, so it's not actually a low trust environment. But if everyone is selling into a centralized market, that means all the generators are metaphorically getting a check every month from that market operator. It's settling it for everyone. The clearinghouse. If such a market operator could see the value in unlocking ecosystem effects, right? Allowing the ability for smart contracts to mesh in together this sort of Lego for money kind of idea, they could say, okay, we're going to credibly commit that that particular wind farm that someone has built on a hill. They are compelled by law, like all generators, to sell their power into the marketplace.
00:35:18.430 - 00:35:57.454, Speaker B: And we, as the government controlled market operator, credibly commit to give them all their revenues to a publicly known smart contract address. So it means now that there's kind of the, what would you call it, the piping of revenue into that smart contract has now been unlocked because we trust that market operator. I'm speaking a little bit metaphorically there, but I think you kind of see that the vision I'm putting together. So it's something that kind of motivates me in my work. I'm an academic. I very strongly believe that research should be all about pushing the boundaries. I don't like incremental or kind of boring type research.
00:35:57.454 - 00:37:02.882, Speaker B: So for the work with Ola Kunde, it's about creating a vision, really trying to push 1020 years out and saying, what could this look like? What might the benefits be? In one paper, we looked at Subsaharan Africa. That's because Ola Kunde happens to be an expert in the regulated power industry in subsaharan Africa. But that's the fundamental reason that we focus on that, but it's about creating this vision. I'm an academic, I'm not saying it's a good or a bad idea for a market operator to pay revenues in that way. Well, maybe I could say it's a good or a bad idea, but I'm more interested in saying if somebody did that, if what infrastructure could come downstream, that smart contract that's receiving these revenues every week, what logic might you like to put in that smart contract? Is it a hedging logic? Do we tokenize access that revenue stream? There's lots of logics you might put in there. And for me, academic research is just about trying to throw out those ideas and flesh them out and see what might be good or what might be bad. So that to me, is the big barrier to date.
00:37:02.882 - 00:37:21.900, Speaker B: Your question is, what are the barriers that are going to stop it? If the revenue isn't naturally on the blockchain, it's a little bit harder to build that infrastructure. If the revenue is on the blockchain, you can do clever, cool things. And because there is only one revenue source, it's actually an industry that's ripe for disruption. It's really ripe for disruption if a country wanted to do it.
00:37:23.230 - 00:39:00.162, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't believe these are like the final questions, so let me just say my talks here. So I will speak about two things. First is what sectors or subsectors blockchains will likely disrupt or are more ripe for disruption? And the second thing I'll talk about is the challenges of implementation now and in the future. So respect to disruption, if you look at the electricity markets, there's a financial and fiscal layer. And for me, I believe in literature, several online publications, people have talked about how blockchains might disrupt the fiscal layer, particularly like peer to peer energy trading, and also flexibility of ancillary services. So ancillary services are kind of services that are not core in the supply of electricity, but are very important in just enhancing the security of supply of electricity to consumers. And looking at all those fiscal layers that are currently managed by public utilities in most countries at the moment, I wouldn't say blockchain starting from those subsectors would be quite wise.
00:39:00.162 - 00:40:50.070, Speaker C: And I mean, many of the way traditional things are done using centralized database are quite efficient. But where I really see blockchain disrupting is, again, I've talked about the financial layer that is operating in parallel to the fiscal layer and has less disruption to the current existing structure. So again, financial instruments built, financial instrument built on the blockchain where market participants are trading in parallel to what's going on in the fiscal layer is where this value would mostly come about. And again, it would receive the less pushbacks from governments, because at the moment, regulatory clarity, regulatory certainties are one of the major impediments to blockchain adoption mainstream in the electricity sector. We just completed a conference paper where we created like a taxonomy for describing these risks and challenges. And we just believe that, as Paul said, once the government state can see the value of blockchain not necessarily in the areas where they're operating, but in similar areas or similar subsectors, then when they see the value they can support, because blockchain operates centrally and no one owns, for instance, like the bitcoin network. For these blockchains to actually gain traction, they need regulatory support.
00:40:50.070 - 00:42:20.006, Speaker C: Because if you look at countries like China and Nigeria, for instance, where blockchains are not really legal, they've been banned. Even if, for instance, in China, you'd find people still using vpns to access blockchain networks. But one way or the other, the liquidity would be reduced because of potential participants would be hindered from accessing this network. So if there could be like regulatory support and clarity on how blockchains would work, then adoption would increase. If you also look at with respect to the structure that we proposed, there are different regulatory gaps because, for instance, if traditional banks or investors or the renewable energy projects have certain legal responsibilities, they need to pay tax. But on the blockchain network, who pays what tax? For instance, for this project, you'd have, let's say, 20 people, you'd have 20 owners from, let's say, 20 different countries. How does the tax goes to, like, who owns the tax structure? Like who collects the tax? There are just many unanswered questions.
00:42:20.006 - 00:43:32.320, Speaker C: And regulatory supports from governments, I think would be very important for this technology to move forward. And also just one other point with respect to the ecosystem effect, there's another issue around interoperability at the moment. Like many companies are having their own blockchains, using different consensus mechanisms, having different processes for this ecosystem to be able to get real value, real value in terms of liquidity and the ecosystem effect, where, for instance, like a smart contract that mobilizes finance for, okay, let's say smart contract that pays out dividends for investors of a project is connected to another smart contract that collects monies to invest in another project. Those kind of interoperability would improve the liquidity of the network and also the adoption. And that's where the real value would be occurred. Thank you.
00:43:34.070 - 00:44:30.580, Speaker A: So thank you very much. I have just one more question, and this kind of involves the future of blockchain and renewable energy itself and renewable energy financing. I just have one specific question, but of course, you're welcome to answer to the more general question about this in particular. Do you foresee any uses for non fungible tokens or nfts in the space that you're working in, in this renewable energy space, or do you think that it's something that might not necessarily have a use case? And if mean, what do you foresee as coming down the pike in this space? Like any new technology or any new developments that you foresee, I'd be really interested in hearing about them.
00:44:31.510 - 00:44:36.740, Speaker C: I think Paul will have a different opinion from myself, but I want him to go first.
00:44:38.310 - 00:44:53.702, Speaker B: Yeah. I don't know if we're going to be so different now. We'll see. No, Jason, look again. I'm going to kind of dodge it. I'm not going to put a percentage next to my prediction, right, of what nfts might or might not do in the energy space. I'll make one confident prediction.
00:44:53.702 - 00:45:44.970, Speaker B: I think lots of people are going to try and sell non fungible tokens in ways that connect with energy. I'll tell you one thing that interests me from a research perspective, and we haven't touched on it in any of our work so far, but an electricity network, your national grid in your country, it's a lot of iron and it's a lot of copper, right? It's expensive. Physical assets, historically, they're very much passive assets. Power just flowed according to Kirchhoff's laws and Ohm's laws. Right? There was no ability to direct where power would flow. Increasingly, though, there's smarter devices on a grid. So you can have what's called a high voltage direct current connection, which connects one grid to another, which uses electronics to actually modulate the flow of power from one country to another, for instance.
00:45:44.970 - 00:46:41.158, Speaker B: So those are interesting assets. Okay? They're particularly interesting in cases where maybe the countries don't fully trust each other or that there could be some tension on either side. There are assets, like I say, that are fundamentally electronic, right? It's transistors turning on and off at particular times that establish the power flow. So for me, the most speculative use case you could imagine for blockchain and energy is to start saying assets like that, big, important national assets, if control of them could be tokenized, right? So that someone could hold an NFT which directly allows them to control what an asset such as a high voltage direct current link does that to me, is a provocative, interesting idea. It sounds boring. It's like I was talking about joint stock corporations earlier. That's boring.
00:46:41.158 - 00:47:29.814, Speaker B: I don't know if you've ever been to Venice, Jason, but it's very beautiful. It's full of lovely architecture. In part, that's because the Venetians were among the first to adopt double entry bookkeeping. I mean, what could be more boring than the history of accountancy? But again, it's something about that. A slightly different way of thinking about wealth, a slightly different way of looking at wealth and you become this crazy powerful city state that punches far above their weight historically. So again, maybe high voltage direct current links are boring. But I think if someone can come up with a convincing way to say how ownership of those national assets can be tokenized and control of those assets can be given to the people, I think you're looking there at a very weird and disruptive and subversive view of how an economy might operate.
00:47:29.814 - 00:47:35.470, Speaker B: So it's things like that that I'd like to play some role in trying to sketch those kind of visions as an academic.
00:47:37.650 - 00:48:44.062, Speaker C: Interesting. It'd always be interesting to explore research in that direction. But in terms of the real value in the electricity sector, I think NFDs are very useful in collectibles and arts, gaming. I think they are very like music, I think they're very important because those kind of assets are invaluable. You can't really put any value to an artist's album. But for renewable generators, I feel like they're fiscal assets that have real value. And I would say this from the view of Africa, electricity is a necessity more than a luxury.
00:48:44.062 - 00:49:42.326, Speaker C: And I feel that if renewable assets or any electricity assets becomes tokenized, for instance, using nfts, then this would ultimately drive the value of these assets. And at the end of the day, most times, the consumers usually bear the cost of these things. And we're talking about electricity as a necessity and availability of electricity for high social welfare value, then I feel personally like NFDs shouldn't be discussed at all in the electricity sector. I feel tokenization, yes. Fungible tokens, yes. In terms of fractionalizing the assets. But yeah, personally for me, I'm happy that we have conflicting views about this.
00:49:42.326 - 00:49:53.820, Speaker C: Well, yeah, personally for me, I think NSD should not be mentioned in the electricity industry. So that's just my own view. Thank you.
00:49:54.510 - 00:50:20.560, Speaker A: Thank you. Yeah, I mean, controversy is good. Well, thank you both for your time. This was a really fascinating conversation, and we really love your research. It's fascinating, and I'm looking forward to seeing more of it in the future. So for Chainlink research, I'm Jason anastasopoulos. Thank you.
