00:00:00.920 - 00:00:27.038, Speaker A: All right, everyone, let's kick it off. So welcome to the 9th Daily AMA series. I do these every two weeks, thanks to coffee, for setting up the calendar invite for. This is the first time we had a calendar reminder out there, so that should help people with getting scheduled for this. I know that everyone's obviously in different time zones around the world, so that should help you. You can find it in the calendar channel if you haven't seen that right at the top of the discord. The way this AMA works is that if you want to ask a question, you can feel free to raise your hand and I'll invite you up onto the stage.
00:00:27.038 - 00:01:00.462, Speaker A: If not, you can ask it in the AMA series channel. And I'll answer those at the end of the because I'll be answering the ones that have already been posted in there as we go through. So I've got them on a sheet here. This will of course be recorded and uploaded to YouTube like all the other ones. So if you come in late or have to leave early, that's fine. You'll be able to watch it on there with timestamps. So let's get started with the first question from the AMA series channel, which comes from dumbgen ETH, who says, my question for this week is how the Ethereum governance system works and what if something will change after the merge and going forward.
00:01:00.462 - 00:02:09.294, Speaker A: So the way Ethereum does governance is it doesn't have an on chain governance system, right? The ETH token does not give you any kind of rights to vote on system parameter changes or anything like that. If you hold ETH, you can stake it, of course, within the beacon chain, or you can do a number of other things with it. But even staking it within the beacon chain doesn't give you voting rights. There is no on chain voting system. So instead we have, I guess, kind of like a thing called rough consensus, or an off chain kind of, I guess, governance system for Ethereum, where various different kind of entities within the ecosystem will basically have a say, and then that say, and then all those kind of things will get collated by the community, and then eventually we will land on kind of like rough consensus about an upgrade. So I think probably the easiest example is ERP 1559 and run through kind of like how that went from an idea to Mainnet, essentially, and it took over two years. So this was probably, I think, the longest one, besides obviously the AIP, to upgrade Ethereum from proof of work to proof of stake, or at least that whole effort, just generally the ETH two effort but essentially with EIP 1559, with Aips in general, they are basically the way Ethereum upgrades itself.
00:02:09.294 - 00:02:44.018, Speaker A: So EIP stands for a theorem improvement proposal. Anyone can propose one of these. And it goes through various stages. I don't know if, I don't know the stages off the top of my head, but it goes through various stages from, like draft to kind of like, you know, pending or kind of like complete, and then, you know, merged and eventually, you know, obviously it goes to Mainnet. So just to use ERp 15 nine as an example, what ended up happening is that now, the authors of this EIP posted it back in April of 2019, I believe it was. And then from there on, the community kind of like discusses it over time. There's research done into it, there's development done, there's testing the simulations.
00:02:44.018 - 00:03:51.686, Speaker A: You know, depending on how complex it is, different people kind of chime in over time and all the kind of like, people that participate in the Ethereum ecosystem can have a say whether that is, you know, ETH holders theorem, just general Ethereum community members exchanges, obviously, core developers, you have infrastructure providers, you have basically anyone who spends any amount of time in the Ethereum ecosystem is allowed to kind of like, you know, speak their mind or whatever and kind of give their arguments for, against a specific EIP. And then if there are kind of like an overwhelming majority that are in favor of it, just like there was for EIP 1559, well, then that signal kind of like feeds its way up to the core developers. And the core developers, I guess they're not the ones who kind of like, have the final say, but they have some of. I think that if I had to kind of like put a weight on kind of like each person's voice within the community, the core developers are definitely up there with the weightiest voice because they obviously know the network at the protocol level quite well. So they can decide whether or not the side, but they can basically say, well, you know, this as a ip, as it currently is, is not kind of like up to scratch. It hasn't gone through the proper process. We don't believe that it would actually be safe to deploy this on main net.
00:03:51.686 - 00:05:03.622, Speaker A: And they can just give their opinions because at the end of the day, you know, the entire ethereum ecosystem could subvert to the core developers if they wanted to build their own clients and run their own kind of clients with this new upgrade in it, and if everyone agreed that that was the new Ethereum chain, because we obviously got a hard fork when we, when we implement these aips, then that would be the new Ethereum chain. But if, if kind of like the core developers kind of like say, you know, this isn't actually, you know, good or whatever, this needs to be revised, then the community can go back and kind of like see what's wrong with it, see what, what they're actually pointing out issues with. And if there is actually no fundamental issues and it's just like they don't like the AIP, well then it just goes through discussions, right? It's like, why don't you like it? You know, what's wrong with it? There was some kind of, I guess, core developers that didn't like AIP 1559 at the start, but then they came around over time because there was more research and kind of like testing done and kind of like more simulations run on it. So they came around. So there has been instances of this happening before, but that's not to say the core developers control anything. If I had to describe Ethereum's kind of governance process, I would say that it's a technocracy. So the voice, sorry, the weight of your voice is kind of like directly tied to, I guess, your merit within the ecosystem, specifically on a technical level.
00:05:03.622 - 00:06:04.424, Speaker A: So obviously the core developers are the most technical, or at least one of one party of the most technical, then you have like different researchers and developers throughout the ecosystem. But the community also has a very big voice within Ethereum because the community was the one are the ones who champion different AIP. So obviously 1559 probably wouldn't ever have got to mainnet if it wasn't for the massive community push that we saw, because the community basically put their whole weight around it and their money as well. And we're like, you know, we want 1559 on Mainnet. We're willing to pay for anything that needs to be done to get this on there. We think it's an improvement to the fee market, and we also think that it's great that it burns ETH because it basically gives the value that's being generated on the ethereum network, or at least most of the value that's being generated to ETH holders, essentially, which, which I personally am a very big fan of, of course. So, yeah, and it's funny because like, I don't think the actual whole Ethereum governance process is necessarily documented anywhere because it's, it's, it's a decentralized process, right? There is no kind of like, um, centralized repository that says, you know, it has to follow this, but the IP process is pretty thoroughly documented.
00:06:04.424 - 00:06:51.784, Speaker A: You can find that on the Ethereum, GitHub, I believe, where, you know, the process that an EIP has to go through is basically there step by step. But the AIP process, as I said, is just one kind of like, um, one part of the entire governance process. You have to go through all this rough consensus and things like that. So, yeah, hopefully that kind of like explains how Ethereum governance works at a high level. It definitely may sometimes feel like stuff just happens because there's a lot of aips that I guess are very technical to the point where they're actually boring and they just like kind of like maintenance eips, I guess you can call them, or kind of like aips that improve something for developers, for example, or improve something for end users, but the end users have no idea what it is because it's very technical. Uh, so those sorts of things definitely don't really bubble up to the surface of the community. But in general, kind of like, uh, there are a lot of other people looking at this.
00:06:51.784 - 00:07:24.186, Speaker A: I'm talking like the general community. There are a lot of other people looking at this sort of stuff. And if anything was to kind of like try and sneak in, it would, you know, almost certainly be caught. I mean, there's been a ips that have been rejected before, such as ERP 999, which was the AIP to unlock the frozen funds in the parody multi sig that got frozen back in 2017, I believe, and that got shot down straight away because people were like, no, we're not going to do this. This goes against what ethereum is. This is basically bailing out this one contract, then we have to do it for everyone. And then it just kind of is like a slippery slope from there.
00:07:24.186 - 00:07:56.332, Speaker A: And then there was the EIP for progpal, which was basically changing Ethereum's hashing algorithm in order to kick ASIC miners off the network. But there was a lot of debate around that. I'm not going to rehash that a whole debate, but that AIP also got kind of like killed off by the community because the community and, you know, some core developers are actually in favor of this. So the community, I believe, has the most weight here. Like, the general community has the most weight when it comes to these sorts of things. And just making your voice kind of like heard and known is the best way to kind of, I guess, participate in the governance process. But as I said, different parties have different weighting here.
00:07:56.332 - 00:08:31.438, Speaker A: You know, a random person that got into Ethereum last month is not going to have the same kind of weighting to their voice as a core developer, for example. Right? And I mean, as it should be, right, because you would expect the person who just discovered Ethereum last month is not going to have the same kind of like knowledge and context around Ethereum and what's best for Ethereum over a core developer that has been working on the protocol for like six years or something like that. So hopefully that answers your question. Dumbgeon there. So I'm going to keep moving through my list here. If you do want to ask a question, just raise your hand and I'll invite you up onto the stage and you know, you can do that at any time. So question from short circuit here.
00:08:31.438 - 00:09:41.418, Speaker A: Who says when is a token no longer an ICO for those that live in the US or comparable? What is the trigger that allows us to gain access to a token? Was interested in IMX and epic, but apparently I can't buy them. Or am I missing something? So I think, I guess what you're probably saying is when is a token no longer a security? And this is kind of like a gray area, right? Because the SEC hasn't actually given kind of like any guidance on pretty much like all tokens. They've kind of like said things here and there being like, you know, all tokens look like securities, but they haven't actually gone specifically after most of the tokens. Some of them they have, and that's usually in the process of when they're kind of like charging a company of issuing like an unregistered security. But most of these tokens that we see on Ethereum today, especially the ones that are part of the legitimate projects, I haven't seen the SEC kind of weigh in on that or any kind of like securities regulator around the world weigh in specifically on a lot of these projects. So the teams that issue these tokens are taking the safe approach of being like, well, we know that the regulatory kind of like ecosystem in the US, really harsh on crypto and in certain other jurisdictions as well. So we're just going to not service that area when we do a token sale because just in case we get in trouble for this later on down the line.
00:09:41.418 - 00:10:26.638, Speaker A: So they can only control it from there. But once the token is actually out into the ecosystem, you can buy it from, you know, any decentralized exchange you want, you can go to uniswap, sushiswap, whatever, there's going to be liquidity there for you, and you can probably even end up buying it on an exchange later. I mean, there's plenty of tokens that are on even Coinbase and they weren't offered to like kind of us investors to buy into. So it's just an unfortunate consequence of the US kind of like having such a weird regulatory regime around crypto. I think every, I guess, regulatory body in the US is trying to via vie for kind of like coverage over crypto. The CFTC, the SEC, the DOJ, they all want their slice of the pie because if they get it, they get more funding, right? And they kind of like can do more stuff and have more power. And these organizations always want to get bigger, especially in government.
00:10:26.638 - 00:11:07.126, Speaker A: So I think from that perspective, it's just going to be a little while before we get clarity here. So the teams are taking the safe approach of being like, yeah, we're just not going to service the US people. But where this becomes really damaging is the fact that now us people are being barred from getting airdrops. So this happened with DydX and he's happening with immutable X, where I think immutable X is doing a good thing of just airdropping ETH instead of the IMX tokens to people in an equivalent way to kind of get around this, which is cool. But dy, DX isn't allowing us kind of like traders even on their platform. And that's why they're not allowing them to have the token, because to get the token in an airdrop, you actually need to, need to trade on the platform. And if they're barring you from trading, well then you can't do that.
00:11:07.126 - 00:11:40.380, Speaker A: And obviously there's ways to get around this with like a VPN. But apparently that's, they've actually kind of like have a system in place where even if you use a VPN, it's quite hard to get around these block, these blockers here. So that's where it's become very kind of, I guess, controversial now, where it's like, well, how is the SEC, or how is any regulatory body protecting investors if they're not allowed to get an airdrop? Like this is just free money, right? This is not a lot of the time. You don't have to do anything for this. You just have to use the app. I mean, I know I said you have to use DydX's app or perpetual exchange app on L2 to get the DydX token. But you really don't have to do much.
00:11:40.380 - 00:12:08.946, Speaker A: You just have to make a few trades and whatever to kind of get claim your allocation. But you can make a couple of trades just instantly back and forth. You don't have to speculate. You just, just make some dummy trades or whatever and still have a claim to these, these tokens. And then with IMX I mean you just, you kind of just have to like buy some, some gods on chain cards or kind of like do some stuff on the immutable X platform and you get the token as well. So it's not like you're doing super speculative stuff where you have to be protected from. And I think the, I mean just generally, I mean if you listen to the refuel you'll know that.
00:12:08.946 - 00:12:58.720, Speaker A: I just don't like most financial regulations. Maybe they are a necessary evil because of centralized, because of the, the way they centralized or traditional finance system works. But I don't actually think that they're, that a lot of them are needed within DeFi because of the fact that I guess within DeFi where we're making everything so transparent that these are financial regulations which really just exist to make things or at least attempt to make things more transparent and to protect investors are kind of like being replaced with code at the end of the day. But I guess that's a separate kind of discussion to this to end. I mean, to answer your original question, when is it no longer considered, I guess an ICO or a security? I mean you can buy these tokens as soon as they're trading on like on a decentralized exchange from anywhere. Like Uniswap isn't going to buy you. You know, Uniswap Labs, their website can, can censor you and can stop you from accessing the website, but you can tap into Uniswap smart contracts from anywhere.
00:12:58.720 - 00:13:23.006, Speaker A: You don't have to use their website to do so. So you can very easily get, you know, whatever token you want on there regardless of if it's a security or not. It doesn't matter because it's still going to be trading because it's all decentralized. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. Short circuit. Alright, so one here from TCT Inc. Who says my question is where did you get that super cool digital frame you have for your nfts? So the one I've got is called the Netgear mural.
00:13:23.006 - 00:13:45.692, Speaker A: Two, you can just google that and find a local retailer to buy that from. It's pretty good. There's like a mobile app that you can download and upload all the photos to it and kind of like set the slideshow settings and things like that. But there are plenty of others out there as well. The one drawback of the one that I've got is that it's not square. So it kind of like has to fill in the blank space with just kind of like black borders around it. So there are ones you can get that are square.
00:13:45.692 - 00:14:57.492, Speaker A: I mean, there's ones you can get that are all kind of different kind of shapes and sizes. But I think a square one really works well for nfts and that's probably one that I'm going to get next. And kind of like the one that I've currently got works well for a lot of the nfts that I have for sure, but there are some that I'd like to display, but just, you know, don't really fit that form factor there. So, yeah, I mean, you can just search like NFT display or something on Google, and there's plenty of retailers now and more coming every day from what I've seen, that all kind of like, you know, have these products for you. All right, one here from Dom, who says, would there be any tangible benefit to launching an l two type smart contract on top of an existing L2, like say, run arbitrary on top of arbitrary and effectively a layer three platform kinda? Or is that just added complexity for no real benefits? And then a follow on question from descript here. Who says, um, wouldn't a layer three that simul simultaneously writes to all L2s arbitrary and polygon optimism work to unify chain activity if it ends up being fractured between the l two s? So the limiting factor of L2 s in terms of scalability is the layer one that they're talking to. So if, if they're using Ethereum for their security and ethereum to post their batches and proofs to, they are limited by what's called core data on ethereum.
00:14:57.492 - 00:15:54.348, Speaker A: This is why when we have sharding L2s are going to be able to scale a lot more, but because they get access to more block space to be able to post more core data to layer one. So from that perspective, you would probably, from my understanding, not get any benefit from running a L2 on top of a L2 like this. And I mean, you could settle these L2s to different networks that have more block space and get more scalability of a L2s. But normally you would get less security, right? Because usually when there's more block space on another blockchain, it means the security is less because they've taken trade offs with by kind of like increasing the hardware requirements to run the chain because their block size is like much bigger or whatever, or some other kind of like trade offs around security and decentralization there. So from my understanding, it wouldn't really kind of do anything just stacking them on top of each other. But in saying that there is something called a ZKZ roll up, which is essentially, it's not really a scalability boost, but it's basically bringing privacy to ZK rollups. And aztec protocol is working on this.
00:15:54.348 - 00:16:28.226, Speaker A: So there are kind of different things you can do at these L2s in terms of, like, stacking the technologies together. But as far as I understand it, it wouldn't give you a scalability boost because you're still limited by the layer one kind of space that you're allowed to post cold data to at the end of the day. So hopefully that answers your questions. Dom. And descript there one here from Matthew T, who says, would you respond to some of Raoul Paul's most provocative comments on his recent appearance on bankless? So, um, just a bit of background there. This podcast I list, I actually ended up finishing listening it to it today. It's about 90 minutes long.
00:16:28.226 - 00:16:50.742, Speaker A: I was a really great podcast with the bankless guys. If you haven't listened to it yet, I highly recommend doing so. But he went through like a wide range of topics, and I had a wide range of opinions on here. So I guess Matthew wants me to answer these, which is, which is listed out here. So Raoul said on the podcast, a chimp could get rich picking random crypto cryptocurrencies. And the implication seems to be that fundamentals are irrelevant. Every coin token has price go up technology.
00:16:50.742 - 00:17:36.700, Speaker A: But isn't this just obviously wrong on so many levels? So I think in bull markets, this is like, very true, right? Like, you can just throw money at basically anything, I guess. Like there are some kind of like scams and rug pulls and things like that. But you can throw money at a lot of projects that may be stagnant or may not be doing anything and like that have just object objectively failed at what they're trying to do, but they just still linger around because it's very hard to kill off any of this stuff. And it's still profitable to just kind of perpetuate the narrative that you're still working on stuff, right? You're still kind of like building things. You're still going to kill Ethereum, whatever, like a lot of these layer one platforms do. So I think that during a bull market, he is right, you know, and I think that it's not just the bull market. It's also the adoption kind of like cycle that we're in right now where we're having kind of like this a lot, a lot of new people kind of flooding in for various different reasons.
00:17:36.700 - 00:17:57.302, Speaker A: And when you think about kind of how people enter this ecosystem, they enter it from zero. They have no idea, no context about anything. They don't know the difference between Ethereum and every other smart contract platform. They don't know why bitcoin doesn't have smart contracts, blah, blah, blah. Right? They have to learn that on their own. But ten. But during bull markets and during kind of like FOMO manias, people tend to learn later.
00:17:57.302 - 00:18:50.206, Speaker A: They'll just ape first and learn later, right? They'll buy the token because it keeps going up and then they'll kind of like, if they, if they want to dive deeper, they will. A lot of them, unfortunately don't, but they'll kind of like go around and kind of like, learn. But that takes a lot longer than just buying a token on an exchange, right? So that's why you see all these things kind of blow up in value is because misinformed investors are buying these things without having any idea what they are, just because they're going up and it becomes like a self fulfilling prophecy from there. But this is the short to medium term, I believe, you know, long term fundamentals definitely do play a role in how these things are kind of weighted. There are exceptions, of course. I mean, for anyone who's been on Twitter over the last hour, you'll see me kind of like going at Cardano pretty hard because I think Cardano is like the quintessential example of something that has so much hype, so much marketing, so many moon boys, as I like to call them. And the tech that they have is just like either non functional or really bad or kind of doesn't work as advertised.
00:18:50.206 - 00:19:37.796, Speaker A: And it's all just this massive kind of like, marketing thing where all these people believe that it's going to be the best thing ever, but in reality it's not. But because these people don't actually dive deeper and do more research, they just listen to what they're told from either Charles or some other people within the community. They don't really care. They're just buying Ada on exchanges. So from that point of view, there are definitely exceptions to the long term thesis of fundamentals ruling over, over not. And Cardano is not the only example. There's plenty of examples out there of these things just existing as essentially bets on the marketing prowess of the company behind these projects at the end of the day, because you'll have noticed that the chains that don't have kind of like they centralized marketing kind of, I guess, plays like bitcoin and Ethereum, like the Ethereum foundation never really did any kind of like marketing or kind of like concerted marketing around Ethereum.
00:19:37.796 - 00:20:27.244, Speaker A: It was like a bottom up approach with the grassroots community forming and all that sort of stuff. And then bitcoin was exactly the same thing, right? Like probably even more grassroots because it started at the beginning of this ecosystem. And then you have various other projects that do this. And that's not to say that marketing isn't like sorry is necessarily a bad thing, but I feel like a lot of projects use it just to sugarcoat everything and make it so that you, you can kind of like sell it to the ecosystem, that you have no shortcomings, just so you can kind of like pump up the token price. And to be fair, it works. And it works really, really well during bull markets because as I said, you have so many new people coming into the ecosystem that just do not have the time to do the research because they're just fomoing into things and they'll just buy before they kind of like, um, try, so to speak. So I think that's why you see, uh, you know, that's why Raul says a chimp could get rich picking random crypto.
00:20:27.244 - 00:21:10.512, Speaker A: But then you have to compare it to over the long term, like if you buy something now, isn't it going to perform, is it going to outperform things with fundamentals over the long term? Like is it going to outperform ETH? Is it going to outperform kind of like defi, is it going to outperform kind of like NFT stuff? You know, it kind of like depending what your benchmark is. And the perfect example, if you want to see some examples of what happened last cycle, there was all this hype around Ethereum killers in 2017 as well, such as like eos and Neo and Q tem. And there's a bunch of others and they all pumped pretty hard. But if you go look at their, them against ETH on like trading view, pretty much all of them have been destroyed against ETH. Like they're down like 90% or something like that. Something crazy. Even Tron, like Tron was like hyped as, you know, as crazily.
00:21:10.512 - 00:21:48.334, Speaker A: But over the longer term they fund, they lose their value to, to other kind of things with fun, with actual fundamentals, because people don't want to hold these things. They're just speculating on it. And a lot of the people who kind of speculate on it, well, if it stops going up in price, a lot of these retail investors are either just going to cut their losses or kind of like, sell the bottom, and then a lot of the smarter investors move into the things with fundamentals. So I do think that they, they play out over the longer term, but unfortunately, there are exceptions to the rule. And it really does feel like the better your marketing, and I guess, like, the more deceiving your marketing is, the more you can pump up your token. And I don't think that's going to change. You know, as I said, I'm not really a big, big fan of regulations in general.
00:21:48.334 - 00:22:23.634, Speaker A: I'm not a really big fan of regulatory bodies. But really, the only way to stop these things is to have regulators go after them. And I don't know if I want to invite regulators into this ecosystem in that kind of way because then they become the kingmakers of which projects get to kind of like, I guess, thrive and which projects get labeled as, you know, securities or scams or whatever. So it's just like a thing we have to deal with at the end of the day. It's super frustrating for me, too, the fact that, I mean, and it's not even just like these, these projects that kind of, like, do deceiving marketing either. I mean, if you look at something like doge, for example, like, doge is not a scam. It was, it was kind of like, started as a joke.
00:22:23.634 - 00:22:51.066, Speaker A: And obviously it attracts a lot of kind of like, newbie retail investors, mainly because of, I think, the price of it, right, the unit price. But there's no centralized company pushing any marketing. There's nothing like that. There may be pockets of different kind of, like people kind of saying stupid things about doge or whatever, but generally people just buying it for the memes, right, for the fact that it has, like, a low unit price and they think it can go to the same price as bitcoin or whatever. But from that perspective, doge outperformed everything. Still like, it outperformed bitcoin. It outperformed ETH.
00:22:51.066 - 00:23:16.356, Speaker A: It outperformed everything with fundamentals. So really, at the end of the day, there, there are still going to always be exceptions to this. And you shouldn't worry about it. It's not something you can control. It's something that you're going to have to get lucky to pick. I mean, doge outperformed everything, but, like, there's a reason you didn't buy doge, right? Because you didn't believe those had any actual fundamentals. So if you think it does have fundamentals now, for whatever reason, well, you buy it now, but are you buying it now? You know, there's always reasons why you aren't, aren't buying.
00:23:16.356 - 00:24:00.766, Speaker A: And depending on how, I guess, like deep you are into this ecosystem, you may not buy things and then they'll go up because you're just too deep. And that, and it's kind of like, it's funny how that works. Like the more research you do, the more kind of like ape opportunities you may miss out on because you don't, you have all that context around it and like you're not just like fresh to this ecosystem fomoing into things anymore. So, you know, maybe you, if you want to, you can have like a yellow stash, as I like to call it, like a bunch of money that you have kind of set away that you don't mind losing that you just kind of play the low IQ thing where you're just like, oh, well, I'm going to act like one of these new people to the ecosystem who have absolutely no idea what they're doing and I'm just going to throw money at random things and see what sticks. Maybe you'll make money, maybe you won't. Maybe you'll outperform 8th maybe you won't sort of thing. So, but, but you know, when you're doing that, you obviously have to write off the money that you're doing that with.
00:24:00.766 - 00:24:21.536, Speaker A: You can't just do that with your whole stack and expect and hope for the best. And it's not just like buying and sitting on it as well. A lot of people kind of like tend, don't, don't tend to do that. Especially the new newer people. They tend to like sell the panic, sell the bottoms and kind of like fomo by the tops. So, you know, even from that perspective, I think just, you know, you can make money. I'm just throwing money at anything during a bull market.
00:24:21.536 - 00:25:18.808, Speaker A: But it's, yeah, there's a whole bunch of context around that. So hopefully that addresses that point from Raul there. Your next kind of thing here you say also, what did you think about his claims regarding other layer ones? I think one of, and you got, went on to say, one of the arguments I hear a lot about where the entire space is headed is that some will be the metaphorical googles winner take most and others the metaphorical aols and yahoos eg ones that got big, then died and were disrupted. Do you agree with that take? And if so, how would you apply it? Raoul seems to think that there will be many, many winners, and this seems to disagree with the idea of a small number of winners take most. Thanks. So I guess, like, the first part of the question is, what did you think about these claims regarding layer ones and that for your feeds into the second part? So I put out a tweet thread, I think today or yesterday or something, where I said, I don't believe that this space is going to be kind of like, basically have one winner, right. The smart contract space be one winner.
00:25:18.808 - 00:26:09.120, Speaker A: Obviously, it hasn't been that, and it will not be that. Like a theorem right now is where most of the action happens, but there are still other ecosystems out there that have some traction, and that is already proving that. But I also said that it's going to follow what's called a power law distribution, where a handful of these kind of, like, layer ones or even L2s are going to have most of the activity, 80% of the activity, and then the long tail are going to have 20% of the activity. And I still believe that. I do agree with roll that there's going to be many winners, of course. But it depends how you define winners, too, because he gave examples saying, you know, if the total crypto market cap goes to $200 trillion, and even the shittiest platform was able to kind of like, get 1% of that value, well, that's $2 trillion market cap, if you think about it. Right? So I'm talking about, like, the crappiest platform you can think of, the one that really has hardly any use and maybe doesn't have smart contracts, maybe just is like all hype and whatever.
00:26:09.120 - 00:27:24.194, Speaker A: If that can still capture 1%, that's a $2 trillion market cap. So that's an incredible opportunity because, I mean, if you look at all of the companies in the world, most of the companies aren't even worth $2 trillion. So if you really do think that it's, you know, the whole ecosystem is going to go to a $200 trillion total market cap over the longer term, then that's a, that's a massive opportunity there. But in saying that the opportunity for the winners is even bigger, because the $200 trillion, if the, the handful of winners can capture 80% of that, that is, I mean, I'm not going to be able to do the math in my head, but that's like 100 plus trillion dollars, right? It's like 100 5160 trillion dollars, something like that. And whoever is like the biggest in that has like tens of trillions of dollars of market cap, which means that their coins are worth a lot of money, right? They've made a lot of people money and it's, and you, you know, you've made a massive return on investment if you were to buy it now sort of thing. So from that perspective, that's why you see so much speculation happening on the different layer ones, because people are like, well, what are they going to be the big winners? And a lot of people are saying, well, you know, obviously ethereum is the winner right now, but is it going to become, as you say, like the AOL or the Yahoo of, of kind of like this movement? And I mean, I think there's like next to zero chance of that happening. I think that, you know, barring some kind of, I guess, like fundamental problem where we figure out that ethereum, you know, L2s don't actually work for whatever reason.
00:27:24.194 - 00:27:44.058, Speaker A: When they do work, because they're live, we can't scale and then we just slowly bleed users over time. I don't think Ethereum is, is going anywhere. I think Ethereum is always going to be the platform with the most usage on it. But there are going to be other layer ones that gain traction for sure. For different use cases. They're going to take different trade offs. There's going to be ones that I personally don't like because of those trade offs, but that doesn't matter.
00:27:44.058 - 00:28:08.904, Speaker A: And I think at the end of the day, what really matters is who's using them and for what. So a lot of people are going to use other layer ones for different things. A lot of people are going to use Ethereum L2. A lot of people are going to use side chains and stuff like that. So from that perspective, I do agree with Roald is going to be kind of like many winners, but I don't think that there's going to be kind of like an equal distribution here. That's just not how these things work. And this is not how any technology works really.
00:28:08.904 - 00:28:44.442, Speaker A: It's not really how life works. There's a reason why power laws are so common throughout, I guess, like just life in general, like even nature, it's just, it always kind of like follows that, that kind of thing there. I mean, even wealth in general follows a power law distribution at the end of the day. So I think kind of when you look at that as a holistic approach, there you can see that this ecosystem will always be multi chain, but it'll be like a handful and I don't know how many it's going to be. It could be ten, it could be 20 different layer ones and L2s that they kind of like gain this 80% of the market share, but it's going to be more than Ethereum at the end of the day. And Ethereum is currently worth half a trillion dollars. Dollars.
00:28:44.442 - 00:29:20.024, Speaker A: So people are speculating that these other smart contract platforms, if they are the other winners, then they could reach half a trillion dollars in market cap too. But you could speculate on the L2s and other scalability solutions and side chains as well and say, okay, well, what if they go to a half a trillion dollar market cap or more? Well look at the return I could get from this. So that's why you see all this speculation happening right now, because the industry is so young. There are no clear cut kind of winners. Besides, I think Ethereum and I mean, I've given my thoughts on bitcoin before. I don't even know if bitcoin is going to long term be in that, that kind of like be at the top of that power law distribution. I don't think it will.
00:29:20.024 - 00:29:44.380, Speaker A: Maybe that's a controversial opinion to have. I do think it's going to get pushed out by the different layer ones and L2s because my bullish case for these kind of like things is that the more utility they have, the better. That's why I've always been very bullish on Ethereum. And some of these other layer ones will definitely gain traction over time. There already are. And the L2s will as well. I mean, arbitrary launch the other day and it's already doing, already has like $60 million of TVL or something like that.
00:29:44.380 - 00:30:10.270, Speaker A: So really cool to see that as well. Um, and you know, side chains and different kind of things. Like the polygon pos chain has got a lot of TVL and has got a lot of activity happening on it. So, yeah, if anyone kind of like says to you that just their one favorite chain is going to be the one that wins everything, that's, that's not true at all. And it's already not true. It hasn't been true since the first, uh, as I like to call it, economically relevant fork of bitcoin or called litecoin, uh, the chat. This is the ecosystem will always be multi chain.
00:30:10.270 - 00:31:03.494, Speaker A: There is no universe where it's just going to be a monoculture because that's just not how humans work at the end of the day, right so hopefully that kind of gives my kind of answer to that for you, Matthew, and context around all of that. So a few questions here from Max invests now. Question one, are daos and social tokens going to play a large role in the future? I'm worried a lot of them could end up being money grabs, but I don't know. So, I mean, I think a lot of anything in this ecosystem is going to end up being just a money grab at the end of the day because it's so easy to kind of create something or just create a token, pump it up with some deceitful marketing and kind of like make some money, right? We've seen plenty of this happen over the years. This is not something new. But I do think that Daos and social tokens are going to play an absolutely massive role in the future, and they already are playing a massive role. I actually think that social tokens as a category can be just collapsed down to daos because at the end of the day, a lot of these things are just Daos with a token attached to them, like the social tokens.
00:31:03.494 - 00:31:19.060, Speaker A: So I don't even think we have to separate them. So I just call them Daos. And I think Daos are going to be absolutely massive. I mean, a lot of them are already really big. But the thing is, is that all. The funny thing is about daos is that not all of them are created equal. There are some really shitty daos out there that have no direction, no leadership.
00:31:19.060 - 00:31:39.628, Speaker A: They essentially are stuck in limbo. They don't know what they're doing. And, you know, there's, there's very clear examples of this throughout the ecosystem. I think, you know, recently Uniswap has been a clear example here of a DaO that doesn't seem to be running as well as it could be. I think there's a couple of the other kind of like big defi apps as well. I think Makerdao is actually really, really well run. I think there are a bunch of smaller ones as well that are doing really great work.
00:31:39.628 - 00:32:28.376, Speaker A: I mean, I always reference index co op as one of the best daos that I've seen in this ecosystem. So they're obviously not all going to be created equal and a lot of them are going to end up failing, but I do think they're going to play an absolutely massive role in this ecosystem going forward. And the social token aspect to it is just like a different type of Dao where you can have a social token like friends with benefits, which I think is the most well known one, which is basically like a globally kind of distributed, decentralized social club, which, which I think I'm, you know, I'm personally pretty bullish on those sorts of things. I hold some FWB tokens and things like that. And then, you know, there's others, there's plenty of others out there. I mean, there's, there's curation daos as well, that kind of like pleaserdao, for example, that kind of like buys up art and then fractionalizes them and puts it into their treasury and does stuff with it. So definitely dows are going to, you know, pretty much change everything about how we coordinate as humans.
00:32:28.376 - 00:33:04.880, Speaker A: But just like real life where there's a lot of shitty human coordination that goes on, it's going to be the same thing with, with Daos, and, but the ones that do succeed are going to go on to be really, really big, I believe. So your second question, can you explain rough consensus and how ETH upgrades? So Max, if you just go back to the first question from Dumgen ETH, I answered that there, so I won't rehash it here. I just went through the whole governance process at the start of the AMA. You can find that in the timestamps if you're listening to the recording. All right, so third question. Have you seen the NFT creativity on other chains like Solana punks and Cardano punks? Wow. I think it's really creative and revolutionary idea.
00:33:04.880 - 00:33:40.894, Speaker A: Amazed that those chains could come up with it, to be honest. So yes, there is a lot of cloning going on on these other chains of Ethereum stuff because as I said, it's very easy to just clone something or kind of like launch something and do some kind of like marketing around it and get some hype and make some money. It's just, it's super easy to do that. It's much harder to build something that actually has longer lasting value. That, and that is a legitimate project. So kind of, I think there are kind of going to be NFTs launching on other blockchains that are going to be unique and things like that. But I still believe Ethereum is going to be at the centerpiece of the entire crypto cultural movement and it's going to be like that for quite a while.
00:33:40.894 - 00:34:19.040, Speaker A: I know the high gas fees definitely price people out of nfts and stuff like that, but we're going to scale them via layer, too. And I think that generally Ethereum just has such a stupidly strong network effect that even with the high fees. People are willing to pay that to either buy these NFTs to speculate on, or to buy them because they really want to hold these Nft from their favorite kind of artist or, or kind of whoever. So from that point of view, I think a lot of that's going to stay in Ethereum, but there are going to be unique projects that spin up on other chains, and I actually hope that there are because I really am sick of seeing these clones because they are so clearly just cash grabs. They are not anything innovative. They're not anything kind of like creative. They're just there to extract money from people.
00:34:19.040 - 00:35:11.896, Speaker A: And I'm really just like, generally, that's one of the things I hate about this ecosystem is how much value extraction there is between kind of like newer investors who maybe don't understand what's going on and these kind of like grifters or I guess borderline scammers that are just cloning projects, riding the hype to riches and kind of like being rewarded for it. I mean, it's hilarious to me. I ranted about this in the refill yesterday about how many of these people get away with this, but the SEC prioritizes going after defi apps, like legitimate defi apps like Uniswap, instead of going after the actual scammers. It's just, it's bizarre, right? But yeah. So hopefully that answers your questions there. Max, thanks for those. We got one here from Ghostess Ave who says, hey, Anthony, what kind of advice would you give a newcomer to the space, especially one who isn't interested in game theory, mechanism design or crypto economics? Would you advise them to leave that to the devs and just use Ethereum and have fun like the rest of us? So, I mean, everyone's going to be different here.
00:35:11.896 - 00:35:43.176, Speaker A: It depends what you want to do. You can just have fun within ethereum and not have to dive deep into any of this sort of stuff. You can kind of like throw money into tokens if you want. You can buy nfts, you can go shitpost in discord, you can do whatever you want, right? But if you want to add value and you're not interested in kind of like game theory mechanisms, sign of crypto economics, you can still add value in your own way. You can. I mean, there's plenty of roles in teams who are doing like marketing, business development stuff that doesn't even touch any of the things that you kind of like aren't interested in here. Or you can just go into discords and add value here and they'll write blog posts or kind of write tweet threads.
00:35:43.176 - 00:36:12.376, Speaker A: I mean, there's so many different things you can do. You don't have to focus on any one area. You can just do what you want, really. But it depends, like do you want to turn it into a career? Do you want to get paid for it? Well, then you might have to kind of like produce formal kind of stuff where you submit it. If it's a dao, you submit it to the down and they pay you out for that. Or formally join a crypto based company and kind of um, do the work for them and stuff like that. But yeah, I mean, you can, if you, if you're happy with just sitting back and just enjoying and riding the kind of like crypto wave, then there's nothing wrong with that either.
00:36:12.376 - 00:36:52.522, Speaker A: Um, you can just have fun ap'ing into random nfts and tokens or whatever, and as long as you realize the risks with that. I don't, I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think that's a lifeblood of this ecosystem at the end of the day, because without the users, I mean, the developers aren't building for anyone, really. I mean, I know that's an obvious thing to say, but I think it's something that's definitely important to reiterate. I'm just going to take a quick break here. I'll be back in 2 seconds. All right, onto the next question from Wilhelm tell, who says, well, I would like to hear your thoughts about ETH as a unit of account and medium of exchange.
00:36:52.522 - 00:37:30.106, Speaker A: I feel like both you and I have underestimated the ability of ether to fulfill this role. I'm not saying that I expect ETH to replace the role of the dollar, but I feel like the NFT market has proved that ETH can possess these qualities to a greater extent than we initially thought possible. So. Hmm. It's funny, because I've been thinking a lot about this recently, and I think that the major reason why the NFT economy has persistently being priced in ETH is twofold. One, it's easier for people because they need ETH to pay for gas fees, so it's easier for them just to have one token where they can pay for the gas fees and buy the NFT. But two, the NFT market, 99% of it, is like pure speculation.
00:37:30.106 - 00:38:04.172, Speaker A: So if you're speculating, you don't really care if you're using ether or stable coin at the end of the day. Right? And the fact that like everything is just already priced in ETH, has a network effect to it. So you're just going to buy it with ETH. So if you can kind of like return, and because everything's priced in ETH, you're obviously measuring that return in ETH. So if you can make more ethnic, uh, uh, by speculating on these nfts, um, net of gas fees, of course, then you're doing well for yourself. Right. Um, but I don't think that ETH as a currency or as a UA unit of account or a medium exchange can work too well for non speculative things because it's too volatile, um, long term.
00:38:04.172 - 00:38:41.290, Speaker A: You know, we, we expect it to be very, very deflationary, uh, once the merge happens, and we expect the ETH price to go much higher than where it is today. So from that point of view, I just don't think it works, uh, for things that are non speculative in nature. For example, if you want to price like groceries in ETH, I mean, one week, your groceries can cost you double what it costs another week. If the ETH price was to kind of like, was to kind of like increase in the price of those assets, they're the same. You'd have to constantly be kind of like changing the prices of prices of groceries to kind of match the ETH price, and it wouldn't really work. Right. So I think from that perspective, you just kind of like have to split it out into speculative and not speculative use cases.
00:38:41.290 - 00:39:09.492, Speaker A: And I think that is a major reason why ETH has remained the unit of account and medium exchange of choice for nfts for now. But I think gas fees is another one. Now in saying that, could there be like an NFT marketplace on L2 that says, hey, we're going to do stable coins now. They're also going to do ETH, but we're going to do stable coins. And you can pay the fees of the network in stable coins as well. Would people just prefer to use that instead of ETH? Maybe they would. Maybe the network effect is really the only thing, kind of like holding people to this.
00:39:09.492 - 00:39:51.224, Speaker A: And if you start up a new network effect on a L2 from scratch, maybe you'll see that people's behavior changes from there. But, yeah, I'm not actually have a definitive answer to this. I don't know what's going to happen in the future, but I do feel pretty strongly that I don't think ETH can fulfill the role as a unit of account and medium of exchange for like most things over the long term. Just because of the fact that it's way too volatile, it's deflationary. I think that we're going to be able to create things backed by ETH that are stable. I mean, there's obviously stable coin projects like Rye or kind of like Fae and things like that that are trying to do this, but that's still a long ways out before they kind of like get adoption and things like that. But maybe I'm completely wrong here.
00:39:51.224 - 00:40:28.450, Speaker A: Maybe ETH does become the UA, the unit of accountability, of exchange of everything crypto into the future, and everyone's fine with the volatility. Maybe that happens. But I don't know. I don't think that can, I don't think that can work if people are kind of doing stuff that's non speculative, because when it's speculative, you kind of already kind of resign to the fact that, okay, well, you know, this ETH is going to go up or down in value, but if I trade for something else and then I outperform ETH with that, I'm able to stack more ETH. Well, then that's fine. You know, you buy an NFT for one ETH, you get two ETH back, but say the ETH price kind of like halved since then. Well, maybe you don't care as much because you were just trying to stack more Ethan in the, in the first place because you're long term bullish on ETH going up.
00:40:28.450 - 00:41:08.814, Speaker A: But when you change that to say, well, you know, you put $1,000 into, into an NFT and you're measuring it against kind of like ETH, but then ETH doubles, well, you can only buy half of the ETH that you were able to kind of like buy before. If the NFT does, price doesn't go up to match ETH or if it goes up slower. So it's, you know, it gets a little bit funny when you start pricing things in all different types of assets. So I think that's another reason why. So we're gonna have to see how that evolves over time. I hope I'm, I'm wrong, because I would love to see ETH actually be used as a, as a unit of account and medium of exchange for everything within the ecosystem and for people to kind of get used to just pricing things in ETH. But I really don't believe that's going to be true for non speculative things just for the reasons I've outlined.
00:41:08.814 - 00:42:03.280, Speaker A: All right, a question here from Dom, who says, as the L2 ecosystem matures, do you predict people, projects, tokens, dapps and apps will gravitate towards a specific L2 and ditch the others? Or will things like arbitrary and optimism coexist peacefully? So I think they're all going to coexist peacefully. As I said, this goes back to the power law that I was talking about before. I think that the L2s can exist in a power distribution as well, where there'll be like a handful of winners, and then there'll be like a long tail of kind of like L2 platforms that don't have much activity on them, but it's still kind of considered winners, right? They've, they're still kind of got some activity on them. But it's funny because, like, then you can talk about the underlying technology of these sorts of things. Some people are kind of say that optimistic roll ups are old technology already and that long term ZK roll ups are going to eat everything. And I actually do agree that long term ZK roll ups are going to eat the world. And I'm talking like, in three, four, five years sort of thing.
00:42:03.280 - 00:42:37.542, Speaker A: I don't think the technology is ready yet for ZK roll ups to do everything we want them to do. In theory, they're an amazing technology. Just zero knowledge in general, like stocks and snarks are absolutely amazing technology. But the provide the infrastructure and the kind of like, computation, computational speed you need to kind of process these sorts of things just isn't there yet. But they probably will be there in the next kind of like three or so years. So the way I view these sorts of things is that if optimistic roll ups are indeed not the long term best solution, they are still a solution that's ready now. And they're one that people can kind of like, use now.
00:42:37.542 - 00:43:02.844, Speaker A: And we can keep people on these L2s within the ethereum ecosystem. Instead of bleeding users to other chains, we can give them low fee experiences. And then if ZK roll ups do end up fulfilling the promise and kind of like eating the world, then we can just kind of change these optimistic roll up platforms to a ZK roll up, for example. There's no reason why that cannot happen. I'm simplifying it. Of course it's not going to be a super easy process or anything like that, but there's no reason why they can't be changed. Technology evolves over time.
00:43:02.844 - 00:43:36.196, Speaker A: If you just stay in place and don't do anything, you end up like bitcoin and you just stagnate, and then you end up getting flipped by ETH. Right. But essentially, I'm just really bullish on kind of like the L2s that are generalized. Of course. I think the Dapp specific ones are cool, and I think they're actually going to work, but I don't think that it's going to work for most projects. I don't think there's a lot of projects that require that composability, right. You know, yearn, for example, probably couldn't exist on its own app specific layer too, because it needs access to the rest of the ecosystem.
00:43:36.196 - 00:44:14.804, Speaker A: It needs access to curve. You know, curve needs access. Sorry. Curve only really works if it's got like a bustling ecosystem built up around it, because people are going to have to trade stable coins in and out between different exchanges. So it needs, you know, people to have like stable coins maybe on Uniswap and on sushi or whatever. So there are a lot of apps that require this composability and to be close to other apps, but then there are ones like Dy DX, for example, who are on their own L2 that's built by starkware that will be able to communicate to other L2s. Don't get me wrong, it's not like they're siloed and they can't talk to them at all, but they don't require the composability with other apps, because they're just like a perpetual exchange that it's pretty much all synthetic.
00:44:14.804 - 00:44:53.852, Speaker A: You deposit USDC, you trade different assets and whatever, and you can trade them from your own wallet, decentralized way, and secured by Ethereum, of course. And from that perspective, you don't have to talk to any of these kind of like other apps and stuff like that. So there are definitely going to be a world where our specific L2s exist and grow and thrive. I mean, DyDX, I think right now is the biggest L2 app, like, and it's just a single app. But these generalized platforms are going to be the ones that I'm kind of like, most excited and most bullish on long term as a whole, and the ones that I think are going to get the most activity on over the long term. Now there's four, I think, main ones. No, sorry, I guess you could call it five.
00:44:53.852 - 00:45:14.538, Speaker A: I forgot about Starkware Stockinette there for a sec. There's optimism with their optimistic ethereum. There's arbitram with arbitrum one and other arbitram instances. Of course. There is Zksync 2.0, they're calling it. There is Starknet, which is essentially bringing all of starkware technology together for these generalized platforms.
00:45:14.538 - 00:45:41.934, Speaker A: And then there's polygons plans as well with Hermes and kind of, like, other ZK roll up stuff that they want to do. So there's definitely going to be, I think, like, these five as, like, the center. The center point, but there are going to be other ones coming, too. And who knows? Maybe there's other ones just blow everyone else out of the way, out of the water and kind of, like, take over from there. But I think those are, like, the five front runners right now. And it's kind of an open question of which one will dominate the most. Obviously, Polygon has had a lot of success with their pos chain, but that's not, like, a true layer, too.
00:45:41.934 - 00:45:59.890, Speaker A: But it's going to be interesting to see what they do with Hermes and, like, these $1 billion they've put towards CK roll ups. But StarQuest had a lot of success with their app specific deployments so far. I mean, it's not just Dydx. It's immutable. It's. It's diversify. It's a few others, and then optimism and arbitra way early.
00:45:59.890 - 00:46:11.358, Speaker A: I mean, arbitrary has only been live for a few days. Optimism is slowly onboarding more and more apps, but they're. They're got. They've got TVL in there, they've got volumes. They've got users. Um, and they're kind of, like, fulfilling their promise of. Of lowering the fees.
00:46:11.358 - 00:46:26.554, Speaker A: So it's kind of. Yeah, it's totally up in the air about which one is going to be the long term winner of these L2s. But I think those five probably will be the winners for, like, a long time. They'll. They'll have, like, the lion's share of the. The kind of, like, market share there. So hopefully that answers your question there, Dom.
00:46:26.554 - 00:47:07.342, Speaker A: All right, so six questions here from Patrick. Um, so first one, let's imagine you provide unlimited spend USDC to a smart contract. Can the smart contract drain all of the USDC out of your wallet without the need for your confirmation? Yes, it can. This is why you should always review which contracts you have approved tokens to, especially the ones that you randomly ape into. Because if that contract has a function that allows it to be called by an admin to withdraw the funds out of it, the ones that you've approved, if you've done an unlimited approve, then, yes, you. They can kind of, like, withdraw your funds. And this has happened before in a few contracts out there, so definitely any contracts that you don't trust or are not part of reputable projects.
00:47:07.342 - 00:47:44.858, Speaker A: And you just used one time because you're aping into some random defi project. Go check them. Etherscan has a tool for this. There's a bunch of other tools out there which allow you to just revoke the permissions. And this is why a lot of apps actually offer you the opportunity to not do an unlimited approve and only approve the amount that you're using for a trade or for like a deposit or whatever to protect you from this. The downside being you have to kind of approve the token every single time that you go to do this, and that's an extra gas fee for you every single time you do something like that. But I think, you know, just approving things for something like Uniswap as an unlimited approve is fine because Uniswap is obviously trusted and decentralized and they're not trying to rug anyone.
00:47:44.858 - 00:48:28.096, Speaker A: But if you want to be extra careful, you can just do single approves for everything if you want at the end of the day. So yeah, definitely you want to be careful of this, especially with the untrusted or newer contracts out there. And it's not just if the, if the contract has this function that already built into it, it can be added if there's an admin, if they centralized, if it's an upgradeable contract, they can add in this function and then drain all of your funds. At least that's how I understand it. So definitely want to review that. Um, and I think your second question was a follow on from your first one where you kind of gave an example where you said, let's imagine you approve 100 USDC spend and you spend 98 USDC. What's the amount of USDC that the smart contract can spend? Um, to, uh, explanation, 100 -98 100 as often as it wants.
00:48:28.096 - 00:49:15.868, Speaker A: So basically unlimited or something else? It's a good question, actually. I don't know the definitive answer to this, but I would assume that it would only be able to spend the remaining two there if you've already spent 98. I don't think it kind of like resets every time sort of thing, but I would have to check that. Or if someone wants to kind of like give some clarity in the AMA series channel on that one, maybe someone, there's a smart contract developer listening in right now, but I would assume that it could only kind of like take the two and you would have to reapprove another 100, but I'm not totally sure on that. So your third question you often say all protocols will have a token. That leads me to question, how do you play the launch of arbitrary in order to position yourself for the case that they launch a token? I mean, just the same thing. You would play every app, you just use it, right? Or like every kind of, like every app or every layer to everything, just use it in any kind of like way, shape or form.
00:49:15.868 - 00:49:59.192, Speaker A: But also maybe get involved on the arbitrum discord, for example, maybe they're going to give out rewards to early supporters, people who provide, you know, not work, but people, people who kind of like put together different kind of things that provide value, like educational materials, you know, be an early supporter of arbitrary or early promoter of it. Make videos, write blog posts, whatever. Maybe they'll support people for that. But yeah, just generally, you want to use all of the apps, all of the different kind of apps, and you want to. You, and you want to use them maybe heavily because you don't know, because obviously the Uniswap Airdrop only, or the uni Airdrop, I should say only required you to interact with their smart contracts once. And you could even interact with it and have a failed transaction and still get uni. But since then, airdrops have changed.
00:49:59.192 - 00:50:25.112, Speaker A: As I mentioned before, DyDx requires you to use the platform knowing that you have tokens coming. That was kind of like gifted to you for retroactive kind of usage. So I would imagine maybe arbitrum does that or something like that, where it's like, yeah, you've used the platform, but you need to use it some more to unlock your tokens. But I've got no idea. I don't even know if Arbitran's gonna have a, have a token or not, or anything like that and have any special knowledge there. So. But like, yeah, I mean, my number one rule is that all these kind of things will have a token eventually.
00:50:25.112 - 00:50:59.034, Speaker A: So you definitely want to position yourself the best way you can in case they do a community distribution, which I think actually, if things don't do a community distribution these days, they will get a lot of flack for doing that. And it's a really, really bad marketing pr move. So they're all going to do it. If they do have a token, which I believe most of them will, and there's no deli grey token for people who are going to inevitably answer that. Again, there's not going to be a deli great token. I do say that everything's going to have a token eventually, but that's one thing that worry there are exceptions to the rules, guys. But, yeah, that's kind of like how you can position yourself best for something like an arbitrum token.
00:50:59.034 - 00:51:33.346, Speaker A: All right, so your fourth question. Let's imagine someone asks you, hey, Sassu, I would like to build up my brand. My goal is to get into a position like you, being a well known figure in the ethereum ecosystem, getting access to early stage investment deals and to people that would otherwise be super hard to connect with. What would you advise them to do? Build a time machine and go back to 2018 and do exactly what I did for years without any recognition? No, no, that's a joke. That's a joke. But there's a bit of truth to it. So it may seem like sometimes when you see people that have, like, a big following that it kind of happened overnight.
00:51:33.346 - 00:51:55.980, Speaker A: But from my point, my perspective, it definitely didn't. It was a long, a very long journey and a very hard journey through a very brutal bear market to get to where I am today. Today. So just to give a little bit of a story, I guess, of how I got to where I am today and the path that you can also follow. But I think it's a lot harder to do this these days. But what ended up happening was that I got into ethereum in early 2017. I bought my first ETH.
00:51:55.980 - 00:52:09.718, Speaker A: You know, I kind of learned all about it, rode the wave up. I was very quiet. I didn't even post much on Reddit. I hardly posted on Twitter. I probably had, like, hardly any followers on Twitter or whatever, like that. I was unknown within the ecosystem. I had no friends within ethereum, nothing.
00:52:09.718 - 00:52:31.702, Speaker A: I knew no one. No one knew me. I'd never been to a conference. Absolutely nothing. I was starting from legitimate zero. And then I rode the wave up, obviously, of the bull market. But then the bear market hit early 2018, and I was like, okay, what am I going to do? Am I going to stick around? Because I actually had been into bitcoin in 2013, rode that wave up and decided, oh, well, you know, it's come after Mount Gox happened, it crashed.
00:52:31.702 - 00:52:49.214, Speaker A: And I was like, oh, well, bitcoin's dead. I'm going to leave this ecosystem. Who cares about crypto anymore? Which is the dumbest mistake of my life. But I did that and didn't discover Ethereum till early 2017. So this time around, in 2018, I was like, okay, well, last time I left, the ecosystem was really bad. Let's stick around this time and do stuff. So I stuck around.
00:52:49.214 - 00:53:30.758, Speaker A: I held onto my ETH and everything like that, and I started a newsletter called the Block by Block newsletter, and I created a website called Blockbyblock IO, which is still live that has a bunch of collect resources about kind of different research and, and development resources for crypto, generally mostly focused on Ethereum. And some of the stuff there, or most of the stuff is probably outdated at this point because I haven't updated it in a long time. But that's there. And I built that website on my own. It's not anything flashy, but I kind of built that out and then had my newsletter going and I started using Twitter a bit more from here. I started posting stuff that I thought maybe could get me some attention about Ethereum and posting interesting things about Ethereum to get people's attention. And it worked.
00:53:30.758 - 00:54:16.818, Speaker A: I got a couple of people's attention from there. So I got, there's, I remember two people specifically who had already had big followings within the ecosystem that paid attention to me and were pretty pivotal, I guess, in not, I wouldn't say that they were critical and they were the only reasons why I was able to grow, but like, they were definitely the first ones to notice me and kind of like inform how I would go about continuing on with this ecosystem. So they were Linda Shea from Scala Capital, she's been around for a very long time, you probably know who she is. And Ari Paul, he runs Block Tower Capital, I believe. And the way they noticed me is through my newsletter. Linda was a very, very early subscriber to my newsletter, one of the, I think, 1st 100. And the newsletter at the time only had a couple hundred subscribers for a long time.
00:54:16.818 - 00:54:40.804, Speaker A: And she gave shout outs to my newsletter. She really kind of like helped me along there and so did Ari. And I think they retweeted a few of my Twitter, my educational Twitter threads and stuff like that. And I started getting more followers because of that. So I kept doing that through 2018. I kept building my connections up, I kept meeting new people, I kept talking to people within the Ethereum ecosystem, and I tried really, really hard to make my presence known. And it was a lot easier because there wasn't much people around in 2018.
00:54:40.804 - 00:55:14.776, Speaker A: If you do that these days, it's harder. You have to try. You have to try harder because there's a lot of noise and you have, and there's kind of a lot of relationships already built out. So to kind of like, I guess push yourself into being like, I guess my position, it just takes, I mean, it's a lot harder to do, but it's also going to take a long time to do so as well. So, yeah, I mean, through 2018, that's what I did. And then as I got to know more people within the ecosystem, I got to talking with someone called Eric Conner, who's my co founder of Ethub, who a lot of you probably know. And we started ETH Hub in technically late 2018, where we started building it out.
00:55:14.776 - 00:55:38.488, Speaker A: We started the podcast, and I changed the Block by Block newsletter to the Ethub weekly newsletter, which I still publish every week to this day. And from there, it really snowballed because there was no Ethereum media back then. There was no bank list. There was no defiant, there was nothing. Ethub was it. I think there were like a couple of other crypto, kind of like media outlets, like epicenter and stuff like that. But it wasn't Ethereum focused, whereas we were Ethereum focused.
00:55:38.488 - 00:55:51.744, Speaker A: And from there, we kept building up our names over time. We were very active on Twitter. We kept doing educational stuff. We got very involved with the ecosystem. We went to conferences. We started working in crypto. Eric got a job at Gnosis.
00:55:51.744 - 00:56:33.722, Speaker A: I got a job at set in mid 2019. And we just kept building ourselves up from there. And I'm just kind of like, speed running through all of this now. But come 2020, when the bull market kind of like, really returned, when ETH went back to all time high and everything like that, when a flood of new people came into the ecosystem, our years of work from, like, our two, kind of like, two years of hard work during the bear market to, I guess, grow our brand, grow our connections, become the most well known people within the Ethereum ecosystem. And the reason why I'm referencing us as we is because Eric and I basically grew together. And not just us, a lot of other Ethereum people that you may know of, like David Hoffman, Ryan, Sean Adams, DC invest, all these people that, you know, we all grew together, and we all leveraged each other for that growth as well. We all helped each other out.
00:56:33.722 - 00:57:18.908, Speaker A: We retweeted each other. We kind of, like, made sure that people saw the content that each of us were putting out, and we really supported each other through the bear. So that in the bull market, we got the spoils essentially right. So at the end of, kind of like end of 2020, so really it was, I guess, like pretty much three years that we had been doing it. By the end of 2020, we were perfectly positioned to ride the bull market up and bride all that new attention up and get kind of like all these new kind of people listening, sorry, following us and listening to us and having act, and then we know we get access to all these kind of early in stage investment deals because they're very well known. We're basically what people like to call thought leaders and all that good stuff there. And it's funny because, like, in mid 2020, I started the deliberate newsletter, and then late 2020, I started the YouTube channel.
00:57:18.908 - 00:57:39.164, Speaker A: And that was me basically wanting to do more for the ecosystem because I was like, okay, well, you know, I'm doing ethubble. That's well and good. But now there's other media outlets out there. So Ethub, um, it, you know, used to be more critical than it is today because we, Eric and I started Ethub because there was nothing we were. And because the, even the ethereum.org website was, like, pretty bad. It's, it's really good now, but it was really bad back then.
00:57:39.164 - 00:58:07.578, Speaker A: And we filled that hole for a while, but then all these other kind of outlets came in, and Ethub was just a passion project for Eric and I. It was not a full time thing. So we were still doing it. We're still doing the podcast. We still do the newsletter. But then for me, I was just kind of like, well, I want to do a bit more stuff here, but I want to do it kind of like, under my own brand, which is the Daily Gwei. And that's why I started doing the newsletter as well, to kind of, like, keep people educated on Ethereum and then doing the YouTube channel to keep updated, but also to keep my, like, keep myself relevant within the ecosystem.
00:58:07.578 - 00:58:47.816, Speaker A: Because my number one greatest fear is that all the work that I've put in over the years would be for nothing. Because I just become irrelevant over time, which I would if I stopped doing stuff right, if I just kind of, like, went off Twitter, if I stopped doing these AMA, stopped doing the daily way stuff in general, I would be forgotten about eventually if it took long enough. And I don't want that to happen because I worked so hard to get here. So from that point of view, that's why I do what, that's a major reason why I do all I do, because I really want to kind of, like, keep that position that I've worked myself up to because that was a goal. Like I, my goal in 2018, early 2018, was that I want to work my ass off. I want to get to a position where I'm one of the most well known people in the ethereum community, and I want to stay there. So that's kind of like where I am.
00:58:47.816 - 00:59:11.886, Speaker A: Today. Um, so I hope that kind of, like, answers that question for you, Patrick, that that's the journey I took to get there. And there is no shortcut here. There is really no quick way to do this. You need to put in the hard yards, you need to kind of put in months, years of work to get to this position. And as I said, it's harder now because there's a lot more people in the ecosystem now fighting to do this. Like, back then it was just a few of us, now it's a lot more.
00:59:11.886 - 00:59:36.366, Speaker A: It's like probably hundreds, if not thousands of people trying to do this. Probably more than that. Whereas back then, I would say there was probably less than 100 people trying to do what, what myself, Eric, and a bunch of the other people that I mentioned were doing in terms of, like, the ethereum ecosystem. So it's not to say that it's impossible, but just be prepared. If you want to get to this position, you need to put in the work for it. And nothing comes easy. There's no such thing as an overnight success.
00:59:36.366 - 01:00:18.324, Speaker A: It definitely, you know, and it's funny because sometimes people point to Internet celebrities and say, oh, well, you know, this celebrity got, got kind of like famous overnight because their meme went viral or something. I think that's true to an extent. And those are exceptions to the rule. I mean, there's always exceptions to the rule, but the rule really is that you can work your ass off for ten years and get nowhere, and then one day, you know, you can just, something can just happen and you can take off as well. Right? You can just go viral or something and you can get like in a, in a good position or kind of like level up sort of thing. But for me, I don't think personally that happened for me. I think what ended up happening was just that I put myself in the position to kind of like, be, I guess, like one of the most well known people in the Ethereum community.
01:00:18.324 - 01:00:50.768, Speaker A: And I kept producing work throughout. Like, I mean, I haven't stopped. I never met, I never missed the newsletter day, I'd never, I never missed a refuel. Um, and, you know, by doing that, I've been able to kind of like, get to where I am and stay where I am, but it definitely becomes harder to fight through the noise. There's a lot more kind of like people around, there's a lot more people doing a lot, a lot of different things, which is good. But yeah, to get to my kind of, like, position, it's going to take, like, hard work at the end of the day. And, yeah, it, you know, it's funny, it feels a lot longer than it does because this was done during the brutal bear market as well, where the Ethereum community was so small.
01:00:50.768 - 01:01:27.414, Speaker A: I don't think people that probably joined in 2020, even 2021, realized just how small the Ethereum community was in 2018 and 2019. There was only a bunch of kind of like, I guess like hardcore builders, maybe. I wouldn't even say there was a thousand, not even close to a thousand, like kind of like hardcore builders or anything like that. But the builders that were around were building these revolutionary products and really believed in the mission. And then in terms of community members, there wasn't that many at all, maybe a few thousand in terms of active community members. And then from there, you know, it obviously has exploded now. Like, absolutely exploded beyond my, even my wildest dreams from back then.
01:01:27.414 - 01:01:53.610, Speaker A: And kind of like, I've just written that wave up, it seems. And I didn't even expect it to get this big. But, you know, I would say that I'm pretty proud of what I've been able to do here. But at the end of the day, it takes hard work, it takes a long time. And sometimes you got to be a bit lucky as well. Like, luck being that someone finds you. Just like Linda and Ari kind of found me in early 2018 and started me on my journey by kind of like, shouting me out and retweeting things and getting me some initial followers.
01:01:53.610 - 01:02:19.242, Speaker A: You kind of, like, sometimes need that. And I'm always happy to help people. If you have, like, something that you do, I'm always happy to retweet it and things like that and shout out good work that people do, I definitely want to give back after everything that I've kind of, like, been through. But generally, yeah, just from that kind of, like, perspective, I think everything that I've just said, that's kind of like what you have to do. Unfortunately. I mean, unfortunately, unfortunately, there's just, there's just no quick path here. So hopefully that answers that.
01:02:19.242 - 01:02:50.580, Speaker A: I'm rambling a little bit now. So you have another question here. So you are, were a gamer. What do you think about the play to earn model? Do you think that games like Axie Infinity can survive a bear market? How would you go about investing in the play to earn niche if you want to optimize for invest into things that will most likely survive a bear market? I don't know, because play to earn has never gone through a bear market. I would think that a lot of it is pretty much speculative. So I would assume that it would kind of like, collapse during a bear market because a lot of the speculative activity goes away. I do find that very interesting.
01:02:50.580 - 01:03:57.602, Speaker A: The actual model itself, I do think that it can work if done correctly because you're kind of, like, riding this fine line of speculation and gameplay. Like, are people only playing the game because they're getting paid to do it? Well, I mean, that's true, right? For a lot of people, they're just playing it because they're paid to do it technically. They're being paid by the rewards that they earn or are they playing it because they enjoy it? So you have to kind of strike this balance of an enjoyable game that people can play to earn money, and it's kind of like a balanced thing. But in saying that, can it be ever be balanced? Like, is there always going to be the kind of, like, one side biased to another? Like, is the fact that people can make money from it just going to end up in everyone using bots and kind of, like, optimizing the best strategy that they have to maximize the amount of profits that they make? Maybe. I mean, who knows? Like, I don't know what the long term kind of, like, model looks like for play to earn. I don't know if it's going to be a massive success or a massive failure over the long term. I do think that it's just interesting, and I do think that during bear markets, it'll be hit just like pretty much everything else, because at the moment, at least, it's, it's mostly speculative.
01:03:57.602 - 01:04:53.588, Speaker A: And obviously during bear market speculate, speculative stuff tends to collapse. All right, so your last question, who would you ask, listen to if you would like to learn more about how to invest into the play to earn model for the long term? Um, I mean, I, I'm not that close to kind of like this ecosystem, but I would say that you'd probably want to look at who's most active within the axie infinity space and talk to them, if you can, because they would probably have a lot more context around this sort of stuff than I do. Maybe you wouldn't be able to kind of get in contact with the, the founders of Axie Infinity or like, the core team members or whatever maybe you will, about this sort of stuff. Maybe they're, maybe they won't even tell you. But if you kind of, like, I guess, um, kind of like want to learn or kind of want to ask those questions, I would say, yeah, maybe just jump into the axie infinity discord discord or some of the other ones out there kind of ask the open question there, but yeah, so hopefully that those answers your, your questions. Patrick, there's six there, so thanks for those. I'm gonna take a quick break here.
01:04:53.588 - 01:05:26.778, Speaker A: Just give me 2 seconds, guys. All right, onto the next question from Con 322, who says, do you know of any DAO or platform for launching an NFT collection which allows for random selection? So rather than a user viewing a collection and buying their favorites, it's a lucky dip type system. So the NFTs will be minted randomly and then can be traded on places like opensea as normal. I'd like an example. I'd link to an example, but I don't want to be a shill. That's okay. You could link to an example, that's, that's fine.
01:05:26.778 - 01:06:05.322, Speaker A: But I mean, I don't know specifically. I haven't really followed this too closely, but this is definitely possible. I think when you're, when you're talking about randomness, you have to have a source of randomness that can't be biased, right? You have to have something that people can't just like run a bot and be able to kind of decode this and essentially kill the randomization. I know that Chainlink has VRF, which is verifiable, or, sorry, or VDF maybe verifiable delay functions. I think they call it VRF or something that does randomization. I can't remember the exact name here, so maybe they have been teamed up with a platform that allows for this to happen, but I'm not sure of which. Maybe you can ask in the NFTs channel in the discord and someone will know the answer to that.
01:06:05.322 - 01:06:49.566, Speaker A: But sorry, I'm not sure of any specific platforms because I just haven't looked into it or done it myself yet. All right, a question here from yawn the fawn who says, is it possible to see in the open UI or some other UI, someone else's NFT collection by simply entering their wallet address? Yes, it is. You can just type OpenSeA IO forward slash, the Ethereum address, and it should show you their collection. I've done it many times and it's worked. Some of the accounts have usernames attached to them as well. So if you kind of like search by username or kind of like enter the username in the URL, you'll be able to kind of go and see their collection there as well. All right, next question from Yoann the Fawn who says it's clear to me, that ETH price is going to, in the next few years, rise to a level such that 99% of people will not be able to afford purchasing even one ETH.
01:06:49.566 - 01:07:34.240, Speaker A: What are the implications of this when it comes to the pricing of goods in this ecosystem? In order for everyone to participate, prices dominated in ETH will have to look something like point and 60 is one ETH, which is difficult for a person to reason about. Do you think we'll eventually redenominate ETH in a new unit that makes it easier to transact with? So I don't know if we're ever actually going to redenominate ETH at the base layer where we do like a, I guess for lack of a better word, like a stock split or, I mean a token split or something where essentially kind of like a change goes into the protocol which says, okay, well, if you own one ETH now, you own like 10,000 ETH, but it's the same value, right? You don't actually own more tokens. We've just inflated the token supply. And it's, I guess, like a reverse stock split, I should say. Sorry. Where essentially. Oh, no, sorry.
01:07:34.240 - 01:08:01.558, Speaker A: No, no. It's a stock split, not a reverse stock split. What am I thinking? Where essentially you would have, like, one ETH, you know, it's worth $4,000, and then 10,000 ETH would be worth $0.40 or something like that, if I'm doing my math correctly there. And then, you know, obviously, it'd be easier to kind of, like, reason about that and easier to kind of denominate in that. But I don't think that's something that's going to happen on the protocol level at all, to be honest. It's much harder to get changes into the protocol, and something like this would be a very, very hot topic.
01:08:01.558 - 01:08:47.070, Speaker A: It would probably not be something that everyone agreed upon on what to do. I just don't think it's going to happen. But in saying that, I think that the different kind of like wallet user interfaces or different interfaces in general can probably agree on a standard for redenomination here, right? Where essentially the different interfaces can say, okay, well, we're going to display ETH in kind of like its lowest unit, or like guy or something like that, or we're going to display ETH as if it was like, as if it did a 10,000 stock split. Sorry, 10,000 x kind of like stock split there and stuff like that. But that's, again, a coordination problem that might, may or may not happen. So I don't know if this is like a long term issue for the ecosystem. I think that being able to kind of divide ETH into kind of 18 decimal places right now is really, obviously really positive.
01:08:47.070 - 01:09:22.172, Speaker A: But generally, I would like to see maybe the uis kind of like, have an issue, have a kind of fix for this, but it requires coordination between them. And I haven't really seen that happen yet. Maybe it will in the future. So, yeah, hopefully that answers that question. Your next one. In regards to spotting NFT trends early, you mentioned on bankless, one trick is to pay attention to gas spikes, which are indicative of an early aping session into an NFT drop. My question is, what gray alert level would you recommend setting for average such that if the gray price rises above that, you check on ultrasound money to see what was causing it? Um, so it depends because the average grape price has been, what, 100 lately.
01:09:22.172 - 01:10:06.050, Speaker A: When they're like, in terms of like, just average over the week, that could go to 200. Who knows? But usually what I look at is if the gas is going is over 200, and it usually happens instantly, then I know that an NFT drop is going on, because it's not. That's not the average, right? Even if it spikes to, like 150, I still kind of get a little bit sus about it where I'm just like, okay, well, is there an NFT drop going on? So I would definitely set an alert for anything over 200, but then I'd adjust that alert if. If the gas price ends up going to 200 gwei as like, an average, which obviously, a lot of us don't want to happen, because that would mean the gas prices are very, very expensive, even more expensive than they are now. But it could happen, right? Um, so I would say 200 way. And then you, you know, you. You just kind of, like, adjust it from there based on, on the average.
01:10:06.050 - 01:10:38.026, Speaker A: And there's, there's, um, there's a bunch of tools and dashboards that will show you the average and stuff like that. But generally what I do is I just have my gas price extensions, like the block native one. And if I see that go to 200, like, it's not like I'm looking at it. It's not like I have alerts set up for it. But if I see it go to 200, or maybe I see someone on Twitter commenting about the gas prices, I'll know that there's an NFT drop going on. So I'll go to ultrasound money, I'll go to the 1 hour gas burner kind of table and I'll see the contract that's burning it. I'll put that, I'll kind of go to that on Etherscan.
01:10:38.026 - 01:11:06.340, Speaker A: I'll put the, the name of that contract into Twitter, see who's tweeting about it, see the official account on there and sometimes into Google as well. And then go check out the NFT. This process can be done in less than a minute, by the way. And, you know, then I may or may not ape, but generally, I mean, it's kind of like super risky, super speculative. There's a lot of other ways to kind of like get in early on NFT trends. You can just, you know, follow projects and kind of like follow them early on before they actually have their means. You know, when it's gonna go live.
01:11:06.340 - 01:11:35.642, Speaker A: That's probably the better way to do it. But again, it's harder to do that. There are some services that do these for you. I think there's like an NFT drops website that reminds me of ICo drops. But yeah, that's kind of like my strategy there. Alright, your last third question, I should say occasionally you and bankless both reference the AIP 1559 wallet provider adoption chart, which I think is now at around. I'm confused because my understanding was that any transaction going through the network necessarily goes through the new AIP 15 nine system ia old transactions are backwards compatible.
01:11:35.642 - 01:12:25.528, Speaker A: Given that this is, this is the case, what does it mean when we say 50% of wallet providers haven't adopted 1559? So there are two transaction types on Ethereum now. There are the legacy transactions or type zero, and then there are 1559 transactions which are type two. So you're correct in saying that all transactions are now going through the AIP 1559 system like, not the system like the mechanism, I should say, that was put in place. But the major difference between our, at least I think, I think the only difference between the legacy transactions and the 1559 transactions is that you don't get a refund if you overspend. If you do a legacy transaction, because, you know, with 1559 style transactions, you can set the max fee in type zero transactions or legacy ones. You don't do that. And then if you just like overpay because you, you know, you've paid more than you needed to, you don't actually get a refund on that.
01:12:25.528 - 01:12:44.224, Speaker A: And that's just gone. Like, it's just become a fee that you paid. Whereas with 1559 style transactions, you do get that refund. And that's what we're referring to, on the adoption side, the types of transactions. So type zero going down, type two going up is what we want to see. But type zero transactions still have to follow the same mechanisms put in place. They just don't get the refund.
01:12:44.224 - 01:13:18.466, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers your question there. All right, so your fourth question. Could you please explain to me what it means for a set of colluding nodes on a proof of work blockchain to attack the network? My understanding of private, public created cryptography is that there is no way you could forge a transaction unless you had a user's private key. So if we talk about network attacks and we're not talking about competing blocks with forged transactions, then we're just talking about competing blocks with different transaction orderings. So there's a bunch of different things you can do. If you were able to get 51% of the network, right? You can, essentially. So this is, this is funny, because if you.
01:13:18.466 - 01:14:08.636, Speaker A: How do I put this? Blockchains are funny because if you were to be able to get 50% of the network hash rate and you were kind of like this, this entity that was. That was in control of that you essentially, or technically, or I guess, like objectively, from the view of the chain, are the longest chain. So you are bitcoin, for example, right? And if you keep continuing on like that and no one else kind of like, forks off of the chain and forks you out of it, well, then you're. You're kind of like, still bitcoin. And now the reason why, under bitcoin, the reason why you can't actually fork out an attacker is because, well, you technically can, but it's. It's a lot harder to. Is because what ends up happening is that, say you have one attacker that has 51% or not an attacker, just say you have one entity that has 51% of the hash power, and they're kind of like just going along on the network, and everyone comes together and says, well, this is a risk.
01:14:08.636 - 01:14:41.132, Speaker A: We should get rid of this guy. We should fork bitcoin and just get rid of this guy's hashing hash rate and continue on as normal. Well, how do you do that? Right? You can't do that because to do that, you have to change the hashing algorithm of bitcoin. But if you did that, you brick all of the other miners as well, because the other miners are. The other ASIC miners on bitcoin are set only to mine that, that hashing algorithm. And this is what Vitalik likes to call a spawn camp attack. Because if you fork off, then you're not really forking off because then the attacker will just kind of go off the other chain and go to this new chain and just do the same thing on this new chain and then, you know, add infinium.
01:14:41.132 - 01:15:09.548, Speaker A: Right. Keep doing it. So that, that's kind of like why you can't get rid of this attacker. So given that context, if someone wants to get 51%, what can they do? Well, they can basically override old blocks if they wanted to. They could go back and kind of like redo the, the kind of like proof of work there and kind of like override what happens in those blocks. From my understanding, they can, as you said, like, do different kind of like transaction orderings. They can censor people and things like that.
01:15:09.548 - 01:15:34.824, Speaker A: I mean, they could already, technically, mining pools can already censor people because they can drop transactions and stuff like that. That's why it's only called censorship resistant. It's not called, um. It's not, it's not said that censorship proof. Um, so, yeah, from that perspective, there's, there's a lot you can do. And, and the spawn camp thing is actually the most scary thing, because if you can't fork the attacker off the network, you can't get rid of them without hurting the good guys as well. And that's like one of the, I guess, like major drawbacks here.
01:15:34.824 - 01:16:19.040, Speaker A: But what attacker can do is they can basically double spend as well. So they can essentially spend bitcoin that, um, or at least I'm pretty sure this, they can do this. They can double spend. They can basically spend BTC that only exists once, twice, which is really, really bad. Obviously. They can essentially make it so that they reverse transactions or kind of like real, the blockchain, obviously, and kind of like that reverses the transactions. There's, yeah, it gets very ugly because if I was to give specific examples, imagine this is what, by the way, this is why exchanges have, I think for bitcoin, they have two, two block confirmations, or probably more than that, where two blocks have to be mined before they'll accept your deposit as settled on and is kind of like deposited into the exchange.
01:16:19.040 - 01:17:18.752, Speaker A: Because imagine this. Imagine an attacker sits in wait. They don't kind of like do anything, but they're basically building on kind of like a chain in the background or a new chain in the background, and they come along and say, okay, well, I'm going to put this chain on top of bitcoin and I'm going to be the real bitcoin now. And their chain doesn't have all the transactions of the canonical chain, which means that from wherever they started mining from, they technically would reverse all the transactions that happened or replace them with their blocks, right? Basically, if they mined a thousand blocks and then they come onto the network with those thousand blocks that they mined using their kind of like cash power there, then they can replace the blocks that were part of the canonical chain and replace all those transactions and screw everyone. Because that would mean that 1000 blocks worth of transactions were essentially deleted or removed from existence as from the point of view of the blockchain, which means that all the exchange deposits were kind of deleted. In a theorem, it becomes much worse. All the Dex trades were kind of like reversed or deleted from the system.
01:17:18.752 - 01:18:13.288, Speaker A: All the defi activity, all the nfts, everything. So this is why it's really, really bad if someone was to get 51%, and this is actually why it's really, really bad if they were to do this. And they can spawn camp attack as well, where you can't, you can't fork off the attacker without forking off the, the honest people as well. This is why proof of stake is, is so neat, is because if you do want to do a social fork and fork out the attacker that was able to get say 51% of the stake or 33% of the stake, you can essentially delete their coins or slash them as, as we know it within Ethereum and then essentially just continue on so they don't have that power anymore where it's basically, essentially like burning all their miners or burning their ASIC miners or whatever and continuing on as normal. So that's a benefit of proof of stake. But there are other trade offs there. I'm not going to go through them all here now, but yeah, hopefully that gives a bit of context around that and what people can do if they 51% attack and stuff like that.
01:18:13.288 - 01:18:45.286, Speaker A: I don't believe that they can actually steal people's bitcoin from their wallet, but they can do much worse than that. I would argue like if you had moved your kind of like coins to an exchange and then you kind of like, I guess sold them, and then the blockchain kind of like gets, gets kind of like overridden, so to speak, then technically the exchange kind of like doesn't have that bitcoin anymore and they basically gave you free money, so to speak. So hopefully that answers that. There's a lot more to it than that, I believe. But that's just like mine kind of like on the spot reply to that one. All right, your last question here. Yawn.
01:18:45.286 - 01:19:40.226, Speaker A: The faun, you say, regarding proof of work versus proof of stake, it's clear to me that in proof of work, using the costs of processing power combined with the assumption of an honest majority, leads to consensus by following the longest chain. But in proof of stake, it seems like a different sequence of events. We now randomly select one validator, bundle the next block given, giving them guard mode to bundle the transactions however they see fit, and then every node on the network accepts that as canon and this new design, I'm not understanding how a conflicting block scenario could emerge, could even emerge, given the rules. And what's an example of something malicious this validator could do such that we have a slashing disincentive. This is a big question. I'm not sure I'd be probably the best person to answer exactly how this kind of works from a technical level, but essentially slashing is the disincentive here, right? I don't, on the technical level, I don't know exactly how this, how this, how this kind of, like, works. I would assume that the network would be able to see kind of like a conflicting, kind of conflicting kind of state here of the network conflicting kind of block.
01:19:40.226 - 01:20:17.332, Speaker A: And there are these things, these software programs that validators can run called slashes, and they can submit this, I believe it's a fraud proof to be able to kind of like, slash an entity that does something wrong. Um, but essentially what this validator can do that's malicious. Well, the thing they can do that's actually hard to detect, or harder to detect is they can censor people so they can drop transactions, or they can stop people transactions from going through for whatever reason. That's a, that's a massive thing they can do, and they only need 33% of the power to do this. They can halt the chain as well, I believe, and things like that as well. So, I mean, halting the chain is even harder. I mean, you can do in this, inactivity leaks and the slashing.
01:20:17.332 - 01:21:05.586, Speaker A: And it's. Yeah, I mean, and they can do the same things as what I described with proof of work in terms of 51% attack. They can kind of, I guess, like I mentioned, census transactions, they can kind of like replace blocks and stuff like that and kind of like make themselves kind of like the God of the chain and do whatever they want reorg stuff. But there's a massive disincentive to reorg, because proof of stake has what's called finality, which is the other part of this where essentially after two epics or twelve minutes, the chain becomes finalized. And what that means is that there is two thirds of the stake, saying this is the canonical chain. If someone tries to change this, we're going to burn two thirds of the ETH, or whatever it is, two thirds of the stake. So it's a massive disincentive and it's a massive incentive for the validators to actually behave appropriately.
01:21:05.586 - 01:21:47.796, Speaker A: But there's a bunch of different really great explanations about this on, on various mediums. I can't remember exactly where it is, but I think even if you just google it or maybe just ask me on the discord and I'll see if I can dig some stuff up for you, where it basically explains how this all works. And there's even an annotated ETH two spec that basically runs through the entire spec of ETH two, or at least the beacon chain, I should say, and kind of describes how it works from under the hood and like easy to read, kind of. Kind of like explain, not an explanation like I'm five, but like a high level overview. So yeah, hopefully that answers your questions for you there. All right, one here from Logmag who says, hi, anthony, quick question. Do you know why there is a fee difference between optimism and arbitrum? A swap on uni is $0.50
01:21:47.796 - 01:22:30.992, Speaker A: on optimism versus $5 on arbitrum. They use different architectures. So different architectures being that arbitrum uses their operating system, called arbos, I believe, and optimism uses optimistic. Ethereum is what they call it, even though they're using optimistic roll ups. They have different kind of approaches here. But also arbitrary is newer than optimism, which means that there's not as many users yet on there, which means there's not as many users sharing the load of the on chain, the layer one fees, which means that the individual fees are higher. But as we get more users on there, the benefit of L2s is that they actually get a benefit from economies of scale where say there's a thousand users and the fees to post something to the main chain is like $500.
01:22:30.992 - 01:23:30.372, Speaker A: Well, those thousand users are splitting that $500 between them, whereas if there was only 100 users, then those hundred users were splitting the $500 fee between them, and then it would be, obviously the individual fees would be higher. So definitely that's a major reason. But also the difference in architecture as well, which you can read a few different posts about this, I think, derebred, a few blog posts, and you can read the documentation for optimism and arbitrary into seeing how they work. But essentially it comes down to those two major things, I believe. One, three here from SP who says, which projects do you think have relatively good tokenomic mechanisms or design? Uniswap is criticized, but because it's too centralized so that power might be abused. However, fair launched projects might not be capable of holding enough funds along the way to drive growth sufficiently. Also, what aspects would you suggest projects should consider when conducting token design so the best tokenomic mechanisms or designs? I think this is like very subjective.
01:23:30.372 - 01:23:48.988, Speaker A: I don't actually think there's a best one. I think there's a lot of experiments being run right, right now and we're trying to find what works and what doesn't. I think that honestly ETH probably has the best tokenomics. If I'm like 1559 is amazing, ETH use as kind of a staking asset is amazing. ETH uses a trust. Collateral is amazing. So if I have to pick a best, it would be ETH.
01:23:48.988 - 01:24:10.894, Speaker A: But you probably didn't, didn't mean ETH. You probably meant like defi tokens and stuff like that. I don't think there's a best one yet. I actually am a very big fan of curves token economics. I think they've done quite a good job of balancing supply demand, but the market doesn't seem to be rewarding them for that right now. I mean the price is quite stagnant and things like that. But I still think their token mechanism or token design is pretty good.
01:24:10.894 - 01:24:46.532, Speaker A: But I would say that their token distribution probably could have been better. That's probably my only knock on them. But that's not unique to curb. I think most token distributions could have been better, um, than they have been. And I think that if I was to name one that's been the best, it probably is ETH again. Because if you think about ETH and how they, how that that was distributed, the beautiful thing is that there was obviously the 70% that was, I mean, bitcoin maximus like to call it supreme mind, but the 70% that was like issued at the start, most of that was sold in the ICO. And then there was um, maybe I shouldn't say 70%.
01:24:46.532 - 01:25:11.756, Speaker A: I think it was like 60 million tokens or something like that. Or 70 million tokens. I can't remember exactly of the total supply at the time. Most of it was sold in the ICO. Some of it was given to the foundation, some of it was given to kind of like the, I guess you can call them insiders or founders or team or whatever. And then most of it was given away in the ICO. But then you had like, a long proof of work phase where all the mining, all the kind of like, tokens were distributed via proof of work.
01:25:11.756 - 01:26:07.554, Speaker A: Or up until today, I mean, most of them are still being distributed by proof of work. And then you also have like, a various different market cycles since 2015 where ETH has changed hands a number of times and has kind of, like, distributed out quite well. So I would say the key to making a good token is to distribute it. And the thing, sorry, to distribute it fairly, but the thing is, I think the only way you can distribute a token fairly is by that token going through multiple market cycles and changing hands frequently. Because you can't just be like, okay, well, we're going to give kind of like 30% of these tokens to ourselves or like, to the team and the, and kind of like another 20% to the investors, and then we're going to leave 50% of the community, but really we're going to, like, do the 50% to the community as liquidity mining or put it in a treasury, and then the community can work out what to do from there. It's just, it's just weird, right? Like, it's just, it's a very bad token distribution. And I think that teams haven't really figured out the ideal distribution just yet.
01:26:07.554 - 01:26:42.790, Speaker A: But again, I would say that ETH probably has the best distribution out of any kind of coin or token on Ethereum. But in terms of defi, I don't know if I would say anyone's kind of like, worked it out or kind of had a long term sustainable model just yet. All right, your second question. What would be your comments on recent SEC. On the recent SEC announcement that they're investigating the uni. Uniswap Labs? And do you think Uniswap intends to be fully regulated? Um, I gave my comments on the refuel, I think, yesterday about this. What the SEC is doing right now is just an information gathering exercise, whether.
01:26:42.790 - 01:27:19.418, Speaker A: Which is, which is shitty, but, but it's not as bad as, like, the SEC actually coming to Uniswap labs and being kind of like, hey, you know, we're going to criminally chart charge you with kind of like, criminal offense. They're basically saying, we want to learn more about what you are, what your company does. Please provide us with documentation, which is shit, because they, I mean, Uniswap already has a lawyer, but they only have to kind of like, spend more money on legal fees and kind of go through this whole song and dance with the SEC and the SSE may not even bring criminal charges against them and probably won't, to be honest. So it's just like it's all, it's all kind of like a racket. It's, it's just, to be honest, like it's bullshit. I really don't like what they've done, what they're doing here, but I won't go into that. But Uniswap, the contracts are unaffected.
01:27:19.418 - 01:28:03.772, Speaker A: The smart contracts cannot be altered. They are decentralized. The Uniswap labs team has no control over it, but it's still kind of like a shitty precedent because it means that teams are just going to be even more scared now of regulators and more scared of doing something wrong that they may need to just go ain on, or they may need to just essentially kind of like not be in the US and be something kind of in another jurisdiction, maybe one that's not even allied with the US. Because if they're allied with the US, they could kind of like extradite them or kind of, you know, seek their own kind of like regulators on them. So from that point of view, yeah, it's kind of shitty. The next follow up question you had here was, will defy one day be fully, fully regulated? And is this unavoidable? I mean, no, I don't think so. I think that they're going to try to do it.
01:28:03.772 - 01:28:28.522, Speaker A: I think they're going to go after the weakest points like centralized, stable coins and on ramps and stuff like that. But I think that true Defi can't be regulated right. That's the whole point of what we're building. If it's truly decentralized, then these kind of like centralized bodies can't regulate it, they can't alter it, they can't change it. They would have to gain control of the entire Ethereum network to even have a chance of doing that. And to do that, it's just like a whole nother kind of thing. It's near impossible to gain control of the Ethereum network as it currently stands.
01:28:28.522 - 01:29:17.628, Speaker A: And in proof of stake, it's even, it's even more, it's even, sorry, it's even harder. So yeah, I do think it's going to be unavoidable that we're going to see tons of regulatory action taken. I do think that some, some of the centralized points are going to be choked like stable coins and the crypto on ramps, like centralized exchanges and stuff like that. But true defi can't be regulated, or at least shouldn't be able to be regulated. Your next question, what would be the pros and cons if defies gradually evolved in the regulatory complexities and gets regulated in the end? I think that there's going to be parts of, I guess what you can call DeFi that's not going to be decentralized, but there's going to be regulated. And we're already seeing this play out with Ave launching the RB pro market for institutions. Maker is onboarding collateral that requires KYC to kind of use within their system, you know, different collateral types.
01:29:17.628 - 01:29:41.504, Speaker A: And there's also, I think, a few other things like compounds, treasury product as well, just for institutions. So there's definitely going to be products that sit there, but they're not. I mean, DeFi is like a catch all term, but they're not actually decentralized finance. Right. They're just like on chain finance for lack of a better term there. So from that point of view, I do think that there's going to be a lot of regular regulated on chain stuff, but it's not going to impact true DeFi. I don't think so.
01:29:41.504 - 01:30:36.952, Speaker A: Anyway, your last question, any suggestions on how to maximize crypto income for Australia based residents considering tax treatment for crypto assets rules by the ATO? Wondering what would be optimized, what would be the optimized arrangement to minimize tax, if this is even possible? Consult your tax professional for this. I'm not going to give tax advice, sorry. I have my own professional that I talk to. We sometimes talk about it in the Discord channel about like the general laws and stuff like that. There's a lot of information available in the ATO website, but your own personal, you know, your own personal position may differ, or probably does differ heavily from mine. I have very weird position that I find myself in, but essentially, yeah, just talk to your own kind of accountant or the ATO themselves and get advice for your own situation at the end of the day, because you can get advice online from people. But as I said, your situation is unique to you and you may miss things when you may kind of misinterpret things, which could lead to kind of like maybe an audit later on.
01:30:36.952 - 01:31:11.644, Speaker A: And that's definitely what you don't want. All right, a question here from Yeti, who says, interested to hear general reflections on arbitrams one's first few days? I think it's really cool to see how quickly they've been able to get tvl with minimal liquidity mining. I mean, as far as I know, sushiswap is the only major platform that's live that has liquidity mining with some sushi rewards on there. And I don't think it's very heavy liquidity mining either. And there's no albatrum one token or anything like that. The launch seems to have gone through very smoothly. They fixed up the portal website so it doesn't look janky anymore, that it's a nice css to it, which is nice.
01:31:11.644 - 01:31:52.388, Speaker A: They seem to be gaining traction because they have over $60 million of TvL, the users, unique users, people bridging in, stuff like that. So, yeah, I mean, I'm pretty happy with the first few days of arbitram. I expect this growth to just continue over time. I expect more and more exchanges to offer kind of like, sorry, centralized exchanges to offer on ramps into arbitrum one. But yeah, I mean, I didn't really expect it to be a kind of thing where it was like, hey, we're going to offer a billion dollars worth of incentives or something for you to get onto arbitrum. I think the main incentive right now is just to escape the high gas fees. And there's more and more liquidity going into the different defi apps, so you'll be able to trade all your kind of favorite tokens on there.
01:31:52.388 - 01:32:29.826, Speaker A: I tried trading on arbitrum like on the first day, and the slippage was really bad for ETH against USDC. Then on the second day it was like infinitely better. And you know, I was planning to do some more stuff on there this weekend, so I'm sure it's going to be even better now. So yeah, I'm really happy with the first few days of Arbitrum one's launch. All right, question here from Brian Peace, who says, in honor of the launch of Arbitrum, a question about fraud proofs. What constitutes fraud, especially with ZK proofs? I think there must be some mathematical definition of fraud. For example, would a flash loan exploit count or is it operating within the parameters of the system and just exploiting oversights and a contracts implementation? It's neither of those things.
01:32:29.826 - 01:32:46.674, Speaker A: I think a flash loan exploit is not a fraud thing. It's not. It's not fraud, right. It's just following the rules of the system. And a smart contract being exploited, again is following rules of the smart contract because the smart contract had a bug in it got exploited, whether that was through a flashlight or not. So that, no, that is not fraud. Fraud.
01:32:46.674 - 01:33:34.962, Speaker A: The way I understand it, in the, in the, in the context of optimistic roll ups is that irregular state transitions or stuff that shouldn't have happened and that went against the rules, because if you think about it, if someone exploits a smart contract because of a bug, well, that was actually totally part of the rule set. Like, that was actually fine because they followed the rules. They just exploited something that was already there. But doing something that is fraud from the context of optimistic roll ups is doing something that shouldn't be possible as part of the rules of the system. So you shouldn't be able to do an irregular state transition, which is essentially changing something. Say you want to change the balance of a user's account, or say you want to kind of like liquidate a user when they shouldn't have been liquidated, for example. That's kind of like the fraud that, that they're kind of talking about there.
01:33:34.962 - 01:34:37.804, Speaker A: And from my understanding anyway, it's definitely not actual, like fraud, I guess, like fraud in the, in literal sense of, of, you know, someone defrauding someone else sort of thing. So, yeah, but I guess like, just to pref, just to kind of like, end that by saying, I'm not like an expert on that and not like an expert on the exact scenarios where this, where this kind of plays out. But I can say with, like, pretty much pretty, pretty certainly that it does not apply to exploits or bugs or anything like that. It just applies to things that shouldn't be happening in the context of the rules of the system. Your next question here, Brian, was on the August 26 episode of the Daily Grey refuel. You mentioned starkware executed a transaction for 1600 gas that would cost 21,000 gas on Mainnet. Since gas pays for computational resources, does this mean star quest figured out how to do computation more efficiently? Is there a different approach compared to other scaling solutions? I mean, this is the whole kind of like, advantage of roll ups where they take the computation off chain and they only post the proof of that computation to the, to layer one, to kind of like, prove that they ran that.
01:34:37.804 - 01:35:18.548, Speaker A: And by doing so, they can essentially compress the transactions. So instead of having to pay 21,000 gas for an ETH transaction, you can pay a lot less than that by compressing it, because you've processed that transaction on this kind of, on this roll up and just posted the proof that that was run to the, to layer one. Now, if you want to verify that, you can actually run the transaction yourself by downloading this proof and running it locally on your machine if you want to, if you're kind of like running a full note and stuff like that. But you would be running the computation yourself to prove that. Yes. Okay, this actually happened and this is all legit and everything like that. So it basically is just a very nice compression technique that is possible thanks to fancy cryptography, for lack of a better term.
01:35:18.548 - 01:36:16.948, Speaker A: I don't understand how the cryptography works under the hood, but yeah, definitely very, very fancy. So a question here from Ste, who says which ZK roll up in your eyes? Could you see being the first deployed or first to gain traction? Could it be Hermes loop ring or something like that? We'd love to know who's going to win the scaling race. I mean, the one that's gotten traction right now is dy DX. I think they've got the most traction out of any of them. But if you're talking about like a generalized solution, it's up in the air right now. Because Stark net, ZkSync, Hermes and whatever else polygon he's working on, they're probably all going to come out at around the same kind of time and it's just going to be kind of like the open question of where apps going to go, right? Like which ones are they going to go to? Are they going to do incentives on one, not the other? Which ones are going to have a token? Like historical going to have their token when they do stock net? Is ZKC going to have their token from day one? Is. I mean, obviously matic already has, sorry, Polygon already has a token.
01:36:16.948 - 01:36:56.520, Speaker A: Are they going to put incentives on these kind of like roll ups and on their roll ups and stuff like that? It's open question. So I don't actually know, but I would say that right now, I mean Dy DX is doing an incredible amount of trading volume, incredible amount of fee take for them, and incredible amount of traction for just app Pacific roll up. So yeah, really, really cool to see their kind of traction there. So last one here from Ty and then I'll go into the AMA series channel and see if anyone else asked me questions there. Ty says, I'm working on a crypto project that seeks to do some social good in Melbourne and beyond for volunteers and clubs. Are you still doing advisory calls? I'd love to slide into your DM's about it. I guess you can dm me.
01:36:56.520 - 01:37:25.088, Speaker A: I don't know if I'll reply straight away. I've got like a million people asking me the same question you are. So if you want to dm me, I can add it to kind of like my to do list. I'm happy to help if I can, but, yeah, I'm happy to do, like, a call if I find some time to do that there for you. All right, so there are a bunch of questions in the AMA series channel I'll get to now. So one from Grak attack, who says, given recent findings about Ada's issues on the testnet, do you think they'll have time to sort it out? I'm sorry. Oh, God.
01:37:25.088 - 01:37:49.350, Speaker A: I don't know. I don't. So just a bit of context here. Cardano has launched the testnet for their smart contracts about nine days before they plan to go live on main net with their smart contracts. I don't think I have to say anything more than that. You can't just have nine days of a testnet. And I don't know if they think that their peer review is so good that they don't have to actually test these things in the wild before it goes live.
01:37:49.350 - 01:38:16.844, Speaker A: I don't think they're going to have time to sort it out. If they do delay their launch, then I'm not even going to be surprised. But from what I've seen, their smart contracts aren't even, like, good. I mean, I don't know if you saw my tweet earlier, but essentially they can't do concurrent transaction processing, which. And they're using the modified version of the Utxo model. And it basically means that they can't do more than kind of like one transaction per block, from what I understand, which is just absolutely insane. Like, if I understand that correctly, that is absolutely insane.
01:38:16.844 - 01:38:36.030, Speaker A: That means they can't do defi. And apparently Defi is easy, according to Charles. But, like, yes. I don't know. Yeah, that's kind of my answer to that question. And then win wham whim wham says related. What is your prediction for the Ada community and network in lieu of issues? I don't know.
01:38:36.030 - 01:39:05.734, Speaker A: Like, I don't know if it's actually gonna do anything to the price. I, you know, this. This is crypto, so the price is probably just gonna keep pumping, so who knows, right? But I think that the Cardano community is so detached from reality that they actually probably won't even realize what's going on and they'll just keep buying it. I have so many of my bloody friends parents asking me about Cardano because I just see it on the news and they see their other friends talking about it, and it's just insane. They have absolutely no idea what it is they got. They don't know if it's. They don't know about anything got to do with smart contracts.
01:39:05.734 - 01:39:24.282, Speaker A: They don't know what a theory means. I don't know what crypto is. They're just hearing about this thing, and their friends are telling them to buy it because it's going up. So they buy it. So if you're wondering what the kind of, like, I guess normal or I guess casual ada investor is, this is them. The people who just know nothing about crypto but buy this thing because their friends told them to buy it. It's just insane.
01:39:24.282 - 01:39:48.188, Speaker A: And to be fair, that's not exclusive to Cardano. But, I mean, I have a kind of, like, place in my head for Cardano that I just. It's just a dark place. Um, so another question. You said many people are priced out of minting and buying the most legitimate nfts. Considering the gas costs on l one, where would you say the second most legitimate place for creating and sharing nfts to be? It would be L2 on Ethereum, of course, because L2 is on Ethereum. Inherit the security from Ethereum.
01:39:48.188 - 01:40:21.102, Speaker A: So stuff like the ones that are focusing on nfts right now, I think a loop ring, Zk sync, and immutable x. So those would probably be the second most legitimate places, I would suspect. Rvd added to Winwam's first kind of like, question. Just to add on to this, are the issues. They are running into a design flow of the platform. Utxo, is there a working implementation somewhere? It is a design floor of the platform, from what I can tell. I'm actually in disbelief that they've done all this research and they've been preaching that they're going to kill a theorem and that, you know, defy is easy and whatever.
01:40:21.102 - 01:40:43.974, Speaker A: And they've done this implementation and it doesn't work. I'm actually trying to do more research into this to see if this is actually the case, because if it is, then I don't even know what to say, really, because this is such an absolutely insane oversight. And the fact that they would do this, I. Yeah, I don't even know what to say from there. I'm just gonna leave it there. I'm gonna do more research. If it is like this, my head's gonna explode.
01:40:43.974 - 01:41:22.054, Speaker A: One here from Goby who says, why have the fees started ramping up when blocks are 50% full? Like last time I looks, most blocks never got even close to being full. Now, what if the target was, say, 50%? I mean, it just feels like half of the total capacity is laying idle most of the time. So this is exactly how 1559 is supposed to function because it has elastic blocks. You'll see that sometimes blocks are like 10% full, sometimes they're like 70% full. But the target is 50% under 1559. So on average, the blocks are still going to be 50% full and still target that 15 million gas limit. But the way 1559 works is that it spreads out the demand through different blocks to smoothen out the transaction fees.
01:41:22.054 - 01:41:57.474, Speaker A: So the capacity isn't actually sitting idle, it's being used, but it's just being used in a more distributed way than all centralized in one block. Right. And that's why you see kind of like, the gas prices spike, but then go down really quickly because there's this self adjusting mechanism that 1559 uses to essentially get us back to the normal base fee price. Because you've got that tip, that's a secondary price there. It gets us back to the normal base fee price much quicker thanks to the way 1559 works. If you want a better explanation of this or a more detailed one, you can check out my piece that I did in the daily way called this is 1559, or this is ERP 1559. That explains it for you there.
01:41:57.474 - 01:42:25.704, Speaker A: Max Eight asks, I wanted to know your thoughts on the doge NFT fractionalization and dog token. I thought this was interesting. I think it's insane, the valuation that it's at. I think it has, like, what, a $500 million market cap. And for those who don't know what this is, this was basically pleaserdao fractionalizing their original doge NFT and allowing people to kind of, like, buy it. And people really aped this thing. So it's worth like $500 million, this dog coin or this dog token.
01:42:25.704 - 01:42:59.540, Speaker A: And this basically gives you, I guess, exposure to this NFt. My general thoughts are outside of the kind of, like, price, is that it's just a really cool kind of, like, I guess, proof of concept of what can happen here, where this can go. It could be a really cool funding mechanism for dows that may have acquired nfts, and they just want to kind of, like, sell them off without selling them off as like, a one. As like a one of one. They can just, like, fractionalize it. And it's cool that we can fractionalize nfts in general and use maybe that in a kind of, like, lending market or on a amm or whatever, right, to kind of, like, increase the utility of this NFT. So, yeah, those are my general kind of like.
01:42:59.540 - 01:43:25.996, Speaker A: Thoughts on that. So a question here from Ollie, who says, what's your take on the current state of l two or cross chain bridges? Do you think the full potential of these bridges will be realized if wallets like metamask incorporates some sort of bridge feature? My current. I guess my take on the current state is that they're still fairly new. They're a lot further along than where I thought they would be. I think hop and connect are seeing some really great usage. The seller, Seabridge, is seeing good, good usage. I haven't checked biconomy's hyphen yet, but I think they are as well.
01:43:25.996 - 01:44:06.754, Speaker A: And there's a few others out there. They're definitely a lot further along than I thought they would be. And I do believe that the full potential, yes, does need to be realized when metamask incorporates them, when centralized exchanges start using them as bridges into these L2s, I think that definitely we need more liquidity in them and more kind of like, different kind of liquidity pairs because people want to bounce around all these different tokens and stuff like that. So, yes, still early days, very optimistic on the future of them, and I do believe, yeah, more integrations are always more positive. All right, so I think there's a bit of discussion in AMA channel about that approve USDC question that I kind of put out there. So, yes, that's. I'll just skip over those.
01:44:06.754 - 01:44:22.580, Speaker A: Jans, I think. I don't know if this is a question. This is just something Jan said, which I think was important. Some people seem to think that getting early deals is guaranteed to make money. You can still invest in the wrong thing, and then you invested for a very long time. The opportunities you get on the public market aren't really that far off. This is correct.
01:44:22.580 - 01:44:50.256, Speaker A: This is actually a really good point. All of the opportunities that I have and that I invest in, they're all vested. Like, I don't think I have any that aren't vested. And yes, some of them are vested over very long periods of time. At least most of them are. For example, the one that I've been in for the longest amount of time, and that was my first seed investment, was mstable. I invested in, I think I was technically there pre seed in January of 2019, and that only started vesting out on July of 2020, and there's three year vesting on that.
01:44:50.256 - 01:45:21.106, Speaker A: So by the time I'm fully vested out of my. My tokens with M stable, it will have been four years pretty much. Or like, probably. I think maybe maybe over four years. Yeah, four and a half years or something from when I first invested to getting all of my tokens. So, yeah, I mean, that it is a very long time, and during that time, you know, maybe I could have put that money into something else and whatever, but I mean, yeah, it's not guaranteed to make money. And also, the opportunities on public markets are there and can make money a lot faster than you can from the private markets.
01:45:21.106 - 01:45:50.162, Speaker A: I mean, just the NFT market in general, if you catch the right NFT or whatever, you can make a lot of money from that. And, you know, same with Defi, even just with, like, ETH. Like, the funny thing is, is that if I go back and look at what ETH was in January of 2019, I think it was like $150. If I had put that $10,000 into ETH back then, I haven't actually done the math yet. Would I have been better off than putting it into M stable? I don't know for sure, but I still would have made, like, a lot of money putting it in there and it. If. Even if I didn't have access to this deal.
01:45:50.162 - 01:46:13.974, Speaker A: And I actually think that that $10,000 that I put into to M stable then would have actually, if I. If I think about it now, I probably would have put that into ETH instead of that. But that was, like, my first, like, pre seed investment. I was, like, really excited about it. It was a Melbourne based team and I, like, still involved with the project as an advisor as well now, and obviously still an investor. But, yeah, I think that you're definitely right there. Jan.
01:46:13.974 - 01:46:38.830, Speaker A: Um, I think that there's one here from RJ IJ Ignap. I hopefully. Hopefully I said that right. Sorry if I didn't been following your stuff since March last year. Big fan. Thanks for the great communication you provide to the ETH community. What do you think about all the innovations happening around nfts? Profile pictures and art were first, then all the derivatives, ten K copycats and things like nouns, they are sub drive, seem to really be pushing the envelope in what an NFT can be.
01:46:38.830 - 01:47:12.108, Speaker A: What do you think about the future of nfts can be? So I think there's still a lot of innovation left to happen here. I mean, we just saw what happened with the loot project, right. And how that kind of, like, played out over the last, I guess, few few days, how it's kind of like, turned the NFT ecosystem upside down, kind of shown different ways to do it. So I think just looking at that as an example of the fact that there's going to be so much more innovation happening here into the future. I think we've only really scratched the surface of what nfts can be and, and this, I mean, I'm sick of the profile picture stuff at this point. I think a lot of people are. I think there's just like cash grabs, speculative mania stuff.
01:47:12.108 - 01:47:56.408, Speaker A: I think there are some that are going to last long term punks, board apes, probably penguins and stuff like that. But I don't know how much they're going to hold their value. I have no idea about that sort of stuff. But I think that. Definitely excited to see more and more innovation pop up throughout the NFT ecosystem and definitely more stuff around, I guess, like what loop projects doing, or at least stuff that takes us from kind of like what everyone was used to to something that like everyone was like, oh wow, what the hell happened here? Like how would this come from sort of thing? So, yeah, I'm looking forward to all that sort of stuff. All right, I got one here from Decca who says, what do you think is the best way for Altus to incentivize growth with regards to token distribution? You have mentioned before that a lot of yield farming, liquidity mining is wasted on transitory capital and people will dump and move on to the next thing. Okay, there's two questions here.
01:47:56.408 - 01:48:38.732, Speaker A: So to answer your first question, I think it's, it's, you got to strike a balance just like any liquidity mining program or any kind of incentive program. And I think the way you strike a balance is by constantly reevaluating how much you're paying out and for what capital. This is what the index co op does with their liquidity mining for the DeFi pulse index, where they basically reevaluate it every month and say, okay, well, are we paying too much? Are we paying too little? And then they kind of look at what's unincentivized versus incentivized in terms of TVL, and they go from there. I think that's, that's one aspect to it. But I also think that you don't have to just do liquidity mining for token distribution. You can do airdrops, you can distribute tokens to contributors. You can maybe even do a sale if you want, like an open kind of like ICO and stuff like that.
01:48:38.732 - 01:49:19.986, Speaker A: So there. Yeah, I think those kind of things are definitely what these L2s are going to have to look into. But generally it's hard to avoid that transitory capital. It's always going to be there. But I think you can kind of like fight it off by doing a constantly, I guess like reiterating and redesigning over time, or at least, at least revisiting your liquidity mining and not just doing kind of like something at the start, doing it for a of few months and then saying, oh, well, you know, it's over now, all the capital can leave sort of thing. Uh, and then your next question. Can you comment on how the ALCX farming distributions has worked so far? I mean, I think it's worked okay, but like the ALCX price fell pretty hard with the rest of kind of like the market and hasn't, doesn't seem to have recovered quite well yet.
01:49:19.986 - 01:49:55.598, Speaker A: I don't know if that's kind of like alchemic specific though. I think what ended up happening is that DeFi just fell out of favor generally and it just hasn't kind of like bounced back just yet. I think it will need L2s probably to bounce back because of the fact that scalability is kind of like limiting defies growth on layer one. So from that perspective, I wouldn't kind of like say that Alchemyx has done anything bad, but I don't think their token distribution is bad or poor or maybe, maybe it's not even the best one out there. I think that they had like a pool two, right? And they had like a few pull ones and stuff like that. I think they've done fine. And I don't really know.
01:49:55.598 - 01:50:29.934, Speaker A: I don't really kind of like have any kind of like price predictions or anything like that for the ALCX token. I own some or whatever. But yeah, I think just defi generally has kind of like gone through this I guess, trail of disillusionment where they're essentially stuck in this pit where they're like we have to build themselves out of it. And I think to build themselves out of it they have to essentially deploy to L2 and grow on L2 there. And I guess I should kind of like answer Elenari's question because it follows on from Deccan's and I'll move on to beatles fast. So l and R asks when defi bull market hard mode, don't say l two. Okay.
01:50:29.934 - 01:51:13.098, Speaker A: If it's not for l two, I would say that defi coins will probably run if we get to like a really speculative mania and ETH goes to like ten k and the last phase of the bull market is playing out. Maybe there's, maybe, I don't know. But like you gave me hard mode. I actually think l two is going to, what's going to, what's going to spur the next kind of, like, growth of defy. But, you know, I'm allowed to say that. But anyway, the next question from beetles ETH, who says, do you think that as the space matures, we will see more projects merging with other ones? Be that with hostile takeovers of acquisitions? I believe so. There's a lot of projects out there that are basically zombies that are only existing because either they have a community that they're trying to appease because there's token holders, or they have a large treasury and the project just isn't succeeding.
01:51:13.098 - 01:51:42.654, Speaker A: I do think that there's going to be. I don't know about hostile takers, but, like, more acquisitions and the acquisitions. Acquisitions are probably going to just look like talent acquisitions, where the team gets acquired and maybe there's a token swap or something like that, and then kind of gets absorbed into the kind of, like, acquirer. So, yeah, definitely expect to see more of that happening over the coming, I guess, months and years. All right, I think that's everything. Unless anyone had a question from the audience, I think that's going to be it for today, so I'll just give it a few more seconds. If not, I'm going to wrap it up.
01:51:42.654 - 01:52:03.658, Speaker A: All right, then. Well, thank you, everyone, for attending this AMA. As I mentioned at the start, this happens every two weeks. So, yeah, I'll see you guys in two weeks on the next one. I've recorded this one, and I'll be uploading it to YouTube with timestamps within 24 hours. So, yeah, you can watch it there if you came late or left early. Thanks, everyone.
01:52:03.658 - 01:52:07.514, Speaker A: I'll see you on the Discord channel. Bye.
