00:00:00.400 - 00:00:32.238, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 29 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So actually, before we get into it, just wanted to give a quick shout out here that I did another bullcase for Ethereum episode. The second episode on Bankless. I was joined by Cyrus Unisse and DC investor here with hosts David Hoffman and Ryan Sean Adams. Of course, now some of you may remember that Eric Connor was part of the bullcase for Ethereum number one.
00:00:32.238 - 00:00:51.566, Speaker A: He was, I guess like hot swapped for Cyrus in this episode. So it's good to get a different perspective here from Cyrus. But the episode, I mean the first episode we did was that was when ETH was dollar 650. Now obviously it is a lot higher than what that what it was back then. So we did this second episode. I think this was kind of recorded after the kind of crash happened. Yeah, I believe it was.
00:00:51.566 - 00:01:29.540, Speaker A: We were in like the low two thousands or something. So I guess it was good to take, take stock of what had happened since December, which is the last time we did the one of these bull case episodes and kind of project out what we all thought was going to happen over the next, you know, few months and kind of even coming years. So if you're interested in that, definitely go check it out. It's free to listen to on bankless and the link will be in the YouTube description below. All right, so only three days left to get your Gitcoin grants contributions in. So if you haven't done so yet, you haven't donated to all of your favorite projects just yet, do so do it ASAP because you've only got three days left for your contributions to be matched. And it's really cool to see these stats being posted by gitcoin each day.
00:01:29.540 - 00:02:02.418, Speaker A: You can see here that almost $700,000 has been crowdfunded so far from 164,800 contributions. Over 9000 unique contributors and over 4000 hackers have been part of this grants round as well. This is just so cool. I mean, every single gitcoin grants round that has taken place since round one, it's just been bigger and bigger and bigger every single time. Even during like the downturn here. It's, this is, I believe round ten is still bigger than round nine across all metrics. So I'm just so looking forward to seeing this continue to grow over the years.
00:02:02.418 - 00:02:46.796, Speaker A: Like, I hope to get to a point where it's tens of millions of dollars being donated each round to open source projects from pretty much like everyone in the ecosystem, not just individuals, but different projects and things like that. But generally it's really just, I mean with the quadratic matching, the mechanism is basically built to reward individual contributors and get them and make it so that their donations go further. Then basically just being able to donate one die so that it's matched by up to like 50 die or something like that to a project is much better than only donating one die. And that's all you can do, right? All that the project gets. So really big fan of these rounds, of course. But as a reminder, yes, this will probably be your final reminder. You've got three days left or two to three days left, depending on when you're watching or listening to this.
00:02:46.796 - 00:03:21.020, Speaker A: Definitely go get your grant donations in before the matching round is finished. So AIP 1559 is ticking along on Ropsten very nicely here. And etherscan has added a new field to their Ropsten block explorer here called burnt fees ETH. Now you can see on the right hand side of the screenshot here, there is a field, obviously a column called burnt fees. And you can see which, how much ETH is being burned per block here. So this is just really cool to see. And I think, and it shows you the percentage of the fees that were burnt as well.
00:03:21.020 - 00:03:49.312, Speaker A: Now as I've said to all of you before, like most of the fee revenue will be burned, but not all of it. And the rest of it that's not burned goes to what's called the tip field, which basically goes to miners and in the future stakers as per normal. So I think this is gonna be exactly the same as, as it's gonna be I guess for our main net. Right. We're gonna, it's gonna look the same here in terms of like the field on Ether scan. And I just can't wait to see like all this rolling and just, it's gonna be fun to watch. And as I said, like watchtheburn.com
00:03:49.312 - 00:04:11.368, Speaker A: is a website that basically has like a real time visualization of ETH being burned on Ropston. And then just when that switches over to main net, it's gonna be really, really fun to see. So yeah, definitely a really nice addition from aether scan here. They're known for doing this Sort of stuff. I mean they are the best block explorer by Far. I don't think anyone really comes close and either scan, like, I couldn't live without either scan. Let's, let's put it that way.
00:04:11.368 - 00:04:59.590, Speaker A: And I'm sure, you know, pretty much all of you couldn't either. So yeah, great to see them doing ErP 1559 related fields already on the first Testnet. So a lot of you may have missed this because maybe you're like me and you don't check Reddit too often. Like, I used to check the Ethereum ETH trader ETH finance sections much more regularly than I do now, I think. You know, I transitioned from Reddit in 2017, 2018 to Twitter because Twitter just became the place where everyone was, and basically everyone who was anyone in the Ethereum community was on Twitter as well. Whereas the subreddits, I guess, are still very active today, and there's still a lot of stuff going on on there. And one of those things was actually something that I caught today where Vitalik posted an impromptu, impromptu technical ama on statelessness and vocal trees and state expiry.
00:04:59.590 - 00:05:32.430, Speaker A: So you can see in this thread here, Vitalik's answering people's questions. Isn't this impromptu, impromptu ama? And he's going really in depth. Like these are paragraphs and like multiple paragraphs of answers with technical jargon thrown in there and everything. And he pretty much has answered like, every question from what I can see, which is absolutely amazing, or at least most of the questions, which is really, really cool. And, you know, this speaks to one of my newsletters the other day that I put out in the Daily GwEi newsletter where I basically wrote about, you know, sharing knowledge. And this is exactly what the Ethereum ecosystem is known for. It's like just sharing this knowledge for free, straight from the source.
00:05:32.430 - 00:06:06.970, Speaker A: Like you're getting the technical knowledge about the future of statelessness, vocal trees and state expiry from the source. Like, Vitalik is one of the main researchers working on this sort of stuff. And, you know, he obviously published all these posts the other day that I highlighted on the refuel. But he's going in here and just answering everyone's questions, which is absolutely incredible. And I haven't had the chance to read through the AMA just yet. I'm looking forward to doing so, hopefully tomorrow if I find some time. But I just think it's just like, not just Vitalik, but like, we had the Ethereum foundation researcher AMA last week as well, which had, you know, a ton of good info in there.
00:06:06.970 - 00:06:44.134, Speaker A: You know, we have like so many people on Twitter, like from different defi apps and Daos and NFT, like all the, all the founders and CEO's and everything are all on there and they're all answering questions. It's not even just on Twitter, it's on discord. Like, you can go into a discord channel and basically tag the founder of, like, a project and be like, hey, like, can I speak to you? And like, nine times out of ten, they're gonna reply to you. It might take them a little while to reply because they're busy. Or maybe they'll say, hey, you know, I'm really busy right now, but this, this person can help you from our team. So, you know, getting access to all of these people is just really easy within, within crypto, especially. And it just, it's great to be able to go to the source because you can always get a lot of secondhand information.
00:06:44.134 - 00:07:24.486, Speaker A: And especially within crypto, people lie a lot because there's, there's incentives to lie because of monetary kind of like, factors. Like, for example, if you're a fan of, like, one project and you're not a fan of another, and they're competing with each other, whether while you may have an incentive or an unconscious bias or a very conscious bias to kind of, like, I guess, talk down about another project and maybe spread some information that is not totally true. Whereas if you want to kind of follow up on that and go, and I guess, go straight to the source and find out the information, you can. And, you know, you can even do that with the biggest projects out there. I mean, this is Vitalik, the guy who started Ethereum. Ethereum is the second largest crypto project by Market CAP. And he's still on here asking, you know, answering regular, everyday people's questions.
00:07:24.486 - 00:07:51.492, Speaker A: And he does this regularly, right. When he was active on Twitter, he was always answering people's questions on Reddit. He spends a lot more time on Reddit these days, I believe, because he likes the longer form format. But generally, you know, if you, if you really wanted to, you can at one point or another, get in contact with Vitalik and ask him questions and things like that. And he puts out a ton of educational content, too, which I think is really, really awesome. But it's not just him. I mean, there are so many people out there that you can go to direct to the source for, and they're all very public.
00:07:51.492 - 00:08:42.574, Speaker A: They're happy to be public. And I think it's a very strong shift from, I guess, the web two world where I wouldn't know who to contact at any of the top kind of web two products at all. Like, I, there's not, most of them don't even have a proper customer support department where you can actually just like message them and talk to them, or, you know, you can put in a ticket, but it takes forever for them to get back to you. Whereas within the, I guess, Ethereum space, it just seems like you get a much faster response from these people and you can always find help if you want it. And yeah, to be fair, like, none of the defi apps or whatever are nearly as big as their web two counterparts. But Ethereum is right, and you can still talk to the protocol engineers of Ethereum as much as you want. You can jump into like one of the Ethereum related discord channels and literally talk to any of the people working on the bleeding edge, you know, or otherwise stuff on Ethereum from, from the core protocol level, and not just the core protocol, but L2 stuff as well.
00:08:42.574 - 00:09:55.554, Speaker A: I mean, anything, anything, like, you can just go there and talk to them, which I think is a big reason why Ethereum is going to remain the dominant platform going forward and is going to remain the dominant communities, because you've just fostered such an amazing group of people that are happy to answer all your questions and happy to help you. I don't see that with every community and, you know, a lot of the other kind of like competing blockchains out there and their ecosystems, they definitely don't have this level of openness I've checked, and I just don't see it at all. Some of them do, like, don't get me wrong, but a lot of them don't have it, like nearly, you know, to Ethereum's level, which I think is something very special that I hope that we get to preserve in the Ethereum community, in the Ethereum ecosystem as time goes on. But anyway, I'll leave a link to this AMA in the YouTube description and you can go read all of Vitalik's answers. I think this is actually something that you should like. I highly recommend reading it because statelessness, vertical trees and state expiry is a huge thing that's coming to the network kind of like after sharding, and it's actually going to be a massive upgrade across multiple vectors. So, you know, learning about it, getting up to speed with the details and being on top of it is going to give you an edge over, like, a lot of other kind of people, and it'll give you more conviction, if you need it, on like, Ethereum and ethanol.
00:09:55.554 - 00:10:49.016, Speaker A: That, I mean, this sort of stuff is what gives me my conviction, right. Just being able to see five to ten years into the future and even like less than that, say, like two, three years and then five to ten. That kind of stuff gives me the conviction to say things like, I'm never going to sell my ETH and to stick to it, to buy more ETH every day. And, you know, that's how I've done it ever since I got into Ethereum, is I've just read and read and read heaps of stuff. And I've talked to lots of people, and that's how you keep your conviction, because it's very easy to fall into the trap of the day to day market movements and kind of like, have some recency bias where you're like, oh, no, Ethel, 10% today is it all over and your mind plays tricks on you, right? The monkey brains that we have are not very fun sometimes. But when you kind of like, reorient yourself and go read some things and maybe listen to a podcast or watch a YouTube video on Ethereum or whatever, it kind of like reorients you and kind of puts your mind at ease and lets you kind of be bullish again. And that's what I've done in the past as well.
00:10:49.016 - 00:11:18.508, Speaker A: Like some days, like on the really bad days, I'm talking the days where for some reason, something's gone wrong. Everyone's shitting on Ethereum, especially during the earlier years. And, you know, the price is, like, really bad. And you kind of, like, think to yourself, you're just like, wow. Like, you know, all this negative stuff's happening around me. Like, you know, am I actually bearish on Ethereum? And then you kind of, like, listen to these podcasts, read something, read a blog post, read about the future of Ethereum, and you can kind of get bullish again because you're reminded of exactly why you're bullish on Ethereum in the first place. So, yeah, I'll leave it at that.
00:11:18.508 - 00:11:50.446, Speaker A: Bit of, bit of rambling there for you guys. A lot more to get through. So I'll get right to it. So I missed this the other day, actually, it was a few days ago, but Cooper put out this awesome blog post called the Dow landscape. So basically going over the current landscape of what daos look like, particularly, I guess, in the Ethereum space, as most of these dows live on Ethereum, and it is absolutely massive. I mean, if you look at his tweet thread here and you can see this screenshot, this is the Dow landscape of 2021. And, you know, obviously bottom left is cut off because of my camera here, but you can still see the magnitude there is.
00:11:50.446 - 00:12:25.990, Speaker A: So many daos doing so many different things and he's put them into different categories. Here you have Dao operating systems. So these are things that are basically, I guess, daos for dows, like making the supporting infrastructure for dows. You have investment based daos, the ones that will basically invest in DeFi projects or nfts or whatever, you know, by pulling funds of capital together. You have grants. Dows, I guess, speaks for themselves. And I've speak, I've spoken a lot about these before, like Uniswap grants, arbor grants, compound grants, and a bunch of others that basically give out these kind of grants out of, you know, treasuries and wherever they get the money from their treasury from to builders out there.
00:12:25.990 - 00:13:17.294, Speaker A: Then the bottom left, as I said, you can't see, but collector Daos, which are basically Daos formed to collect things, specifically nfts. A lot of you may have heard of pleaserdao already before, which is blocked off by my camera here. But pleaserd out has been buying up some of the, I guess, most sought after nfts and like basically a syndicate of, I guess, like people that just want to be part of this dow and just like pull capital together to buy culture essentially, and to own a piece of Internet crypto, defi, ethereum culture at the end of the day. And then of course, you have protocol Daos, which is basically like all of the defi apps that have Daos, like Makerdao, you know, compound Uniswap, all that good stuff. And also other things you may not have heard of before that aren't defi like Audius and Ocean Dow and universe as well. That's an NFT based thing. And then service daos.
00:13:17.294 - 00:13:52.132, Speaker A: There's a bunch in here like metafactory. Metafactory, for those who don't know, does like limited edition, I guess, swag, like clothing and things like that. And there's a bunch of other daos out here. Lexdow, I'm sure it's like, I'm pretty sure is like a legal dao where they offer kind of like legal advice to people and there's so many others here, I'm not going to go through them all. Social daos, I guess, again, speaks for itself. But this falls into the social token category where you have basically people kind of like coming together and forming like, I guess like a community around kind of like something right in the day. And there's a bunch of daos around this, some social thing.
00:13:52.132 - 00:14:19.710, Speaker A: And then at the bottom you have media dows, which includes bankless Dow and rect hq and a bunch of other things. Basically people creating content and stuff like that. But yeah, so that's the, that's the basically TLDR on the landscape of it. But in the blog post, Cooper goes into more details. He describes like what is a dow? Basically the difference between all the things that I just mentioned. But he basically goes into more detail about it. The tools that dows are using, and there's so many tools these days for them to use, like notice to safe.
00:14:19.710 - 00:14:41.368, Speaker A: A lot of you may have used before for discourse, snapshot, tally, boardroom, rabbit hole, so many out there. And then he goes into like describing how daos evolve and how they evolve on chain and off chain and a bunch of other information out here. I'm not going to go through the whole thing. You can read this yourself, would be linked in the YouTube description. But I think this is awesome. I think Cooper, I mean I've known Cooper for a while. He's a good friend of mine.
00:14:41.368 - 00:15:18.386, Speaker A: He's on the bleeding edge of this stuff of like crypto culture dao. He spends a lot of time in this kind of um, in this ecosystem and I think he really gets it and really knows what's happening in, in this ecosystem and has a really great way of putting it all together, writing these posts and making, and letting us like understand what's going on. Because personally I don't have enough time to spend in like the culture, culture slash dow side of Ethereum. I try to keep up as much as possible, but it's hard, right? I mean, it's very, very hard to keep up with everything. So I think just following people like Cooper is definitely the way to, to keep up. So I guess on that note, highly recommend following him on Twitter if you haven't yet. But also go read this post.
00:15:18.386 - 00:15:50.086, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description. So Nansen announced today they have raised a $12 million Series A round led by a 16 z. Now I talked about a 16 z is $2.2 billion crypto fund the other day, right? I'm not sure if this came out of that fund, but you know, a six things is going to be very, very busy funding different crypto projects going forward and you're going to be seeing them all over the headlines. But back to, I guess, Nansen. So for those who don't know, Nansen is basically an on chain kind of like analysis platform for Ethereum. And I don't know if you have used it.
00:15:50.086 - 00:16:22.358, Speaker A: I've used it before. It's absolutely amazing what you can actually find on there they tag a bunch of different things. You can, there's like sections where it's like click on, you can click on this tag called smart money and you can follow what all the whales are doing on chain. You know, there's the thing called like the stablecoin kind of like oscillator where you can actually see how many, how much of the smart money is sitting in stablecoins right now, how much of them are deploying it. You can monitor for things like new contracts being deployed and new kind of like nfts and new defiers being deployed. So you can be first, you can monitor things like people accumulating tokens and things like that. I've used this to do all those things.
00:16:22.358 - 00:16:54.458, Speaker A: That's why I'm describing them. But, you know, they, they basically, I think a few months ago they raised the seed round and now they're doing the series a, which is $12 million raise, which is absolutely awesome. I mean, you know, blockchain analytics companies are going to be around for a long time regardless of if we get privacy or not, just the fact that we have like all of these data available to us. Um, and people, people do want to harvest it, they do want to have access to it, they want to get that edge. It gives you alpha. So why not kind of, I guess, like have a platform that does this all at once. And there's obviously other platforms as well that do similar things.
00:16:54.458 - 00:17:20.495, Speaker A: But I think Nansen is one of the best. Definitely. And you know, this money's going to be used to do a bunch of different things. They've detailed here, enhancing the user experience, of course, increased support for more blockchains and L2 solutions, including polygon optimism and arbitram, which is going to be really cool. And, you know, you can join the Discord channel as well if you want to find out more or kind of join their community here. But yeah, congrats again to them on this raise. Absolutely awesome.
00:17:20.495 - 00:17:49.295, Speaker A: I think, you know, a 16 z was the lead, but they also had a bunch of other investors join, like Coinbase Ventures. I am token ventures, mechanism capital, and a bunch of angels here as well. I won't read them all out, but, but here they are, basically really, really cool. Congrats again. And that's it for Nansen. So token terminal shared this tweet yesterday where they said crypto protocol sorted based on past 90 day total revenue. The right column shows the project's Twitter following.
00:17:49.295 - 00:18:32.910, Speaker A: So you can see here that Ethereum is obviously number one with a revenue of $2 billion, or almost $2 billion over the last 90 days. Now, the way the revenue for Ethereum works is that's basically taking the amount of, I guess, like gas fees that are paid on the network over the last 90 days. So the funny thing is, is that most of that's getting burned soon. So you can see where the bullishness for 1559 comes in when you start looking at these revenue numbers. But then you can go down the list and you can see the revenue that Uniswap has generated and bitcoin and sushiswap, and then all the way down the list. Uniswap obviously is a big one because it's generating a ton of revenue for liquidity providers. And this isn't going to any of the token holders yet because that fee switch hasn't been turned on.
00:18:32.910 - 00:19:11.352, Speaker A: You can see bitcoin is coming in at third here, a bunch of other protocols, and it kind of tapers off and a lot of protocols aren't earning nearly as much as the top ones are. But it's still pretty cool to see just this breakdown here. I guess looking at it with Twitter followers as well can kind of add some additional context. But it's just, I mean, it's just staggering how far away Ethereum is from everything else. And obviously, you wouldn't compare Ethereum to the defi apps, you would compare Ethereum to bitcoin. Well, Ethereum is like almost five x the revenue of bitcoin over the last 90 days in terms of fee revenue. And as I said, post 1559, we're going to be burning most of that as ETH.
00:19:11.352 - 00:19:38.616, Speaker A: So this is just insanely bullish. And you know how I was talking about how before, how I said that you sometimes have to reorient yourself if you're feeling bearish and you have to kind of remind yourself, like, why you're bullish on Ethereum in the first place. I mean, this is always the easiest stuff for me to look at. I look at things like, okay, well, you know, even though the gas fees are low, like, what's the total revenue going to be? Okay, you know, assume 70% of that gets burned. Okay, this is the amount of ETH that's going to be burned. You know, map that out to the total issuance of the year. This is how much we're going to lower issuance by.
00:19:38.616 - 00:20:34.628, Speaker A: And then I kind of look at a bunch of other on chain metrics as well around there just to kind of, I guess, get an overview of really, like the reduction in sell pressure for ETH because that's obviously going to cause, well, I mean, if the demand stays the same and the sell pressure reduces, then that's going to cause if to go up. But it's not just that, right? It's a bunch of other things. Like I check on kind of like how the L2s are doing, how the Defi apps are doing. I also check Defi app revenue and users and, you know, are we getting more new users into the ethereum ecosystem? How, how's the L2 space faring? As I said, like, um, and all that good of stuff, like how's the core protocol development coming along? So, um. But I really just like the most tangible thing you can look at is the usage stats. And I think fee revenue for a layer one blockchain or just in general fear revenue is one of the best things to look at because of the fact that you have, uh, it's very hard to fake this because it costs a lot of money to fake it. And, you know, on that note, I actually think that the, the way you can fake it is if you own where that money's going to.
00:20:34.628 - 00:21:15.582, Speaker A: So, for example, I've seen, you know, I don't want to kind of like go too far down the rabbit hole here, but I've seen binance smart chain doing like a fair bit of fee revenue. If you go to cryptofees, dot in fo, you can see it there. But the thing is, is that binance controls the nodes, so they're just paying the fees to themselves. So you can't trust that as a metric at the end of the day, because they could be faking that, for example. And this is a clear difference between, you know, Ethereum and BSc is the fact that on Ethereum there is the Ethereum foundation, or like no central party is getting these fees. Like the fees are going to miners. And miners aren't just like this monolithic entity.
00:21:15.582 - 00:21:41.626, Speaker A: There's obviously mining pools, but there are like many, many individuals in that, that has that. And same with, you know, uniswap. Like that fee revenue is going to liquidity providers and things like that. So there can be spoofing on uniswap as well, don't get me wrong. But the thing is, you have to pay gas fees as well. This is uniswap revenue just for the protocol. So you also have to pay gas fees, which means it wouldn't be worth it to spoof it unless you were trying to temporarily pump a token or whatever.
00:21:41.626 - 00:22:12.546, Speaker A: Maybe it would be worth it, if you were able to get enough attention. But it's risky. It's, it's high upfront costs and you know, by spanning the network with transactions, you end up causing, I guess, like the transaction fees to spike themselves. Maybe this changes on L2. I've spoken about how before, like L2 is going to encourage, you know, a lot more people to kind of like come in, a lot more bots to come in and kind of fill up that block space. Maybe we see that, maybe we see accounts just like spoofing and spamming the kind of L2 networks because it's cheap to do so. And they're trying to achieve some kind of like manipulation tactic here.
00:22:12.546 - 00:22:55.856, Speaker A: So yeah, I think there's a lot to look forward to there in terms of like analyzing this stuff. And I'll definitely be keeping an eye on it and probably going over it in my data pump series, which I think it's, what, the 29th today? A new episode will be coming out, I think, on this weekend. Yeah, I'll probably get it out this weekend, um, on that one. But one last thing about this kind of table that I wanted to point out is metamask. Now, metamask is doing, has done $32 million of revenue over the last 90 days, which I think averages out to what, three, $400,000 a day or something like that in revenue. Now the way metamask makes money is that they have a swap feature built into the wallet there, and then you can click it, and then they take a 0.8% fee off every swap and it's basically access like a decentralized exchange aggregator.
00:22:55.856 - 00:23:16.488, Speaker A: Now as far as I know, the overhead for metamask is super, super tiny. They have a small team working on the actual wallet itself. So they are printing money here. This is, this is not going to a token holder because there's no metamask token. This is not going to any kind of like liquidity provider because there's none of that. This is going directly to the metamask team. So they're printing cash like every day from people's.
00:23:16.488 - 00:23:46.206, Speaker A: And obviously, like the more people are swapping, the hotter the market is, the more money they're going to be making. But this is just incredible. I mean, metamask went from like, I think six months ago, a bit before that, earning basically zero and being free for many, many years to use. And it's still free to use, mind you, to earning, you know, say, $400,000 a day in just pure fee revenue. Absolutely incredible, right? And who knows if they do a token and that token has like governance rights or like a claim to this sort of stuff. I don't know. I don't even think they need to do a token.
00:23:46.206 - 00:24:29.232, Speaker A: Like why would, why would you do a token when you're printing this money much, this much money, unless you wanted to go like public, right? But I don't know. We'll see what happens there. I still think that there's a higher chance that they'll do a token rather than not, but I don't have any special knowledge there. So Polygon had a big announcement yesterday. They announced avail, which is their new general purpose scalable data availability focused blockchain targeted for standalone chains, side chains and off chain scaling solutions, or this off chain scaling solutions basically refers to L2s and kind of like some other constructions there. Now a lot of you may not know what avail kind of is and what it actually means and what the implications are. So I'll give a quick TLDR here and you can read the blog post as well for a deeper dive.
00:24:29.232 - 00:25:44.902, Speaker A: But essentially data availability is the, I've spoken about this on the refill before, but it's basically the main kind of like bottleneck for as well as bandwidth for like scalability. And the way L2s work is that they actually post their data to layer one and they take the execution to L2. And then there's other kind of technologies that like validium and things like that that fall into, I guess you could say fall into the L2 family, but they basically take the data off chain as well. So they only post a bare minimum of proofs to the blockchain in order to basically verify that everything's gone correctly. Now what avail is going to be able to do is serve as that data availability availability layout for any project or any kind of like chain, whether it be a, you know, standalone chain, side chain, or a L2 chain to tap into in order to store their data there and kind of like be secured by this chain, but also for the data, but also be secured by Ethereum. Now, I think this is like the future of a big part of the future of scaling here. I think that this is how someone like a project like ZK sync advertises their 100,000 transactions per second with something like ZK Porter, which is also doing something like this, where they take the data availability and put it kind of like off chain.
00:25:44.902 - 00:26:19.040, Speaker A: As I mentioned, validium from Starkware is doing this as well. And they all use kind of like something called a very, I guess like technical, I guess like secure mathematical primitive as they kind of say it here, called erasure codes. Now you may have heard of this before. I'm not even going to begin to try and explain how erasure codes work because I don't understand it. But you know, you can google it, you can check out this post for more information on that. I don't think the technical details are too important here and like how it actually works. Like on the protocol layer, I think just being able to kind of like understand the benefits of, you know, of kind of like a data availability layer and of avail specifically.
00:26:19.040 - 00:26:52.580, Speaker A: I mean they mentioned the benefits here. With avail, you avoid encoding fraud proofs. There's no honest majority assumptions and no reliance on honest full node peers to gain data availability confidence. Now if you don't know what any of that means, that's okay. They, they go into more detail about this, but this is again technical stuff here and stuff that's like protocol layer and really, I mean end users don't, won't need to know about this. But yeah, generally I'm just really, really excited to see Polygon release this out into the wild finally. I think basically they're going to be releasing more and more of this stuff in the future.
00:26:52.580 - 00:27:33.366, Speaker A: I mean I've teased before that they've got roll ups coming soon, they've been talking about it and I think that Polygon gets a lot of unnecessary kind of like hate for the POS chain because that's just one of their solutions. And people think that they're just going to stick to the Pos chain and not ship anything else. And as like an advisor to Polygon, I can, you know, I don't want to sound like too much of a shill here, but I can promise you that they are working on so much stuff in the background, it's insane like they are. I mean honestly, I don't want to hype it too much here, but they're basically, they're working on so much really cool stuff here. So if you're just looking at the pos chain and thinking that's it, well, you're missing the forest for the trees, my friends. And you really do need to pay more attention here. And you know, this is just a first in many kind of things coming to the polygon ecosystem.
00:27:33.366 - 00:28:08.758, Speaker A: So I'm really excited for that. But definitely go dive deeper into this, kind of have a look through this blog post. There's a bunch of nice graphics as well that explains how this all works. And you know, I'll link this in the YouTube description, of course, for you guys to check out. So another big announcement over the last 24 hours was compound announcing their new product called Compound treasury, which is designed for businesses and financial institutions to access the benefits of the compound protocol. Now, the idea here is simple as they say it. Basically, they're basically offering a fixed 4% APR on us dollars with daily liquidity and none of the complexity of crypto.
00:28:08.758 - 00:29:02.080, Speaker A: That's the marketing spin in, you know, normal people talk. This basically means that businesses and financial institutions can tap into deFi without having to do the normal process that we all have to do, such as like going into metamask, right, or installing metamask, or having a ledger, hardware, wallet, or any kind of like, well, having a lattice one or whatever, or having any wallet, just generally, and kind of like, you know, approving transactions, going through the motions, having ETH for gas fees, all that sort of stuff. The treasury product is basically obstructing that all away. Yes, it's basically adding centralization back into the mix, but it's centralization in the front and DeFi in the back. So you have this nice, beautiful kind of like, I guess, interface for institutions and businesses to use where they essentially, this is how easy compound have made it. They can go from USD, like they can just wire USD into their treasury account and immediately start earning 4% APR. They don't have to do anything else.
00:29:02.080 - 00:29:34.020, Speaker A: The treasury product handles the rest of it, where they basically take that, convert it to USDC, put it into compound protocol, and basically pay out the yield to, to the treasury kind of accounts, which I think is just absolutely awesome and also speaks to what I've been kind of like talking about lately about the institutionalization of DeFi. We've already seen Aave teasing this before. Compounds now come out with this huge announcement today. There's going to be other protocols out there. I mean, makers already been working on a lot of real world asset stuff. This is all coming. And this does not take away from Defi.
00:29:34.020 - 00:30:12.192, Speaker A: It does not take away from me and you being able to use DeFi. Because at the end of the day, businesses, financial institutions, regular people, you know, quote unquote normies, whatever you want to call them, a lot of them don't want to tap indirectly to these things. A lot of them just want a simple, easy to use kind of thing that's built on top of these new rails. I think that's totally fine, because just because the compound treasury product exists doesn't mean you or I can't keep doing what we're doing, we can still tap into all the different protocols we want. We can still yield farm the way we want, we can still trade with the way we want. No one's stopping us from doing that. It's just that these new products are kind of like building on top of those rails instead of the traditional finance rails.
00:30:12.192 - 00:31:03.816, Speaker A: So they kind of like what's referred to as fintech or neo banks, which, you know, I think is really, really cool because, as I said, this offers are just a brand new way for people to get involved. And if you think about the amount of money that's sitting on the sidelines now for institutions and businesses, they're sitting on stacks of cash, like hundreds of billions of dollars, just idling there, earning no yield. Can you imagine even a fraction of that coming into defi? What's that, what that's going to do for Defi? It's going to inject so much fresh capital into the ecosystem, it's going to give people a very cheap rates to borrow with as well. So if people want to kind of like leverage long or borrow stable coins to do whatever, you know, yield farming involves a lot of borrowing and things like that, then they can do that, and there's much more capital to do that, and it makes the entire system more efficient. And compound is just one app doing this. You know, there's so many more out there that are going to be doing this on defi apps doing this. And as I said, this does not take away from the true defi experience at all.
00:31:03.816 - 00:31:25.584, Speaker A: I saw a lot of people kind of concerned trying this today on Twitter saying like, oh, we shouldn't be embracing this. It's like, guys, like, we built new rails. We built new financial rails for people to use them as they see fit. It doesn't matter if it's centralized or decentralized. Anyone can use them. They're open, they're not opinionated on who can use them. And that's where the real decentralization comes from and where the real power comes from.
00:31:25.584 - 00:31:54.066, Speaker A: So I'm gonna leave it at that because I gotta power through the rest of what I've got here. But essentially, I highly suggest giving this blog post to read it short. It'll give you some more details on what treasury is. But compound is leading the charge here, being pioneers. Again, this comes just one year after, or like just over one year since they launched the comp liquidity mining program. And I put a tweet out before saying, you know, is compound finance going to launch Defi summer round two? Because they launched Defi some around one. It'd be poetic if they basically, you know, reinvigorated Defi.
00:31:54.066 - 00:32:11.854, Speaker A: And we had like another really massive ethereum based defi with like L2s out there and stuff like that. I don't know, we'll see, you know, still two months left of summer for the northern hemisphere. Maybe it'll happen in my summer. As I've been saying, defi summer round to end of the year, you know, you heard it here first. No, no, I'm joking, I'm joking. Anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. A couple more things to get through.
00:32:11.854 - 00:32:43.254, Speaker A: Alchemyx basically put out a thread today or yesterday, going through a few updates that are coming to the system. So as I mentioned, their return ETH program was a big success. With over half of the ETH being returned. There's going to be a special NFt for those people with, with Al ETH. They have upgraded their testing and tooling and added additional security features. They plan to reopen AlF to the public later this week when they are sure everything is safe and the cap of two K Alf will still be in place and remain there. And Alchemyx v two auditing has begun.
00:32:43.254 - 00:33:10.950, Speaker A: So that's the coolest bit to me of this announcement, I guess. Al, Ethan, Alchemy speed two are tired here, but yeah, and there's like a few governance things to vote on as well. So yeah, really great updates out of Alchemyx here. And the last thing I wanted to talk about was something that Raul Jordan posted where he said prismatic Labs is taking an initiative to fully drop the ETH two terminology from our Ethereum client. We believe it is the right time to clarify. There is only one Ethereum now. Raul is one of the core devs at pry Labs who builds the prism client.
00:33:10.950 - 00:33:46.198, Speaker A: Just some context there. And he goes on to say ETH two was used as a way of differentiating the work on proof of stake plus sharding from current core dev. And it stuck. As we get closer to the merge, it is critical we reduce confusion for users, especially as a large portion of Ethereum consensus nodes are running our prism software. We urge all implementers to do the same over the coming months. Pry Labs is an ethereum, sorry, prism is an ethereum consensus client and will remain so moving forward into the removal of proof of work. This is I guess like going back to what I was saying maybe a few weeks ago from Danny Ryan trying to push this out there, that there's going to be a, an execution layer and a consensus layer.
00:33:46.198 - 00:34:17.246, Speaker A: The execution layer is going to be basically ETH one and kind of like, I guess technically sharding later on. And the consensus layer is ETH two and basically, and the beacon. So the terminology basically happens, like the beacon chain is considered the consensus layer. The execution chain is where all the kind of like stuff happens, right. All the smart contracts, all the stuff that we do on layer one today. So those, that's the terminology that I'll probably going to be using going forward. I still probably use the term ETH two just because a lot of people are familiar with it.
00:34:17.246 - 00:34:46.846, Speaker A: But if you see the developers and more people using these terms of like consensus, I guess, layer and execution layer, just know that the consensus layer refers to the beacon chain, the actual proof of stake consensus. And the execution layer refers to the execution layer. Right. The Ethereum blockchain itself that we know and love, that executes smart contracts, you know, has houses, your, your assets and all those sorts of things. But anyway, I've gone over time, gonna leave it at that for today. So thank you again everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:34:46.846 - 00:34:52.614, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
