00:00:00.410 - 00:00:42.266, Speaker A: Welcome back everyone. This video is brought to you by Etherspot, an all in one EVM compatible platform that accelerates ideas and Ethereum product development. Etherspot allows you to access multiple chains via their unified API, get real time notifications, and have your application bootstrapped in a matter of hours instead of months. This also means that developers can now create cross chain dapps without deploying on multiple networks. If you're new here, I'm Jack and on Eth the blocks we help web two developers get into web3. If you can't decide what blockchain to deploy, your project on Etherspot can help. You can deploy on any of the blockchains listed here, or even all of them at once.
00:00:42.266 - 00:01:22.520, Speaker A: This allows you to use the unique traits of each blockchain, giving your product a competitive advantage over other of Ethereum based products. If you don't see your favorite chain listed here, feel free to contact the team and they may be able to add it for you. There are a lot of great features packed into this platform. For example, Etherspot has created metatransactions so that users can use Dapps without needing the native gas tokens of a blockchain. Transactions batching is another nice feature. This allows developers to combine many transactions into one, simplifying their DAP's UX and cutting transactions down at the same time. These transactions can also all be done without RPC switching, which makes controlling smart contracts easier and improves the user experience.
00:01:22.520 - 00:01:59.358, Speaker A: You can also create payment hubs which are only controlled by you. These hubs will hold all of your assets in a pool with unlimited amounts. When you create new applications, you can easily transfer resources to a new payment hub for that specific app. Another feature is peertopeer payment channels. Their PTP transactions all happen offchain on an internal ledger, so there is no cost involved with transferring assets. All ERC 20, ERC 721, ERC 115, and sidechain derivative assets are transferable. They're already powering some big projects, including climate, dow staking, DAP, airdrop me tool, and the pillar wallet.
00:01:59.358 - 00:02:30.062, Speaker A: The developers behind Etherspot aren't on building either. More exciting features will be coming out in the future, including superfluid cross chain streaming integration. This will allow developers to create superfluid streams with the Etherspot SDK and their associated smart wallets. You can develop your own trust in EtherSpot's platform by looking through their code. The SDK is all open source and free of charge. Go ahead and check out their GitHub if you don't want to read through all the code, then you can check out the audit ran by consensus. Diligence a professional security team.
00:02:30.062 - 00:02:43.980, Speaker A: I will leave a link to their report in the description. Start building your project now by visiting the Etherspot playground or reach out to the team. I'll leave links to their sites and social media accounts in the description. Go check them out. Thanks for watching and I'll see you later.
