00:00:12.090 - 00:01:22.658, Speaker A: Welcome everyone. So today I wanted to discuss community building in the age of web three, as I call the talk. And the idea is to dive into what it entails to try to build a community living up to the standard we like to promote around here. So transparency, accessibility, inclusivity and so on. So this talk is of course informed by my own experience building the community of DeFi friends and we try to do things differently and learn the view things along the way. But yeah, I guess first the main question before we dive into the solution is what exactly are we trying to solve for, what's the problem here? There are several ways to frame it, but essentially that's kind of where I would go. The question goes more like how do you expect to really, truly build decentralized protocols if you cannot even decentralizely organize a party? Let's say let's start small, let's start with we go to theater together or we go to a club and we organize this in a truly inclusive manner, decentralized.
00:01:22.658 - 00:02:13.910, Speaker A: And then if we can figure that out, maybe we move up the stack of managing some money together, outputting a stable coin doing all those fun stuff. So this is here where you have essentially the four main points that we try to work on at DeFi funds. So having a system that is transparent, running as much as possible on on chain mechanism so everybody can audit it, a system that is resilient, obviously it's not a DeFi protocol. We're on social stuff here, it's still a factor. Accessibility is probably the biggest one for a community. So a community where everyone can join, everyone can participate, and everyone can eventually become someone important of that community if they do enough contribution. And the last one is kind of tied, but also a bit different, the ownership of the community by the community.
00:02:13.910 - 00:03:10.902, Speaker A: So its ability to take decision and essentially craft the community, impact the future of it. So yeah, it's a bit of a core question is how do we build a community that is credibly decentralized so it can output protocols whatsoever? That would be themselves interesting in their approach. But essentially to go to the broader context, keep in mind that in DFI we're pretty much still at the stone age of how we take decisions. So most protocols are still one token, one vote. You can come in 1 minute before the end of the vote and vote with 15 million votes and all of them will be implemented instantly. So they have like very little filtering on top of just the base brutal prehistorical logic of one token equal one vote. My weapon is bigger than yours, I wait more essentially.
00:03:10.902 - 00:03:45.922, Speaker A: So I think we can go much farther as kind of also to have in this context of how can we introduce more element into that computation, essentially to make it more relevant to community building. Okay, that's a problem. Now let's talk about the scope. What is essentially this community governing upon? And so here we go more into the specific of all solution at DeFi funds. I believe there are other ways to do that. But yeah, so this is how we roll. So essentially that's kind of like the C subpieces of the Dao, if you may, that we're looking to decentralize here.
00:03:45.922 - 00:04:45.640, Speaker A: So there is an idea of a ranking, some form of measurement of the contributions of the member. There is a question of moderation, you have to edit, move message around, question of curation, what content do you put forward in the community, the social presence. So there is a Twitter account potentially lens other stuff, the internal governance of the community, they take some votes, they decide and all of that is run by an infrastructure the community decide on and operate. So it's also one of the core questions. So this is a bit of a zoom essentially on the previous one to kind of show you the main questions that goes behind each topic. But yeah, all of them kind of have a relevance and it's not just for the fun of it. So for instance, ranking, you might be like okay, why do you want to rank in a community or whatsoever? The goal is again to be able to use it as a tool to take better decisions and essentially give more influence to the people that are the most committed to the community.
00:04:45.640 - 00:05:35.814, Speaker A: So in that sense it makes a lot of sense. So yeah, let me go straight into the system because I'm not sure about the time here. So how we implemented it at DeFi France essentially and how we go about this approach. So at DeFi France essentially everything is built on top of a discord board. And that's the first thing is we try to essentially integrate everything on top of discord. So we hear where the conversation is already happening, where the members are already and we're not adding friction to the interaction with the community. So here it's, sorry the slides got a little shut up, but essentially it's an overview of how it works to propose something through entirely the discord on DeFi Friends and how the flow goes.
00:05:35.814 - 00:06:34.758, Speaker A: So essentially you have community member that will suggest an idea, discuss an idea in a channel and through a specific commitment they can formalize it into a vote. So usually it goes with a big of back end force. It's not straight from hey guys, let's do that. And then people vote straight on it. It usually has feedback, input and eventually it's kind of refined into a proposal and then members can react with a squirrel emoji to kind of express their intent to put this as a vote. And all is based on the scoring, the Demeter, the bot keeps it's all based on threshold. So as long as there is enough quorum of Blay as we call it, the discussion is put to a vote into the proposition channel and then from here committee members can simply vote yes, no, ponderated again by the ranking and this gives us a clear result on the decision.
00:06:34.758 - 00:07:06.110, Speaker A: So everything that is blue on the graph is essentially on discord. So you can see from a member perspective it's all on discord. Of course, there are stuff that are outside discord. So the execution of the proposal itself might require other things like moving assets. So on the Gnosis safe and every proposal is documented, of course. So this is another output to GitBook you see at the bottom part. But yeah, the goal was really to make it as easy as possible for the user, for the community members to get involved.
00:07:06.110 - 00:07:41.466, Speaker A: And yeah, they can do it straight from discord, which is really cool. So I had a preview on the previous one, but this is how Demeter or Bot run. So it has this kind of blade, we call it wheat in English, an internal currency. Essentially it's just a point system, it's not transferable, it's not a token. And the goal of it is really to achieve this ranking we were talking about earlier. The way it works is it's inherently social. So like you can't farm blay on your own, it's more about other people reacting to your messages that will give you blay.
00:07:41.466 - 00:08:24.826, Speaker A: And it really depends. It's a bit like a quadratic approach where it's weighted depending of how much play does the person interacting with you has. So typically to give you a use case, I guess everybody will understand a guy that is totally new. So zero play at all, but comes in and put an amazing contribution in a channel and gets, let's say Sir Diziak right here. Quite the whale to react to him, to say thanks man, you did a really good job, give him some emojis. He will get a nice blade transfer on this interaction because he got like a blade heavy person to signal that he was a positive member. And there is also another interesting thing which is a decay.
00:08:24.826 - 00:09:16.014, Speaker A: So essentially decay is quite fast with the vision to essentially you might be a good member now, but you cannot essentially do nothing for a year and still be massively influenced member with massive influence a year from now. So it decayed quite fast and we saw quite a movement on this one. So this is just to zoom on the system, maybe a bit too much, but this is literally the use case I was telling you about. No, it's a bit different. But essentially it's a guy saying thanks to Nolan, one of our early member in a special channel and he got quite a few reactions, specific reaction. So essentially this guy found quite a bit of blade, especially for the person that is quoted in the message here. So the big winner here is Nolan getting tons of blay but apparently he helped a guy recover a wallet and it's not the first time he did that.
00:09:16.014 - 00:10:11.422, Speaker A: So I guess it's a good thing he's getting some blay, right? So it's just a zoom on those Emoji based system. They kind of work for quite a few things and this is just kind of going through. So, for instance, we use them to move message around too, just through a simple Emoji. Same thing with a threshold, people can move messages. So here you have, for instance, a newcomer sorry, yeah, a newcomer asking a basic question in a more advanced channel, the community can just react to move this question to a beginner channel and the bot will implement the action automatically as soon as the threshold is here. It's also used for creation, so you have this little floppy disk reaction that creates just essentially saves a message in a specific channel to make it easy to find again. So this works the same way okay.
00:10:11.422 - 00:10:35.810, Speaker A: For moderation and for governance. Can I walk you through it? So I'm just going to go a bit farther to the result. Essentially, I guess you have quite a few docs on DeFi Friends online. Anyway, if you want to see a bit more, the proposal passed. A lot of it is in French, but it's a French community, so sorry. Not sorry, but yeah. So I guess the whole goal of this was decision system organization.
00:10:35.810 - 00:11:13.406, Speaker A: So what have we done with two years roughly of that system running? What has been achieved? So, there are quite a few things. The first one we're quite proud of is decentralization of Meetups. We went from organizing only in Paris to now organizing in five, six cities. There is even DeFi France, Belgium. So we're growing, we're spreading. We had quite a few community led initiatives, depending on the moment, some related to tokenomics. One was like a DeFi dictionary, working groups of all sort, and we even have some infrastructure focused projects.
00:11:13.406 - 00:11:54.226, Speaker A: So the Demeter itself was upgraded. So, for instance, at first wasn't able to manage the Twitter account, and then we voted an extension of Demeter to Twitter and implemented it. And now you can literally manage the DeFi fronts Twitter account through directly the Discord. So like little core addition. And in terms of how it works concretely, I think what we're quite proud of is the accessibility. So we saw quite a lot of essentially newcomers emerging through DeFi Friends, through the Blaze system and other things. And it's quite dynamic in terms of the top holders, it changed a lot and it really usually reflects the people that are active in the community right now.
00:11:54.226 - 00:12:37.310, Speaker A: So in that sense it's pretty positive. Now, of course, what can we do better? We have two main shortcomings right now, so the first one is you might have heard about Discord GitBook and so on. So you're like, okay, this is fine. Maybe it's aligned with web three values, but it's still a good or web two company hosting most of your infra. So definitely migrating to lens. Finding another solution for Discord and so on channels we can truly own would be a step forward. But it's obviously hard to replicate the same level of integrations we currently have on Discord on a more decentralized solution.
00:12:37.310 - 00:13:44.740, Speaker A: The second point is probably like, I guess the main one. It's what type of decisions you're trying to take with this infrastructure? And we run into the limit kind of realizing that this works really well for Organization of meetups, for instance, or things that are quite targeted, that have a goal and are not too long term and strategic. But when it comes to more strategic decision for the community, it's really hard to reach a consensus with. A system this horizontal and inclusive and so there are some topics where we kind of hit our heads against the wall and for instance, we're trying to articulate a yearly budget for the sponsoring of the meetups. So essentially where there will be a budget collected once by the DeFi Friends Group Association whatsoever then distributed to all the organizer. We failed to reach agreement and we're back to the all solution of every organizer collecting their own sportsmanship themselves for every event. So obviously not ideal but kind of we weren't able so far with the structure to find a proper solution for that.
00:13:44.740 - 00:14:00.300, Speaker A: So yeah, that's it for me today. I have some time maybe for the questions one, two yeah, any question? I think we have time for one maybe.
00:14:11.170 - 00:14:35.826, Speaker B: You mentioned there's a budget if there's a budget there's money and this is all about money, right? DeFi in the context of DeFi France how do you manage money? Is that related to ble? Are there certain key holders? Is it a multi SIG? I think maybe you put up the Gnosis safe. How does it work?
00:14:35.928 - 00:15:12.460, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, no surprise here. It's mostly a gnosis safe, but we don't have that much assets to manage. At the end of the day, it's mostly airdrops or I don't know where the actual assets come from, but we're not talking of a big treasury. But in that case we're mentioning of essentially collecting a yearly sponsorship budget and then redistributing it to projects. So there would have been a bit more info on that frontier. But it's a safe and the signers are elected by the community, essentially and they renew them, maintain them, remove some of them when they want. Thank you.
