00:00:09.680 - 00:00:46.250, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Well, thank you for coming. It's always hard to follow. Just after sunny, it will be quite straightforward presentation about what I think is kind of wrong in the DeFi world and how we can fix it. So, I'm Reida, I'm the founder of the Key foundation. The key foundation is about building bridges. Bridges between traditional finance and decentralized finance, bridges between actual real life businesses and DeFi.
00:00:46.250 - 00:01:15.316, Speaker A: The first product that the key foundation has delivered is club. It's a neo private bank that offers investment opportunities to people that belong to that club. And it was the first utility of the key token of the keychain. But we're not here to talk about club. We're here to talk about DeFi. So who here in this screen knows what this is? Yeah, don't be shy. Yeah, there's people that know what this is.
00:01:15.316 - 00:01:52.316, Speaker A: It comes actually from osmosis. Do you see? What does this represent? I think that this represents what is completely wrong about DeFi. You have a curve that goes to the sky and then it just crashes down. This is Defi. It builds value on top of hopes and expectations, leverage, and a lot, a lot of trading and collaterals. And personally, I think that this is wrong. And this is like the accurate version of what DeFi is.
00:01:52.316 - 00:02:55.980, Speaker A: These are actual DeFi traders building leverage, which is some kind of scaffolding, and they use the below stage to build the next stage. And this is how the fake value is actually being built in. So it's cool because a lot of people are able to extract value before the others. But at the end of the day, it's kind of like depressing to live through those bull and bear cycle and be very, very happy and end up completely wrecked. My vision of crypto assets, my vision of DeFi, I think that for the last 40 to 50 years, we have kind of reached the limits of capitalism, and we've been fucked by capitalism. And crypto blockchain has been created to fix that. In my opinion, crypto assets is the best tool to build something new, to build what I call stakeholder capitalism.
00:02:55.980 - 00:03:37.264, Speaker A: Crypto assets are the vector that connect a project, a vision, a mission, with its community of stakeholders. And the community of stakeholders are numerous. You have the investors, you have the users, you have the founders, you have the teams, you have all kind of actors that actually participate to that. And the asset gets the value from the activity and the value that is generated in the ecosystem. So a lot of assets have been created, like unitoken, curve, token, like all of those ecosystems that actually get value out of the usage, governance, transaction fees, and is shared with the community. This is actual value. It works.
00:03:37.264 - 00:04:12.626, Speaker A: Why? Because it's an infrastructure. People use those infrastructure. But at the end of the day, a lot of people in the space think that all of those assets get value in some kind of magic way. Those assets needed liquidity. So Dexs, Amms, osmosis, Uniswap have been created. So this is how, like, the idea of traditional finance has started to dig in and come into the crypto space. So basically, liquidity has been created and then, like, the vision of traditional finance has started to also chip in.
00:04:12.626 - 00:04:44.740, Speaker A: So borrowing, lending, leverage has been created. But at the end of the day, what happened with traditional finance ended up happening also in crypto and Defi. A lot of hopes and expectations. That's what we've been hooked to in the crypto space. I like this meme, it's a cute one. Enters the key foundation. So what I said, we try to bridge real life businesses, real value, to defi.
00:04:44.740 - 00:05:55.112, Speaker A: So this is why the keychain has recently undergone an upgrade that helped it become an L1 protocol that enables real businesses, real value, being built on top of it. And I'm quite happy to talk about one specific company that is currently building a system that I find quite exciting to bring continuous real value into Defi. I'm talking about rewards, which is a company that builds loyalty tokens for brands, to incentivize a community of consumers to have positive action toward the brand. So how does it work? It restores the power of the brand lovers and enables you to interact with the brand. And it's a single app for community ownership. So if the brand launches an NFT, then you have it on your wallet on rewards, and if you have tokens of that brand, then you have it on your wallet on rewards. So the app is completely connected to the keychain, and the token lives in the keychain.
00:05:55.112 - 00:06:58.868, Speaker A: And actually the brand lovers are able to interact with the brand through those systems. You are, for example, a customer of eleven Paris. So eleven Paris is an example of a brand, a real life brand, fashion brand, that has 80,000 customers, and they are the first ones that have created a loyalty token connected to Defi and that actually lives on the keychain. And they have built a virtuous circle and ecosystem of stakeholders that enables them to enhance the engagement. So you stack your LVN tokens, you stake them, you get access to tiered services and rewards, and then depending on what you buy with eleven Paris, then you get more LVN tokens. And those LVN tokens, either you use them to buy other products with eleven Paris, or you use them to get to the next tier of services and rewards. Eleven Paris chips in 1.5%
00:06:58.868 - 00:07:56.404, Speaker A: of their revenue to buy back the LVN tokens so that they're able to redistribute them. So they have created like a very virtuous token economics about the LVN token. So that there is scarcity, but also there is demand and value that accrues to the token a few numbers that are quite interesting. So eleven Paris is a company that generates $18 million of revenue. And in the last two months, with just the NFTs and the token, they generated three hundred k of revenue from something that is actually not their core business. And this is just direct value that have been created with the tokens and the whole defi space. What's quite interesting is that all the people that receive tokens and NFTs, 100% of them, have actually converted as users of rewards because they are engaged.
00:07:56.404 - 00:08:49.440, Speaker A: And what's even more interesting, all of the holders of the NFTs receive weekly payments of LVN tokens, more than 32% of click through rate among those customers. This is actually massive because the repeat business actually becomes bigger and the investment that has been done by eleven Paris is actually minimal. The return of our investment is crazy. There is value that has been created, value created from customers that use their hard earned money to buy products on eleven Paris. And part of that money goes into the token that goes into defi. And I'm quite excited to say that starting yesterday, a pool has been created on osmosis. The pool 772 with a base pair XKi Lvn.
00:08:49.440 - 00:09:54.844, Speaker A: I'm just asking for people that work at osmosis to merge the pull request so that people can actually buy LVN tokens if they want. I think this is just the beginning, and actually I'm quite excited that we have created this new term called Brandfi Branded Finance. And this is just the first step. The LVN token is gonna become an asset of value that customers engaged customers need to own to benefit from their brands benefits from services that money can't buy. And the LVN token could be used, for example, by the same company as a collateral to get access to more liquidity, to invest in other projects. It could be used also to fund community products. I think that most of the brands are going to chip into this vision that is actually getting executed with the keychain.
00:09:54.844 - 00:10:27.760, Speaker A: And we're in talk with a few of the big names in the fashion industry, but also in other consumer services. And we're quite excited to see that we're going to bring tens of millions of dollars of real value into the Defi ecosystem, into the cosmos. Thank you very much. If you have any question, I'm really happy to answer. Yeah, I think we have time for one question. Are there any questions?
00:10:36.740 - 00:11:01.000, Speaker B: Thanks a lot for the speech. It was very interesting. And I agree with your vision of Brandfi. It's pretty great what Z Eleven is doing and their vision. But do you think that big names in web two or traditional companies will be able to have the same paradigm shift and we're able to give up maybe parts of the centralized aspect and part of their revenue for this kind of model?
00:11:06.670 - 00:12:05.146, Speaker A: Thank you for the question. It's actually a very good question. So I think actually it's not only thinking, it's actually numbers that we see. It's not giving up part of their revenue because they already give part of their revenue for acquisition and getting new customers. What's interesting and what we saw is that there was a raise of 15% of orders because those people actually got engaged with those just nfts and not even the whole system. So the people that get engaged more than with just like, hey, you're a member of Eleven Paris and you get access to 5% discount, et cetera, et cetera. If you engage them in a more financial way and also providing them in the future with more governance rights towards the brands and access to new stuff that they didn't have access to and like it's kind of becoming transactional.
00:12:05.146 - 00:13:02.000, Speaker A: I think that the repeat business from those guys is going to be bigger and the value that you give back, which is maybe 1.5%, 2% of your revenue, actually you get it tenfold in repeat business. What's important in a business? Repeat retention. That's the most important part. If you have a business that has a 60 80% retention rate, then you don't even need to invest in acquisition at a certain point in time because everyone is here, they love your product and they will bring you also even more people. That's what brand fi and loyalty tokens are going to fix. And also it will create another angle that brings you to a point where you think, I'm part shareholder of that company, why would I buy my shirts with that other company? The money is going to actually, with eleven pairs, the money comes back in my pocket.
00:13:02.000 - 00:13:57.692, Speaker A: So I'm going to buy, when I'm an investor in a company. I only use the services of that company. Why would I use the competitor? Well, if I don't have the choice, I would do it. But obviously, I think we're getting into a point where transparency, trustless environments, and crypto is enabling something that was not possible previously, which is liquefying the whole value of businesses and finance in a very homogeneous ecosystem of stakeholders, customers, partners, et cetera, et cetera. And I think that, and also, just to let you know, we're talking with big brands like international and also brands that are in the stock market, the only point that is actually a problem for them is regulation. That's the only issue they have. They want to create loyalty tokens.
00:13:57.692 - 00:14:12.030, Speaker A: They just don't see the regulated route to do it without being sued by the SEC. They want it. We just need to provide them with the framework. Thank you so much, Radar.
