00:00:00.520 - 00:00:32.770, Speaker A: Welcome back, Rust Gang. And if you're joining us for the very first time, my name is Bogdan, and this channel is all about the Rust programming language. In today's video, I'm going to be going over four reasons why you should learn Rust as a web developer. Now, surprise, surprise, I come from a web development background myself, so this topic hits close to home. But before we get started with the video, if you want access to a free rust cheat sheet, which I know you do, then head over to let's get rusty.com cheat sheet. Alright, let's jump into the video.
00:00:32.770 - 00:01:37.908, Speaker A: Reason number one to learn Rust as a web developer is if you've tried systems programming in the past and hated it. Personally, I remember the frustration I felt going from writing code in JavaScript to writing code in c, which is a much more complicated language that allows you to shoot yourself in the foot a million in one ways. If you have felt a similar way, you'll be happy to learn that Rust gives you all the advantages of c being performance, low memory usage, access to low level system resources, but also provides modern conveniences. For example, Rust has a built in package manager and build tool called cargo, which makes it easy to share code. On top of that, Rust has a system of ownership and borrowing that prevent you from making memory safety mistakes. And lastly, Rust has built in functional features such as algebraic data types, closures, and iterators. On a similar note, reason number two to learn Rust as a web developer is to gain knowledge of systems programming.
00:01:37.908 - 00:02:45.748, Speaker A: Don't get me wrong, changing the color of a button from red to blue on a webpage is great and all, but wouldn't it be even better to know how to program things like databases or operating systems? Well, learning a systems programming language like Rust not only benefits you because you get to learn low level systems programming concepts, but it also means that you can pretty much build any type of software you want. Reason number three to learn Rust as a web developer is that Rust has first class support for WebAssembly. Now, sure, WebAssembly works with many other languages such as c, but the Mozilla team has done a great job building a robust ecosystem around Rust and web assembly. This is actually why I personally became interested in Rust as a web developer in the first place. So if you're currently a web developer and you're interested in web assembly, Rust is a great language to learn along with the web assembly technology. The fourth and final reason to learn Rust as a web developer is the hype around Rust. As of this video, Rust is the most loved programming language, according to the Stack overflow developer survey.
00:02:45.748 - 00:03:26.206, Speaker A: For six years in a row, big companies like Facebook, Google, and Microsoft are adopting Rust, and companies such as AWS are using Rust in production for critical infrastructure. And the developer community around Rust is thriving. Not to mention there are great learning resources, such as this YouTube channel, available to you. All right, that's it for this video. If you enjoyed it, then make sure to karate chop that like button, body slam that subscribe button, and don't forget to backhand that notification bell. Lastly, if you want access to a free rust cheat sheet, which I know you do, then head over to letsgetrusty.com cheatsheet.
00:03:26.206 - 00:03:29.710, Speaker A: And with all that said, I'll see you in the next one.
