00:00:00.840 - 00:00:28.817, Speaker A: What is up guys? Taiki here. Today I'll be discussing the price of Luna, the terr ecosystem and how you can earn yield on your Luna without taking on impermanent loss risk. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. Okay, so obviously let's first discuss the price of Luna because this thing has been going bananas. I mean obviously the recent price action is like pretty strong. But I mean even like if you take a macro review like since July, it's just going up and to the right, right? I mean as long as you like didn't get fudded out of your bags and like you know, didn't get liquidated.
00:00:28.817 - 00:01:31.645, Speaker A: I mean like how can you be down on Luna? But obviously I remember like back on Saturday when bitcoin dumped like 42,000, my bag of Luna was up 18%. It was actually crazy and I think it actually put a lot of eyeballs into Luna just because I feel like Luna is one of those assets that's not really paid attention to. I feel like a lot of crypto, Twitter, social media, they focus on Solana, Ethereum, Avalanche just because they have a lot of marketing, right? And there's like EVA Labs and like the Solana, like ftx, they spent a lot of money marketing these assets, whereas Terra doesn't really market them. So you know, when people actually start learning about the terror ecosystem, you know, I think it's going to, you know, be met with positive price action. Now I don't really think it's going to just go keep going vertical just because Astroport got delayed, right? It got delayed next week and like Mars also got delayed to January. So I think until those two protocols are actually live, I don't necessarily think that you know, there's going to be some like crazy price action. I mean, you know, the markets, I mean could price it in ahead of time, right? And you know, maybe those events are solid news or whatever.
00:01:31.645 - 00:02:19.485, Speaker A: For example, like the Mars event in January, maybe this thing goes like a hundred dollars, you know, that could be a solid news, right? Because everything could get priced in. But you know, I'm just like macro bullish Luna, I love the tokenomics and I choose to hodl it, right? I have no intentions of selling it anytime soon. So my goal is to is like asking myself how can I earn yield on my Luna? Because I don't want to sell my Luna and I don't really want to provide liquidity for Luna just because I think it's going to go up and impermanent loss is a pain in the ass. So, you know, before I get into farms, it's kind of over or let's kind of celebrate, right Tara entering the top 10. You know, I think this was, you know, inevitable and I think, I also think it's inevitable that Terra is going to flip polka dots over time. It's going to flip XRP over time and I think it's going to flip Cardino over time. You know, I just think it's not going to happen overnight, it's not going to happen this year over the macro scale.
00:02:19.485 - 00:02:53.105, Speaker A: I do think that even if it doesn't flip Cardano, it should get to the market Cap Cordano where it's at now roughly 45 billion, maybe even higher. As long as bitcoin is bullish. So just macro bullish. So let's kind of first discuss Stater Labs and the community farming event that just went live today. So I talked about Stater Labs I think last week and the new asset they're introducing called Lunax. So Luna X is a liquid derivative of a staked Luna. And why this is important is let's kind of discuss down here.
00:02:53.105 - 00:04:01.831, Speaker A: So when you stake your Luna on Terra station, yes you're yield, you receive airdrops or whatever, but you can't really use it in defi, right? Or you can't really use it in T5, right TerraFinance because I mean it's a staked and if you want to use your Luna right in the Terra ecosystem, you have to unbond it, which takes 21 days. What Luna X allows for is that you can stake your Luna right and receive airdrops, receive staking fees, but also have Luna X be liquid and be able to use it in decentralized exchanges and in other protocols such as anchor and terra swap, etc. So how it works is that Luna Luna X is an auto compounding accrual token like AUST that can be minted when users stake with Stater using the liquid staking pool. So you know, it's ausd is essentially USD that appreciates roughly 19.5% over time, right? So over time AUST is going to be worth more USD. So similarly if the staking reward for Luna is 8%, 12 months from now, 1 Luna X is going to be worth 1.08 Luna, right? Because Luna X is accruing value and the power of Luna X is you can actually use it right now to farm with.
00:04:01.831 - 00:04:32.875, Speaker A: So and also when you have Luna X You're also eligible for airdrops. So what you can do now is that you can essentially stake your Luna X and receive yield. Right. And be paid SD tokens, which is a state or token. So this is the application, right. I'll provide links in the description for everything but the farm right now is if you provide liquidity for Luna X and Luna, you get to receive 25 or I mean the entire pool receives 25,000 SD a day. It doesn't really show the APR APY, so I don't really know what that is.
00:04:32.875 - 00:04:52.187, Speaker A: But this essentially has zero improvement loss risk just because you're taking Luna and you're pairing it with Luna. So I would think of this as to simplify things. Right. Stake your Luna and earn sd. Okay. And you know you're also, also your Luna X while you're farming with it is going to be accruing value. Yeah.
00:04:52.187 - 00:05:11.923, Speaker A: And also provide a link in the description of the step in step guide, a step by step guide. But keep in mind you have, you have to be in a liquidity fighter position. Right. So if you have 100 Luna to start out with, you have to stake 50 of your Luna, right. So you have 50 Luna 50 Luna X and then provide liquidity on Terra Swap. Right. And your links will be in the description here.
00:05:11.923 - 00:05:33.907, Speaker A: And then you know, you just, you're just gonna be farming. So I don't, I don't know if this 26% APY is accurate, but that's what's on this article. Hopefully the team updates this over time. But I mean this just came live today so you know, you should expect them to, you know, just slowly update the website and don't expect everything to be perfect. Day one of launch. Okay, so state of labs there. So I'm not going to be participating in this one.
00:05:33.907 - 00:05:56.779, Speaker A: Right. I just wanted to share with it, share with you guys because I just think it's a cool opportunity and I'm just like generally bullish. Liquid staking protocols or just like the utility of. I'm not necessarily bullish as the state or token just because the tokens in the Terra ecosystem tends to bleed against Luna. Right. Luna just outperforms every token in the Terra ecosystem. I think one exception might be Astroport.
00:05:56.779 - 00:06:26.151, Speaker A: I think Astroport can actually do well. Right. And astroport is coming December 14th, the lock drop at least. So what I'll be doing is I'm just going to essentially take all my Luna, right? All my Luna that I've been accumulating since July and just put it into the Luna B Luna pool. So similarly to the Luna Luna X pool, this, this essentially has very little impermanent loss risk. So in my mind I think of this as staking my Luna to earn Astro. And I think I'll be locking my Luna for like roughly six months.
00:06:26.151 - 00:06:47.911, Speaker A: I mean I haven't really. I need to see the numbers first and I need to think through it more. But you know, I don't really plan on selling my Luna right. For at least six months. Maybe, maybe I'm too bullish, maybe I'm too optimistic. But you know, I bought my Luna in July and I don't really plan on selling my Luna until it hits long term capital gains. So I might as well just take my Luna and just lock it up and earn Astro.
00:06:47.911 - 00:07:16.531, Speaker A: Because ASTRO is going to be the uniswap curve and balancer of Terra ecosystem. They're not going to have any competition. They're going to essentially be like the monopoly of the entire terror ecosystem. I think they're going to have billions of tvl. I think it's going to just be a token that's, that's going to be good. And hopefully if you've been, you know, following me in Luna since July, you know, and you've been using the target system, you'll be eligible for the ASTRO airdrop coming I think when I think like December 27th. Right.
00:07:16.531 - 00:07:36.809, Speaker A: Or the 28th because Astroport launch got delayed eight days. So I'm assuming that you'll receive your astro tokens on December 28th. Right. So hopefully I'm hoping it's like a four figure airdrop, maybe five figures if you're super optimistic. But you know, I think it's going to be a pretty decent airdrop and I'm really looking forward to it. Farming Astro. I'm just bullish Astro, bullish Luna.
00:07:36.809 - 00:08:05.771, Speaker A: And if I can take my Luna, stake it essentially internastro. Why not? Right? Why not? That's what farming is all about. And you know, let's kind of discuss like why the price of Luna has been going up. So obviously I talked about the tokenomics of Luna and why, you know, I think Luna has the best tokenomics in crypto or one of the best tokenomics in crypto. Right. There are a bunch of good projects out there, but essentially like if the demand for UST goes up, you have to burn Luna to compensate for the increased demand in ust. And obviously this thing is just going up into the right.
00:08:05.771 - 00:08:52.611, Speaker A: And I think one of the reasons there's so much demand for ust is because one of this project, that one of these. What is this? There's this new USC strategy on djambox for abracadabra money. So I've been talking about Abracadabra as well. I've been farming spell with my stable coins and whatever. But you know, this is an interesting pool and I think you can actually earn pretty good yield on your, on your stable coins. So essentially what goes on in the background is you can take your ust, deposit it into Abracadabra and then you can borrow mem, right, which is a stable coin. And in the back end Digenbox, they're going to take your USD 85% of it, Bridget to Terra, deposit it into anchor, right? And you can, it'll take your ausd, bridge it back to Ethereum and use it as collateral.
00:08:52.611 - 00:09:45.721, Speaker A: And you can kind of loop this, right? So imagine you have $10,000 of USD deposited as collateral. Let's say you borrow $6,000 worth of MEM, right? And you know, most of that gets bridged to Terra. And you know it's earning 19.5%, right? You know, because this is earning 19.4% and then you know it's going to bridge the AUSD back to Ethereum, uses collateral, borrow more MEM, bridge that back to their ecosystem on anchor, Mint AuSD, bridge that back. So it's kind of like looping this entire thing where your deposit USD, which is earning roughly 19%, you borrow MIM against that position, you convert that MIM to AuSD, Bridget Terra deposit in anchor to Akusd, back to Ethereum, then use that as a collateral to borrow more MEM and kind of loop this over time. And it's kind of funny because this DJ box strategy is actually number three in terms of tvl, right? So there's convex.
00:09:45.721 - 00:10:43.697, Speaker A: Try crypto on Ethereum, that's number one in TVL on Abracadabra. And there's this stake deep urine vault here. And then you know, UST is number three. This DJ unbox strategy, it's pretty funny just because there's a lot of demand to borrow mem, right? So as you can see, the MEM left to borrow is $55, right? So like every time this, this pool opens up, like everyone wants to deposit UST into this pool just because the yields are pretty insane. And you know, with the tokenomics of UST and Terra, I mean, if more people are buying UST to enter this, then Luna has to be burned just because there's like, there's like incremental demand for ust and you have to burn Luna to compensate for that. So a funny Twitter account you can follow is Mim Replenishes. It's a Twitter account that kind of tweets whenever, you know, Mim gets replenished, right? So for example, you know, right now no one can really deposit into here, but let's say Tomorrow there's like 10 million MIM that's available to borrow this thing.
00:10:43.697 - 00:12:00.267, Speaker A: This Twitter account is going to tweet and say hey everyone, it's available, right? And what's funny is that obviously you know, there's always these tweets and they get like no interaction, right? Like no one really cares, right? But for memory planners, when 100 million mem are available to be minted on Ethereum using USD's clander, look, look how much engagement that this tweet gets because everyone is waiting to deposit USD into this djin box strategy just because you can earn pretty decent yield. So Eric goes through at best is like why, why is there so much demand, right? Saad, who's like why is this? What is this? So it kind of goes up a strategy and if you actually loop it 10 times, you can actually earn like up to 160%. So I don't recommend looping it this much, right? Just because sometimes UST does depeg just a little bit and you don't want to get liquidated but maybe like you loop it five times or something. I'm not necessarily like doing this just because I don't want to operate on Ethereum, but you can kind of see how much demand there is for USD on the Ethereum minute. And obviously when you can earn 19.4% on anchor, no people are just going to be buying USD, right? And what does, what does that do? Well the number of USD goes up and more Luna is burnt and you know, price of Luna generally just goes up over time, right? And that's kind of why I'm super bullish. Super bullish Terra.
00:12:00.267 - 00:13:12.587, Speaker A: And there's this website called Terra analytics which kind of goes over how much Luna is being burned every single day. So I've heard that this numbers isn't perfectly accurate, right? So don't, don't quote me on this but as you can see, I mean it's kind of just like, like just the supply chains of Luna, right? If it's negative, it just means Luna is being burned and Luna is just being burned every single day just because people want USD, right? People just want USD and there's like so much demand for USD so you know, just bullish Luna so two options if you want to stake your Luna or Neil they're stater right Just provide liquidity here earn SD tokens hopefully they update the website with accurate APIs or just wait until December 14th and enter these Luna and be Luna pool and this is what I'm doing. I think the longer you lock up your position the more ap y or the higher APY you receive. So I'm just going to plan on locking it up for like roughly maybe like four to eight months. Right. I feel like that's accurate and I don't want to be in this like up only mindset where I just like lock up my I just keep locking my assets for like two years or something. But that's what I'll be doing and so if you like the content, please like and subscribe.
00:13:12.587 - 00:13:20.835, Speaker A: Leave a comment in the comment section below. If you want to know how I'm navigating the markets, check out the private Discord link will be in the description below. Thank you guys for watching and have fun farming out there.
