00:00:00.250 - 00:00:00.800, Speaker A: You.
00:00:02.130 - 00:00:45.302, Speaker B: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap silvergate bank shuts Down Silvergate Capital Corporation, the holding company for Silvergate Bank, one of the crypto industry's most important banking partners, announced that it intends to wind down operations and voluntarily liquidate the bank. The decision was made a week after it failed to file its annual Ten K report with the securities and Exchange Commission and said it was investigated by the US. Department of justice. The announcement tanked the stock by more than 60%. The bank's wind down and liquidation plan includes fully repaying all deposits. Silvergate Capital has yet to decide how best to resolve claims and preserve the residual value of its assets, which include proprietary technology and tax assets.
00:00:45.302 - 00:01:49.082, Speaker B: The news comes despite Bloomberg reporting earlier in the week that Silvergate was working with regulators to prevent a complete shutdown of its operations, with examiners from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation sent to Silvergate's headquarters last week to review the bank's books and records and a move authorized by the Federal Reserve. Last week, Silvergate Bank shut down the Silvergate Exchange Network, or Sen, its instant settlement network developed for its many crypto industry customers. However, all other deposit related services will remain operational as the company works through the wind down process. The bank's choice to close down operations and liquidate is expected to have significant implications for the crypto industry as a whole and will likely be closely watched by regulators and other financial institutions in the space. In fact, on Monday, White House Press Secretary Corrine Jean Pierre had said it was, quote, aware of the situation with a troubled crypto bank and would continue to monitor reports. In a video for Unchained, Caitlin Long, founder and CEO of Custodial Bank, says that this failure isn't a reflection on crypto.
00:01:49.226 - 00:02:02.430, Speaker C: This is actually a canary in the coal mine for bank regulators, and I do hope they see it as that. This has nothing to do with crypto. It has to do with how fast the payments can settle, which means bank runs are going to happen a lot faster.
00:02:02.590 - 00:03:03.622, Speaker B: New York AG claims Ether is a security new York attorney General letitia James sued Seychelles based crypto exchange Kucoin for violating securities laws. James claims Kucoin has been offering tokens, including Ether, without registering with her office. This marks the first time a regulator has claimed in court that Ether is a security. James asserts that Ether's value is dependent on the efforts of others, including vitalik Buterin, and that it meets the definition of a security under the Martin Act, new York's anti fraud law. Kucoin is also being accused of selling Unregistered securities via its product Kucoine, similar to the recent case with Kraken, which settled with the SEC for not properly registering its staking services. Finance US gets approval to buy Voyager's assets Bankrupt crypto lender Voyager Digital received approval from a US. Bankruptcy judge to sell its assets and transfer its customers to Finance US in a deal valued at $1.3
00:03:03.622 - 00:03:57.538, Speaker B: billion. Binance US will pay $20 million in cash to Voyager and take on crypto assets deposited by Voyager's customers, with the customers crypto assets accounting for the bulk of the deal's valuation. The deal's approval comes despite objections from the SEC and other state regulators. The SEC initially cited concerns over how Binance US could afford a transaction of such magnitude. However, the regulator was later overruled by the bankruptcy judge, who found the objection to be, quote, vague and lacking concrete evidence. The deal's approval marks a significant win for Binance US and Voyager creditors, who could potentially recover 73% of the value of their deposits at the time of Voyager's bankruptcy filing. The ruling could set in motion the process of transferring customer accounts from Voyager to finance, and when it is closed, Voyager customers will be able to make withdrawals for the first time since last summer.
00:03:57.538 - 00:04:45.526, Speaker B: In related news, a judge approved the company's agreement to set aside $445,000,000 after an FDX entity sued it for loan repayments. The parties agreed to participate in nonbinding mediation and establish a framework for the litigation of remaining disputes. White House proposes new crypto tax treatment in its fiscal year 2024 budget proposal. The Biden administration included a provision that would subject digital assets to wash sale rules, which means that tax deductions on selling assets at a loss and quickly repurchasing the same or a similar crypto investment would be eliminated. Similar to the treatment of stocks and bonds. The administration estimates that this change could result in roughly $31.6 billion in revenue over ten years.
00:04:45.526 - 00:05:32.466, Speaker B: Three AC founders Launch New Exchange. The founders of collapsed crypto hedge fund three Arrows Capital Or. Three AC kyle, Davies and Suzhou raised $25 million for a new venture called Opnx. The platform will specialize in bankruptcy claims trading, allowing creditors to sell their claims quickly without waiting for a long bankruptcy process. The platform lists bankrupt crypto firms such as FTX, Genesis, Celsius, Blockfly, Mount Gox and yes, Three AC itself among the claims it will service. The firm estimates a market size of $20 billion and will cater to investors too small to qualify for OTC deals. Thankfully, Zhu and Davies did not call it GTX because, quote g comes after S as was initially pitched.
00:05:32.466 - 00:06:26.774, Speaker B: Separately. Rook, a liquidity profile on ethereum backed by Three AC, experienced a surge in activity, with its token rising 23% on speculation of the fundraising. Alameda Sues Grayscale Alameda Research, the bankrupt crypto trading firm related to FTX, has taken legal action against Grayscale Investments, the creator of the largest bitcoin fund. Alameda alleges that Grayscale's quote, self imposed redemption plan is obstructing shareholders from receiving $9 billion in value related to the bitcoin and ethereum trusts. The lawsuit was filed in the State of Delaware's Court of Chancery and seeks injunctive relief to allow FTX's investors to obtain over $250,000,000 in net asset value. Elameda holds 22 million shares in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust and 6 million shares in the Grayscale Ethereum Trust. Additionally, the suit claims that Grayscale's Management of $1.3
00:06:26.774 - 00:07:26.730, Speaker B: billion charged over the last two years violates the trust's agreements, and the firm used fabricated excuses to prevent redemptions. Alameda sells stake in Sequoia this week, Alameda has also agreed to sell its interest in Sequoia Capital to the Abu Dhabi Sovereign Wealth Fund for $45 million, according to court documents filed on March 9. The deal is part of FTX's bankruptcy proceedings in which the company is selling its investments in early stage crypto and tech ventures to repay creditors. The potential buyer is owned by the Abu Dhabi government and already invests in Sequoia. Still, the deal is subject to approval by a Delaware bankruptcy court, but could be closed as soon as March 31. Meanwhile, Sam Bankman Fried's lawyers informed a federal judge that he may ask to delay his criminal trial scheduled for October 2023. They say he needs more time to review large amounts of evidence that prosecutors have collected, including cell phones, laptops and Google accounts of former employees.
00:07:26.730 - 00:08:41.022, Speaker B: Companies tied to Tether used False documents according to the Wall Street Journal, firms backing Tether, the company behind the most widely traded stablecoin USDT, allegedly used falsified documents and shell companies to circumvent the banking system. These entities apparently used, quote, shadowy intermediaries to maintain their access to the global banking system. As per an email reviewed by the Wall Street Journal, Tether owner Stephen Moore detailed how one of Tether's major traders in China provided fake sales, invoices and contracts for each deposit and withdrawal. Tether associated companies also allegedly hid their identities behind other businesses and individuals. Moreover, Tether and its sister company Bitfinex, reportedly unsuccessfully attempted to expand their bank access through the once crypto friendly Signature Bank. Tether called the report, quote, wholly inaccurate and misleading and stated that they routinely and voluntarily assist law enforcement organizations in preventing money laundering, terrorism and other crimes by bad actors. Finance Wanted to hire Gary Gensler According to text messages and documents reviewed by the Wall Street Journal, Binance tried to hire crypto public enemy number one as an advisor in 2018.
00:08:41.022 - 00:09:21.038, Speaker B: Yes, we're talking about Gary Gensler before he became the chair of the SEC. At the time, Gensler was teaching a course on blockchain and money at MIT's Sloan School of Management. After meeting with Ella Zhang, Binance's former head of ventures, and Harry Zhou, co founder of Binance backed OTC trading desk Koi Trading, Gensler reportedly declined a role as an advisor to the crypto exchange. The documents indicate that Binance had a legitimate concern regarding potential repercussions from US. Regulatory bodies. A presentation shared in 2018 called for the establishment of a separate US based entity to insulate finance from US. Enforcement, which eventually led to the creation of Binance US.
00:09:21.038 - 00:10:17.486, Speaker B: A Finance spokesperson told the WSJ that the presentation was rejected and had never been implemented. In related news, Finance branded stablecoin BUSD's market cap has been declining since the SEC issued a Wells notice to its issuer. Paxos investors have redeemed over $8 billion from BUSD, which has resulted in its market cap falling below $8.5 billion. Is the Celsius buyout coming? Celsius network has been granted exclusivity by bankruptcy Court Judge Martin Glenn to repair a plan for exiting bankruptcy until the end of March. Despite the US government and creditors asserting that liquidation is an option, celsius currently has a potential deal with Nova Wolf that could lead to the crypto lender exiting bankruptcy protection by the end of June. Nova Wolf, a financial technology company, had originally entered into an agreement with Celsius to explore the possibility of an acquisition.
00:10:17.486 - 00:11:05.950, Speaker B: However, Celsius is still open to, quote, better offers from potential buyers. According to the firm's attorney. The bankrupt company and its creditor committee have already met with another buyer on an alternative proposal to Nova Wolfs. If Celsius chooses a different bidder, it intends to offer Nova Wolf up to $20 million in breakup fees. In a separate move, Celsius allocated $25 million to address the high demand for withdrawals from its platform. The embattled crypto lender has also burned $500 million worth of wrapped bitcoin in an effort to manage its exposure to volatile crypto assets. Time for fun Bits paul Krugman Gets Rugged paul Krugman, the famous economist and longtime crypto skeptic, has fallen victim to the very thing he criticized.
00:11:05.950 - 00:11:58.874, Speaker B: He recently took to Twitter to complain about being blacklisted by Venmo, a centralized payments app. Niraj Agarwal of Coins Center tweeted back at him, quote, Were you trying to buy drugs or assassination? And posted a screenshot of a tweet of Krugman's in which he said that it wasn't a big deal to use a third party for payments. Quote Unless you're buying drugs, assassinations, et cetera, samson Mo replied, chatting by facts must be tedious. A dig at Krugman's famous 1998 proclamation that by 2005, the Internet's effect on the economy would be no greater than the fax machines. And of course, Michael Sailor wrote, Bitcoin fixes this vitalik Buterin Sells $700,000 in Shitcoins when the creator of Ethereum makes market moves, people pay attention. Jenny Hogan from Unchained has the update.
00:11:59.002 - 00:12:27.818, Speaker A: So Vitalik Buterin recently sold about $700,000 worth of shitcoins, which are these joke coins that are often a huge waste of money. Not to be confused with regular cryptocurrency, which are non joke coins that are often a huge waste of money. But like a pop girl in a bar, Vitalik actually got these coins for free. It turns out that sometimes people will send free coins to a celebrity in the hopes that their followers will copy them and then buy the coin. It's not a bad strategy. I mean, people do copy Vitalik. That's why unicorn T shirt sales have gone through the roof in recent years.
00:12:27.818 - 00:12:49.300, Speaker A: Anakin can have positive repercussions. One time, Shiba Inu sent about half their total coins to Vitalik, and he donated them to a COVID relief fund. I have to imagine is the sole reason why the pandemic is wrapping up after a mere three years. Is it rude to sell something that somebody gave you for free? My mother would say yes, but in my defense, I think that a gift card for egg freezing was kind of a weird birthday present.
00:12:50.070 - 00:13:20.620, Speaker B: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Elliot and the ongoing fight between Grayscale and the SEC, check out the show notes for this episode. If you've been enjoying Unchained, please share with family, friends or others who have an interest in crypto. Unchained is produced by me, laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Zach Seward, Juan Ivanovich Sam Sriram Ginny Hogan, Ben Munster, Jeff Benston Leandro Camino Pama Jimdar Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening. It.
