00:00:00.170 - 00:00:08.640, Speaker A: Before we jump into the app, quick reminder that nothing on Bell Curve is financial advice. Everything is just a meme. Hope you guys enjoy.
00:00:11.170 - 00:00:14.574, Speaker B: All right, baby. First episode of season two. We are back. How we feeling? Back.
00:00:14.612 - 00:00:17.082, Speaker A: We are pumped. We're pumped to talk to Hasu and Chris.
00:00:17.146 - 00:00:20.346, Speaker B: Dude, this is I am stoked that we got these two on this episode.
00:00:20.378 - 00:00:26.950, Speaker A: I mean, Hasu was very hesitant. It was very tough to get people for this season. Hasu is, like, all these questions leading up to it. I don't.
00:00:29.130 - 00:01:24.182, Speaker B: Know. But it really needed to be these two guys, and I'll explain why. So if you guys haven't listened to the kickoff and where we kept jason and I kind of detail our entire thesis for the season, I highly recommend that you go do that. But here's the TLDR, just in case you didn't. What we're exploring in this season is this idea of business governance fit, right? So what type of organization is it appropriate to match the Dow governance with, and what are kind of the advantages and disadvantages of doing that in episode one? This is the episode where we really dive into this idea and explore some of the nuance of business governance fit, right? So many people are familiar with this idea of product. This was a blog post that was written by Chris, which is why it was so critical that we got him on for this episode. But it's this idea that everyone is very familiar with, this idea of product market fit, right? Which you need to pick the correct market, and then you need to pick the correct product, and that's when the magic happens.
00:01:24.182 - 00:01:57.130, Speaker B: But in reality, there's probably one layer, especially when it comes to crypto, that's deeper than that, which is what is the right form of governance for you to pick, right? Because you could be a corporation, right? Like what blockworks is. But as soon as you start to build a protocol, then you have a Dao, which is kind of inherently a more decentralized structure. And for some types of organizations, that's good. For some types of organizations, your aim or where you're at in your maturity, your lifecycle is not necessarily super beneficial for being decentralized. So we really dig into that in this episode.
00:01:57.210 - 00:02:16.066, Speaker A: Really good app. Very excited about it. Huge shout out to our sponsor, Reserve. If you don't know Reserve, we're going to talk more about them later in the show. But Reserve is the easiest way to design, deploy, and govern stablecoins, backed by a diverse set of assets with access to DeFi, yield, and insurance. Super interesting. Very excited to partner with Reserve.
00:02:16.066 - 00:02:19.318, Speaker A: You'll hear more about them later in the show. Should we get into it?
00:02:19.484 - 00:02:20.406, Speaker B: Let's get into it.
00:02:20.428 - 00:02:20.714, Speaker C: All right.
00:02:20.752 - 00:02:21.706, Speaker A: See you on the other side.
00:02:21.808 - 00:02:32.730, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome to episode one of season two of Bell Curve. You got me and Yano, obviously, and then we've got Chris on and Hasu fellas. Welcome to the show.
00:02:32.800 - 00:02:33.690, Speaker D: Thanks for having us.
00:02:33.760 - 00:02:35.330, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for having us, Micah.
00:02:35.430 - 00:02:50.686, Speaker B: Yeah, man, absolutely. I'm really excited to do this. So maybe we could kind of kick this off. I'd love to just get kind of a State of the Union. Your high level thoughts on Dao governance as it stands today. Hasu, maybe I can pick on you first. You had a great quote.
00:02:50.686 - 00:03:06.950, Speaker B: I heard that you said that when you started getting involved with Dao governance, you were a skeptic, and since being involved, it has only made you more skeptical. So maybe we could use that skepticism as a jumping off point. What's your experience been like actually contributing to Dows? And what's up with the skepticism?
00:03:08.170 - 00:03:45.970, Speaker C: Yeah, good question. I think I was very skeptical because I don't really believe in kind of very flat organizations where no party has a real incentive to do the work on behalf of everyone else. Right. So it's kind of a very obvious tragedy of the commons, in my opinion. And I didn't see any way that any of the projects today really address. So I was very skeptical. Then I did end up joining a Dao that was MakerDAO, the oldest, arguably most successful and most decentralized Dao there is.
00:03:45.970 - 00:04:12.570, Speaker C: And I did it for a couple of reasons. I mean, for one, I was just really interested in the project. I'm a bit of a banking nut. I love finance and banking and so on. So I just wanted to see how the sausages made a little bit. But I also thought, okay, maybe, you know, learn a bit about DAOs and maybe disprove my own hypothesis. But yeah, that is not really how it turned.
00:04:14.670 - 00:04:30.510, Speaker B: I think maybe I could call on you here. I think one of the you wrote a great piece called Business Governance Fit. Right. And I think hasu to your point, I think for those of us who've been involved in organizations with hierarchy, obviously too much hierarchy isn't great, but I think a lot of us understand why that exists.
00:04:30.590 - 00:04:31.074, Speaker A: Right.
00:04:31.192 - 00:04:50.666, Speaker B: So, Chris, you had a great analogy kind of of there are different types of organizations out there that produce different sorts of products. In addition to Product Market fit, these new types of organizations, dao should also be thinking about what is the correct governance structure for them. So could you kind of give us an outline of give us an outline, actually, of kind of like that post and why you wrote it?
00:04:50.688 - 00:05:25.618, Speaker D: Yeah, happy to. So maybe just as a little bit of background, because I think it'll be relevant. Earlier in my life I became fascinated with the open source movement and in 2015 decided to join GitHub, which is the home of open source. And I helped to build out some of the business functions there and led the acquisition with Microsoft in 2018. And the reason why that's relevant is because GitHub actually operated like an open source project for a number of years. And my job there was to help it kind of scale beyond that model into something else. And so that was kind of my role at GitHub for three years.
00:05:25.618 - 00:06:17.502, Speaker D: And I saw watching Dows in 2020, it reminded me of a lot of the issues we grew up with at GitHub. And I wanted to share back a lot of what we had learned. And part of what I had learned is that governance is not a one size fits all, and it really depends on what you're trying to optimize for. And in decentralization, I think we've added a new access to the governance equation that we don't quite fully understand all the trade offs for. And I wanted to share a piece that took one stab at defining what those trade offs were. And so the piece outlines what governance is, what trade offs different governance models bring, why certain types of businesses or projects would benefit from certain governance models, while for others, that exact same governance model may actually be a liability. So depending on what you want to build, you should wield governance actually as a competitive advantage.
00:06:17.502 - 00:06:22.120, Speaker D: And if you actually do it incorrectly, it can be a liability that really drags you on for a long.
00:06:25.050 - 00:07:12.920, Speaker B: You know, you kind of outlined this very neat, easy to understand, like a two by two matrix, right, of public and private and for profit versus not for profit. Maybe another way to understand this, and hasu I know you've used this analogy in the past, too, is to think about the governance structure for countries versus companies, right? So for companies like, maybe public for profit companies, it's pretty easy to understand. You're trying to maximize shareholder value, right? Like that's the bottom line that you're ultimately serving. For countries, it's a little bit different, right? You're not maximizing profit. There's probably a whole school of philosophy. We could do a whole podcast on what exactly governments are trying to do for countries. But ultimately, maybe it's something like serve the citizens, right? Increase the average day to day the beneficial life, basically, of a citizen or something like that.
00:07:12.920 - 00:07:45.150, Speaker B: So there's kind of like this blending, sometimes almost ideologically, of Dows being these open permissionless things versus companies that are actually you're trying to create shareholder value, you're trying to design a product or service. Right. And there are a bunch of different DAOs that exist in the wild today. I'm curious how you guys think about different categories of DAOs that might exist today. And maybe, Chris, as the author of that piece, how do you kind of think about what governance is appropriate for some of the major ones that exist?
00:07:45.730 - 00:08:38.510, Speaker D: Yeah, I think there are a couple different vectors that we can use to think about. This one that I'll use is just different layers in the stack from infrastructure to application. And I think infrastructure and protocols that are kind of at the core base layer have a different set of incentives and things that they're trying to optimize for than things that are much higher up in the stack in application land, that are more user facing. And these are generalities. And so there's nuance around every single one, of course. But I think in general, things that are lower in the stack, that are infrastructure level tend to want to optimize more for resiliency and robustness rather than pace of change. And actually that pace of change could be a detriment to what it actually is supposed to offer, which is that stability for others to build on top of them versus for user facing applications.
00:08:38.510 - 00:09:36.066, Speaker D: I think users are more demanding of the pace of innovation, new features and experimentation. They're more lenient on experimentation as well. So that's one vector I think that we can use. Another one is understanding whether or not this is something that's meant to continue to drive product innovation or something that's meant to be a little bit more social and kind of organic without necessarily a hard kind of for profit purpose. One thing that we can think about is there are lots of different groups that exist on the Internet outside of crypto, right? We could think about subreddits, we could think about Facebook groups, et cetera. And all of those have the potential to actually be dows and actually potentially share some type of value in addition to just sharing. Kind of think that's a I think.
00:09:36.088 - 00:10:14.506, Speaker B: That'S a very important point. Maybe it'd be helpful as well to go over some examples. And at some point I'd love to haso. I've heard you kind of talk about your adventures in layer one governance. So specifically ethereum. And maybe that's like in a lot of ways, that's like the lowest level of infrastructure, right? Actually, I would love to get your thoughts also on just Ethereum because I think when many people in crypto think about governance right, before we even zoom out and go to what governance really is, people think about voting in forums and making decisions about how to spend funds and grants and that sort of thing. I think that's even more well understood on kind of the app layer.
00:10:14.506 - 00:10:41.146, Speaker B: And maybe there's like the consumer facing app layer versus the infrastructure type app layer. So maybe that'd be like an Ave versus like a dYdX or something like that. But then there's one layer down, right, which is the layer ones. And I think that is the layer of governance. Frankly, I'm the least well attuned to I don't really understand how that works a lot of the time. Haste, I knew you were involved with EIP 1559. You would just walk us through how does governance work on kind of like the layer one e level?
00:10:41.248 - 00:11:33.542, Speaker C: Yeah. So I guess people don't really equate governance to layer one networks. But when you give a bunch of examples, then I think people they tend to see the parallels. And I think the example that everybody is most familiar with is probably the rift that eventually lead to led Bitcoin cash to spit from Bitcoin. Right. So that was a debate over how I mean, sort of it was sparked by a debate like how one core protocol parameter, really a technical parameter, should be changed. But it turned out that that parameter was a proxy for how people thought about the future of Bitcoin on sort of a more strategic ideological level, basically for how the project should grow and scale and so on in the future, what kind of approach it should take and what users it should target.
00:11:33.542 - 00:12:43.066, Speaker C: And so that really culminated in this one debate. And then Ethereum is kind of a bit of a different beast, so it has a much faster, what I would call heartbeat than Bitcoin. So Bitcoin really upgrades the protocol at an extremely infrequent pace. So maybe one soft fork every like two to three years. Nowadays, for Ethereum it's more, I think we have around two, sometimes three hard forks per year where a bunch of updates are kind of accumulated and then they are sort of bundled together and rolled out to the network and then everybody upgrades their software at the same time. And so the way that this is determined, I would say, really is by a technocracy, I think is probably the closest word. So there is a process that we would call there's a bit of rough community consensus on what features would be viable to have, but really most is kind of decided by a group, a very loose group, like no one appointed.
00:12:43.066 - 00:13:30.954, Speaker C: It's just like people who are kind of interested in one way in and have sort of built up the technical credibility to evaluate these features. And yeah, really, by sort of very rough consensus from protocol developers is kind of what's needed for a feature to get added to this new bundle and then eventually make it into the protocol. It's kind of the high level process. It's a bit more formalized than it sounds. So there's like a process that's called the EIP process. EIP is an Ethereum improvement proposal and there's a format that it has to follow and it needs to go through several rounds of testing, like review and then testing. And then for bigger projects, there's actually a lot of testing.
00:13:30.954 - 00:14:15.798, Speaker C: So for the merge we had something that we call shadow forks of Ethereum. So we actually forked the Ethereum main net, I think over ten times, just to simulate how the merge would be. And for other projects, we sort of commissioned academic research. So for, ERP, 1559, we commissioned not we, but sort of someone, I don't know what organization it was exactly, but commissioned sort of an economic study from Professor Tim Rothgarden and his group to see if the mechanism that they wanted to put into the protocol was economically sound and so on. So all of these things, I would say they all increase the chance that your proposal can eventually make it into the protocol.
00:14:15.894 - 00:15:23.406, Speaker A: So Bitcoin and Ethereum obviously started as these very centralized teams, right, where you have like two or three or four or five people working on the protocol, and then eventually they expand. Now they're kind of the you could say Bitcoin is like the money of the crypto world, and ETH is kind of the backbone. L one of the world that we're living in today. They've both become very decentralized and things move pretty slowly, actually. And that's like a feature, not a bug, you could say, because you want to have slow governance and slow product decisions at this infrastructure layer. When you look at the lessons that we've learned and taken and applied from ETH and Bitcoin's governance and how we've applied those to maybe Lido's governance or Uniswap or Aave or Maker or some of these what I'd call tier one DeFi protocols. Hasu, what do you think are some of the lessons that have gone that we've learned, maybe incorrectly, from how governance and bitcoin and ethereum work? And how should those maybe function the protocol stay, like, maybe function differently than have these 10,000 PFPs? Why? Because crypto punks, like, we have supply caps and tokens.
00:15:23.406 - 00:15:28.994, Speaker A: Why? Because Bitcoin cap supplies at 21 million. So I'm curious what lessons you think about here, Chris.
00:15:29.042 - 00:16:17.490, Speaker D: Yeah, I think it's a really important point because I think there are a few kind of milestones that we have reached with governance that were novel experimentations at the time. And I think people tend to copy them. And I think part of the reason is because when you're already a project that is at some level of maturity, I think it's really hard to change governance processes in the same way that for any corporation, it's really hard to change culture overnight. It's a very similar dynamic. And so it takes a long time to change culture, how decisions are made and how decisions ultimately end up getting executed. And then for startups, I think it's really risky to actually experiment on governance. And the reason is because that is fundamentally one of the defining things that will determine your success in the long term.
00:16:17.490 - 00:17:24.806, Speaker D: And so we're kind of caught in this weird dilemma where I think we would welcome more experimentation on governance, but in reality, I think it's really hard for anyone to do so because of the incentives that are there. One that I think is actually quite interesting, that's very novel is in the world of NFTs with Nouns Builders, where I was actually having dinner with Jacob at Zora last week. And they're very big proponents of nouns and very involved in that community. And one of the lessons there that I thought was really interesting was the reason why nouns are different are, number one, it's organically created from the start. So there was no funding that went into the project. And so you start with a set of believers who really want to actually use this for some type of value generation. And then number two, inflation is built into the system from day one, which means that it should trigger a fight or flight for whomever is part of it or whoever wants to join, right? So you know that if we don't do anything, that value is going to decrease because there's inflation built into the system forever.
00:17:24.806 - 00:17:43.950, Speaker D: And so any proposal or anyone who wants to join knows exactly what that target kind of ROI hurdle rate is for any proposal or anything that they want to do. So there are some experiments that are happening but we're kind of caught in this weird dilemma where it's just incredibly hard for anybody to truly innovate on governance.
00:17:44.030 - 00:18:37.422, Speaker C: I mean, definitely something that everybody copies. I mean, ethereum is kind of its fixed supply, it does expand, but it's not like anyone can print more of it and Bitcoin the same. And I think something that everybody copied is all of these tokens initially were like the issuer was not really clear whether this is like a security not in the legal sense, but in the sense that it securitizes some. Kind of voting rights in the system and plus a claim on future cash flows. Or if this is meant to be a monetary unit. And so I think a lot of projects they launched their tokens without really understanding how they relate to what's kind of the right mental model for issuing and using them. And then sort of they can't make any more of them and worst they just give all of them away at the start.
00:18:37.422 - 00:19:31.458, Speaker C: So you end up with projects like SushiSwap, for example, and they just give away like 95% of their tokens. And if you draw apparel to a traditional company, it means they just gave away 95% of their cap table without having any without it getting them to any semblance of product market fit or a competitive mode. And I mean, a project like that is just completely dead. There's no way to recover from that. It's just a mistake that sort of kills you outright. And so I think it comes from this misunderstanding that your token distribution is kind of same as your captain design and your captain design can make or break your business. And if you waste all of your firepower within your first year and it doesn't get you anywhere, then you best scrap things and start over.
00:19:31.544 - 00:20:17.826, Speaker B: Yeah, that's what I was going to say is I really like the way you frame that hasu is like if you're thinking about your token as a monetary unit or equity, because I was going to say the biggest thing that doesn't make sense carrying over from Bitcoin is the hard cap on a lot of these token projects. Because that's not the way the early stage equity works. Right. First of all, you have a cap table is totally assigned, but then the question isn't like, oh, this is the only equity that I'm ever going to issue. It's like if I can produce a higher return on whatever I use the equity for like an acquisition or something like that, then it makes sense for me to do that. Whereas on something like Bitcoin, which is a monetary unit or something like a digital gold, it actually does make sense to have that hard cap. And I think a lot of people just saw, well, this is the way that Bitcoin kind of did it.
00:20:17.826 - 00:20:24.930, Speaker B: So we're going to borrow this for our own governance where if you really thought about it, it just didn't make much sense at all.
00:20:25.000 - 00:21:22.182, Speaker C: Yeah, everybody just borrowed a lot from, as you say, from sort of the projects that were already there in Crypto, thinking that crypto is this kind of isolated area where everything is kind of new and magical. When the real examples where they should have been looking is kind of what organizations exist in the real world that are not tied to crypto and why have things evolved the way they did and for what reasons? Right, because I think you can sort of reverse engineer exactly why we arrived, like why companies work the way that they do, why the company is sort of the main form where innovation happens in the world and where we organize labor and capital formation and so on. And I think more borrowing and sort of less looking outside of crypto, less looking inside of crypto, I think would be kind of what I have been doing and what I would advise others to do.
00:21:22.316 - 00:22:04.846, Speaker A: When you look outside of crypto, the three hardest things to change at a company cap table, governance, like internal governance, like how decisions are made inside the company and culture hasu. When I think about your involvement in crypto, it's primarily three organizations, it's Maker, Lido and Flashbots come to mind. I'm sure you are involved in other ones. So two of those, Lido and Maker are like DAOs, I would say in the traditional sense of like a dao. The other one is Flashbots. And when I look at who's had, I mean, Lido's had a lot of success over the last year as well. But Flashbots has just been on an absolute tear the last nine months and I do wonder if some of that is because they've just said, look, we're not going to be a dow.
00:22:04.846 - 00:22:27.018, Speaker A: We don't want to have a token, we just want extreme. Like, we're just going to ship products incredibly quickly and have strong conviction and be able to ship. I just want to get your takeasu on your experience working on the dow side of things and then with more of like a centralized company like Flashbots, why you think Flashbots has had so much success and maybe if you could touch on that for a little bit.
00:22:27.184 - 00:23:02.662, Speaker C: Yeah, sure. So I think in terms of how decentralized they are, definitely Maker is the most decentralized and then Lido somewhere in the middle. So Lido has a maintainer company and it's sort of in the process of decentralizing its governance right now. Also with some of the proposals that we're working on, dual governance proposal. And then Flashpots on the other hand is just a regular centralized company. It's organized as a company but in terms of as companies go, I would say it's very flat and sort of non hierarchical. So it's actually closer to that.
00:23:02.662 - 00:24:15.390, Speaker C: But I have also in the past worked in startups and as a solo entrepreneur so I feel like I know how the more hierarchical side of things look. Although I've never worked in a traditional corporation or anything and I would say from seeing all of them definitely flashboards is sort of much faster moving than Maker for example, because it is much more hierarchical. There's clearer sort of goal setting, there's a strategy that we pursue and sort of people know how what they do roughly fits within the strategy of the organization. There's sort of more management, I would say, and information especially sort of disseminates much faster. I think this is something that I found this to be the most unnerving about Maker, about working in Maker. And it's kind of like I don't want to work in a dao again because everything being public is actually like terrorizing.
00:24:16.690 - 00:24:20.430, Speaker B: I totally agree with that. Yeah, totally.
00:24:21.970 - 00:25:46.620, Speaker C: It's just a very bad experience if you force people to live in sort of this kind of extreme transparency where Maker was to the point where people have private conversations, you get shamed for that because it's not decentralized. It's not decentralized enough. And I get why people are really scared about making MKR like a security because there's any kind of information asymmetry and so the response is well let's put sort of all of the information into the open and force everyone to have only sort of open conversations. But you have no idea how much that slows down the flow and dissemination of information in an organization. There's so many even though we are a remote only company in flashboards, there's just so much creativity and ideas and collaboration that happens just because you have people kind of in a private slack channel together or on a private call or stuff like this. And I don't know how other Dows do it, but this is a big problem. I think a Dow being a public space I think just puts it at an enormous disadvantage over a traditional company, even if you hold the other things the same.
00:25:47.230 - 00:26:22.802, Speaker B: Have you guys ever, any of you watch The Office? Have you ever seen that show? Do you know the episode? It's a joke where Michael finds out that Toby's the HR guy at The Office and everyone has been writing complaints and Toby just puts those complaints in. He calls it his file in New York, but really it's just a box under his desk. And Michael has this speech about how many of you went and complained to Toby and you thought you were being listened to. Maybe just did anything happen or did you just had a kind ear to listen to and then maybe you forgot about your problems and everyone's like kind of just had a kind word to listen. He's like, that is horrible. And he unearths it and creates this whole thing. It's the whole episode.
00:26:22.802 - 00:27:14.520, Speaker B: But it's like a joke. But it really did resonate with me. We're emotional human beings, try as you might, right, we're never going to put ourselves down into perfect code, right? Business and working in companies is a very emotional experience a lot of the time and I just don't think any amount of infrastructure on chain is going to change that. And I remember there was an instance specifically with Maker where an ex contributor to Maker basically wrote this really long post on the MakerDAO forum and Roon responded and it was just airing dirty laundry. Know, you get this expression that you're just reading disagreements in between colleagues and it was getting kind of nasty and in the details and I was like, this is not, this is not a positive thing to have happen.
00:27:15.370 - 00:27:54.770, Speaker A: I mean, it begs the question. Chris, I'd throw this to you. When you are hearing about like when you hear Hasu talk about Flashbots versus Lido versus Maker and you look out at the state of Dows today and you look at I keep mentioning some of these, like what I'd call the tier ones, like the Uniswaps and Ave's and Makers and Lidos of the world. Do you think that some of these protocols, they went Dow too early? They should have just let's actually remove the regulatory side of things for a second because obviously I think some of them went Dow because of maybe the regulatory arbitrage there. But if you remove that and just think about governance and building good products, do you think that they went Dow too early?
00:27:54.920 - 00:28:46.150, Speaker D: I think it's a good question. I think the answer probably depends on what type of protocol it is, to be honest with you. So in a scenario like lido, for example, I think having some type of decentralized governance is a signal for wanting to have credible neutrality and I think that's very important for lido in a way that maybe it's less relevant for some other protocols. So I think the answer depends a little bit depending on which protocol it is. But I think the overarching thing for almost all protocols I think that are considering decentralized governance is actually something that hasa you touched on even with Flashbots, it's not even necessarily that it's centralized or decentralized from a company formation perspective. I'll just call it that. It's actually more around.
00:28:46.150 - 00:29:34.974, Speaker D: How do decisions get made? And I think the thing that people get wrong most of the time is that they equate decentralized governance with no leadership and total flat hierarchy. And I think that's challenging. I think leadership is somewhat biological. And even like lobsters have hierarchy. In the absence of formal hierarchy, I think what you end up getting is shadow hierarchy. And that makes it actually, ironically, even harder to participate because people don't know where to go or what channels exist for them to actually be able to participate. And so they kind of have to work around kind of unspoken centers of power in order to actually contribute and actually think that's ironically counterproductive to having decentralized governance.
00:29:34.974 - 00:29:42.210, Speaker D: And so I think we need to split apart this idea of leadership and decentralization, because I think they're two different topics.
00:29:42.290 - 00:29:59.574, Speaker B: All right, everyone, brief break in the show here to talk about our newest sponsor, Reserve. So it's looking pretty bleak out there. It's not looking that great. We know that the one thing there's no bear market. Stablecoins stables, babies stables. We love those stablecoins, which is why we're excited to partner with Reserve Protocol. So let's just start with the basics.
00:29:59.574 - 00:30:39.170, Speaker B: What is reserve? It's a self service platform to build, deploy, and govern asset backed stablecoins, which can be integrated with DeFi or within the real economy. So the cool thing about reserve is basically anyone out there permissionlessly can take any set of, ERC, 20 tokens and use them to collateralize their own stablecoin. So the long term goal of the reserve protocol is to create a noninflationary currency that is stable on a month to month basis, but also a century to century basis. In the meantime, though, they're open sourcing design decisions for stablecoins, which is just super, super cool. I think one of the benefits that you get there is diversification. You hear it all the time in Finance 101. No such thing as a free lunch except for diversification.
00:30:39.170 - 00:30:41.078, Speaker B: That's what you're getting with reserve protocol.
00:30:41.174 - 00:31:00.174, Speaker A: Yeah, I've known the team for a long time. I spoke on a panel at SF Blockchain Week with Nevin? With Joe Carlson and Alex Gladstein. Really impressive growth that they've been able to have so far. Right. Their premier stablecoin is RSV. It is backed by three other stables. It's already used by over half a million people, transacting over $300 million a month.
00:31:00.174 - 00:31:18.962, Speaker A: Right now, like Mike was talking about, anyone can go create a custom bespoke stablecoin using the reserve protocol. You can back it by maybe specific USD stables, or you can get creative and maybe build something more complex, like inversely correlated assets. The branding, governance, and composition are completely up to you.
00:31:19.016 - 00:31:47.598, Speaker B: And lastly, if there are any builders who are listening and you aren't interested in issuing your own stablecoin, what you can do is you can stake reserve's governance token against your favorite stable strategies. So what you're doing there is you're providing backstop insurance to stablecoin holders. Not riskless, right? Not financial advice. There's definitely some risk in doing that, but it does allow you to earn yield, especially now in crypto when there are so few ways to do that. It's definitely worth checking out. So at the very least, you should click the link at the bottom of this episode. Go check out the reserve website, see all the cool stuff they're up to.
00:31:47.598 - 00:31:54.702, Speaker B: Most importantly, though, click this link. You got to give Jason and me some credit here. Give us some love, baby. Give us some love. All right, now back to the show.
00:31:54.756 - 00:32:50.978, Speaker A: Let's get into listened. I've been listening to this podcast by this guy, David Sinra called Founders, and he basically just dives into different companies. So he'll dive into Vans or Dunkin'Donuts and share the stories of all these great companies. Bloomberg was another one I just listened to, and it reminded me of the great man theory of leadership, or the great man theory of history, where it's like you basically have these great men or women throughout history who are born. And then most of history is created by if you look at all the big moments in history or the big centuries or the big time periods, they're usually one or two or three people have these massively outsized impacts on it. And I think there's this belief in crypto that that's not how things happen and that's not how impact is made. But really, when you look at from listening to this podcast, thinking about that theory, usually outsized impacts are created by one or two people.
00:32:50.978 - 00:33:24.000, Speaker A: And I think what you're going to end up seeing is Dows in the next cycle or maybe even soon. Is DAOs actually electing CEOs? I have a feeling that's going to start happening. You just saw with Rook, which is also in the mev space. I don't know if hasa you can consider them like a competitor with Flashbots, but they elected this guy Hazard to be their CEO. So it's like it is a Dow, but they elected a CEO. I think it's like every six months or every year, they're going to elect a new CEO. And I think you're going to start seeing that more and more.
00:33:26.450 - 00:34:02.794, Speaker B: I had maybe like framing that, just building on what Jason was saying there. And I want to connect it, Chris, with an idea that you brought up earlier on this program, which is there's a different type of governance structure that maybe corresponds to DAOs that are protocols that are closer to the infrastructure level and DAOs that are closer to the app level. That's a very interesting thought because you don't really see that analog in corporations, right? Like, you're not like, oh, it's a gas company, so it should have different corporate structure than an Internet company. Right. It's like all the same for every single one.
00:34:02.992 - 00:34:04.300, Speaker C: Is that true, though?
00:34:05.390 - 00:34:07.466, Speaker B: Unless you're Facebook or snap. I suppose. Yeah.
00:34:07.488 - 00:35:09.120, Speaker C: I mean, no. If you go back far enough. At T, for example, was granted a government monopoly, but they had to follow very strict rules about what prices they were allowed to charge and the kind of patents they had to license to competitors and what kind of amount of money they had to contribute to public research and whatnot. So I think you definitely and I think especially in energy, this is still a big thing today where there's a lot of government granted monopolies that are sort of the government almost like hands out any license itself is also like a government granted monopoly, right? So I think the government does control who gets to do business and the supply of producers in a given industry in return for them following certain rules. And so I think this is definitely a thing.
00:35:11.250 - 00:35:19.262, Speaker B: That'S actually a really interesting point. I guess utilities are probably maybe almost what you're describing in a way, because utilities are natural monopolies in most cases.
00:35:19.326 - 00:36:16.846, Speaker C: I think the way that this ties to what Chris said and what you said, I think it makes a whole lot of sense for a protocol like Lido that is basically a utility in Ethereum to be decentralized. And it would make a lot of sense for sort of if Ethereum were the government then to give Lido very concrete rules that they have to follow. But unless this is very hard to do and so it makes sense for Lido to replicate this as much as possible by using completely trustless, smart contracts. And I mean, it's possible like having no governance at all. So there are some protocols who governance is sort of an asset because they need to drive product innovation. They know they need to go to like two, three, four product cycles before they can get to a competitive advantage. But then you have products like Lido.
00:36:16.846 - 00:37:24.460, Speaker C: Lido would not really have to do much anymore and they can just sort of provide an excellent product for the users just based on their network effect and sort of their scale economies and just based on sort of the great user experience that they already have today. So they would really be interested in making a governance free, completely trustless product. But it's not yet possible for technical reasons that are related to sort of the ethereum layer one architecture that's still changing underneath them. And so for a project like Lido, it makes a ton of sense to it makes a ton of sense to sort of be as decentralized as possible. And then for other applications, it really doesn't make a whole lot of sense. So I think the framework that Chris laid out, I think is wonderful for that. I think if you have to drive product innovation, if your application sort of needs active management, et cetera, and you're sort of already a Dow today, you already decentralized today, almost certainly decentralized too early, because you will massively sort of impede your ability to do that.
00:37:24.460 - 00:37:33.520, Speaker C: Yeah, but I think it would get really interesting when we sort of get to talk about regulation and how it interfaces with all of this later.
00:37:34.610 - 00:38:40.962, Speaker D: Yeah. Michael, maybe I feel like where your question was going, maybe was why haven't we seen kind of more variance in governance for existing companies that we know about outside of crypto? And I think part of it is actually from a technological perspective. So I think it's really hard for I mean, what we have in a blockchain is effectively shared state and the simple way to understand it is kind of a shared database that everybody can access, read and write. And we haven't had anything like that in the past, which means that you have to build a little bit more vertically than maybe what we're able to do in crypto more broadly. And so I think it's possible to have kind of this vision of a more Lego blocks type of stack that does one thing extremely well, but is hyperconnected versus for some kind of prior business models. Once you give that away, then you've actually given away everything. And so we see this with AI companies today.
00:38:40.962 - 00:39:27.280, Speaker D: They have to build vertically because once you give away the model, you've given away everything. And so you're going to end up having people who build these models and algorithms have to build services on top in order to actually generate value. And what you end up getting is how can we create this platform with multiple products on top of it that kind of all utilizes and leverages that one model or that one data kind of advantage that you have? But I think in crypto, that data advantage is very different. And I think the advantage that you end up getting is if you serve one thing extremely well and you become hyperconnected into the ecosystem such that you almost become the point of reference or the Oracle for that specific thing. I think that's an alternative way of accruing value rather than having this massive multi product platform that we've seen in the past.
00:39:27.910 - 00:40:15.886, Speaker B: And that's also like a I mean, the lens that I kind of look at that as well, right outside of just the architecture of crypto, it's kind of like a capital allocation question in companies and you kind of saw it was very invoke. There were these large industrial conglomerates right around the time of kind of like GE. And then there's also kind of like arguably Internet conglomerates right now, not necessarily even in the US. But in China, for instance. And I think in a lot of ways that's because almost the core part of the business works so well, that you have this funny problem, right, of like, what do I do with the rest of all these funds that are coming in? And you kind of end up empire building. And in many cases, usually people kind of look at that and say this doesn't actually make a whole lot of sense. And then it ends up getting divested.
00:40:15.886 - 00:40:55.566, Speaker B: Like big parts of the business end up getting divested like in GE. I do want to, though, direct the conversation to Chris. Maybe I could ask your question here because again, I thought the framework that you kind of laid out for governance as it pertains to Dow today is like simple but comprehensive. But one thing that I would love to get your opinion on is timing and maturity of each of these organizations. Right. Because even if you look at something like corporate governance, corporate governance, every company starts as a private company and then it becomes public, right. And the governance throughout the course of the lifecycle of a company changes quite a bit.
00:40:55.566 - 00:41:16.702, Speaker B: Right. And I think in many ways, sometimes when I look at Dows, it's like maybe as an end state governance, this is actually the correct right. Or it's more directionally correct what you're trying to do today. But as a young organization, it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense. I'd love to get your thoughts on kind of maturity of these organizations and how that connects with governance.
00:41:16.766 - 00:42:04.722, Speaker D: Yeah, the short answer I think I don't actually know the answer to this, and I think it's an experiment that's actually being played out in real time. And the reason I'll present kind of two counterpoints that are kind of butting up against each other. On the one hand, I think what we end up having is this idea of progressive decentralization that I think has become popular, where you kind of innovate very quickly on the product side under a private umbrella of some. Sort where you don't have the noise, you don't have the scrutiny that you might get from the outside world. And you kind of have your own space to be able to build towards a vision that you believe. And that's pretty core to what a startup is, right. You're actually trying to change the status quo and by definition, it means that a lot of people won't agree with what you're building.
00:42:04.722 - 00:43:15.146, Speaker D: And so that's very, very core to the idea of building something new. On the other hand, I think we've come the thing that pushes us in the other direction, which is to become liquid more quickly, is that over time, if we end up building towards immense value and then becoming liquid, later, then you actually forego some of this building with the community, where then it's kind of like if I were to go to Jeff Bezos now and ask him to be my friend when he's already very rich and powerful and popular. It's kind of like you question, do you really want to be my friend or do you want it for a different reason? And I think it's somewhat similar if something becomes very popular already and you end up getting a lot of people that are in it solely to make money. And that becomes all the noise then actually becomes counterproductive to building a community around you that actually want to contribute back. And so those are the two kind of counterforces that I see. And I don't really know what the net of that should be, but it's something that is top of mind for me.
00:43:15.248 - 00:44:18.480, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's tough, right, because even from a founder incentive standpoint, you kind of hear the classic lore of Silicon Valley, right? Like people building something in a garage, you don't know if it's going to be worth anything. All these trials and tribulation that ends up being Apple. And that all sounds very well and good when it works out. That's one in a million and there's probably an enormous amount of mental health and stress and probably needless, right. And that's why you've started to see this trend of founders getting some small amount of liquidity earlier. And I think there's probably people love to make arguments in binaries when maybe the truth is like somewhere in between and there's some amount of early stage liquidity that's appropriate and good and motivating for a team. And I think on crypto, we've swung that way too far, and I don't think anyone on this call would probably advocate for the idea that you can have found a protocol and be worth $100 million overnight and somehow that's going to motivate you to do your best work.
00:44:18.480 - 00:44:22.522, Speaker B: It's really hard for me to see the logical leap.
00:44:22.586 - 00:44:56.380, Speaker D: Yeah. And maybe to add on to that just very quickly, if you look at some of the most successful projects in crypto, let's put bitcoin there as the example. Basically being liquid from the very start was a massive advantage for them because it created the effect of having 100 founders who were there on day one. Right. It creates this effect where more people feel a lot of ownership over the success of this project in a way that is harder to achieve when the project is already worth $100 billion. And so I think that's kind of the effect of that.
00:44:58.270 - 00:45:15.994, Speaker A: Is this possible to achieve anymore in crypto? Because I'm seeing all these funding announcements and you have protocols that should hypothetically become dows one day, but there's so much venture money in crypto now that the valuations are so high, I don't think it's possible to have that anymore.
00:45:16.042 - 00:45:29.058, Speaker D: Nouns would be the counterexample and they're early days, but they started entirely as a community owned thing. I forget exactly how much ETH they have in their treasury now, but it's a pretty vibrant community that exists.
00:45:29.154 - 00:46:16.678, Speaker C: Yeah, I would agree with you for sure. I don't think you can really replicate sort of the launch of bitcoin. I think nowadays everything that launches that has promise, I think is so oversubscribed. The ownership tends to be very concentrated before things sort of go on. Public markets where they sort of start to disperse a bit. So you will never really get to this effect of like, having 100 founders, I don't think. But I would also kind of ask under what condition that's good versus bad, right? Because in Bitcoin, you can very easily argue why it's a good thing for there to be 100 founders, because it's a protocol that doesn't need a lot of iteration, it doesn't need a lot of work.
00:46:16.678 - 00:47:09.682, Speaker C: What it does need is like Bitcoin's entire value is in its ownership distribution and its mind share. And so you can argue that sort of nothing is more important than getting it into as many hands as possible. But when you have other projects that still need to drive innovation, they need to iterate towards product market fit, then all of a sudden, if the thing is dispersed too far, that's actually to your detriment. Now we see, to give sort of a very more recent example, so we now see sort of Cosmos Hub 2.0 proposal. And this really surprised me and I think also a lot of other people, because I thought that Adam is too far gone. Basically, it's like nobody owns enough of this thing anymore, that it's not recoverable.
00:47:09.682 - 00:47:37.802, Speaker C: Basically nobody is incentivized to actually take this thing and build out a proper vision that allows it to drive value and capture that, which is still a very uphill battle for Adam. You can have also this version where it's somewhere you want the ownership to be very distributed, but then also where being very distributed is definitely to your detriment.
00:47:37.946 - 00:48:34.080, Speaker A: Makes me think about what are you optimizing for and maybe we could actually start getting into corporate governance and then also capital allocation conversations. When you look at Hasa, were you the one who proposed the I think it was you who proposed the thing for Maker, maybe like a different vision for Maker maybe two or three months ago. And I'm just curious when you think about the next wave of DeFi and the next wave of folks, there are a lot of people who are probably sitting here thinking, okay, maybe I'm going to get to a point. In the next cycle where I should decentralize and I should turn my thing into a dow and I should quote unquote, exit to the community. What are some lessons that you think that builders in DeFi should take from corporate governance today and both on product decisions and corporate finance and capital allocation? Hasu, I'm curious to get your take on.
00:48:37.410 - 00:49:45.430, Speaker C: This proposal. I made it a couple of months ago. It was a bit of a response to this other proposal that eventually passed from Mega's founder Rune Christensen. So he had a proposal that was very sweeping, very broad, sort of redesigned how all of Mega governance and some parts of the core protocol work called the Endgame proposal. And my proposal was sort of a bit of a response to that, a way to where I think sort of it addresses the biggest problems in makeup, but by making minimal changes and sort of then seeing from there and iterating towards something that's much more easy to implement and doesn't necessarily touch the core protocol. So the problems that I set out to solve is kind of in a completely decentralized protocol. The problem that we saw in Maker concretely was that there was just no agreement at all about what the vision for the project should be and then what strategy we should have in order to achieve that vision.
00:49:45.430 - 00:51:08.558, Speaker C: So there were like a lot of people all making sort of individually good proposals and then you have delegates and other people sort of voting on them, but there was no cohesion. These sort of proposals and initiatives were not pulling all in the same direction. And I didn't really care what direction that would be, but I thought it has to be like we have to have a process for all deciding on one. And then those who don't want to participate, they can leave. But at least sort of everyone who remains is running in the same direction and their work doesn't neutralize each other. Right? And I think this is sort of a core principle that you have in any effective organization where compromises, they just tend to be very bad basically, right? It's like it's okay if you decide A or B that you should sort of do one and then everybody sort of follows the group decision and they just execute on that with sort of everything they got. What I suggested was to have a core group in Maker that we called the Council.
00:51:08.558 - 00:52:34.190, Speaker C: And the Council would just be it would in many ways just take the role of a board of directors from a traditional company but set the very high level strategy for Maker and then it would make very high level capital allocation decisions. So just saying what Co unit, what coins do we want, how much budget do they get and what goals do they need to achieve. So just very high level kind of goal setting, but it really was supposed to be super high level because we wanted to give the Coyonets a lot of autonomy to solve these problems in a very creative way that maximally leverages the local knowledge that they have, right? And also unlock sort of collaboration between them and so on. It was sort of just a way to align the different very dispersed actors. But I mean, of course, once you sort of centralize power or sort of strategic decision making in such a way, you need to create a lot of checks and balances around it. And so the part that was supposed to provide that was twofold for one. You would have sort of the Council could only give recommendations and any decision would have to be voted on chain by MKR holders.
00:52:34.190 - 00:53:10.010, Speaker C: So the Council could, for example, say well, this is our budget for the next six months. Here's what we recommend and this is why. Or they could say even well, here's like three options for our budget, like one that's more aggressive, one that's more neutral and one that's maybe more hawkish or whatever, right? And then you can still have the MKR holders vote on that. That's the first part. So any actual recommendation has to be voted on. So all of the power stays with the token holders. And the second one was to provide something that we call a constitution.
00:53:10.010 - 00:54:25.666, Speaker C: So the constitution would encode on paper all of the things that we don't want to change about Maker. So kind of the high level vision of what the protocol is supposed to do and what's kind of the rights and responsibilities and values of the Maker community and the different stakeholders towards each other. And we were kind of hoping by formalizing a large part of what makes sort of the maker vision and strategy and then concentrating the rest of it that we would provide a very strong scaffolding that sort of aligns all of the other ecosystem participants to work together and work individually but while sort of always running in the same direction. And so yeah, so far the proposal obviously didn't go to Boat and Maker, it didn't pass and so far no other Dao has done this. I think if anyone does, it probably needs more work. I mean, I'm sure there's like a lot of things that we didn't think about because it was a bit rushed in response to this, but I think kind of the high level ideas, I still like them today.
00:54:25.848 - 00:55:12.878, Speaker A: So Hasu, why is this the right solution with this kind of board of directors or the council with these subgroups and core groups? That's the right direction and governance for Maker, whereas this Dao, but more centralized than Maker is the right solution for Lido and then like full kind of centralization but with a flat team is the right solution for Flashbots. Are those the right decisions for those organizations? Because that's just what they started with and you're kind of just trying to solve for what the team did in the early days? Or is that actually based on here's the intent of the protocol, here's the product direction that they have, here's the maturity of them. Maker's been around for seven years whereas Flashbots has been around for one year. Why are those the right things to choose there?
00:55:13.044 - 00:56:18.070, Speaker C: That's a great question. So I think at this point we have to talk about regulation just because regulation actually drives all of these decisions. Like we can talk all day about which governance model is better than another and in reality is everybody is deciding because they are trying to do regulatory arbitrage and they're trying to create a framework that lets them survive and grow decentralized. So I think there is definitely I mean, ethereum kind of is the prime example, right? Ethereum arguably started out as a security, as a common enterprise and then it became decentralized through its actions. I really believe that there should be something like a safe harbor where protocols can start out centralized for three years and then they have to like after three years they have to prove that they are decentralized. And we have some way of kind of of measuring that. I think that would be sort of an experiment that I would like to see what kind of that yields, right? Because right now it's not really there.
00:56:18.070 - 00:57:11.394, Speaker C: Maker, for example. Maker is a decentralized bank. I mean, Maker is sort of it issues USD deposits to foreigners. It's like a bank that takes sort of customers from Russia and Iran and all of these countries that the US doesn't like. And we already know they don't like the Euro dollar and optimally if they could, they would sort of bring the whole Eurodollar system under their control and sort of completely control money creation and reserve ratios and so on for a good reason. But the point is that Maker does have a lot of reason to be worried about regulators coming after them. And in order to achieve their vision, they definitely have to be resilient.
00:57:11.394 - 00:58:29.760, Speaker C: So Maker is very far on this kind of spectrum that Chris laid out where it does require a lot of resilience but Maker occupies. So if we sort of expand this like we have sort of left right, kind of like resilience and then agility Maker kind of it needs both really. It needs a lot of resilience because it's in a very delicate area where there's a lot of pressure from regulators, very motivated regulators as well. But it also is a bank and the Maker's kind of core parameter that everybody's looking at, and that is important to get right is how it manages its balance sheet. And these two are really difficult to combine. This is a really hard problem where well, you can say, oh, okay, let's just have Maker just accept on chain assets that are uncensorable in the real world like Eve. But then this makes the deposit on the other end completely unscalable and you completely cap.
00:58:29.760 - 00:59:33.518, Speaker C: How many people can use the Dice Devil coin without it breaking completely off pack because you just can't create enough supply of it. But on the other end you can make a coin like a deposit that's really scalable, but it's sort of backed by increasingly off chain assets like dollars in a bank account or sort of even like real estate or tokenized loans to kind of companies in the real world. And so it's a really difficult problem. How do you construct your balance sheet in a way that you both optimize for resiliency and scalability, like for both resiliency and scalability at the same time? And how do you design a governance mechanism that gives you both and it is just an incredibly. Intractable problem. And I by no means want to say that sort of our proposal would have magically solved these things, right? I don't know if it can be solved. It is very well possible that there is no equilibrium where maker actually achieves its goals over like a five to ten year time horizon.
00:59:33.518 - 00:59:48.458, Speaker C: And same, by the way, for any other D Five protocol. It's not guaranteed that any of these will survive because it may just be impossible to achieve resilience and scale at the same time.
00:59:48.544 - 00:59:59.930, Speaker A: Chris, what do you think about mean maybe that there is how much of this is just optimizing for regulatory arbitrary?
01:00:01.730 - 01:00:56.270, Speaker D: I think it's a tricky topic because there's a lot of uncertainty around regulatory right now, obviously, but I think there are very credible reasons outside of regulatory to do this. And part of it is to create resiliency and robustness even without regulatory overhang. I think even if we look outside of crypto, this idea of community participation in building products actually has proliferated very widely. It started, I think, with open source and the idea of collaborating on code, and you've started to get companies that are public companies today that were built on open source projects to begin with. That idea of community first building has spread to productivity companies like Notion and Figma that fundamentally rely on their communities to really do a lot of things for them. And then in gaming too. Right.
01:00:56.270 - 01:01:49.370, Speaker D: The success of Roblox and Minecraft are just two examples of communities actually building on top of effectively just tools that are given by the platform. And so this idea of the community participating and building something is actually already widespread and it's something that I think we could bet on for the next 20 years to continue and probably proliferate even more. So I don't think that this idea is necessarily all because of regulatory. I think we would have come to this experiment regardless because it's just the way that the world is moving broadly. I think regulatory muddies the picture a little bit on when you do it and how you do it. And I think there are also just tangible benefits to getting your community involved and actually participating. And the real question we have in front of us is how can we make sure that we do this? That becomes a competitive advantage for us rather than a liability.
01:01:49.530 - 01:02:47.300, Speaker C: Yeah, I just want to say I completely agree, Chris. There's definitely other reasons to do this other than regulatory. I think Legulatory provides kind of the frame that this all exists in, and it really kind of narrows down the design space a lot more than we would like. I think companies would like to stay startups for way longer than they can and then decentralize sort of as they grow progressively and also experiment with different models of sort of community owner, community ownership and so on. But none of these things, all of these things are currently sort of very tricky and I think it's always good to kind of remind ourselves like, what blockchains are actually good for. I mean, blockchains ultimately are kind of trust machines. They are really good at allowing people to make credible commitments towards each other and unlocking kind of cooperation and so on.
01:02:47.300 - 01:03:23.870, Speaker C: Governance is one of the main things where this can have a really big impact in the future. So if you ask me, is that governance on the blockchain doomed? Not at all. It's potentially one of the most interesting fields that there is kind of the way that people can make commitments towards each other and a company can say, well, you no longer have to trust me not to do XYZ because now the blockchain proves I can literally not do this computation. And I think that's just insanely powerful.
01:03:24.290 - 01:04:05.450, Speaker B: I have one question about that, Jose, because I've heard you say that before. I just pose this as an open question, especially for an early stage company. I wonder how you would view the trade off of hey, don't be evil versus can't be evil because it's written in the code. So that's obviously a positive. And that kind of solves some of the principal agent problem in corporate finance. But the other side of that is most of these protocols, these projects are less than two years old. I will say when we were at least starting blockworks, there was almost no decision that we made that I would have felt comfortable encoding in the fabric of the universe that we couldn't change.
01:04:05.450 - 01:04:17.454, Speaker B: So I would question, open question, maybe both of you, how you would trade off the benefits of immunability and some of that trickiness with the principal agent problem versus the inflexibility to change.
01:04:17.652 - 01:05:11.018, Speaker D: I think this kind of gets at the idea of credible neutrality. And I think credible neutrality is a spectrum. And so on the far end of that spectrum of credible neutrality, you have effectively governance minimization where you're ossifying something permanently into code and there's no way to change this thing. And the only way that we're going to have a different outcome is if somebody releases a new version that everybody else starts using, but that thing that's been released will continue to run forever. It's just that it's not going to get any usage. So on the far end of that spectrum, you have governance minimization. One step kind of more towards the middle, I think is decentralized governance, which is still some commitment to change things, but a commitment where we're changing things at probably a slower pace because this is now referencing Vitalik's post on concave decisions.
01:05:11.018 - 01:05:51.440, Speaker D: Concave decisions are effectively just the median opinion and median opinion moves. It does move. Like 100 years ago, women earned the right to vote, which is kind of crazy to think about now that they wouldn't be able to, right? So public opinion does move, but it moves very slowly. And then on the far end of that other end of that spectrum is effectively a dictatorship where you could just decide anything you want and keep changing things, whatever you want. But if you're really looking to build something where the core value prop is other people build on top of what you're building, then I think erring on the side of actually resiliency and robustness with the option to upgrade slowly over time makes a lot of sense.
01:05:54.370 - 01:06:58.850, Speaker C: I think too few people see it from the perspective of kind of the entire user value chain. So, yes, you can sort of argue that let's take the position of someone who's looking to build on any of these public blockchains. So what blockchain can they build on where they feel like, well, they're not going to get rugged. I don't know. Facebook rugged sort of its app developers or any number of web. Two companies were rugging sort of people building on their open APIs and so on, then, yeah, you can argue that sort of ethereum is kind of clearly the most decentralized today and it's like the least likely to sort of rack the applications that build on top of it. But if ethereum were to lose the other side of the market, the users, if it didn't provide enough scale and it lost its mind share, and it lost sort of like all of these other sides of the network, the new developers coming in, if it lost the scaling war, if it didn't position itself.
01:06:58.850 - 01:08:02.198, Speaker C: Ethereum is extremely strategic, by the way, about sort of what they think they're going to do. Ethereum is pivoting to become a blockchain that services other blockchains with settlement and data availability. Think about that. And if ethereum didn't do that and it didn't improve and iterate and innovate and continuously invest and sort of steward this ecosystem that they are building then it doesn't matter for you as a user that the ethereum base layer won't change under you because everything else like this is just a small part of the things that matter for you. As an app developer, building on top of this thing, you are bound to Ethereum in way more ways than just like the code changing and this is not the most likely way that this is going to go down. And you can extend this metaphor to if you are someone who's building on top of unisoft or like building on top of MakerDAO, et cetera. Right, so resilience is just one part.
01:08:02.198 - 01:08:18.940, Speaker C: Like resilience in the short term means the thing kind of not changing abruptly, but resilience in the long term means the thing being able to go with the tide. And I think, yeah, this is just very important to get right.
01:08:19.950 - 01:08:59.462, Speaker B: Yeah. There's a long rabbit hole, though, because I think what you're maybe alluding to a little bit sometimes I hear that frame within the conversation of public goods in crypto and uniswap is actually one that I've heard referred to. A bunch where maybe to oversimplify a much more nuanced argument, what it sounds like to me a lot of the time is all right, we've got Uniswap V three. We have concentrated liquidity. That's good. That's now a public good and we will build things on top of that. And I've always kind of thought to myself hearing that have we really solved have we iterated as far as we need to on the exchange layer for crypto? I'm not 100% sure.
01:08:59.462 - 01:09:57.500, Speaker B: Maybe we have, but I think there's probably a good reason why capital could continue to be allocated at that layer and keep improving that protocol. But I'd love to get your guys thoughts on we remarked on this in the intro section here. Last season was a little different from this season in that it was very easy to find positive lot people had a lot of pretty negative things to say about Dow governance as it exists today. I would love to get we were starting to talk about some of the advantages. The way that I think maybe Jason and I think about it a little bit is there are different advantages at different stages. And it's very easy for me to I think both Chris and Hasu, you guys have done a great job of elaborating the value proposition of what a mature Dow that's very close to the kind of infrastructure layer why that censorship, resistance, credible neutrality, immunability why that's a great boon and a benefit. Right? You want to thread that needle in between.
01:09:57.500 - 01:11:27.778, Speaker B: You don't want to not change at all, but change pretty slowly almost the same way that building in a country with strong property rights, right? Even if there are changes, they're kind of slowly and you can see them coming. Where I still struggle and frankly, where it was hard to find anyone with anything good to say was the early stages of a Dow, why that's good to be a Dow instead of just a company? I might take a swing and I'll propose something and you guys can shoot me down or tell me why I'm wrong and propose something that you would say instead. But I do think one of the benefits of Web Three, the protocol structure in general is the kind of decreasing the friction of issuing equity. Let's leave aside the regulatory aspect for a second down to a level where it makes sense that you can essentially give it to your customers and then they will become evangelists before you. So I do see kind of a if we were to get with the large caveat that if we were to figure out the regulatory component here that incentivizing early stage customers with equity helps with distribution. It's a massive distribution advantage and that's where you'd want that over, then you'd maybe take some slower decision making for increased distribution, which probably as a founder I might take like distribution is a huge part of the game that you're playing. I'd be curious to see if you think that distribution might be an advantage for early stage Dows, if you agree with that premise.
01:11:27.778 - 01:11:33.130, Speaker B: If not, what are the advantages that you see right for being a Dow in its early stage?
01:11:35.070 - 01:12:33.450, Speaker C: I can take a stab. I just jotted down like a few things. I don't necessarily agree with all of them, but why would it be good to be a Dow? In the beginning, I think one touched on it like permissionless, capital information. As a Dow you can just like from like within a couple of days you can just raise money from strangers on the internet based on an idea. I think that's a pretty powerful concept. I don't think we are using it right now very well and I don't think I think regulatory especially provides a lot of friction that sort of selects for exactly the wrong people to use this technology today. But you can imagine that in the future there might be actually good projects getting funded in this way and people coming together in order to do something magical and then no need for lawyers, paperwork possibly.
01:12:33.450 - 01:14:00.394, Speaker C: Anyone can contribute to a Dow. Like anyone can join a forum and say, hey guys, I have an idea, give me a grant, let me do this or is there a way that I can be helpful? Then optimally you have a meritocracy of ideas. And the final one, I think there's one thing that's sort of being very slow moving and being very public buys you and that is sort of a commitment device. Partnering with the Dow can be more attractive for someone else because just the Dow is kind of very unlikely to walk back on its deal. And I think we have seen examples that run counter to this where sort of DAOs just walk back on very explicit, even legal agreements that's just sort of eroding the trust in sort of DAOs as an institution. And I think that's just doing an enormous disservice to the entire sort of because one has to see these kind of wrappers, like corporate wrappers if we count DAOs into that, they all compete as well amongst each other, right? And kind of the Delaware LLC, why is it so popular? Because it has these amazing guarantees. It's very easy to spin up and so on, right.
01:14:00.394 - 01:14:36.018, Speaker C: And optimally I think that's how people start thinking about Dow frameworks as well or Dow wrappers as well. These are kind of wrappers from a toolbox of legal wrappers that you can use that give you certain properties and for some use cases it might be really good and for others there might be something else that works that's going to work better. Right. But if somebody comes along and uses kind of a Dao wrapper and then does something horrible basically that erodes trust in this wrapper as a whole, then of course that's going to be bad for everybody who kind of wants to see Dao succeed.
01:14:36.114 - 01:16:12.894, Speaker D: Yeah, I kind of want to highlight two different use cases for two different potentially audiences. The first is for protocol dows that we've been talking about for a chunk of this podcast and for those, I think, in the very early stages, the thing that matters most for any protocol is finding product market fit, and I think it invites early users to be able to actually contribute in a permissionless. You know, you could always write to a support forum or something like that in the old days, but this provides a more direct way to contribute, and it's actually kind of interesting. This is part of AWS lore, but they have a building called Low Flying Hawk, which is named after one of their early kind of community devs that provided such valuable feedback for them that actually changed their product so much that they decided to name a building after them. So there are examples of this happening outside of crypto even, and we've talked about this before, but this concept of community is actually contributing back to your product is the way the world is moving. And I think actually the framework of a dow provides a very direct way that people know that they can trust that they'll be able to actually contribute and also be a real part of that product and organization. The second one, I think, is with things that are less serious, things that are social and fun, where I think it just removes the friction and it lowers it so much to the point that you can really experiment.
01:16:12.894 - 01:16:32.106, Speaker D: And get a lot of fun social activity that happens whether they be collector dows or things where you become a Services dow with a bunch of your friends, where Vector dow is a good example of this. And you can kind of bootstrap some of these organizations in a way that was more difficult to do in the past.
01:16:32.288 - 01:17:14.166, Speaker C: Yeah, I think there is a business model here. I think it's just like community as a business, right? And I think this is something where DAOs can probably also be very good. So, going to Chris's point, I think the nouns Dao is probably that, right? People don't participate in the Dao in order necessarily to drive a lot of success to nouns, although that's part of it. But I think it's more about people want to be part of this community and they want to make cool decisions together. They just want to make money. They just want get the brand everywhere. They just want to do cool publicity stunts and have a cool community experience.
01:17:14.166 - 01:17:20.374, Speaker C: And I think this is definitely something where DAOs can also shine.
01:17:20.502 - 01:18:45.518, Speaker B: I have a question, and I agree with you. I don't mean to be a Debbie Downer here on that, but I would maybe propose this idea. So one of the early iterations of what we wanted to talk about this season was like to a degree, I still really believe this, that the community is an enormous part of the advantage of a Dow. And while you probably don't want your community making financial decisions or capital allocation decisions for the Dow, like, you can go to the forums and it's replete with examples where I think there are lots of people weighing in on financial decisions in non expert ways probably or not, with a great understanding of ROI. If you're a Dow service provider, you have my heart because I've seen a lot of great proposals get voted down because too expensive? No, it's like guys but one thing that I did kind of think was it would be really helpful to get product decisions from your community or maybe input on product because even Jason and I, we have like informal like when we're trying to figure something out that we don't really know. We have our brain trust and that's like five people that we like, hey call like hey, do you think this is a good idea? And it would be really good to be able to source, have a direct line to your most hardcore users. And I ran this by a couple of people and the response was like, that kind of works great in theory, right? There's this idea that your token holders are going to be your users and that was supposed to be part of the incentive.
01:18:45.518 - 01:19:05.100, Speaker B: But in reality, I think a lot of times it doesn't necessarily work out like that and your most hardcore users are not actually your token holders. So I'd be curious to get your guys view on that and whether or not you think this whole narrative of the users and the token holders and the shareholders being the same thing is maybe more narrative than fact.
01:19:07.310 - 01:19:43.426, Speaker C: I completely agree with you. I think that's not rooted in reality. For one, as a startup, I hope that you have a direct wire to your biggest customers because that's your job. That's one of your only jobs like talking to your customers and figuring out what they want. And by the way, they will not tell you what they want. So if you build what they tell you, then you're not going to succeed anyway. In my experience, if I'm totally honest, I haven't seen the value of community for Dows.
01:19:43.426 - 01:20:31.718, Speaker C: I think it's just a massively overstated meme. I would always rather work in peace and build products for the people who actually use them, rather for a community of investors. So if you're not building a monetary instrument then the longer you can stay off the public markets the better in my experience because it just saves you like a massive headache, a massive distraction as well in kind of introducing short term incentives into the system. Now, if you're dependent on public markets for funding, that's different. So I would caveat for that if you have no other way of raising money. But this is not a problem that we have in crypto. The private markets are flush with money.
01:20:31.718 - 01:20:42.838, Speaker C: So I don't really see any good value from community. Meme to me is yeah, I think it's just massively overrated.
01:20:43.014 - 01:20:54.560, Speaker A: So what I'm hearing from you is unless you are optimizing for a credible neutral protocol or censorship resistance, you are pretty bearish on Dows. Is that right?
01:20:55.410 - 01:22:08.422, Speaker C: I mean, it's sort of more like a monetary instrument where kind of the distribution is the value. Right. I think that's when you want ownership to be that's when it matters that you get the token into as many hands as possible. But then do you count Ethereum as a Dow? I don't know. You would? Okay, in that case, if it's like a loosely organized group of kind of open source contributors then there's no other way to steward ethereum. So I would not say yeah, then I would say in this case I definitely see it. But on the other, I think where I don't agree with your characterization is that many of the most interesting use cases of crypto are ones where you leverage kind of the credible neutrality of the platform where you build systems on top that inherit these properties like creating a very robust and neutral kind of euro dollar instrument or where you do create sort of with what Lido does like a liquid staking protocol that just makes ethereum so much better for stakers and so on.
01:22:08.422 - 01:23:02.326, Speaker C: And you want these things to operate with minimal trust and I don't see like in spite of my skepticism, I don't see a magic bullet that would solve this. So I hope that we keep iterating I hope a couple of things. I hope we keep iterating on Dow designs and ways to come to decisions as a group and be maximally resilient yet agile. And second, I just hope for more regulatory clarity and hopefully some kind of safe harbor where you can it's actually recognized that the rules are not the same for decentralized like truly decentralized protocol and I don't mean fake decentralization but give something that these protocols can walk towards and give them some time to get there. I think that's the things that I would ask for.
01:23:02.508 - 01:23:07.062, Speaker A: Yeah, I think everyone's hoping for that right now. Chris, anything else you'd add to Hasu's point or agree?
01:23:07.196 - 01:24:12.746, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I do disagree a little bit because I think if you separate out leadership from permissionless participation then I think maybe that's the balance that we're trying to hope for here. I don't think it's the idea that your community is going to define 90% of your product roadmap in the early days. But if somebody has a more direct line to you and there's one piece of feedback that actually materially changes your product or the way that you think about it, I think that channel will have done its job very well. And so it kind of feels to me like as long as you're not assuming that that is the only thing you're relying on for the development of your product, I think having a more direct line to your early users is actually a helpful thing. As long as you maintain leadership of the decisions that need to be made. So a lot of the way that I've seen the benefit where I think about the benefits of Dows is enabling the idea of permissionless participation. And I think that is materially different from organizations we've had in the past where we have to jump through a lot of interviews and a lot of hoops in order to gain trust and to actually be able to contribute.
01:24:12.746 - 01:24:24.000, Speaker D: And I think there is marginal benefit from having permissionless participation as long as you maintain the idea of leadership and don't dissolve that.
01:24:24.610 - 01:25:34.754, Speaker B: I think maybe Chris, maybe your vision of Dows as well as I see it being in line with a lot of other trends, especially for younger workers, right? Especially post pandemic trends like people want to be remote and global. If you talk to a lot of younger people, one interesting thing is maybe an extension from a longer in like the 50s people had one job, they worked at my grandpa worked at Warlitzer from right out of college until he retired and got his gold watch and that doesn't work anymore, right? Like most people do much more job hopping than that or change careers. But if you talk to someone who's even young, they don't understand the idea of why you should only be able to work for one company at a time. So I think I see Dows as kind of a I don't personally necessarily agree with this, this isn't what my preference would be. But I see Dows like a logical extension of this trend of more of a transactional relationship in some ways between employer and employee or less of a structured commitment maybe than you would otherwise have. It's also kind of global day one. I also agree with you in this idea that you can play with incentives over the ability to play with incentives can be very powerful.
01:25:34.754 - 01:25:38.554, Speaker B: You can really mess that up, but it can be powerful if you coordinate it.
01:25:38.592 - 01:27:00.546, Speaker C: I think one angle that maybe we haven't yet explored is kind of governance or DAOs from kind of almost like first principles in the sense like Cos's theory of the firm, right? So Kos was looking into the question why people organize in firms and what's the benefit of doing it. And I think the thesis is that it just lowers the transaction costs some things that is cheaper to do inside the firm than outside. For me, if you frame it that way. We talked about well in maker the way that they force public transparency and radical transparency really in the truest sense of the word. Does this increase or does this lower transaction costs? And I mean, to me, it definitely seems to increase them. Whereas if I look like in the conversation that I have inside flashboards, I mean, it just feels much more fluent and easy going and so on. And, yeah, I think I would be really interested in someone doing kind of an analysis of what are sort of the functions that you do inside a company or in the process of creating a successful business.
01:27:00.546 - 01:27:43.870, Speaker C: And how would they react to being done in a Dow versus being done in a firm? So, like, a really kind of bottom up. Look at this. I think this would be really interesting. If anyone's listening and looking for the next research project, I'd be interested in how you'd see the transaction costs in a dow versus otherwise. And then maybe from there we can sort of adjust. And, I mean, what I hope is that it would really sort of more formally write down kind of what even are the levers in a dow, because we always say dow, like it's kind of a defined term. But, I mean, just among the things that we talk about, it can mean, like, 100 different combinations.
01:27:43.870 - 01:27:59.510, Speaker C: And so what? Dows even exist? What part is actually permissionless. What's kind of group? Decision making versus leadership. What part is hard coded versus variable? Yeah. And then I think it would be really interesting to just explore it from that angle.
01:28:00.730 - 01:28:43.518, Speaker B: I guess maybe I know we're running long on time here, so maybe we can close with this, because I think a lot of what we're drilling down to kind of gets at this one question, which is how much of this whole experiment, be it Dows or Crypto more broadly, comes down to censorship, resistance. Because I think there was almost a super hard push towards decentralization. And now there's this other trend which is pushing back. It's like, guys, we just have to make good products. But if you take good products to their logical conclusion, a lot of times, a lot of what we're doing would just be more efficient. And you could produce a better product running on one server. Right? So for me, at least a lot of this has to be the caveat of we need great products to bring people in.
01:28:43.518 - 01:28:58.710, Speaker B: But if that was the only thing thing, then we could be doing that in so much of a better way than what we're doing right now. So, I guess how much of this whole experimentation, how much of DAOs for you guys comes down to this idea of censorship, resistance?
01:28:59.050 - 01:29:33.250, Speaker D: I can take you track of that. That's a big question. The analogy that I do draw is actually from the political world, where I think if you were to take that same analogy, then the most efficient form of government is a dictatorship, and you just pray that it's a benevolent dictatorship. And the alternative. Obviously, I think a lot of us are fortunate. To live in democracies where sometimes it's very stressful on the lack of progress or the lack of movement. But as we discussed, things do move and median opinion does change.
01:29:33.250 - 01:29:47.350, Speaker D: And so I think about credible neutrality in addition to censorship resistance as actually a very key kind of value proposition here. And I think that matters for certain types of projects more so than others.
01:29:47.420 - 01:31:04.062, Speaker C: Yeah, for me, it's kind of I don't know if, like, censorship resistance is the right framing, but I sort of have a very pragmatic view about blockchains and how they fit into what I think they will only reach mass adoption if they really fit into what people want to do with them and allow them to solve problems better in two ways. Either they allow them to do something that they do today cheaper, or they let them do things that they were completely unable to do before. And I'm actually optimistic about both cases on a long enough time frame. I think especially lowering the cost of trust and completely sort of offloading parts of what you would nowadays see is the stack of a company, the back end infrastructure and everything, all of this to sort of a public blockchain and getting a lot of benefits in terms of accessing. You get so many benefits, you tap into an immediately global market where people don't need to sign up, they don't need to make accounts, they don't need to wire you money. Maybe they don't even need to trust you. In what world can sort of a business from India get a US.
01:31:04.062 - 01:31:28.322, Speaker C: Customer? I think this is just not possible for a variety of reasons. And so if sort of some barriers disappear that they are there today and we saw a bunch of challenges around scalability and privacy and mev, then I'm actually very optimistic. And I think in that world, there's going to be a lot of need for also new forms of governance.
01:31:28.466 - 01:31:44.990, Speaker B: All right, guys, you've been super generous with your time. Both you thank you given Jason Me a lot to think about and set up the framing for this entire season super well. So if you have any closing thoughts, now's the time. But otherwise, guys, this is a fascinating conversation. Just really appreciate your time.
01:31:45.060 - 01:31:57.186, Speaker D: Thank you for having us. And I'm really glad you guys are exploring this because I do think it's absolutely critical that we talk about this more and actually get all of these ideas out there, and I don't think it's talked about enough. So thanks for doing this, guys.
01:31:57.288 - 01:32:01.390, Speaker C: Yeah, I completely agree with Chris. And yeah, thanks for the great conversation.
01:32:01.470 - 01:32:05.646, Speaker A: Thanks, Hasu. Thanks, Chris. Talk to you soon. What a good first episode.
01:32:05.678 - 01:32:09.670, Speaker B: I thought for episode. That was so great. That's awesome.
01:32:09.820 - 01:32:28.762, Speaker A: Yeah, that was really interesting. I knew Hasu would be good. Chris I've only had one conversation before this with Chris, but I just really like the way that they think about where dows are going? I would say an skeptical but optimistic. Really interesting. What were your takeaways from this conversation? Or, like, any big things that stood out?
01:32:28.896 - 01:33:32.480, Speaker B: I think the big thing that stood out to me, you kind of get it from listening to Hasu speak, and if you read Chris's piece, which we've linked in the show notes, then this will come across as well. But this idea of immutability, I think, is big. And one kind of light bulb moment for me in terms of how to think about this is it's an argument that I knew before, but honestly, because of a recent decision that you and I have been making, it's come into light much more clearly. So imagine the difference between imagine if you are running a business or you're about to make a product decision and you have to base it on one specific vendor, right? Like you can only use this one vendor to do it, and an enormous amount of your business is going to be built on that thing. You might not do that. You probably wouldn't, right? Because the history of business is replete with examples, right, of you build a product on top of, like, a Twitter API, and then Twitter unilaterally decides, boom, I don't want to offer this anymore. Or Facebook makes a software update and overnight Zynga is out of business.
01:33:32.480 - 01:34:10.460, Speaker B: I think the ability to, if you create something, I think that framing that Chris had for protocols that are closer to the core infrastructure layer, like lower down on the stack, that the immutability premium, maybe, let's call it, goes up quite a bit. And the governance that fits with something whose value is based on being immutable is probably one that's highly decentralized, actually. So I thought that was a big I kind of knew all those arguments coming in, but listening to them over this past interview really teed that up in the framing for me.
01:34:11.010 - 01:34:16.910, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree with that. Any surprises for you from this episode?
01:34:19.010 - 01:35:05.534, Speaker B: Not really surprises. I think the one thing that I'm not going to make my own assumption, I think it's very difficult to have an honest on air conversation about is the degree to which this is a play on regulatory arbitrage. I think that's the thing that's that's tough. I think it's very easy to see the end state of what a product dow right. Like a low infrastructure layer product dow the correct governance should be something that's very decentralized should be it's really hard to jimmy your way into an argument for that for an early stage startup. I think it's been really hard, even on this episode, I think, to find anything necessarily positive to say about it. And we kind of ran out on time.
01:35:05.534 - 01:35:58.062, Speaker B: So I didn't want to delve too far into Chris's assertion there at the end, which was permissionless contribution. But I struggle with that a little bit because in my experience, good decision making doesn't necessarily get made by larger groups of people. Right? Have you ever heard that expression, a camel is a horse that was designed by a committee? Actually, most good decisions actually come from taking people away from contributing to certain decisions. I think, and maybe this is too silly or simple of a framework for looking at, you know, imagine if Apple tomorrow was like, big announcement, guys. Anyone who wants to contribute to Apple y'all can contribute now. How would the market react? Would that yield a better iPhone? I just don't think be jeez. I could be missing something there.
01:35:58.062 - 01:36:04.960, Speaker B: But I really struggle with this idea that decision making gets better when you open source it.
01:36:05.490 - 01:36:32.750, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it was interesting. You tying in themes and trends of younger people today. They want to work for two different companies, and I think Chris might posit that self sovereign future work habits might effectively or explicitly start unraveling Kosa's theory of the firm. I think he might say that. I would say I'm pretty skeptical on that. And it seems like Hasu might be pretty skeptical on that. I think Hasu said it pretty bluntly.
01:36:32.750 - 01:36:49.294, Speaker A: He's like, look, this all sounds fun until all your decisions are aired out and your dirty laundry is aired out in public, like on the MakerDAO forum, and then it gets posted. I was like, I agree with that so much. I love making decisions in a room with five different people and then executing on it, and then it's public once it's live.
01:36:49.492 - 01:37:28.742, Speaker B: I think that's purely an ideological thing that is a moment in time. There's nothing about the mechanical, the architecture of a blockchain and the organization of a Dow that says everything needs to be public. That is purely an extrapolation that didn't need to happen. I don't think there's any benefit to it. I'm not even going to say that a positive word on that. I do think that one thing that we didn't really explore more in depth was this idea of incentive design and motivating larger groups of people with your token. We didn't really talk about this much, but I know at least Hasu isn't a big fan of yield farming.
01:37:28.742 - 01:37:56.610, Speaker B: Visit is a very expensive form of customer acquisition. I would actually quibble and say I think it actually probably by the end it wasn't great. But in the beginning it certainly was, because the benefit that yield farming has, it was a very blunt tool and a very expensive one, but it was very simple. It was a very easy, like, one action that you take and you get this reward. Whereas in incentive design, you really should be optimizing for simplicity. Think about it. We've designed sales comp plans before.
01:37:56.610 - 01:38:40.180, Speaker B: It took a while to figure out, but the more complicated it is, the worse it is. And it's very easy to say, well, I want to motivate this specific action and this specific action, but every incremental layer of complexity that you add to incentive design dilutes the entire value of what you're trying to do. So that's what I would say about, and I think that probably the next iteration of yield farming that we see will be something slightly more complex than what we saw in the yield farming phase. But it does kind of seem like there are these businesses that have harnessed the value of community out there in the real world, like Canvas. And if you added finance to that, I do think there's a the company that figures that out.
01:38:40.950 - 01:39:30.500, Speaker A: I think there's a difference between community and cult, actually. All of these Dows and protocols, and every company in crypto says they have a community. And every company, even like SaaS companies like, oh, we have communities now. Community doesn't matter in a world where there's an infinite amount of communities, right? If you think about what community used to be in the physical world, it was like your church and your softball league on Thursday nights after work, right? Like you had like two or three communities. What the Internet did is it unlocked an infinite amount of communities. So then the value of a community really goes down, because once the going gets tough in a community, the tough get going and they go join a new community. And I think what these Dows have been able to do, the really successful ones, is create cults, actually.
01:39:30.500 - 01:39:45.830, Speaker A: And actually the protocols, the layer ones have been able to do this well. So I think a lot of apps have these nice communities, but they don't have cults. And you want to create cults. And who else has a cult? Apple has a cult. There's a cult following around. Apple. Tesla.
01:39:46.810 - 01:39:50.520, Speaker B: I was going to bring that up. Okay, I have a hypothetical question for you.
01:39:50.970 - 01:39:59.114, Speaker A: And the reason Tesla has a cult is because they can align incentives. A lot of the Tesla cult people are people who also own stock and is like short sellers, like, you're going to hell.
01:39:59.152 - 01:40:17.730, Speaker B: Okay, I've got a question for you. Do you think the Venn diagram is greater between owners of Tesla stock and people that drive a Tesla or people that own Ethereum and use ETH in DeFi? What percentage would you think is greater?
01:40:20.710 - 01:40:22.530, Speaker A: Own ETH and use DeFi.
01:40:23.590 - 01:40:47.500, Speaker B: I'd take the other side of that. I think a higher percentage of Tesla shareholders actually own a Tesla than people that own some ETH and actually either contribute to governance or you use it in some way, right, like extract the utility of I think. And then I think it would be interesting to look at that for know that would be a pretty interesting metric that I would just like to know.
01:40:48.430 - 01:40:55.386, Speaker A: Really the question you're asking is, if you're financially aligned with something, does that make you more likely to use has.
01:40:55.408 - 01:41:16.370, Speaker B: Crypto and has crypto done that better? And is dow than necessarily the form of governance that achieves that thing. It's funny to think about Tesla because for all the flak that they get, they probably done. I would bet you that there's an enormous overlapping between people that own shareholder, own the stock and actually have a car, have a Tesla.
01:41:19.190 - 01:41:29.974, Speaker A: Well, maybe it's the other it flips, too. It's. Like what's? The chicken in the egg. It's like, you buy a Tesla, and then you're like, oh, my God. This is so much better than any car I've ever bought. Like, let me go buy the stock. So, anyways, back to the governance stuff.
01:41:29.974 - 01:41:39.980, Speaker A: Are you any other takeaways from this conversation? Anything else that you were like, wow, I thought this was such a good episode to kick off the season, but anything else that you're really thinking about there?
01:41:41.470 - 01:42:26.540, Speaker B: No, I think the next thing that this was a really good overview, largely of the season, I thought, and initially, what we wanted to get out of this episode. This is introducing the idea of business governance fit and the idea that the governance structure that you pick for an organization needs to fit the objectives of that organization. I think probably we could have done a little bit of a better definition of terms. Like we started to get into this dow as if it's like some understood thing. There are multiple different types of organizations that borrow dow structures. We were largely referring to layer one, dows which I would argue, Bitcoin and ETH are both Dows. And then there are also product dows, which the objective of that dow like Ave or Compound is to create a product or service.
01:42:26.540 - 01:43:04.290, Speaker B: And then there are know nouns. Dow is a very different objective and there are other NFT type Dows that have different objectives. But we were largely referring to that very specific thing. But I think we cover this idea of business governance fit. And also, I think some of the mistakes, the things that we learned incorrectly from layer ones going to the product layer. I think in this next episode we're going to be talking with Larry and Derek from Reverie, who these guys in terms of their thoughts on governance and their actual hands on work with DAOs. I think they're two of the leaders in the industry.
01:43:04.290 - 01:43:55.174, Speaker B: Got a great podcast called I Pledge Allegiance Shilling. Definitely go. Listen to it. I've learned a lot listening to their interviews. But I think we're going to be talking about more specifically the idea of we're going to get a little bit more in the weeds about corporate governance. So what are some of the principles that we can use? Borrow from existing corporate governance and apply that specifically to the layer of product? Dows and then I'd like to continue pulling on this thread of different maturity, different stages of growth of the Dow and having a different governance structure for how old or mature a Dow is because I don't know. In an ideal state, you would have a regulatory framework that allowed you for your token to be governed differently depending on how mature and decentralized you are.
01:43:55.174 - 01:44:04.502, Speaker B: But that, sadly, isn't really the case. So I want to keep pulling on this thread of maturity, lifecycle, maturity, governance, fit as well.
01:44:04.556 - 01:44:23.100, Speaker A: Yeah, I think you said it well in the kickoff episode of the season, the episode before this, which it comes down to intention and maturity. I think those well put. So anyways, great first episode of the season. We've got Derek and Larry from Reverie. Coming up next. I hope you guys enjoyed this first episode of season two of Bell Curve, and we'll see you next time.
