00:00:07.290 - 00:00:44.314, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. For those of you watching on video, I apologize for the lighting where I am as I'm on the road, and so I'm just making do with what I have. Russia's move on Ukraine shocked crypto markets the market capitalization of all cryptocurrencies slid roughly 10% in the hours after news broke that Russia had launched a military operation in Ukraine. The crypto markets dropped from a high of around $1.76 trillion to a low of about $1.58 trillion between 11:30 A.m. UTC on Wednesday and 01:30 A.m.
00:00:44.314 - 00:01:57.746, Speaker A: On UTC on Thursday. Liquidations were also severe, with over $860,000,000 in positions wiped out in the 24 hours between Wednesday and Thursday afternoon 03:30 P.m. Eastern, specifically making it the largest liquidation event in February. According to the block, these liquidations could more than double if the price of ETH falls below two $100, which would result in an automatic liquidation of $500 million in ETH if the positions of seven siblings, a large maker vault holder, are not recolateralized. That being said, following an announcement from US President Joe Biden of sanctions against Russia, Bitcoin rose by more than $4,000. Russia's decision to enter Ukraine was met with vociferous opposition by some of the biggest names in crypto. Very upset by Putin's decision to abandon the possibility of a peaceful solution to the dispute with Ukraine and go to war instead, wrote Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin, who also added that the invasion is a crime against both the Ukrainian and Russian people.
00:01:57.746 - 00:03:07.110, Speaker A: Digital currency group's Barry Silver was even more upfront. Tweeting fuck war. Memo Capital begins internal investigation of Toby Honish On Tuesday, I published an article on Forbes describing how in the course of reporting and writing my book The Cryptopians, my sources and I found the person that we believe is the 2016 Dow attacker, Toby Honish, who denied it in an email. Afterward, his new venture, MIMO Capital, expressed surprise at the result of my investigation, but also said it was conducting a new investigation into Honish using a third party firm. Out phishing 17 OpenSea users lose NFTs 17 OpenSea customers fell prey to a complex phishing attack on Sunday morning, according to an internal investigation completed by the NFT marketplace. The attack was not specifically connected to Openc emails, domains or its official website. Overall, the attack took place across 15 hours, during which thousands of dollars worth of NFTs were stolen.
00:03:07.110 - 00:04:16.800, Speaker A: In a Tweet thread recapping the phishing scam, Openc CTO Nadav Hollander explained the scam was most likely a targeted attack as opposed to a systemic issue regarding a contract upgrade on OpenSea that tricked users into signing a malicious smart contract. Going forward. Hollander is confident that Fishers will have trouble executing similar attacks because Openc is adding EIP 712 to its new contract. This upgrade will improve the security of signing offchain messages such as signing a message to join a Waitlist, raffle or token gated discord group. Hollander also noted that Openc would be helping victims of the attack, even though it stemmed from outside the NFT marketplace. Speaking of Openc and buggy code, a complaint filed by Timothy Mckimme in Texas federal court claims that he is the rightful owner of Board Ape 3475, despite ethereum's blockchain showing that he sold it for 0.1 ETH earlier this year due to an alleged bug on Opensea's website.
00:04:16.800 - 00:05:21.010, Speaker A: In his suit, McKimney is asking for the return of his NFT and damages over $1 million. He is accusing Openc of negligence and breach of contract. The current price floor for a board API club NFT is somewhere around $200,000. China Outlaws Crypto Fundraising China's Supreme Court ruled that raising money from the public via digital assets is illegal, according to a statement released on Thursday. While China has banned crypto in the past, this new ruling allows China to officially charge digital asset fundraisers with criminal sentences and jail time. Luna Foundation Guard buys Bitcoin to Back its Stablecoin The Luna Foundation Guard announced a $1 billion token sale of Luna, the native token of Terra, a smart contract blockchain specializing in stablecoins doe. Kwan, the founder of Terra, described the $1 billion raise as the largest ever cap formation in crypto.
00:05:21.010 - 00:06:37.610, Speaker A: Investors who participated in the sale will see their Luna locked on a four year vesting schedule. Luna Foundation Guard LFG for short because Crypto is a nonprofit organization focused on supporting Terra and UST, the largest stablecoin on Terra and fourth largest stablecoin by total market capitalization writ large. Notably, proceeds from the $1 billion Luna sale will be used to purchase Bitcoin and create a forex reserve available to tap during times of extreme market volatility to keep UST's value pegged to the dollar, according to a thread by Terra. The move is designed to assuage concerns regarding a crypto bank run scenario, and bitcoin is the ideal asset for such a plan. Although the widespread adoption of UST as a consistently stable asset through market volatility should already refute this, a decentralized reserve can provide an additional avenue to maintain the peg in contractionary cycles that reduces the reflexivity of the system. The UST forex reserve is an LFG initiative to provide a further layer of support for the Ustpeg. Using assets that are considered less correlated to the Terra ecosystem, like bitcoin.
00:06:37.610 - 00:07:37.440, Speaker A: In addition to the Terra news, a judge in New York ordered TerraForm Labs, the development firm behind Terra, to comply with an investigative subpoena into whether TerraForm Labs had violated US. Securities laws via Mirror Protocol, a synthetic asset DeFi platform. Kwan, who is also the CEO of TerraForm Labs, initially pushed back against complying with the SEC and had filed a separate lawsuit against the securities regulator. BitMEX Founders Plead Guilty Arthur Hayes and Benjamin Delo, founders and executives of the Crypto exchange BitMEX pled guilty to violating the Bank Secrecy Act on Thursday, which carries a maximum sentence of five years. A press release by the US. Department of justice listed their transgressions as willfully failing to establish, implement and maintain an antimoney laundering or AML program at BitMEX. Both Hayes and Dello will pay a $10 million criminal fine.
00:07:37.440 - 00:08:46.194, Speaker A: Canadian regulators are not a fan of self custody. According to a report from the Leader Post, the Ontario Securities Commission contacted law enforcement agencies regarding tweets from two prominent crypto CEOs flagging the Commons because the regulator felt the executives were offering advice on evading sanctions. The news comes after Canadian law enforcement asked Canadian crypto trading platforms to freeze assets associated with a list of cryptocurrency addresses involved in sending funds to the Freedom Convoy trucker protests. The flagged tweets came from Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong and Kraken CEO Jesse Powell. They recommended that users concerned about government seizure move their assets off of crypto exchanges to self custody wallets. In response to a comment asking if Kraken would comply with authorities to freeze accounts, Powell had this to say 100% yes it has will happen, and 100% yes, we will be forced to comply. If you're worried about it, don't keep your funds with any centralized, regulated custodian.
00:08:46.194 - 00:09:21.998, Speaker A: We cannot protect you. Get your coins or cash out and only trade PeerToPeer. As for Armstrong, he simply professed agreement with his fellow CEO Tweeting in response to a question about Coinbase custody in Canada. I agree with at. Jess Powell on this. Despite Canada's attempt to freeze funds associated with roughly 30 bitcoin wallets, Onchain data shows that around 20 BTC have been moved since last week, with some of the funds ending up on Coinbase and Crypto.com, which disclosure is a sponsor of my show.
00:09:21.998 - 00:10:28.710, Speaker A: As of press time, it's unclear if the funds were cashed out or whether crypto exchanges not listed as financial institutions in Canada would have to comply with Canadian law. Salesforce Employees speak out against New Database Product Two weeks ago, CNBC reported that Salesforce, a top 75 company by market cap in the world, is working on an NFT cloud service. However, as with many NFT projects that hit mainstream companies, the software provider is being met with immediate pushback, this time in the form of 400 employees signing a letter objecting to the NFT initiative over environmental and scam concerns. Reuters cited one Salesforce employee who would quit if the NFT plan came to fruition and says the firm will be hosting a listening session about its future plans soon. Andrew Yang launched a Dow former presidential candidate Andrew Yang launched a Dow last week. Dubbed Lobby Three. The Dow's focus will be to advocate for Web Three policies in Washington, DC.
00:10:28.710 - 00:11:05.150, Speaker A: Unfortunately, illinformed and poorly designed policy can prevent Web Three from reaching its full potential. That's why we're building Lobby Three, explained the website. Membership in the Dow will be controlled via an NFT with three tiers that will help operate the Dow via policy suggestions, speaker requests and treasury decisions. The mint for lobby. Three will go live next Monday. Sotheby's Gets Punked An auction for 104 CryptoPunks at Sotheby's was canceled at the last second on Thursday night. Zero x six five OD.
00:11:05.150 - 00:11:55.338, Speaker A: The crypto punks owner explained the cancellation on Twitter, writing never mind decided to hoddle. He also posted a meme saying that he was taking punks mainstream by rugging sotheby's the value of the crypto punks had been estimated to be between $20 million and $30 million. Time for fun bits. NFTs are dumb. The only way to prove this is blowing up a car to prove that the NFT space is full of really extractive zero sum practices. As an artist called Schlomes told the block, they decided to blow up a $250,000 lamborghini. Somewhat humorously, the charred parts are now being sold as a collection of 888 NFTs in a supposed protest of crypto's get rich quick culture.
00:11:55.338 - 00:12:42.890, Speaker A: As the block reports, schlomez told Fortune that the majority of the sale would go to fund public art installations. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about me, my book The Cryptopians Idealism Greed, Lies and the making of the first big Cryptocurrency Craze and my findings about who the likely dao attacker is. Check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuss, Mark Murdoch, Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening. It's.
