00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.038, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesarno, and today's 11 July 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I hope you all had a great weekend. I personally spent some time away from I guess like crypto generally and crypto Twitter generally over the weekend. It was weird actually.
00:00:19.038 - 00:00:47.496, Speaker A: For the last two to three days, I spent most of it not doing crypto stuff. I still kind of like paid attention here and there still was on Twitter a little bit. But again, I kind of like came back to it tonight to get ready for the refuel and I was like, wow, okay. A lot happened while I was kind of like offline here that I kind of like didn't really get to see because I was just kind of like spending more time offline. So that was different. Something different. I guess like probably best to do that sort of stuff in a bear market where you know there are still things you're going to miss.
00:00:47.496 - 00:01:06.092, Speaker A: But it's not like a bull market where you have to kind of like be online because you're getting fomo, right and you're going crazy and being like, oh my God, I need to know what's happening, blah, blah. Right. So I spent a bit of time just playing some games. I played games called little Nightmares one and two. It's kind of like a puzzle platformer game. Two of them, they're not that long, but they were pretty enjoyable. I really, really liked it.
00:01:06.092 - 00:01:28.512, Speaker A: I liked that style of game. And I built my friend a new pc. So definitely stuff that was still on a computer, like around computers, but definitely not really crypto related. So that was kind of like refreshing there. But anyway, now I'm back into it. I'm very excited to go through the updates from, from the weekend today. So let's get started with Tim Bico's first update here, which was a recap of the all core devs call that happened Friday night.
00:01:28.512 - 00:02:08.116, Speaker A: Now this was not the one where they discussed the girly testnet data that will be in two weeks time on July 21. And I've kind of like talked about that on last week's refuels. So when that call, all core devs call happens, we'll get a girly date and then after that we'll obviously get main net date for the, for the merge. But I've been through all that already so no need for me to rehash that here. But if you do want to read Tim's kind of like recap thread of what happened on Friday's call. You can, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. I think what they really discussed was great glacier, which was obviously the fork to push back the difficulty bomb, and then the sepolia test net merge that also happened and went kind of like smoothly as I discussed last week, and then a few other kind of like things here and there.
00:02:08.116 - 00:02:35.554, Speaker A: But I, as I said, I don't think they talked about girlie, actually. We felt like we may want to pick the. Okay, so they. Okay, there's, there's an actually update here on girly. They saying we felt like we may be able to pick the TTD for girlie either next week during the consensus layer call, or the week after during all core devs call. Okay, so it's either going to happen on the consensus layer call, which is, which is a separate call to the all core devs call, which will happen next week. Well, next week actually being this week, or the all core devs call, which I think is next Thursday.
00:02:35.554 - 00:03:06.892, Speaker A: So one of the two will get a TTD for girly, which will obviously dictate the date. I'm still expecting early to mid August for, for girlie. Maybe if it happens this week that the TTD or the date, it'll be early August. If it kind of like happens next week, maybe it'll be mid August. And it could even, it could even be like really early August or like the last day of July or something. It just depends on, on how much time they want to give. They want to give people and they want to give kind of like developers and everything like that to get, get their stuff ready and things like that.
00:03:06.892 - 00:03:45.212, Speaker A: But also, you know, if it does happen earlier and everything goes well on goalie and we don't have any major issues or any merge related issues, and it pretty much goes how Sepolia went. Like even as I mentioned last week, even though the sepolia merge had those issues with the configuration stuff like I don't think that's a main net showstopper at all. I think that we should just keep still pushing forward on that because once the issues were rectified, we went back up to a very high participation rate. So it wasn't really a big issue there. So I think that that'd be fine. So if we do get like a, maybe a really early August kind of like Girly TTD TTD time or even just like early August generally, then we could still see the merge in mid September. Right.
00:03:45.212 - 00:04:05.840, Speaker A: Like, I know last week I said that I think it'd be more likely to be late September, but it just. It depends on the girly date. Like, I think if girly goes through early August, then, you know, six weeks from girly to mid, sorry, to main net, which brings us to about mid September. So that would probably be plenty of time, I think. I don't think you need more than six weeks. I mean like eight, where that's. That's a month and a half.
00:04:05.840 - 00:04:23.852, Speaker A: You do eight weeks, that. That ends up being two months of basically nothing happening. There could be, I mean, not nothing happening. There'll be shadow forks between girly and Mainnet. But really, you know, I don't think we need that long. So it could still happen in mid September. But I mean, at this stage, at this rate, I feel like September is pretty much a lock in.
00:04:23.852 - 00:04:50.960, Speaker A: Probably not early stuff, but like mid to late September is pretty much a lock in. I'd put money on it at this stage, but obviously depends how girly goes. I don't expect there to be any issues with it since we haven't had any. I mean like merge related issues. Since we haven't had any merge related issues on things like Shadow Fawkes on Sepolia, on Ropston. It was all either non merge related or just config kind of like related stuff there. So definitely looking forward to seeing when the TTD gets announced for girly.
00:04:50.960 - 00:05:41.652, Speaker A: As I said, either on this week's consensus layer call, which I believe is maybe later in the week. I actually don't know what date that call is, or next Thursday, which is the all core devs call, so we'll have to see how that goes. But yeah, you can read this whole thread from Tim for a full breakdown of Friday's all core devs call. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, so last week, I think last Friday or Thursday's refuel, I was gushing a lot about Defi and talking about how it's such a step up from what we're kind of like used to within the c five traditional finance systems and all the reasons surrounding that. So I'm not going to rehash that here, but Andrew Keys actually put out a really interesting tweet over the weekend where he said the fact that Celsius is paying back aave compound and maker before humans should explain smart contracts to humanity. And then there's a, there's a follow up comment here from Lewis who says smart contracts are tough negotiators and then Andrew says there is no negotiation, which is really cool.
00:05:41.652 - 00:06:03.972, Speaker A: So there are, like, I want to kind of, like, talk about this a little bit, but there are a couple of differences here. So the reason why Celsius is paying back rv and compound and maker, well, I mean, there's a few reasons, but the one reason is, like, it's, it's kind of like over collateralized, right. For them to borrow from these platforms, they had to put up collateral for it. There was no way about it. The protocol would not give them any money unless they put collateral up for it. Right. So they had to put collateral there.
00:06:03.972 - 00:06:40.400, Speaker A: Now, on the, on the flip side, the protocol is not going to give them their collateral back until they pay their debt. And yes, some people can say, okay, well, what if the kind of, like, token holders got together in some of these systems, like ive or compound and maker that have on chain governance and said, well, we'll just give the funds back to Celsius without them paying back their money? Why would they do that? Like, there's no incentive for them to do that at all. And, and to get any. To get that through would. And you have to kind of, like, convince, not just like one person or one company, you have to convince a lot of people it just wouldn't happen. So technically, while technically these sort of things can happen, it just wouldn't. And some of these protocols don't allow it to happen, even technically.
00:06:40.400 - 00:07:16.182, Speaker A: Right. So because of that, Celsius knows this. I'm like, wow, okay, the only way we're getting a collateral out of this system is if we pay down our debts. So they're prioritizing paying down their debts with Defi over their debts with humans, because they know with humans, obviously, humans can go down the route of, like, suing Celsius or bringing them to court or criminal court or anything like that over what they've done and try to get the money out of them. But at the end of the day, like, there's no way for them to kind of, like, force them to do it. They have to go through third parties, whereas with Defi, there's no need for all of that. These protocols are just basically not even saying anything.
00:07:16.182 - 00:07:48.960, Speaker A: Celsius, they don't know who Celsius is. The protocol doesn't know that Celsius is this kind of like this centralized platform that is having a lot of trouble. All the protocol knows is that this address put collateral into the protocol that borrowed funds against it. And then by per the rules of the protocol, this address needs to pay back that collateral. That, that kind of like debt actually doesn't have to be that address. You can actually have other ones paying back the debt, but the debt just needs to be paid back. And then the address that originally put the collateral link can take the collateral out, and if they pay all the debt off, they can take all their collateral back.
00:07:48.960 - 00:08:17.282, Speaker A: That's it. No negotiations, no people in the mix of this nothing. It's, it's kind of like between Celsius and the protocol. And as I said to, to the protocol, Celsius is just another user. It doesn't matter who it is. Like, the protocol doesn't differentiate because of the fact that the protocol is running on code that doesn't care about anything else except I guess, like the collateral factors and things like that, depending on the protocol, a bit different there. So that's why there is no negotiation yet, because there is no one to negotiate with.
00:08:17.282 - 00:08:52.208, Speaker A: As I said, you could go to the governors of these protocols, say, hey, like, save us, bail us out, but that's just not going to happen. Right? For a number of different reasons. Just not going to happen. But some of these protocols don't even have the option of doing that. I mean, I think. I'm not sure about these ones specifically, but I think a lot of them don't really have that option because we just imbalance the system and by doing so, we just, just destroy the project altogether. Like, you could imagine a thing where there's this massive whale who doesn't pay back any of their debt, and then for some reason the token holders come together of the protocol and say, okay, we're going to give this whale back their, their collateral without them paying back the debt.
00:08:52.208 - 00:09:15.040, Speaker A: Well, that just leaves a massive hole in the system that needs to be paid back anyway. Um, and then across all users. Right. So when you kind of like, look at it like that, it just becomes basically near zero chance of something like that happening, um, even if it is technically possible to happen. So this again is another reason why DeFi has such a massive leg up over tradfi and CFI. But there are some drawbacks here. Obviously.
00:09:15.040 - 00:09:51.258, Speaker A: The drawback is, is that this only, this is only kind of like possible because of that over collateralization or just the colorization aspect. Anyway, for, let's, let's use a real world example here. If you wanted to buy a house, you take out a mortgage, a home loan, right? Yeah. You have to borrow money from a bank usually, or you know, some other financial institution, usually a bank, to do that you're not collateralizing it with anything. Most like, especially if kind of like you don't have an existing house, you're not collateralizing with equity. If you're a first time buyer, you just want a home loan. What you're collateralizing it with is your reputation, who you are, your identity.
00:09:51.258 - 00:10:49.738, Speaker A: Obviously, you can't do that on chain right now. There are solutions that are going to be coming for that, but it's not an over collateralized or even really a collateralized kind of loan. What it is, is basically you're putting a small deposit down and then you're taking the rest out as kind of small deposit on the house and which, I mean is not really kind of like collateral, right? And then you're taking a loan and then you're buying the house, and then the house becomes the collateral that backs that, that loan that you've taken out. But through that process, like there's humans all the way, there's middlemen everywhere, there's, there's laws and regulations and everything in there, and it gets, it gets very murky. Like the bank has to go through the legal system to take your house from, from you, right, as collateral if you fail to kind of like pay the mortgage back. So it's, it's different in that sense, is that like you don't have to over collateralize for a home loan, for example. Whereas within Defi, I don't think any protocol except maybe something like a maple finance and a goldfinch, I think there's only two or three of them and they're not real.
00:10:49.738 - 00:11:15.808, Speaker A: They don't really work the same way as Aave and compound and maker do. That will let you borrow without putting up, you know, a collateral. And especially like, you have to over collateralize as well. And you have to over collateralize usually by a lot. So the capital efficiency just isn't really there compared to the traditional system. But you do get all those other benefits. Of course, now hopefully in the future when we have more of these solutions online, like decentralized identity, and we have ways to lend capital out to, you know, just people based on their reputation.
00:11:15.808 - 00:11:33.982, Speaker A: And we can have relative certainty that they'll pay it back. Or if they don't pay it back, there's a way to kind of like claw back that those funds. We'll see how that plays out. But I think the fact that these things have to be over clarialized before people can kind of like borrow from them. That is the most powerful thing here. And that obviously is not scalable to the world. It is not a credit system.
00:11:33.982 - 00:11:50.150, Speaker A: It, like, it doesn't really give anyone any kind of, like, credit or anything like that. So what they do give is just the ability to collateralize and borrow against it. Like a leverage position, essentially. So leverage your existing assets to borrow against it. Whereas the. The kind of. The definition of credit is.
00:11:50.150 - 00:12:11.990, Speaker A: Is usually that you're given it based on, like, I don't know, a credit score, which is based on your identity and reputation, right. Rather than based on something like, as a collateral. But obviously, in the case of a home loan, the house becomes the collateral that backs it up. But as I said, it's a different situation. It's not the same situation as having to put up the collateral first before you can borrow anything. In this instance, you borrow something, you buy something with it, and then that becomes the collateral. Right.
00:12:11.990 - 00:12:36.344, Speaker A: So it's basically like a leverage position, just with, uh, with the fact that you don't have to put up collateral first to do it. You just. The bank will just give you the money based on, I guess, obviously, like your. Your kind of my credit score and your employment status and kind of like, things like that. And the rate will kind of, like, depend on various factors, too. So, yeah, I mean, that's kind of like the differences there. Now, hopefully I did a good explanation.
00:12:36.344 - 00:13:01.822, Speaker A: I explained that correctly and properly because it is kind of like getting into a bit of a murky territory there with kind of a complexity between the two. But I thought this tweet was good from Andrew here. I kind of, like, just explained it very well. I think in terms of the fact that Celsius is just forced to pay this back. Like, there's no negotiations here. Whereas with their human counterparts, who they owe money to, they can basically put their lawyers in front of them and be like, talk to our lawyers. Uh, you know, you'll get your money when you get your money.
00:13:01.822 - 00:13:15.798, Speaker A: And they just keep delaying, delaying and delaying. Whereas with Defi, with these protocols, the lawyers can't do shit. Like no one can do shit. It's. It's like the protocols are telling Celsius, essentially, you pay back your debt or we're not giving you your collateral back. That's it. There's no negotiation.
00:13:15.798 - 00:13:49.206, Speaker A: Right. Which I think is pretty cool. But anyway, moving on from that, I think I spent a bit too long on that one there. So an interesting tweet from Polynyard that I think maybe a lot of people will disagree with. But basically, Polynya said they quote by saying, roll ups pay most of their transaction fees to l one and roll ups are bearish for l one, are both false. Application layer accrues most value execution layout sum value l one token as money used across execution and applies accrue some data availability layout very little. And then they continue with kind of like some follow up tweets here.
00:13:49.206 - 00:14:18.754, Speaker A: But also I think Paulina said application layer, not application token, accrues the value. Some people got confused over that. Anyway, I want to spend a few minutes here breaking this down. So application layer accruing the value, not the token itself, means that kind of like, obviously the applications accruing value in terms of like TVL, for example, or users or, or fear for new to them, doesn't mean it accrues to the token, but it still accrues to the application itself. Right. There is value there. Like we've seen that.
00:14:18.754 - 00:14:59.110, Speaker A: Obviously TVL is a very popular metric, if not, you know, very flawed, still very popular, and it's used by a variety of people. The execution layers within the Ethereum context are L2s right there. Just like optimism, arbitram, you know, the ZKVM, stuff like that. They're kind of like execution layers. Ethereum layer one is technically an execution layer as well, but long term, we expect it to just be the settlement layer for all these other execution layers. Of course, through the modular roadmap event, Polynya says l one token, as money used across execution and app layers accrues some value. So I actually think that the sum value here should be like most value.
00:14:59.110 - 00:15:46.892, Speaker A: I actually think that l one tokens, generally most of them, if not all of them, I pretty much think all of them will accrue, only accrue value long term if they both become a money and a store of value. Now, there's a lot of different things that feed into that, and there's a lot of different things that can make something a money or a store of value. Just because something is used for payments doesn't really make it something that's going to accrue value. Yes, okay, it's a money. But there's a difference between kind of like money as kind of like a payments thing and money ness and kind of like something like the US dollar, right? The US dollar doesn't gain value over time. It loses value against a lot of other things over time, but it is the best money in the world. Like it loses less value than all the other fiat currencies, especially in times like, like now, where it's rallying against others because of kind of like global macro consequences.
00:15:46.892 - 00:16:34.114, Speaker A: So there's different kind of like definitions and different kind of like views there. And there's a store of value thing which is pretty self explanatory. Right? You hold it, basically, you don't have to do anything with it. You just hold it and you think and believe that this asset will either appreciate over time or hold its value over time against some other currency, against some other thing, usually fiat currencies. So for example, people say, you know, gold is a good store of value because it both appreciates and holds its value and holds a stable value over time against the US dollar. And some people will say, well, gold hasn't really increased in value for a long time now, and that's true, but it still can be considered a decent store of value because it hasn't lost its value relative to the US dollar as much as other things. Right? So it kind of like holds its, sorry, it hasn't kind of like.
00:16:34.114 - 00:16:54.454, Speaker A: Yeah, no, no. I said, I think I said that, right? And they're kind of like holds its value there. So it's all about purchasing power, as I've discussed before, and how different things hold value against each other. So that could be, you know, something that becomes a story value. And I think the only two stores of value really in crypto right now are BTC and ETH. I think BTC is a weak story value, to be honest. I actually think its narrative around store value is, is dying.
00:16:54.454 - 00:17:34.960, Speaker A: And I've discussed this before, so I won't rehash it here. I think either is a very, very powerful money within the crypto ecosystem right now. It's used as obviously as a money within the NFT ecosystem. It's used, it's monetary properties, gives it very good collateral properties. And that use within defi, it's obviously used as a kind of like money, I guess like a money bond Sov hybrid with staking. Right? And then obviously we have 1559 burning it as well, which kind of like adds to, to its deflationary properties, which adds to its lower value properties as well. So those all come together to, I think, accrue most of the value to the layer one token.
00:17:34.960 - 00:18:19.200, Speaker A: And for Ethereum, it's obviously very, very strong. And then Polynar's last point here about data availability accruing very little, very little value. Now, I think the reason that this is actually true, and I agree with this, is because of the fact that data availability or data layers, they're going to be very, very abundant, right. They're going to grow faster than everything else, they're going to grow faster than execution layers, they're going to grow faster than sentiment layers, they're going to grow faster than everything, simply because data is abundant. Hard drive, solar state drive, like all that, kind of like space is abundant, but at the same time it's more about kind of like where those data availability layers are. Like for example, Ethereum with Dank sharding, that's an Ethereum data availability layer. But then you have polygon avail, you have Celestia, you have data layout.
00:18:19.200 - 00:19:22.900, Speaker A: There's a kind of like standalone data availability layers, but still they're not going to be able to accrue that much value because their growth in terms of capacity is probably going to end up outpacing the demand, at least for the foreseeable future, and if not just for the foreseeable future, maybe indefinitely. We don't know yet. And there are disagreements here between people I've spoken to about this. But still, like a standalone data availability layer logically, really shouldn't accrue that much value to its native token because of the fact that there's just, there's so much space abundant, the fear revenue would be very, very low. The kind of like the token itself would not really take on any monetary money, nest properties or sov properties, because the layer is not being used as a kind of like a settlement layer, it's not being used as kind of like an execution layer or anything like that. It's being used purely for data. So this is just the pure data layers, whereas ethereum layer one is kind of like going to be a hybrid where it's got a data availability layer, but it also acts as a very, very strong settlement layer with the native token ETH being used in staking for all that kind of like settlement security and things like that as well.
00:19:22.900 - 00:19:58.652, Speaker A: So that plays into, into that there. And I actually replied to Polynar, you know, I said, I don't think people understand that most of the value comes from moneyness. Uses sov fee revenue on the l one is an added bonus. Now obviously I've been very, very bullish and still remain bullish on ERP 15 nine and burning of ethics. But if that existed in a vacuum, if, if ETH didn't have monetary properties, if he didn't have soV, if none of that, if ETH was just being burnt, and that's all we had to drive value to ETH, ETH would be worth way less than what it is today just based on that. So when you kind of like look at it that way. I think it's just a, it's a bonus.
00:19:58.652 - 00:20:27.510, Speaker A: It's a very, very good bonus, very, very strong bonus, especially over the long term. But it is not the main thing that drives value to l one tokens. I truly believe the main thing is, is that money nest in store of value, which comes from a lot of the utility built around these things that people say, our story, value doesn't have to have utility. It's like, no, it doesn't have to, but it's better that it does. Right? It adds more value to the actual thing. It adds more value to the asset. So why not give it as much utility as possible? And I can't think of any other asset in crypto that has as much utility as ETH does.
00:20:27.510 - 00:21:04.556, Speaker A: There is none. I don't believe there is any. I don't believe there is any that even come close to its size in terms of liquidity and market cap and all that sorts of stuff. So taking all that together, I do agree with Polynya that, well, I mean, I think it's like a half agree. I kind of like, would say that the r one token accrues most of, most of the value, not just some, but I do agree with the kind of like broader points here. And I think that people often get the wrong idea about these sorts of things because they're not really used to thinking in monetary or money nests and store of value terms. And then they're kind of like, probably, definition of store value is probably not the right one.
00:21:04.556 - 00:21:53.634, Speaker A: It's probably come from like the bitcoiner camp, which, and I don't think there is any, like, right way to think about it. But the way I simply think about it is, okay, are people holding this asset with a belief that it is, it is going to kind of like protect their capital and not just protect their capital in terms of be able to make them more money and appreciate over time, but also just be able to not lose them purchasing power. Because obviously, over the last two years, I guess, or one to two years, there's been high inflation in fiat currencies, which means purchasing power is going down for these things. So you obviously don't want to be holding cash for too long, but whereas you go, like right now, it's actually quite hard. Like, you don't want to be holding cash for too long because there's a lot of inflation, but also risk on assets, which is pretty much everything. Like, pretty much all assets at this point are going down. Right.
00:21:53.634 - 00:22:13.272, Speaker A: Um, so you don't want to be in them either now. So cash is like the least worst position to be right now. But that's going to change eventually. It's not always going to be like that. So if you're playing defensively, you're thinking, okay, where do I park my capital? A lot of people are parking in ETH. You know, there are still obviously people parking in BTC. Some people are parking it in other kind of like cryptos, people still buying stocks.
00:22:13.272 - 00:22:39.672, Speaker A: You know, for every seller there's a buyer. Guys like, it's not like any of this stuff goes to zero. It's not Luna. I mean, you know, Luna went to zero, but like, you know, the most of it doesn't actually go to zero. So from that perspective, I think that drives most of the value to the l one tokens. And that's why BTC and ETH are so far ahead of every other l one token, because of the fact that those money nest and Sov properties are so powerful. And as I said, I think BTC is actually losing those properties over time.
00:22:39.672 - 00:23:06.814, Speaker A: I think ETH is gaining more of those properties. So that's why it's the number one, one of the top reasons why I expect the flipping to happen eventually, because I don't see a path where BTC continues to grow. It's money, nest and Sov, whereas I very clearly see the path for ETH, especially with the merge approaching. That's a huge catalyst, obviously, right? But the merge in a vacuum as well doesn't really do anything. It exists alongside everything else within Ethereum that drives the value here. But anyway, gonna leave that at that. Wow, already at 23 minutes.
00:23:06.814 - 00:23:16.374, Speaker A: I'm gonna get through the rest of these. So superfizz put out a tweet where he said, you think staking is hard. It's not. You could lose all of your ETH. You won't. You need powerful hardware. You don't.
00:23:16.374 - 00:23:41.684, Speaker A: It requires constant maintenance. It doesn't. Only professionals should do it. This is flat wrong. Staking on ethereum is meant for home users. We didn't spend so long developing a bleeding edge proof of stake protocol and probably the most decentralized proof of stake protocol in the ecosystem, to let it be dominated by professionals and not cater to home users. It was literally built around catering to home users.
00:23:41.684 - 00:24:31.974, Speaker A: That's why the other kind of like, Beacon chain is able to handle so many validators. Obviously, the 32 requirement is not something that I guess, like, is accessible to a lot of people, even at today's prices, but there is a lot of other accessible ways to stake, especially with things like rocket Pool and other such services. But in terms of like the hardware and the software and just running it, it's relatively straightforward. The biggest barrier to entry is probably that 32 th requirement if you wanted to be a solo staker. Now there is actually a kind of like difference here between home stakers and solo stakers. You can be a home staker without being a solo stake up because you can stake with something like rocket pool so you don't have to have your 30 tweet or whatever. You can go stake with Rocket pool and still run the software and still run the nodes on your own hardware.
00:24:31.974 - 00:25:07.870, Speaker A: So there are kind of like ways around and there will be more in the future, hopefully as well. But yeah, I thought this was just a great tweet from Super Fizz and he also linked to a bunch of different kind of like links, like lots of good resources here. If you're interested in staking on your own, especially whether at home or at home as a solo staker, you should definitely check all of this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, next thing just here from superfuse as well was kind of like just some dates around the merge stuff. Obviously, everyone asking when merge Robsturn merged June 8, Suppolia merged July 6. Both mergers were successful but had some human introduced config issues that were solved quickly.
00:25:07.870 - 00:25:33.102, Speaker A: Goalie isn't scheduled, but maybe scheduled during the July 14 call. There's the date. That's the consensus layer. Call date. So July 14, mainnet merge will follow shortly after goalie. All right, so let's, let's kind of like since we're, since we've got a date now, July 14, goalie TTD date gets announced. Let's, let's say that happens, right? It gets announced for early August because I mean, yeah, early August, right? All goes smoothly.
00:25:33.102 - 00:26:14.066, Speaker A: Well then I think mid, mid to late September 10 buys locked in 100% at that point if all goes smoothly on girly. Anyway, I'm not going to keep speculating there. I did talk about this just before, but that's, that's the call to look out for. If it doesn't get discussed on that call, then obviously it'll be on the next Thursday's all core devs call then definitely it'll probably be later September then. But we'll have to see, have to see how this goes. All right, so there was this interesting kind of like table here from this account on Twitter res, and they said it's been a while since the last time I had a look at on chain volume. So basically, the key takeaways from this table is that only ETH or Ethereum and BSc dollar, 50 plus million dollars in volume.
00:26:14.066 - 00:26:29.836, Speaker A: Whales prefer to use arbitrary instead of optimism. Both clean, clearly ahead of Metis. Harmony. Moonbeam and EVM Os seem dead. Not all EVM chains are created equal. Guys like, these are all EVM chains here. Not all of them are created equal.
00:26:29.836 - 00:26:43.980, Speaker A: Most of them are literal, like, useless trash. Like, I'm just going to not sugarcoat here. Ethereum, obviously the most dominant BSc, has surprised a lot of people. I've gone over this before. It has a very strong presence in Asia. Polygon third. Shouldn't really surprise anyone here.
00:26:43.980 - 00:27:03.782, Speaker A: Arbitrary and optimism in fourth and fifth place, there. And then avalanche, kronos, phantom, I guess, like, trailing closely behind, but phantom, everyone talked about that last year. It's pretty. Pretty much dead now. Chronos. I don't hear anyone talking about this again, kind of like. I don't think that's kind of like long lasting.
00:27:03.782 - 00:27:26.088, Speaker A: Avalanche has lost a lot of steam, right? It's already been overtaken by L2s on ethereum. Even the L2s came later. Arbitrary doesn't even have a token yet. Optimism obviously has a token, but hasn't really used it yet. And you can see, like, number of transactions, not just volume as well. So arbitrary optimism has the same amount of kind of, like, transactions as avalanche. Arbitrum has less.
00:27:26.088 - 00:27:52.514, Speaker A: But I think that whales prefer to use arbitrum as kind of, like, res says here, and then average transactions in dollars. You can see, like, kind of, like, what people prefer to use. And what I find hilarious about this is that avalanche was kind of, like, going on about the fact that we got super cheap fees. We cater to, like, the people with, like, hardly any money or blah, blah. I mean, the. The average transaction on avalanche in dollars is $377. Like, that is like.
00:27:52.514 - 00:28:15.970, Speaker A: I mean, it's not huge, but, like, I think when kind of looking, looking at these sorts of things, yes, it's good to have really, really cheap fees. But, like, if you're just an EVM chain, it's not really going to do anything because the. The L2 EVM chains are going to just obliterate these things. Like, I'm so bearish on avalanche. Like, the. I'm very, very bearish on the c chain on avalanche. And the subnets just don't make any sense to me.
00:28:15.970 - 00:28:46.152, Speaker A: Like a theorem and altruist just going to absolutely destroy them and it already pretty much has. Right, right. And all these other ones, like, they're just all garbage. Like, why do they, like, I don't want to bash them too much here, but, like, that doesn't make any sense that these things exist. Especially, like, if they're a L2 on a theory, I'm even a L2 on a theorem. If it, like, there aren't going to be that many successful ones, gonna be a handful of them. So, like, when you look at it like that, it just boggles the mind that so many of these things kind of like, are still around, they're still kicking in and people still, there's still supporters.
00:28:46.152 - 00:29:11.442, Speaker A: But then when you really dive deep into it, you can kind of like, guess why. It's because of the tokens. Right. Anyway, I don't want to spend too long bashing there, but I thought this was an interesting table to just kind of like, look at. All right, so another interesting set of stats here is from Michael, who works at optimism labs here. So this is basically a doon analytics dashboard that kind of shows a bunch of optimism related transaction fees. And I think I've gone through this one before on the refuel.
00:29:11.442 - 00:29:51.788, Speaker A: But just like, if you really are interested in looking at how optimism is handling fees at both l two and l one, this dashboard is for you. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can go check that out. All right, so sudo Amm is now live. So Sudo Amm is a new marketplace protocol that changes the way we think about NFT liquidity and trading. It is highly flexible, gas efficient, and fully on chain. So another NFT marketplace, another decentralized NFT marketplace, and it is on chain. So starting from when it went live, users can create pools that gradually buy or sell nfts along price curves provide liquidity to pools that buy and sell nfts to earn fees directly list nfts at fixed prices.
00:29:51.788 - 00:30:23.580, Speaker A: LP's also have full control over their pools pricing and can adjust at any time. So basically it's an NFT trading protocol that does things a bit differently. It's not like your open sea or looks rare. It is using a kind of like curve here to set the prices of kind of like nfts and the capable bidding and sorry, buying and selling on these sorts of things with either a linear curve or exponential curve. You can see in this screenshot, all the options that you have here are to, I guess, like change the way we trade nfTs. I've been following this protocol for a little while now. It's been the kind of like, works for a little while.
00:30:23.580 - 00:30:52.372, Speaker A: I think it's super interesting. I want to dive deeper into it. I didn't have a chance over the weekend to dive too deep into it, but you should definitely check it out and see what you like about it, what you don't like about it, and also join the discord if you're interested in it. I think it's really cool that we're seeing more experiments within the NFT marketplace ecosystem because I am sick of seeing the same thing just for balked and over and over and everything like that. Like, it's fine. But at the same time, I would love to see more experimentation as I normally do in these, in these kind of like things. So great to see that this is live.
00:30:52.372 - 00:31:13.684, Speaker A: You can go check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, so the protocol guild has a proposal to the nouns Dow community. They'll be going live in two days for voting. So if you are part of nouns and you want, or guess like nouns Dow or kind of like the nouns ecosystem, you can go and vote on this in, I think, two days from today. Yeah, two days from today. So.
00:31:13.684 - 00:31:34.004, Speaker A: So this is the protocol for, sorry, this is a proposal for Neon's Dao to send funds to protocol guild. And I've talked about the protocol guild on the refill before, so I won't rehash that here. But you can read the proposal here if you want. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. It's basically wanting to raise, I guess. How much do they want to raise? Yeah, they want to get 500 ETH. This should not a raise.
00:31:34.004 - 00:32:03.494, Speaker A: I want to get like a 500 ETH donation, which is 2% of the nouns Dow treasury into protocol guild here. I think this shouldn't be contentious or shouldn't be something that's hard to get through. I'm pretty much thinking that this is gonna go through without any fanfare. Like, I feel like nouns Dow pretty much closely aligns with public goods. I've spoken to someone from there, actually, a little while ago, and I know a few of the nouns kind of like whales, and they're definitely, like public goods, maximalist. And they're definitely all for this, I think. So I think this should pass.
00:32:03.494 - 00:32:37.302, Speaker A: But, yeah, really, really cool to see that that protocol guild is probably going to get more funding here. All right, so last up here, Joseph from the Ethereum foundation put. Put out a kind of tweet saying the Ethereum foundation is looking for an ambitious software developer who can help build and develop an interactive website, working with designers and content creators to create a new unique experience. So you can see the role here. It's a front end developer at the Ethereum foundation. Just wanted to highlight this for any of you front end devs out there that want to work in crypto or want to obviously work in the Ethereum ecosystem. Ethereum foundation is one of the best places places you can probably work.
00:32:37.302 - 00:32:55.214, Speaker A: It's the closest you'll get to a lot of Ethereum related stuff so definitely go check this out if that fits into what you want to do. I'll link it in the YouTube description below but I've gone over time so that's going to be it for today. Thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
