00:00:00.200 - 00:00:32.022, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Paraswap, the leading aggregator to find best prices across various dexes. You'll hear more about them later in the show. All right, everyone, we have a big crew today for another episode of Empire. I'm sitting down with co host of Empire, Santiago. We are also joined by two guests today. One is Derek, the co founder of Reverie, also the co host of one of my, my favorite podcast in crypto. If you're listening to this, you're like, what does this crypto podcast listen to? This is what I listen to.
00:00:32.022 - 00:00:45.318, Speaker A: It's called I pledge allegiance. It's an amazing podcast. You guys should check it out. The other guest is Sunny Agarwal, co founder of Osmosis and truly just one of the brightest minds in the space. So, Derek, Sunny, and per usual, Santee. Welcome to the show, guys.
00:00:45.406 - 00:00:46.494, Speaker B: Thanks for having us.
00:00:46.654 - 00:01:04.974, Speaker A: I think a good place to start. We're going to be talking about Dydx. Just had their announcements. I want to get your guys take on app chains. We're going to go really deep into governance. Sunny, I want to get your longer term vision for what you're building because I think it's really interesting as it relates to competing with some of the c five folks. So, Sunny, I think I'd kick it over to you.
00:01:04.974 - 00:01:12.362, Speaker A: We are seven months into the bear. What are some of your lessons learned, especially as you watch everything that's happening in CFI unfold as it is?
00:01:12.538 - 00:02:34.954, Speaker C: Yeah, so definitely this shows partially the need for DeFi. And if we're just building centralized banks on top of, you know, decentralized money, that doesn't really solve, like, the fundamental problems for why crypto was created in the first place. And, you know, the lack of transparency and stuff, especially into, like, some of the centralized lenders, mirrors a lot of lack of transparency in, like, a lot of the banking system in 2008. And you have a system where people are sort of borrowing, doing like a lot of short term borrowing and using it to create long term investments, whether it's in things like steeth staked ETH, which is effectively like a bond with an unknown maturity on ETH. And so that's this sort of long term, somewhat risky bet. You had entities like three Arrows Capital, basically borrowing short term and then putting it into long term venture capital investment. Personally, I think the whole concept of how ethereum launched proof of stake without the ability to withdraw for a completely unknown period of time always seemed very whack to me.
00:02:34.954 - 00:02:57.974, Speaker C: I think there was just a lot of pressure to nominally say that they had shipped proof of stake, but actually that that over, like, pressure kind of led them to launch something that I think and not, maybe there just wasn't enough communication around the risks associated with it.
00:02:58.354 - 00:03:27.444, Speaker A: The lack of liquidity and the lack of ability to get. Yeah, okay, that's interesting. Derek, what do you think? Because you guys at reverie, you're in a really interesting seat where you probably have the deepest access and knowledge of on the governance side of things, and you guys are seeing a lot of what's happening with different projects and a lot of what's happening with their founders and their building team saying, holy shit. Okay, now we're seven months into this bear. Let us reflect, and let's reflect together. So what do you think? Are some of the lessons learned in your minds?
00:03:28.664 - 00:04:36.344, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think it's not too different from a lot of the questions that your traditional non crypto and equity based businesses are asking, which is like, what are our priorities? Thinking from first principles, like, how much burn do we have? What are the one or two most important things that actually matter for the next two years, or however long the spare market takes? And I think the added element with protocols that I've heard across the board is just rethinking emission spend and really where that goes, because I think, again, in the past few months, we've seen a lot of protocols think about their current emission schemes. They're overpaying for liquidity. They're realizing that a lot of the main customers that they're targeting are leaving. They're potentially blowing up, and there's much longer term, maybe more conservative ways to deploy those pieces of capital. So I think that's an interesting conversation that we're hearing across the board with a lot of different projects right now.
00:04:37.904 - 00:04:56.564, Speaker A: So would that be things like liquidity mining and maybe like these Ve tokenomics, like those kinds of things that were almost used as. It's almost like the marketing spend of crypto, of DeFi in 2020 and 2021. Now we're kind of taking a step back, saying, all right, we just spent 350 mil liquidity mining. Are any of those users still around?
00:04:57.584 - 00:05:55.564, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. I think the liquidity emissions and as a whole, I think they could probably be reduced, and they should also just be done in a more thoughtful manner in terms of targeting specific users for specific durations and time periods. And you touched on the VE staking model. I think there was a period of probably three to six months, from late 2021 to early 2022, when the Ve staking model was super popular. And it was, it felt like to me, every protocol was at least having that discussion. I think, again, it's easy to look back in hindsight, but it feels like a lot of those discussions were sort of done with a more short term mindset. I've definitely noticed those conversations slowing down on the ve staking side as well.
00:05:55.564 - 00:06:15.264, Speaker B: I think it can be useful in certain cases, but I think, again, it's not useful like ve staking and sort of incentivizing staking just for the sake of staking. If it's not doing anything else, if you're going to be in a prolonged bear market, it's just sort of wasteful.
00:06:15.564 - 00:06:40.884, Speaker A: Yeah. Sonny, how do you guys think about customer acquisition? Because one thing that's always struck me as really difficult, Derek, you said it's not that different from what traditional companies are doing. One of the biggest differences in my mind from, like, traditional web two customer acquisition versus crypto is it's really, really, really hard to design an efficient and kind of predictable acquisition model when your CAC spend and your revenue are denominated in volatile assets. Right. So, Sunny, how do you guys think about that?
00:06:41.424 - 00:07:59.624, Speaker C: Yeah, so, I mean, yeah, I mean, I definitely agree with Derek on the whole ve token model. We were never big fans of it. You know, letting your protocol incentives are one of the most important thing your protocol has, and, like, having it be dictated by short term bribery seems like not the best thing to do for long term strategic plant growth. But going forward, I think we're really going to be moving incentives towards more protocol owned liquidity style things where we've already been sort of, when incentives go towards these two week bonds, we want people to add liquidity, but we don't want this mercenary liquidity that comes in and out. We want liquidity that's somewhat sticky. And so we actually put the most of our incentives towards like, hey, you have to bond your LP shares for two weeks, but we want to move towards like, hey, the osmosis community pool is actually spending all this money on incentives. But even two weeks, after two weeks and go away, we should actually be spending the money on acquiring other assets so that it, one, diversifies the protocol treasury and then two, it can use that as a sort of protocol owned liquidity.
00:08:01.004 - 00:08:45.464, Speaker A: That's really interesting. One thing that dictates the marketing spend, obviously, is what type of users it is. And I want to come back to that near the end of this conversation about the roadmap and what kind of users you're trying to optimize for and how you guys end up competing against CFI. But one thing that just happened last week that I thought was really interesting, I want to get of your take on this is DyDX announced on Wednesday that they're migrating from Starknet, which is just a roll up on Ethereum, to their own chain built on the Cosmos SDK. I'm assuming you guys have known this for a while. Derek, I'm not sure if you were actively involved in that decision. I'm not sure if you guys actually closely work with DYdX, but can you just tell me how this type of decision gets made? Maybe, Derek, I'd throw it to you.
00:08:45.464 - 00:08:54.264, Speaker A: How do you decide to build on your own app chain versus another l one versus another chain on Cosmos? How does this type of big decision get made?
00:08:54.804 - 00:09:33.930, Speaker B: Yeah, so I guess I'd caveat all of this with saying I wasn't directly involved in this decision at all. It was entirely DyDX trading's decision. So, I mean, I would presume that, again, based off of DyDX's historical focus, it's been building a scalable, usable, good product experience for derivatives. I think everything else is downstream of that. That's what Antonio has always been talking about. Product, product, product. And I think so it's sort of backing out what goes into building a really good derivatives exchange.
00:09:33.930 - 00:10:21.030, Speaker B: And for them, I think it's like scalability. I think that's super important. I think it's full decentralization. Right now, DyDxv three is, and they'll say this, there's certain parts of the protocol that are quite centralized. It's the order book, the execution, and they're using Starknet, which is great, but does potentially have some limitations. So I think from their perspective, I don't know the specific detailed technical and protocol level trade offs in terms of all of them, but I think those are the high level factors that they thought about. And I think Sunny can probably talk a bit more about specifically just why it might make sense.
00:10:21.030 - 00:10:25.794, Speaker B: And what are some of the trade offs to building your own app chain versus building on another l two?
00:10:26.254 - 00:11:49.834, Speaker C: Yeah, I've been in touch with Antonio about this cosmos chain for number of months now. And, yeah, that was sort of one of the main things was they wanted to figure out how they can get still the UX that they have in their current sort of starkware based implementation, but actually have it be more decentralized because the current implementation, starkware, still runs on a single operator mode. And I actually think that single operator roll ups are like extremely dangerous for the crypto space and like, you know, should be heavily pushed back against. But then, you know, they also have like, you know, their, yeah, like their order books and stuff for, you know, single operator and stuff. And so they needed a way of like building a decentralized system that has a lot of those benefits. They, you know, so, so why like single, why are single operator roll ups like such, so problematic? So roll up systems give you safety by design, right? That's the whole point of them, that you don't have to trust the roll up operator for correctness of the execution. The roll up system is what gives you safety, but it doesn't give you liveness nor censorship and front running resistance.
00:11:49.834 - 00:12:51.074, Speaker C: And if you care about liveness and Mev resistance, you need to have some sort of decentralized consensus protocol that your roll up is running on and whether that's most likely, probably going to be tendermint for a lot of these rollups. So if you're going to have to build this sort of decentralized consensus system, you still need decentralized operators. It's unclear how much benefit you really get from using a roll up style system as opposed to if you're already building, you have to build up a decentralized validator set anyways, then you might as well. Part of the problem, building rollups is hard. I'll say. It's like you have to be able to construct fraud proofs or validity proofs for your entire state machine. And today, like, you know, you know, things are getting better and better.
00:12:51.074 - 00:13:53.176, Speaker C: You know, part of our view is, you know, we think that like ZK style stuff is going to be, it's going to win out over optimistic style stuff. And you know, when we started building osmosis and stuff like, you know, ZK roll ups, I think that ZK roll ups and like, I think validity proofs are going to be what's going to like win out in the long term. And so spending a lot of energy designing our state machine to be able to generate fraud proofs when I think that's a paradigm that's going to be go by the wayside within a couple of years seemed like just not the right use of energy. And so our view with how security models of blockchains are going to evolve is eventually, right now we're just like, okay, we're just building our own sovereign state machine. It's not relying on anything else. But this just gives us the freedom to iterate much faster and develop and not have to worry about, oh, we have to write in Cairo. And stuff is getting better and better, more user friendly.
00:13:53.176 - 00:15:08.820, Speaker C: But it's still not as easy to write in as the cosmos SDK is written in go. And it's like we can use this entire ecosystem of developer tools and testing frameworks and all this sort of stuff that you don't get in something like Hiro today and then a couple years down the road, once validity proof systems are ready, then that's when we can, as well as our protocol is a little bit more stable, then that's when we can. I think everything will start to shift towards this validity proof system, but I also just don't think security is going to be this hub and spoke model where it comes. Everything comes from Ethereum, and then it's like everything relies on one security system. I think you're actually going to have many security systems, and they all are going to be sort of like doing shared security with each other, where you can have validators on different chains that are going to basically agree to being slashed on a network of chains if they do a byzantine fault on any of them. Because you look at a lot of these chains, the amount of overlap on the entity of the validator sets is very high. Probably over 50% of the validators on all cosmos chains are the same.
00:15:08.820 - 00:15:39.010, Speaker C: Probably the same with, I think a lot of most of the lido validators are also like early Cosmos hub validators. And so what can end up happening is saying like, hey, okay, look, if I do some byzantine fault on osmosis, I would also end up getting slashed on the Cosmos hub and on Ethereum and on Polkadot. And so it's gonna be this sort of like mesh security, and you're gonna be able to prove this stuff using the validity proofs that we're gonna get from like, knowledge systems.
00:15:39.162 - 00:16:02.374, Speaker A: It's a really interesting thesis, Santi. I actually might toss it to you. I don't know if you have a take on this just because you're doing so much angel investing and talking to founders who are making these kind of decisions on a daily basis, do you think that we'll start to see apps start on this, on these shared security chains, and then almost move to their own sovereign chains as they start to grow and decentralize the network? I don't know if you have a take on that.
00:16:02.994 - 00:16:29.654, Speaker D: It's a really good question. I don't have a perfect answer other than I think founders at this point don't have the bandwidth and or are saying at some point we may consider doing that but at the moment, it's very compelling just to just use a shared security model for now and then. I guess the interesting and attractive part of it is that if you ever want to do it, then it perhaps is easier when you're interacting with cosmos ecosystem. But I'll pass it over to sunny or derek if you guys have a.
00:16:29.654 - 00:16:30.590, Speaker B: Different room to take.
00:16:30.782 - 00:17:20.894, Speaker C: Yeah, I think a lot of applications, it depends on what people are trying to do, what layer of the stack they're trying to innovate at something like osmosis. Our goal was to innovate very much at the protocol layer. We've been working on a lot of privacy stuff, anti front running stuff, a lot of ux stuff around how keys and stuff work. To do a lot of that stuff, we actually have to be able to go to change how the account model of the blockchain works. Or one of the things we do is on osmosis, we actually allow people to pay transaction fees and any token they want. And that's not something we could do if we were building on someone else's l one. Or for our anti front running stuff, we have to use something called threshold encryption, which is like baked in.
00:17:20.894 - 00:18:32.508, Speaker C: We have to go modify and bake it into the consensus protocol. And so for that, and someone like DydX, they're actually doing a lot of interesting things at that layer as well. They're like having a system where all their validators are running order books and gossiping between each other and then only set, they're running order books in the mempool and then only settling settled transactions on chain. And so it's like if you're trying to do interesting stuff and innovating at the mempool layer, that's like you kind of need to have your own chain to be able to do that. Now, if you're going to instead just, if you kind of just focus on only on the application there, then in that case, sometimes it is maybe faster to build on an existing chain. But then once you get and use that as something we've been pitching to a lot of projects is, a lot of people are trying to use osmosis as this incubator where it's like, hey, we're going to deploy something on osmosis, which, by the way, we do have a smart contracting system now deploy here, get some product market fit. A lot of them are like Xterra projects that are like, need to just regain their footing.
00:18:32.508 - 00:18:52.080, Speaker C: So it's like, hey, come deploy here, get your users back and stuff. And then split off onto your own chain once you're ready. And then that's kind of like what I think is going to happen going forward, even for many more and more Ethereum projects, I think are going to start to do this as well.
00:18:52.212 - 00:19:35.932, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm curious. The criticisms that I've heard from a couple of folks, not all from the same camp, is shared security model is not going to work in the long term. I'm just, I know it's a very open ended question, but I am curious because there are skeptics out there around the shared security model and then second around, how does Vale actually accrue here in the system? And I think they're both intertwined. Like, if value is not accruing, then at some point, like, doesn't. I think that compromises security. It was unclear what value accrued to the atom, the token, which is the currency in the system, whereas people in just like, binance and even Facebook at one point was trying to, is using tendermint. But that doesn't mean that it's going to accrue to atoms.
00:19:35.932 - 00:19:39.212, Speaker D: So that's the other piece of it. So I know it's like two pronged question.
00:19:39.388 - 00:20:50.304, Speaker C: So I would say it is worth noting that Cosmos is a independent thing from atoms and the Cosmos hub. And, you know, Cosmos was more of this, like, open source like idea of, it's a bunch of open source tools and this idea that we can use them to build this network of interoperating blockchains. There is one blockchain in that network called the Cosmos Hub, which I think is very confusing from the nomenclature because, you know, it doesn't, it's not unlikely other systems like Polkadot and stuff, where the Polkadot relay chain is baked into the system. The Cosmos hob is not this central piece of the cosmos ecosystem. And the success of these two things are sort of not disjoint, but are independent. So osmosis right now is sort of an independent chain built on, build on the Cosmos network that doesn't really use the Cosmos hub right now. Other than that atom is a major token that is listed on osmosis.
00:20:50.304 - 00:22:07.782, Speaker C: I think that the Cosmos hub, what it can do, one sort of division of the Cosmos hub, was to be able to provide this shared security where the atom token is just this very high market cap asset relative to a lot of the rest of the console's ecosystem. And it will basically be able to provide the same shared security system, I was saying where atom validators will agree to get slashed on the Cosmos hub. If they do misbehaviors on other chains, they would provide that as a security, as a service, and then get some sort of revenue for it. The way I thought of it, I think of it as it's like a, it's like a validator union of sorts, like a taxi medallion, where it's like, hey, if you want to be able to be this validator and have this opportunity to provide shared security in all these chains, you need to have this atom token to be able to do that, because that's going to be who people come to in order to, when they want shared security. And you're going to be able to earn the revenue from staking and fees and everything across all of these chains that are part of the shared security system.
00:22:07.958 - 00:22:41.994, Speaker A: Derek, I have a question for you. Actually, on the cosmos side of things, maybe this is for Sunny, but Derek, I'll toss it to you first. Right now, apps in the cosmos ecosystem are generally focused on one use case, and they're pretty friendly with other chains. Could you see a future where each successful. I'm not even sure if this question makes sense, but each successful app chain begins to build out their own vast ecosystem of applications to retain users and accrue value. And then they start almost competing with other app specific app chains. I'm trying to figure out in my head if that question even makes sense as it comes out.
00:22:42.334 - 00:23:39.984, Speaker B: No, I think it does make sense and it's a good question and I can say it. I don't know if Sunny will say this. I think, yeah, there's definitely, like the reality of the cosmos ecosystem is that all these different projects, like, if they're building their own app chain, they are in some ways competing with the sort of core cosmos hub and any other option that users can go through. I don't think they're. It's a strange thing because they're both allies and competitors. I think osmosis in particular is interesting because it's an on ramp that the users have to go through to acquire tokens and any tokens in the cosmos and IPC enabled ecosystem. So I think that makes it pretty well positioned.
00:23:39.984 - 00:24:22.214, Speaker B: But yeah, I think there's a ton of projects out there that are building on it. Just like any DeFi protocol, they won't be satisfied with just winning their own vertical, whether it's spot or lending or options or derivatives or whatever. Over the 510 years, all these protocols will want to become their own banks or their own private brokers or however you want to frame it. I think longer term again, just like all DeFi protocols, there will be sort of inevitable overlap. And here's just an added element of having your own security and sort of almost.
00:24:22.294 - 00:24:22.550, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:24:22.582 - 00:24:46.474, Speaker B: Competing to make your security, your protocol security, the strongest possible and incentivizing others to build on it. So it's sort of an added dynamic, so to say. And, yeah, I think there will be interesting second and, and third order effects over the long term. I don't think we fully understand it yet, but it'll be fun to watch.
00:24:46.814 - 00:25:28.074, Speaker A: Yeah. When I saw the Cosmos hub launch their. Oh, my God, what's the name of it? The gravity Dex, it felt very. Almost like an Amazon moment to me where I was like, okay, if you're building a store, right, the best place to build an online store is on top of Amazon. But then Amazon comes and competes with you, but Amazon has all the users, so you're still like, well, shit, I need to be on the Amazon store. And I do wonder if Cosmos is going to have some more of those moments, right, where they're this credibly neutral hub of the cosmos ecosystem, but then they launch products, and if I'm a Dex, I'm like, I want to be on cosmos. But, like, you just launched a competitive Dex, so, you know, it's kind of at odds with each other.
00:25:28.074 - 00:25:31.454, Speaker A: I don't know. It'll be interesting to see play out. Sonny, I'm curious to get your take on that.
00:25:32.234 - 00:26:35.384, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, this is kind of why I. So this is kind of the claim I made about the Cosmos hub when they were first trying to launch the gravity Dex was, I was very strongly against it as a, you know, I have quite a bit of atoms. You know, I worked on Cosmos Hub as well for a number of years, and I thought that, like, by launching the gravity Dex, the Cosmos hub actually is going to lose that sort of credible neutrality that it had. And in my opinion, when they launched gravity Dex is when the cosmos hub sort of, like, lost that position of centrality within the cosmos ecosystem because then they started effectively competing with osmosis and then kind of got out competed as a Dex. And so, you know, they've removed the Dex now from the Cosmos hub and are kind of going back to the shared security sort of system that, you know, it was originally designed for. But it's like, I feel like the centrality was a little bit lost at that point.
00:26:36.364 - 00:27:03.656, Speaker A: All right, everyone, really excited to share a special update from our friends at Paraswap. Paraswap has been pushing the boundaries of what is possible with defi for years, and they just did it again. They just rolled out the first ever nFT peer to peer mobile trading app on iOS. That's right. They launched an iOS app for peer to peer NFT trading. You can buy and sell nFts with any token. They have a secure, non custodial wallet.
00:27:03.656 - 00:27:26.570, Speaker A: You've got a fiat on ramp with zero fees at all. That's all at Paris swap IO forward slash beta. Paraswap IO forward slash beta. It's a peer to peer NFT trading app on Apple. Pretty crazy thing in the iOS EQ ecosystem. Imagine not using a platform that could literally save you thousands on gas. That's Paraswap.
00:27:26.570 - 00:27:41.562, Speaker A: Go check out the app. Go check out the native wallet to store all of your crypto assets in one place. Go get your gas refunded. Go check them out. Go download the new Paraswap NFT trading app. Paraswap IO forward slash beta. Paraswap IO forward slash beta.
00:27:41.562 - 00:27:53.034, Speaker A: Now, let's get back to the show. It'll be interesting to see it play out. I don't think we know, but let's talk governance, actually, because unless there's anything else that you guys want to touch on there. Senator Derrick.
00:27:53.374 - 00:28:57.314, Speaker C: Oh, I was going to say, I definitely agree with you. This idea that I think ignoring the cosmos, other than just cosmos, I do think that different chains in cosmos definitely will try to slowly try to expand their scope in ways. I mean, to be completely honest, we're kind of doing this with osmosis as well. It was just sort of always the plan. But, like, we started with just this, like, spot trading, but we're working on expanding the scope of osmosis to be more than just that, right? Where, you know, how we see it is that as osmosis, as a decentralized exchange, needs to compete with centralized exchanges, and we need to offer this sort of same suite of products that centralized exchanges do. So that means we're adding, you know, centralized exchanges have a lot of things, right? They have spot trading, but they also have margin and perps and fiat on ramps and launchpads. And, you know, a lot of them have NFT markets now, too, right? It's like, so, like.
00:28:57.314 - 00:30:00.162, Speaker C: And you see, like, Uniswap did this, too, right? Uniswap recently acquired a NFT aggregator, and they have their sort of own NFT marketplace. And I do think that you are going to see that these DeFi protocols are also going to begin to expand scope a little bit similar to how centralized exchanges did. I think the difference what the approach at osmosis is going for is we're building a tight knit ecosystem of products. Instead of our team, our dev team trying to go out and build every single one of these ourselves. We actually tried doing this for a little bit. We were working on our own lending protocol called isotonic, but we realized that, hey, our plate was very full with just things to do. We decided, okay, let's go focus in on just the trading engine and the chain development stuff, and then work with other teams to build out some of these other pieces.
00:30:00.162 - 00:30:37.566, Speaker C: So that's why we sort of dropped isotonic and instead have been working very closely with the Mars team to build out our vision of, joint vision of what the best leverage trading system would look like. And then eventually, Mars is going to break off onto its own chain. But I think there's this sphere of influence that these chains are trying to build for at the end of the day, for osmosis as a, you know, as a pure. The goal of osmosis is to drive as much trading fees to. On our. On our. On our decks as possible.
00:30:37.566 - 00:30:57.662, Speaker C: Right. Because that's the ultimate source of revenue for it. So whether it's like, trying to say, so, that's why we're not trying to build a world where, like, oh, everything needs to be being built on the osmosis chain. We. We just want to have a coalition of many projects that are still using osmosis as their primary trading venue.
00:30:57.838 - 00:31:35.264, Speaker A: Got it, Sunny? We love analogies on empire. The analogy that oftentimes got used in the bull market for when it was l one season was avalanche, and back then, Terra and Solana. This is going to look a lot like the cloud wars, where you have AWS and you have Microsoft Azure and you have Google cloud, and they'll all be in the background. We're using this platform called Riverside. I have no idea if it's on Aws or Google Cloud or azure. That was the analogy that oftentimes got used in the bull market for l one S is comparing them to the cloud wars. Is there an analogy that you think makes sense for what's going on in the cosmos ecosystem today?
00:31:37.244 - 00:32:23.584, Speaker C: I mean, I think this is more, like, similar to the. Not the cloud wars, but sort of your Googles and Facebook's and Microsoft's where, you know, Google's like, oh, let's go try to build a social network, and Facebook's like, oh, let's try to build a phone, and like, you know, I think you're gonna have. You had these, you know, our view in Cosmos has always been that, like, value accrues to the application layer, not to the protocol layer. Kind of like a rejection of the fact protocol thesis. I think pro applications are what have relationships with the users. They. You have brands, they have stickiness, and applications will move to whatever protocol fits them best.
00:32:23.584 - 00:32:51.834, Speaker C: And so the. Yeah, so I think that's probably a better analogy. It's like, you know, you had those, like, web two giants sort of building a suite of products, and, you know, and they do still compete in some verticals. Some verticals. They just decided, okay, you know what? Yeah, no, I mean, you know, Microsoft still built bing, but it's like, okay, we kind of just accepted Google's gonna win at that. And, like, sort of like that. Yeah.
00:32:52.374 - 00:33:24.370, Speaker B: If I can toss in another analogy. Curious what you think, Sunny? You could almost frame it as greek city states, in the sense that they work with each other, they trade with each other. Sometimes they go to battle on the same side against foreign invaders. So ultimately, they're here to increase the Greeks or whatever sphere of influence on the rest of the world. But sometimes they still go to war against each other. They still have rivalries. So that's one way to think about it.
00:33:24.370 - 00:33:30.534, Speaker B: Small, different city states with similar interests, but also some conflicts.
00:33:31.314 - 00:33:36.174, Speaker A: So then the real question is, who's building Sparta and who's building thieves? Right.
00:33:39.794 - 00:33:43.546, Speaker D: Who are the pigeons and the Spartans and everyone else wants to kill you.
00:33:43.730 - 00:34:09.430, Speaker A: Exactly. All right, let's get into. Let's get into some governance stuff. And the reason I wanted to go with governance is because the cosmos ecosystem probably has the highest concentration of, like, just, like, very active governance people. I don't know. I just, like, I've never seen an ecosystem that has that much activists and just like, that active of governance. And so I think.
00:34:09.430 - 00:34:23.154, Speaker A: I guess my question to you, Derek, is just, like, why? Like, why? Cause you guys are span different ecosystems looking at governance. Like, why does Cosmos have such a strong governance set? And maybe I'm just. Maybe I'm wrong there. Maybe you disagree with me.
00:34:23.694 - 00:35:11.558, Speaker B: No, I would say your underlying thesis is correct. I think cosmos just the ecosystem has the most active and engaged governance I've seen across all of crypto. I think the reason is it's so intertwined with the core security. Validators play a large role. And if you're a validator and you're securing the chain, but you're not engaged in the protocol, if the users don't know who you are, they're not going to stake their tokens to your validator. And since your business model is earning a commission, the more stake you have, the more profitable. So if people don't know who you are and you're not active, you just won't make as much money.
00:35:11.558 - 00:36:21.210, Speaker B: And I think that provides an incentive for validators to provide their opinion, provide an educated opinion, be thoughtful about the choices they are making, both from a protocol spend perspective, protocol design, and really, anything that governance falls under, I think it just creates this floor of having a minimum of, like, a few dozen really active governance members in the form of validators. And I think that, in turn, attracts other community members who will share feedback, disagree, and go from there. I don't think this is a dynamic you see in many other protocols. I think just to, we work on a few projects in Ethereum, and the incentives are very different. Right. If you're a token holder and you delegate to someone else to vote, they might never, ever vote. And it just, like, doesn't, there's no, it doesn't matter for either party.
00:36:21.210 - 00:36:51.274, Speaker B: The protocol as a whole might suffer because less people are watching it or voting on, like, a new collateral type to add or whatever, but there's no, like, incentive to really share your opinion. So I think, yeah, that's sort of my diagnosis of why there's so much activity in cosmos. I think there's room for improvement as well. There's probably some changes that can be made. But I'll pause there, and I could keep talking about this all day.
00:36:52.094 - 00:37:36.598, Speaker C: I sort of say that the bitcoin, original bitcoin, Genesis block, it had the timestamp with the headline about chance on bill on break of second bailout for banks. And it was like, hey. Oh. It's about, like, you know, solve these, like, problems with the financial system. In the genesis file of the Cosmos hub, my validator, sicko. We took the tagline from the headline that day on the Times, and it was the Times, the 11 March 2019 Brexit vote must be put on hold. MP's war in May.
00:37:36.598 - 00:37:38.670, Speaker C: And I thought it was just so perfect that they came.
00:37:38.702 - 00:37:40.330, Speaker A: That's amazing. Yeah.
00:37:40.362 - 00:37:53.514, Speaker C: Like, bitcoin was supposed to be this revolution in finance, and we really saw what we're building in with cosmos was this, like, platform for, like, iterating and experimenting with governance and, like, sovereign governance systems.
00:37:53.674 - 00:38:13.246, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, really, all crypto is. Is just re networking people and just moving people around in almost different ways than they've ever been incentivized and moved around before. One of my biggest learnings, I think, from the bull market and now seven months into the bear is that the current kind of token weighted voting system is pretty primitive. Right. And needs to evolve. Right.
00:38:13.246 - 00:38:36.994, Speaker A: It suffers from, like, holder concentration from voter apathy. And so I'm just curious, like, sunny, where you think this goes? Do we move in the direction of incentivizing voter delegation, but maybe also more like formal structures where the voters provide particular, like, subject matter experts with discretion to execute on their responsibilities without actually requiring a vote? Like, where does governance go?
00:38:37.314 - 00:39:48.236, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it will become more and more like a liquid democracy style system where, you know, currently we have this in cosmos right now, where what happens is you delegate to a validator and you, by default, inherit your validators vote unless you manually override it. Or, like, you, if you vote yourself, then it will take your vote. I think what we're going to end up seeing is, like, yeah, different expertise, expert matters. I'll delegate to someone for how to do protocol incentives, but then I'll delegate for someone else for how to decide whether to a smart contract is sufficiently audited to be allowed to be deployed on osmosis, and you'll have this sort of staged delegation thing. One thing I would want to fix, actually, with how Cosmos governance works today is I think that your delegates shouldn't receive all of your vote. They should receive a portion of your vote. And then, let's say, like, you know, if you delegate votes, then they use 25% of your voting power, let's say.
00:39:48.236 - 00:40:17.144, Speaker C: And then if you go vote yourself, then it uses 100% of your voting power. So that way it. It reduce. I think, right now in cosmos governance, like, the validators are a little bit, way overrepresented in governance. And so that will solve that. And it will also just give an incentive that even if you agree with what your validators or your delegate says, it still is an incentive for you to go vote yourself, because then you could use 100% of your voting power instead of only 25.
00:40:19.004 - 00:40:51.090, Speaker A: Derek, I want to ask a question to you that I think either you or Larry asked Sunny on the podcast, and it was such a good question that I'm going to copy it, which is around crypto governance and speed, right? Typically, there's a direct correlation between speed and governance. So super, super concentrated governance equals. You can move really fast. This is what we see at, like, small startups. Right? Super concentrated governance. Everyone's in a small. We work together, and you can just build stuff like crazy, maybe very decentralized governance, like bitcoin or, honestly, big corporations, you move a lot slower.
00:40:51.090 - 00:40:58.214, Speaker A: So, Derek, I think the question I'd asked you is, does crypto governance help as it stands today? Help or hurt speed?
00:41:00.314 - 00:41:20.594, Speaker B: I think at the end of the day, governance is not the goal. Right. Governance is a means to an end of achieving your end goal, which for most protocols is winning market share, building something that people want to use. I think most of the time.
00:41:22.894 - 00:41:23.182, Speaker C: If.
00:41:23.198 - 00:42:22.216, Speaker B: Your protocol is early, involving a huge amount of people in decisions inherently is at odds with efficiency and speed. I think there are some decisions where it makes sense to have every token holder have an opinion on, such as, I think some of the property rights related governance proposals, like with Juno, with Soland. I think it's important that those discussions are held transparently and out in the open. But I think, yeah, like the day to day things of operating a protocol, spending small amounts of funds from the treasury, I think there's no reason it should take weeks for a proposal and for everyone to chime in. There should be subject matter experts that. That do handle those. So I think, yeah, governance is slow, it's inefficient, and it's always going to be a trade off.
00:42:22.216 - 00:42:37.444, Speaker B: So it's about figuring out what are the low risk things you can make more efficient, while again keeping important discussions around supply inflation, property rights to token holders, and all stakeholders.
00:42:38.264 - 00:43:19.842, Speaker A: Yeah. What do you guys think? I don't know who really to ask this question to, but just like the role of a DAO. Olaf, where's polychain? Olaf from Polychain was on the podcast and we asked him, like, what's the role of a DAO? And he said, there's only one role of a Dao. It's to allocate capital. That's the only thing a DAO should do. And it should basically become the equivalent of, like, a CFO's office, right? That basically looks at all the functions and all the initiatives, evaluates cost versus potential ROI, and then uses this analysis to inform, like, high level budgets, stack ranked priorities, take into account like unit economics, determine what moves the project, allocate the capital, and then let people do the thing. Curious if you guys agree.
00:43:19.842 - 00:43:25.254, Speaker A: Disagree? Santia. I don't know if you have a take on this, but, sunny, maybe I'd throw it to you first.
00:43:26.474 - 00:44:59.686, Speaker C: I actually think it's almost the opposite, where I actually think that daos and governance systems are really bad capital allocators. This is kind of why the awesome office has Dow hired reverie to basically do the capital allocation. Because we realize that I feel like part of, I don't know, to me. Daos seem to be especially short term token holder based Daos governance systems seem to be very bad at, like, sort of long term reciprocity of things where, you know, one of the things that we've always been pushing osmosis for is to be more open to this kind of stuff where, like, you know, we can, you know, we've done this where, like, in osmosis, they've, we've given a loan from the community pool to another cosmos project called Stargaze so that they could, like, you know, bootstrap their liquidity and then stargaze then returned stars to the community pool like a couple of weeks later. And so that was like, you know, but in general, I think, like, these sort of, like, longer term things is. And like, especially when it comes to negotiation, you know, like this, like we saw this with, like, the sushi, the fiasco where, like, sushi was trying to, Dao was trying to raise from, raise funds from VC's. It's sort of hard for to do that.
00:44:59.686 - 00:45:21.944, Speaker C: Kind of a lot of that. It's really hard to negotiate in public, I would say. Right. And so that's kind of why having someone like reverie come in and be able to take on a lot of that, like, negotiation and evaluation role that kind of often requires, like, hard discuss, hard conversations. Right. And game will delegate those tasks.
00:45:22.724 - 00:45:41.724, Speaker A: That's a good point. I mean, it's honestly just hard to buy things when the counterparty knows exactly how much money you have. Like, we saw this with constitutiondao. It was like, of course someone was going to outbid the Dow because we knew how much money the Dow had raised. Santiago, I'm curious. We haven't actually talked about this. I don't know if you would agree with Sunny or you would agree with Olaf.
00:45:41.724 - 00:45:47.052, Speaker A: Kind of two counterpoints there. Like just the role of a Dao in allocating capital. I'd be curious to get your take on that.
00:45:47.148 - 00:46:39.616, Speaker D: I think it really depends on the dao. You know, I think at the end of the day, like, you need to look at it is most daos are struggling and will continue to struggle to actually coordinate. It's super, super hard. I mean, of course, when values on the line, people tend to pay more attention as opposed to traditional political systems. But even then, like, I'm not a believer that you need that pure, truly decentralized Daos are going to work. You need to have one or two really competent people that are ultimately managing this stuff. But, like, everything, I think the reason why you'd want to the criticisms that we're seeing a lot in today's market is you're trying to create stuff that no one really needs and you're just adding a layer of complexity that no one really wants and it's going to work.
00:46:39.616 - 00:47:27.210, Speaker D: The only reason why I think you want it that way is one you're able to bootstrap and amass capital pretty quickly and then there's more accountability and transparency in how people vote and delegate. And then ultimately there is going to be a high degree of centralization in ultimately whoever is taking the decisions. And if you look at the most successful daos out there, like pleaser and alluvium and a few others, you have a council of people that are really competent, and then at the end of the day, people don't like that, they can remove you from that role. And that's really it, right? There's just more transparency and accountability and tracking a lot of this stuff which you don't necessarily have in traditional fund management or political assistant or that. So I don't know if that answers the question. That's just my view, which is the only reason why this is kind of exciting on the margin is there's just more transparency, that is accountability on these decisions.
00:47:27.362 - 00:47:52.094, Speaker A: I think that's a really good point, Derek. I would expand the question to you and add in like structure. Actually, in bull markets, everyone wants projects to be completely decentralized, but over time, like crypto or non crypto.org charts and structures of a startup have to evolve over time. Block works ourselves. We had ten people, then we had 50 people. The company needs to look very differently at those two sizes.
00:47:52.094 - 00:48:23.664, Speaker A: I think a lot of Defi founders that I speak with understand this, but they almost feel constrained by decentralization saying, look, I get it, we need to move really quickly, but we need to let the community figure things out. We need to be decentralized in a bear market. This probably, I think, changes where we allow teams to iterate and experiment with new structures, things like working groups and pods, and maybe a bigger degree of centralization. I'm just curious what you're seeing on that front and if you have thoughts on it.
00:48:24.284 - 00:49:28.144, Speaker B: Yeah, I think candidly, I think a lot of what happened in the past two years was teams rushed to launch their tokens during a bull market. Everything's going up, and when you launch your token, you basically unleash Pandora's box in terms of if you're trying to, the token has certain rights, certain decisions that the community made. The protocol might not be ready for that. If the protocol still needs to figure out product market fit, it doesn't need hundreds or thousands of voices on how to build the product or how to set vision. So I think sort of in terms of protocol governance and shipping, I think certain teams put the cart before the horse. I think what we're seeing now I think is, is pretty interesting. We're seeing protocols take many different approaches to recentralizing, to re concentrating decision making and power.
00:49:28.144 - 00:50:19.326, Speaker B: I think Aave is one example. I think they've hired the BJD labs team to basically be one of the core dev teams building for Aave. We've seen, obviously makerdao with the core unit model. We're seeing some protocols go with pods. Osmosis has different subdaos. So I think, yeah, we're again, definitely seeing a sort of bottoms up approach to recentralizing. And I don't mean that it'll just end up being like literally a company in the sense of having a bunch of employees with functions, but I think it will be somewhere in between, in the sense that the protocol needs to figure out who to hire, what specialists to bring on, and then hold them accountable, whether it's every quarter, every six months, every year.
00:50:19.326 - 00:50:33.274, Speaker B: So, yeah, definitely think innovation in Newark design is happening. But candidly, there's a lot of lessons that we can borrow from traditional startups and traditional corporate governance.
00:50:33.774 - 00:50:55.310, Speaker A: So, Sunny, I would not be doing my job if I messaged some people like, hey, Sonny's coming on the podcast. I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't ask you about the exploit. So I just want to learn, like every crypto, I think project or company ecosystem goes through this at least once, probably multiple times. What happened? And what are some of your lessons learned from the exploit?
00:50:55.502 - 00:52:03.826, Speaker C: Yeah, so what happened was at the surface level there was a bug where basically we miscalculated how much lp shares to give out when someone adds liquidity to the pool. So, but, you know, let's zoom out for a second. Basically, you know, terra crashed and there was sort of this like sudden onflow of developers that was trying to, like, a lot of the Terra project DeFi projects were like, you know, using osmosis as sort of like the next place to go after, you know, to relaunch their projects. You know, we share, we have the same smart contracting system called Cosmwasm. We're sort of the biggest Defi app application now on Cosmos. And so basically ever since then, there's been sort of a little bit of a, you know, we had actually been working on getting a lot of our cosmos tooling and stuff to the point, you know. Cause we actually adopted cosmosm relatively recently.
00:52:03.826 - 00:52:53.514, Speaker C: Terra had been using it for almost a year and a half at that point. We added it a month or two ago, and we were spending a lot of time on making the dev ux tailored to what we wanted. And then suddenly we had an onslaught of developers that we weren't prepared for. And so we kind of had to start rushing a lot of things. And part of it was there was this conference called, there was a teradap expo that was supposed to happen in Austin, and it was canceled for reasons. But we were friends with the organizers, and they were stuck in all these contracts with the caterers and venue and all this kind of stuff. And so we kind of offered to take over the conference from them, and so that way they could give a refund to more of the attendees and sponsors and stuff.
00:52:53.514 - 00:54:13.422, Speaker C: We threw our first Osmocon in the course of, we planned it in basically like ten days, and we were trying to get this upgrade, this new upgrade that had a lot of these cosmosm features out before the conference, just cause we knew that, like, hey, if we wait till after the conference, it's gonna be like, you know, it's going to take another two weeks or something to get this upgrade out. And so we kind of did this upgrade more rush than we should have. We didn't go through the normal testing processes that we normally do. Part of it was like, we also added a stable swap to osmosis, and we did this sort of big refactor to the AMM module that makes it so it supports custom curve type. So instead of having a single AMM curve, which we currently have the balance one, we would support balancer and then stable swap, and we can add more and more. We knew that we didn't test the stable swap enough, and so we actually pulled stable swap out of that upgrade. And so we didn't add that, but we kept the actual refactor that generalized the Emmy.
00:54:13.422 - 00:54:35.258, Speaker C: Basically, the TL doctor, is that we just didn't test things properly. We had our testnet and stuff running, but we never connected our front end to it. We had a lot of tests on single sided liquidity ads, because that's what we actually did a lot of major changes to, but not on the simple thing, which is basic liquidity adding. And so, yes, what could you have done different?
00:54:35.306 - 00:54:54.464, Speaker D: Because this is not testing enough. I guess this is just for general founders. But, like, I understand there's chaotic innovation in crypto and the community, and you want to push stuff out pretty quickly. But how do you avoid this? Because you sort of knew that you're undested enough. Like, how do you avoid this?
00:54:55.004 - 00:55:18.430, Speaker C: Yeah, so one, I mean, definitely just don't rush on these things. Like, you know, we ended up, you know, our worry was like, hey, if we don't launch before Osmocon, we're going to have to going to waste two weeks on not being able to get this upgrade out. It's like, well, okay, we definitely spent more than two weeks now. Like, with the aftermath of things, would.
00:55:18.462 - 00:55:25.714, Speaker D: That have required an audit? And if so, a big challenge that I hear is it's kind of impossible to get an audit pretty quickly.
00:55:26.094 - 00:55:51.494, Speaker C: Yeah. So, I mean, I think audits are good. I'm not sure. I think people kind of hold up audits as these, like, perfect end all, be all suing. Oh, you get an audit, you're good. And I'm not gonna lie, like, every audit that we've kind of gone through has not been very great. Like we've, you know, some auditors, I feel like Rod Linter is on our code and just like, give us the results.
00:55:51.494 - 00:56:56.994, Speaker C: The, I think the solution really is just better code practices and review practices. So, you know, there's a linus Torvald's quote about, you know, given enough eyes, all bugs are shallow. But I think right now in the state that a lot of our AMF module was in, it was like, you know, there just wasn't enough readability. And like, code comments that, like someone making it very easy for someone to follow along exactly what is happening. And I think that's sort of the, well, the mistake that was made, that's sort of what we're doing right now is we're not working on any feature development right now. We're spending the next few sprints just focused on like, hey, let's add more code comments, readability. We did this thing, interestingly, where after, during this upgrade, we actually walked, we did a walkthrough with a bunch of validators and we said, hey, whoever wants to join this Zoom call, we're going to walk through all the changes we're making in this bug fix upgrade.
00:56:56.994 - 00:57:30.438, Speaker C: And that kind of helped because it just makes it so more people understand the code. And actually, since then, we've actually seen that more values contribute to the code as well, which is pretty cool. But, yeah, so I think. And then just better testing frameworks. So we have this thing called the simulator, which is a tool in the cosmos SDK that lets you define invariance, and then it does, it does random transactions. And it was actually such a helpful tool in the early days of cosmos. It found so many bugs and help solve them.
00:57:30.438 - 00:57:56.184, Speaker C: But just a lot of the ergonomics around it are just very annoying to use. And we stopped using it at some. I don't even know how to pinpoint an exact point in time where we stopped using it. We kind of just kind of. And now it's like, okay, no, we have to go make sure that we're, like, using the simulator properly, making sure as we're doing more code changes, we're adding more and more invariants, things like that.
00:57:56.564 - 00:58:32.600, Speaker D: I want to ask two questions. One is how much trust do you think was lost and how do you recoup that? And the second is, what impact have you seen in this market correction in terms of user flows and activity? Again, this is an overarching kind of theme that I'm seeing in the market now, which is most people are now saying this is all Ponzi nomics, and these are, there's no real use cases for web3. I'm curious what you're seeing from the users that are coming to use osmosis and how that has changed recently, given the market sticking to leg down.
00:58:32.792 - 00:59:29.532, Speaker C: Yeah, so, I mean, I think definitely some trust was lost on, like, you know, I think our dev team is one of the, we've been working on cosmos for, like, a number of years, and so it is sort of expected that we are supposed to have these, like, highest coding practices within the cosmos ecosystem. And so I think, you know, yeah, there's gonna be work to be done on, like, you know, making sure, especially not just. Yeah, just for users. A lot of, for the developers we're building on top of osmosis, just showing that, like, hey, look, we're going back to and re implementing a lot of these security practices that sort of, I don't know, we got. I don't want to say we got lazy. It's just that we kind of sort of started over prioritizing speed and velocity over, like, safety and security. And so we have to kind of go refine that balance.
00:59:29.532 - 01:00:51.120, Speaker C: Again. On the user side, we've been, you know, I think that I would say that we haven't really lost many of our users that we had. You know, like, I think everyone in, even, like, at Osmocon, which was, like, the market was nuking and, like, the chain was down. Like, I think everyone was in, like, extremely high spirits and like, yeah, generally just don't think we've, you know, I don't, I don't, I don't think the community has had that, like, bad of a network sort of a sentiment to this. And, you know, we're kind of just all focused on, like, going forward and building. But, you know, one thing I like about the bear market is you can work on sort of longer term things where there's a lot of, like, features that, you know, for example, our front running stuff with threshold encryption, it's something that we knew is like a six month project, but we just kept having to prioritize the, like, one to two month faster wins during the bull market and getting things shipped faster. And so now in the bear market, it gives us time to, like, actually go focus on, like, building out some of these, like, longer term, but in my opinion, like, more importantly features.
01:00:51.120 - 01:00:54.112, Speaker C: So looking forward to doing that.
01:00:54.288 - 01:01:29.278, Speaker A: Guys, as we start to think about wrapping this podcast up, which has just been an amazing conversation so far, I want to start to actually just spend a couple minutes talking about the future and talking about roadmap and visions and things like that, both on the reverie side of things with Derek, but also sunny in your world as well. Sunny, I think I'd throw it back to you right now. When you think about, like, osmosis Dex on Cosmos, you said bear market gives you time to actually build what is the not six month product roadmap but the five to ten year vision.
01:01:29.326 - 01:01:37.038, Speaker C: Here one is, I don't want us to be considered the Dex on Cosmos. I really see ourselves as the main.
01:01:37.086 - 01:01:39.398, Speaker A: Trading hub on Cosmos. Could I say that?
01:01:39.566 - 01:02:31.434, Speaker C: I would say we are the interchange Dex, where, you know, we're not focused on just the Cosmos ecosystem. Right. Like, the goal is that, you know, we want to be. If your people are trading bitcoin for ETH for soul, like, that's, you know, osmosis is the place to do that. And our, our bet was this sort of bet on vertical integration that we are going to be able to build the best decks because we have this, like, deep control over, like, not just the app, but we have the app, we have the chain, and our team also maintains the wallet. We have this deep integration from the full stack, and that's going to allow us to build the best flows. Right now, really focused on a lot of ux stuff.
01:02:31.434 - 01:03:11.834, Speaker C: We're working with Axlr, which is a bridging solution to allow people to do, like, you know, we call them like, native swaps, where it's like, oh, you have ETH on ethereum, you want Abax on avalanche. You should be able to do that swap in like a single click. You don't even need to have an osmosis account or anything. Sort of like, you know, osmosis today very much feels like the centralized exchange experience. You deposit assets, you trade, you withdraw. We also want to be able to offer sort of the shapeshift experience, right? Where it's like, okay, single click and it does the entire trade for you. A lot of focus on just like new key management systems.
01:03:11.834 - 01:04:01.296, Speaker C: Like osmosis has this, for example, hot session keys, where it's like every time you make a trade, I don't want to have to pop up my ledger to sign every single trade. I should be able to generate a hotkey that, like it says, oh, with this key, you're allowed to trade up to like 5% of your portfolio and anything more. It requires a ledger signature or something like that. So it's kind of like smart wallets, but they're actually built natively into the protocol itself. And so that's a big focus of ours. Yeah, I mean, so like I said, I mean, long term, that's where we're going, you know, focusing on the entire interchain. And I think that's what's going to happen.
01:04:01.296 - 01:04:52.246, Speaker C: What's going to happen is that more and more assets are going to, types of assets are going to enter, are going to become crypto native assets. Today. It's like cryptocurrencies, but we also have what I would do, tokens, what I would consider the new form of equity. I think we're going to start to see commodities and stuff be listed on, on osmosis. And to deal with that, I think we're going to have to see a bifurcation of the osmosis experience today. There's one app where people go to trade all of the assets, but I think we actually have one called, there's a project called Bitsong. They have creator fan tokens, and they've actually created a separate front end for osmosis called symphonia that's very tailored around the fan token trading experience.
01:04:52.246 - 01:05:14.590, Speaker C: They have an embedded music player and all this kind of stuff. And I think we're going to start to see more of this is focused on trading l one to l one assets. This is focused on trading commodities. We're going to see that bifurcation as well. Osmosis will come to protocol for all of this.
01:05:14.782 - 01:05:33.194, Speaker A: Interesting. If I'm reading between the lines, here. Derek, I'll throw a question to you, Sonny. If I'm reading between the lines, you are going to eventually end up going head to head with some of the centralized exchanges like a coinbase, right. You could really see a world where you guys end up taking on someone like a coinbase or actually, Derek, before throwing it to you, Sonny, agree, disagree.
01:05:34.854 - 01:05:36.918, Speaker C: This was like the mission we started out.
01:05:36.966 - 01:05:37.510, Speaker A: That is the goal.
01:05:37.542 - 01:05:38.006, Speaker B: Okay?
01:05:38.110 - 01:06:11.574, Speaker A: That is the goal. Derek, I'd throw it to you then. At what point does Defi end up actually becoming a real competitor to CFI? And the reason I say actually is because there were days a year ago or two years ago in the news and things like that, uniswap volume overtakes Coinbase volume. But at the end of the day, Coinbase is an 800 pound gorilla compared to someone like you guys right now, or uniswap or really anyone in Defi. Derek, I'd throw it to you and just say, when does that flip happen?
01:06:11.904 - 01:07:09.048, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's, I mean, the easy thing is to talk about, I think the UI, the UX, the fiat on ramping, things like that. I think regulation is also part of it. But I think like learning to sort of use DeFi is just, it's going to take time. And I think in the past cycle, like the order of magnitude of crypto users broadly increased. And it will take them a while to make that jump from traditional centralized exchanges to DeFi. So I think the DeFi experience and usability is only increasing and is slowly converging to the centralized exchanges. But we just need more people that have been using crypto and are comfortable self custodying with a portion of funds, using some of the wallets and making swaps on dexs.
01:07:09.048 - 01:07:20.844, Speaker B: So yeah, I think a lot of it's just the passage of time, and I think that really is the main thing because the other factors will happen.
01:07:22.024 - 01:08:46.144, Speaker D: I mean, I'll take on this. Back in the day when DeFi was getting started, just stablecoin transfers is pretty popular use case, there came a time where there were no reason if any sophisticated or just normal person would trade in a centralized exchange because the slippage was higher than using some light curve. And ultimately anyone that's trading in decent size is going to use curve versus some other centralized or some centralized exchange. And thus is the beauty of the model here, which is at least in financial functions, people are pretty sophisticated and you're just going to go to the place where you can trade with the best execution. And the upside case here for Defi to Derek's point, which I agree with, is, look guys, it's going to take time, but at the end of the day, these things are super efficient and you're going to go to the place that has the least amount of friction. And I understand there are certain frictions that can be addressed pretty quickly, which is, or over time, which has regulatory concerns and onboarding, and a lot of this stuff can be fixed. But at the end of the day, I think the upside case here is these decentralized systems are transparent, have certainty around execution, and over time, through Lindy effects and whatnot, you have sophisticated financial players.
01:08:46.144 - 01:09:07.658, Speaker D: Whether you're a font, if you're a trader, or if, or if you, you're the user aggregator, the bank is going to use DeFi rails. Because again, it's the only reason why technology gets adopted faster, better and cheaper. We're at different varying points of these three dimensions. But you sure as well, I mean, I'm a believer that over time it will be faster, better and cheaper than a centralized institution. No question about that.
01:09:07.786 - 01:09:44.734, Speaker A: I agree, I agree. I'm curious where you guys think it lives though. Like pre all these C five lenders blowing up, I thought the stack was, you had all the banks and things like that. The best way to get capital into crypto would be through CFI, and DeFi would live in the background and you would never interact with DeFi, and it would just be like behind a blockfi or something like that. I'm actually questioning that thesis. I think I probably was wrong. I think a lot of CFI ends up getting acquired by the big banks in the bear market here, and that DeFi will actually have an amazing bear market, and that DeFi is like really primed for another colossal couple of years.
01:09:44.734 - 01:09:59.714, Speaker A: So, Sunny, I'm curious where you think DeFi lives in the stack. Maybe with the specific question of, does retail end up interacting directly? Do I end up leaving my Wells Fargo and Bank of America account and just have a DeFi bank? Basically.
01:10:02.094 - 01:11:05.352, Speaker C: I'll say that I focus mostly on the exchange side of things, more than the bank. We're not really building sort of a lending protocol side of stuff. We're really focused on the Dex exchange experience. And I do think that like, I don't think that osmosis is gonna be like just the place where Coinbase is just upfront, you know, executing on like tapping into its liquidity. I do think that retail users will interact directly with osmosis as a, via the multitude of front ends that are being built for it. And I think that's kind of why we focus so heavily on the UX and design and brand. I think that we know that our goal is to have this similar or better retail experience than something like a Coinbase.
01:11:05.528 - 01:11:40.932, Speaker A: Yeah. When you look at a Coinbase, just to keep going down this rabbit hole, centralized exchanges are not exchanges. They are a suite of products. They are platforms for doing things with crypto, lend, borrow, interest trading, derivatives. Do you guys have the same goal? And if so, do you? If this was a non crypto company, you'd be saying, the big question is, okay, if you have the same goal, building a platform, well, then it's a build versus buy question. And if you actually look at someone like Coinbase, a lot of Coinbase was built through acquisitions. Like Coinbase custody was really Zappo.
01:11:40.932 - 01:11:50.140, Speaker A: Coinbase, like their prime brokerage was really to go me. Right. So do you guys a, like, same goal? Yes. No, B. Have you guys thought about m and a within defi?
01:11:50.332 - 01:12:26.798, Speaker C: Yeah, so definitely same goal. I would say it is sort of a partner sort of situation, but like very close partnerships. So one thing maybe worth mentioning is that. So I mentioned how osmosis has this like, smart contracting system. One thing that we do very sort of uniquely than I, than most places is it's a permission to smart contracting. And what I mean by that is to deploy a smart contract requires making a governance proposal. So it's not a permissionless deployment of contracts.
01:12:26.798 - 01:13:01.466, Speaker C: The purpose of osmosis is we don't have a smart contracting system in order to become. We don't want to become a generalized smart contracting chain. That kind of just goes against our vision for how blockchains, blockchain should work. We still are this application specific chain, but we're able to work. We want to find the like. You know, we're going for quality over quantity, where we want to find the other protocols that, like, can build the core, the necessary pieces that interact very closely with the osmosis to build the sort of user flows we want. So this is sort of like what we're doing with Mars.
01:13:01.466 - 01:14:05.290, Speaker C: So Mars is like, they're building this like, lending protocol that they're going to deploy onto osmosis. But, like, we can do like, these very interesting interactions between them. You know, they're going to be able to use osmosis LP shares as collateral. You can use the M tokens as in superfluid staking, which is this protocol we have of allowing DeFi assets to be used to secure the proof of stake blockchain we're going to, they have this thing where it's like, you can have a. So you know how centralized exchanges, when you borrow assets, you get like a margin trading account? You can't go, like, borrow, take these assets off of the centralized exchange. Right. And so this is sort of something we're working on with Mars, which is like, hey, you can borrow assets into this, like, protocol controlled account, and then you can use it to margin trade on osmosis, but that the assets in that trading account are still owned by.
01:14:05.290 - 01:14:30.908, Speaker C: By the protocol. And so it can actually be. So the assets that you borrowed can actually also be used to liquidate and be seized by the protocol. So that way you can have much lower margin requirements. That's an example of these tight integrations that we're doing. And Mars is just one example. There's others that we're working with to build out that.
01:14:30.908 - 01:14:37.964, Speaker C: And then the goal is to have it all be available through this nice, easy to use osmosis Ui.
01:14:38.344 - 01:15:10.906, Speaker A: Yeah. This has been an amazing conversation, guys. I want to end with one question to each of you. What is the one thing in this bear market that you are most looking forward to that is not related to something that your company is building or that you are invested in? What is one thing, just like in the arena of crypto, that you're most looking forward to? I will make it an open ended question to any of the three of you. Santi, you're included if you'd like to answer. Shield me. Don't call on me, Sunny.
01:15:10.906 - 01:15:12.854, Speaker A: Maybe I'd pick on you here.
01:15:16.314 - 01:16:34.428, Speaker C: I think there's a bigger usage of social and web of trust based systems. You know, if I wasn't working on osmosis, what I would be doing is working on, like, web of trust systems. And I think there's just, like, so much part of my view of, like, crypto is that, like, you know, we're building for these, like, trustless, all these, like, hyper trustless systems, but that's just, like, not the world that actually exists. Right? Like, there exists a fabric of trust in the world. And I think what we need to be doing is making those trust relationships more legible and then thus computable over so you can, like, you know, take advantage of transient, you know, multi hop trust relationships in order to make, you know, certain economic or even non economic interactions possible that were possible before. I think the biggest bottleneck when we were deciding what to build and we went down the osmosis route because we're really interested in the anti mev stuff, but the rebel trust stuff. The biggest challenge is the privacy side of things.
01:16:34.428 - 01:17:08.004, Speaker C: And like I said, this is constant balancing act of invoking, of balancing privacy and transparency. We want to have these computers suitable over trust relationships, but I don't want to be able to go see, like, oh, what score did Derek give Santi? Right? Like, that's not, you know, Santi might get mad if he. Derek didn't give him a great score. Right? So it's like, how do we sort of provide that? And, like, private compute is like a very hard problem. And so I think that's. I'm hoping we can see a lot more progress on that.
01:17:08.464 - 01:17:11.204, Speaker A: I love that answer. Derek, you want to finish this off?
01:17:12.104 - 01:17:53.434, Speaker B: Yeah, I think. I mean, for me, it's zero knowledge applications. I think there's obviously been a ton of discussion about zero knowledge in terms of roll ups, scalability and privacy. But I think fundamentally communicating is present in every interaction in our lives, in real life, digitally. And I think zero knowledge tech has a much broader range of applications beyond just improving how some of crypto protocols function. So I think. Excited to see that touch everybody in terms of all interactions.
01:17:53.974 - 01:18:13.662, Speaker A: Nice, cool guys. Amazing conversation. Sunny and Derek, both of you guys, it's tough to hear what you're building and not root for you. This is super exciting, and especially at a time when things are going really crazy in CFI, I just like it's time to double down on what you guys are building. So I love it. So thanks for coming on Empire.
01:18:13.798 - 01:18:16.558, Speaker B: Thanks a lot. Jason and Santi, thanks for having us.
01:18:16.646 - 01:18:17.542, Speaker D: Thanks, guys.
01:18:17.718 - 01:18:18.094, Speaker A: Take care.
