00:00:00.560 - 00:00:38.152, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 2 April 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get right into it. So, you know, we are back over $2,000 on ETH here. Always nice to see, you know, I mean, as at time of recording, we're kind of flirting with it right now, you know, hovering around the $2,000 mark, which is, which is fun to see. But, you know, if we, if we kind of take a look at the chart here and kind of look back to what we were at basically at the end of February, early March, you know, there was that big crash down to like $1,300. So essentially like a month later, we're just, you know, we're back at kind of two k.
00:00:38.152 - 00:01:03.076, Speaker A: And, you know, the all time high right now is about, it's even higher than that, I think. Higher than the 2040 mark there, or am I wrong? I saw 2100 somewhere. Maybe it was on a different kind of exchange here. But yeah, I mean, 2040 seems like the all time high on, on Coinbase at least. So, yeah, I guess that's, that's what we're kind of aiming for right now. I mean, it kind of looks like we're going to kind of break through that. The momentum is there.
00:01:03.076 - 00:01:34.462, Speaker A: I've seen a lot of positivity around Ethan on kind of Twitter and stuff like that, which is really cool to see. But yeah, just a, I guess like a really great kind of thing to see after, you know, I guess like the brutal kind of February, sorry, brutal march we had. Because, you know, you can see here, we kind of recovered, right? And then we just went back down and we kind of like had this whole pattern play out, his head and shoulders pattern. And then ETH was just like, well, nope. And then just headed back up there. So, yeah, awesome to see. But I did want to kind of like mention about just what I said about the sentiment on Twitter, kind of shifting on Ethiopia.
00:01:34.462 - 00:02:20.710, Speaker A: I'm actually seeing people who I don't consider to be like, you know, very heavily involved with the ethereum ecosystem or anything like that. They're starting to say things like they believe ETH is going to be a better store of value than BTC. Now, this always kind of happens when the price is going up, people shilling their bags and everything like that. But I think, you know, saying something like that takes, I guess, obviously, bags, but it also takes kind of like a bit of courage, especially if you have, like, a following that may be like, bitcoin heavy or whatever that might be thinking, wow, you're crazy for saying that because, you know, to bitcoiners, that is crazy. But I don't think it's crazy. And, you know, I've explained many times why I think ETH is a better story of value and he's better money, and he's just better at being, you know, bitcoin than bitcoin is. And that's got a lot to do with the fact that we have EIP 1559 coming, which is going to lead to the fee burn.
00:02:20.710 - 00:03:14.020, Speaker A: And then once the merger happens, we're going to have, you know, proof of stake issuance, which is going to be kind of perpetual issuance of less than 1% a year. And, you know, that would secure the chain in perpetuity. And then we have the fee burn to basically get to, you know, we all would have seen the ultrasound money meme about, like, having a deflationary ETH. So from that point of view, I believe ETH, you know, and that's not even to kind of, like, talk about all ETH's kind of other utility within the network, right? It uses trustless collateral to pay gas fees, it uses money, all that sort of stuff, that that's all additive. So from that point of view, ETH not only has a better monetary policy than bitcoin, and I'll straight up say that I think it has, I mean, once ERP 1559 goes in and once the merger happens, eats monetary policy will be better than bitcoins. So not only does it have that, but it has more utility as an asset as well. So I do fundamentally believe that we're going to see ETH be more valuable than bitcoin one day.
00:03:14.020 - 00:04:05.524, Speaker A: That might take another few years. You know, just because bitcoin has a lot of momentum behind it still, a lot of people kind of, like, don't understand, you know, what ETH is as an asset and everything like that. But kind of like, that's what opportunity, you know, you, all of you have, right? All of you kind of like spending time in the ecosystem now have the opportunity to kind of, like, I guess, extract this alpha before other people do. And, you know, I think from that point of view, it's not obviously investment advice, but this has kind of, like, informed my whole thesis around ethanol, like, the utility aspect of it. And, you know, you see a lot of ethereums talking about this saying, you know, bitcoin is good for what it is and does have some utility, right. The utility is basically that people buy it and consider it a store of value because the monetary policy is, is sound to them, which sound to them basically means it's unchanging. You know, it basically has a cap and you know, it deflate it, sorry, it halves every four years and that's fine.
00:04:05.524 - 00:04:46.500, Speaker A: You know, I can totally understand why people see the value in that. But for, for me, you know, I see more value in, in ETH through its utility, you know, and it also has like better properties than bitcoin at, than what bitcoin does for itself. So from that point of view, you know, still stacking ETH, right. Still kind of like loading up, making sure that I replenish the things that I spend on gas. That's the most annoying thing is that there's a lot of ETH that gets spent on gas and you have to kind of replenish your ETH. Um, you know, so I try to do that every few days, but you know, I do hope that we have some more adoption on meta transactions here. I would love to be able to pay the gas fees and like a stable coin that would still be paid an ETH ultimately, but so I wouldn't have to give up my ETH.
00:04:46.500 - 00:05:15.590, Speaker A: You know, the way it works is basically the stable coin would make a kind of like a trade from like a pool of capital for the ETH and then pay the kind of like miners maybe that's, that's not economical right now with the high gas fees and things like that. But yeah, I mean giving up ETH is always a bit uh, you know, a bit hard to kind of digest sometimes. But anyway, enough shilling about 8th. Good to see it. You know, I guess like almost the back at all time high. Maybe the, by the time you watch this will be at all time high. But 2000 was, it was a pretty cool level to break.
00:05:15.590 - 00:05:33.492, Speaker A: Again, we hadn't seen this price since the 20 February around that and we didn't last there for long. Right. And then since then we didn't see it ever because that was the new all time high. So yeah, really, really cool to see that. I'm glad to see that ETH recover. I mean look, look at this. It basically took us like a month and a half to get back here.
00:05:33.492 - 00:05:52.556, Speaker A: So not, not that long, but obviously feels like an eternity because we're all stuck to our screens and things like that. But yeah, kudos to everyone. Kind of like that held through this I think. You know, you've obviously been rewarded for this. I know a lot of people, like, panic and especially the newer investors. And they sell into this like, okay, is the bull market over? And things like that. And I totally get that.
00:05:52.556 - 00:06:31.710, Speaker A: I used to do that when I was a. When I was a noob as well, you know. But I think, you know, just stacking and just, like, riding the volatility is the best way to kind of play this sort of stuff. All right, interesting announcement from Dharma here today. So they kind of, like, qualify as announcements saying this is not an April fool's joke, but they've introduced something called gaslight, which is basically a way that they've come up with for their users to automatically save up to 80% on network fees when they deposit kind of like funds into yield protocols from your bank account. So basically, the way this works is that they've got a pool of capital that they've set up called the trade reserve. And then when you deposit funds through your bank account into Dharma to buy.
00:06:31.710 - 00:07:03.702, Speaker A: To, you know, to buy USDC or something like that, they take that USDC from the trade reserve and deposit it into yearn. Right. And essentially, like, give you the kind of yield. But. But your funds are essentially in a. You know, it's a custodial thing here where they're locked for five days and then you get the funds kind of like your own wallet after five days, once the trade reserve is kind of replenished here. So essentially, this is like, I guess, a bridge or like a proxy between kind of like you, the user and the yield farm kind of like protocol here.
00:07:03.702 - 00:07:32.564, Speaker A: So that's why it's not non custodial, you know, for the. For the first five days here. But that's how they achieve this kind of 80% reduction in gas fees because they're kind of doing this. This kind of, I guess, trade reserve thing where they're, you know, pooling user funds together and then depositing them so they only have to pay kind of like that one gas fee. So really, really cool. I mean, I wrote more about how different teams and different protocols are kind of optimizing themselves in on layer one to use less gas. I wrote more about that in the newsletter today, so you can go check that out.
00:07:32.564 - 00:07:47.698, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, I guess, like, there's a. I mean, I can give a TLDR of the. Of the newsletter here. Basically the way you reduce gas fees on ethereum. I mean, well, at least one of the ways. And one of the best ways is to pull the capital. So this is what Dharma's doing here.
00:07:47.698 - 00:08:16.878, Speaker A: You know, yearn does this themselves. So if you think about yearn as being like a yield farming protocol with vaults, the vaults are essentially just wrappers around users. So what ends up happening is that, you know, a thousand users might donate. Not donate, might put, you know, money into a vault, right? And to earn yield. But that vault will only ever have to pay one gas fee for itself. Whereas, you know, to do different on chain actions. Whereas if a thousand users wanted to do different on chain actions, that's a thousand gas fees that have to be paid.
00:08:16.878 - 00:08:46.464, Speaker A: Right. Each user has to pay their own gas fee. So essentially, this pooled capital and this kind of, like, wrapper around users is the, you know, the best way to kind of save gas here. There's also other ways, like developers optimizing their code to use less gas and things like that, and, you know, coming up with innovative ways to, I guess, like, lower the gas fees across the board here. But, yeah, cool. Cool to see Dharma, you know, kind of do this. I think it's very important, I guess, for the maybe short to medium term, because I do believe, as I've said before, that we're all going to end up on L2.
00:08:46.464 - 00:09:02.066, Speaker A: And layer one is going to be a sentiment layer. So it won't really matter at that point for end users. But still great to see kind of like these. These short term solutions coming out here. So Hermes network launched, I think it was last week. They launched on main net. And they're.
00:09:02.066 - 00:09:32.444, Speaker A: They're going growing quite steadily right now. They have 1158 total wallets created since then, which, you know, may seem like a small number, and it is. But to me, you know, people might think this is bearish. And I'm like. I like to think to myself, like, how is this bearish? Right? The fact that we've only got, like, you know, at most probably, I guess, like, using Defi at this point, there's probably been, like, maybe 100, 200,000 kind of, like, people that have interacted with Defi or maybe 300,000 or something like that. But it's definitely not. Not near a million.
00:09:32.444 - 00:10:01.214, Speaker A: I don't think so. If you think about it like that, it means that, like, there's still, like, tens of millions of people left to come in, right? So from that point of view, I don't see how, like, this would be bearish. It's actually really bullish. But, you know, Hermes, I guess, like, is completely unknown. Like, I'm sure a lot of you may weren't even aware of this until I mentioned it on the refuel. I didn't actually know about them until a few weeks ago, or at least maybe a couple months ago when they first kind of announced themselves and they kind of came out of nowhere. So, yeah, I mean, I think it's just really bullish because the growth prospects are there.
00:10:01.214 - 00:10:23.212, Speaker A: And just to refresh what Hermes is, it's basically a L2 scalability solution similar to Zksync. It's basically focused on payments. So that obviously is going to get a lot more traction here, you know, over time, especially, and more adoption. So I consider this to be bullish, but that's not me kind of saying, go buy their token. They do have a token. I don't. I don't own it.
00:10:23.212 - 00:11:02.130, Speaker A: And, you know, that's not me saying go kind of like ape into it, so to speak. But that's just me saying that, you know, these numbers may look kind of bearish on the surface, but the thing is, is that we know how fast this stuff can grow. I mean, I've mentioned before how just last year in May, Uniswap was only doing $10 million of 24 hours volume, right? And now they're doing billions of 24 hours volume on some days. And, you know, some days they're doing more volume than Coinbase. So this stuff has, like, growth prospects that are unseen in any other kind of technologies because of the fact that it's global, right. It's accessible to anyone and things like that. And I think, obviously, the high gas phase has put kind of like a, I guess, a cap on how many new users we can port in.
00:11:02.130 - 00:11:28.726, Speaker A: But as I said, you know, in my newsletter and yesterday about, or maybe the other day, about kind of like how L2 is going to usher in a new wave of innovation. It's also going to usher in a new wave of, like, users because there'll just be more users that can. That can use Ethereum now. So, yeah, I expect to see these blow up, you know, over time on Hermes here. I don't expect it to stay, like, at the thousand, thousand mark for very long. So, yeah, kudos to them. I think they're doing a really great job.
00:11:28.726 - 00:12:00.482, Speaker A: I just. I would love to see more, more kind of adoption here over the, over the coming months. So Coinbase basically announced earlier yesterday, now, not earlier today, that their s one registration with the SEC was effective. And they expect their ipo to happen on April 14, 2021, which is two weeks away. Right. And this is why I think, I mean, this is a major reason why I think April is going to be a big month leading up to April 14. We are probably going to see a lot of the crypto market trend up because Coinbase as an.
00:12:00.482 - 00:12:27.530, Speaker A: The Coinbase ace Ipo as an event. Right. For, I guess, like the wider kind of outside crypto space is absolutely massive. Coinbase is going to open at $100 billion plus market cap. As far as I know, they're the first publicly traded exchange, at least the first publicly traded exchange in the US. Right. And they're going to make a lot of noise, I think, you know, if they actually end up being worth more than some banks, that's just like a huge narrative.
00:12:27.530 - 00:13:03.698, Speaker A: They're saying, you know, Coinbase is this hot fintech company, but it's not just fintech, right. It's. It's crypto and it's kind of worth more than a bank. And then, I don't know, I just think that not only leading up to it will we see like a nice kind of trending up across the markets, but also after it, we're going to see like a kind of pretty big inflow of new users, I suspect, as well. And I'm very curious to see if we see. If we see kind of like a repricing in the ecosystem. And I've talked about this before, how I think that, you know, if Coinbase can be worth $100 billion plus fully diluted market cap, then why can't Uniswap, right? Because Coinbase, almost all of their revenue comes from trading fees.
00:13:03.698 - 00:13:19.098, Speaker A: Yes. They have other businesses, they have their custody kind of thing. They have. They probably have some market maker stuff. They. They have some venture investments that they make, but the majority of their revenue comes from trading fees, so. Same with Uniswap, right? Pretty much all of Uniswap's kind of revenue comes from trading fees.
00:13:19.098 - 00:13:36.962, Speaker A: Now, of course, Uniswap doesn't pay out those. Those fees to. To token holders yet, but that doesn't really matter. You know, I'm not sure if Coinbase is going to be paying out kind of like dividends to their. To their shareholders here, to people that kind of like, own the. Own the stock. But I think the same kind of thing applies here.
00:13:36.962 - 00:14:26.666, Speaker A: And that's not to say that, you know, Uniswap is definitely going to $100 billion valuation, but I do think we're going to see a kind of like repricing in the Amm space, you know, or the general kind of exchange space on Ethereum, and that will kind of like float into other Defi kind of protocols as well, like non exchange defi protocols, because the world is just going to wake up to this. They're going to be like, you know, why is this Coinbase company that is really big, right, and still has growth prospects, but is being disrupted by Defi? Why are they going to be worth like 100 billion plus and DeFi protocols can't be. So I fully expect that to happen, you know, in the coming months. It, you know, it's probably not going to happen all at once or anything like that. But we've already seen uniswap get up to like a $40 billion, I think, for diluted valuation. So another kind of like, you know, a bit more than a two x from here would put it at 100 billion. So not too far fetched.
00:14:26.666 - 00:15:05.000, Speaker A: I don't think so. I saw this article in, on CNBC today, and I was very late to this. You know, once, once I posted this tweet, I ended up seeing this all over, all of it, all over Twitter. But essentially Mark Cuban was in, it was featured in this article, and he said he owns a lot of ethereum because, well, I mean, his quote was, I own a lot of ethereum because I think it's the closest to a true currency. So not only is Mark Cuban here saying that he thinks that ETH is money, in so many words, right. It was also the number one trending article on CNBC, as you can see here on the right hand side of my screenshot. And, like, the article itself was obviously read by a ton of people.
00:15:05.000 - 00:15:54.490, Speaker A: Now, I think this coupled with, like, the visa news, coupled with, you know, more and more positive news coming out for ETH, it's not surprising to see ETH kind of, I guess, going up in price, right? At the end of the day, this kind of stuff just validates ETH in the mainstream's eyes. I mean, I've said it before, but Mark Cuban is an incredibly popular kind of celebrity in the US, very us centric. I don't really see much people outside of the US kind of like. No, I mean, they know about him, but like, it's not like they kind of like, follow him too closely, but obviously very popular in the US because of shark tank and because of a lot of the stuff that he's done over the years or over the decades. Essentially billionaire investor, right? Great narrative behind him. So for him to be so involved with the ethereum ecosystem and just basically saying he owns a lot of ethereum is enough for people that don't own any crypto to basically buy ETH that's as simple as that. There are people that do this.
00:15:54.490 - 00:16:30.526, Speaker A: There are lots of people that look for signals, you know, from people that they follow to buy into things. So I think that's what's going to happen here, definitely. And I think that's going to lead to some very nice, you know, bullish action for ETH. Again, not investment advice, but, but, man, it's hard not to be bullish on ETH right now. But, yeah, I think, and I'm really glad that the word Ethereum was in the title of this, right, because you remember the other day when the visa news came out, the mainstream media, for some reason just like, avoided saying Ethereum. They even went as far as saying, like, bitcoin partner. I was like, what? Right? And the fact that Ethereum is just right smack bang in, in the title there.
00:16:30.526 - 00:17:41.754, Speaker A: I mean, the times are changing. Like, everyone, the, the days of like a theory, I'm being relatively unknown and being like, distant second to bitcoin are coming to an end. I do think that, you know, coupled, I mean, Defi nfts, right? Like the Dow space, the creator economy in kind of like the social token space, all this sort of stuff, these celebrities buying Ethan and, you know, public companies buying ETH, man, I just, I just think that Ethereum is entering a new age here. It is coming out of its basically, you know, startup phase, which I do believe it was still a startup up until recently, into like, being like a pretty big powerhouse here, not only in how much kind of like, revenue it generates itself, right, which will soon be going to ETH holders with the 1559 burn, but also with how much economic activity it kind of creates for all the other kind of stuff on Ethereum, like the Defi tokens and things like that, which, you know, ultimately flows back to ETH, especially when we have fee burning, because every transaction on the network will have to burn a bit of ETH, which is incredibly bullish. And the more activity on ETH, the more kind of fees that are burned and the more value that inevitably flows to ETH. So, yeah, we're entering a new age, friends. I really do believe that.
00:17:41.754 - 00:19:02.454, Speaker A: And I have, I mean, I'm always bullish, but like, these days, I'm just, like, constantly waking up and being like, holy crap, what happened today? Right? How, where's Ethereum? Kind of like today. And as I said, the sentiment on Twitter is changing. It's much more positive if people are actually considering ETH as a contender to bitcoin's throne, which is something that I would never have seen some people say, and you know, I listen, I actually listened to the Bankless podcast with Hazu the other day on EIP 1559 and Hazu is, you know, started in bitcoin, made his way to Ethereum over the years and has been very involved with 1559. But he basically said that ETH with 1559 and pos issuance essentially kind of rivals bitcoin's monetary policy. So for him, someone who spent like so much time in the bitcoin ecosystem and done so much there, someone who's not a quote unquote ethereum maximalist or you know, a very hardcore ethereum, someone who I consider relatively balanced but very intelligent for him to say that is a huge kind of like, I guess, vote of confidence, I think, of what, you know, and a huge kind of like, I guess a stamp of approval on the stuff that, you know, a lot of us have been saying over the years. You know, a lot of us in the Ethereum ecosystem have been saying this since ETH was like $100, right? And you know, now it is $2,000 and people are finally clueing into this. So yeah, I think it's really, really positive and I find it hard not to be, not to be very bullish right now.
00:19:02.454 - 00:19:50.494, Speaker A: So there was a 8th one to ETH two merge implementers call that happened last night that was basically a call between a bunch of different ETH one and ETH two developers discussing the ETH one to ETH two merge and Nevermind had a tweet here that basically says it seems like the devs can see a clear road to the multi client ETH one to ETH two devnet, which will be used during the rayonism and ETH global scaling hackathon this month. Now I talked about what raionism was a couple of days ago. It's basically a project to essentially do an ETH one to ETH two testnet, sorry, merge testnet, you know, from end to end based on the spec that would be used for, for the mainnet merge. This is really like happening, guys. Like this is so close now. I mean, I keep saying that I wouldn't expect it to come by the end of this year more. So like Q one next year, but that's still incredibly bullish.
00:19:50.494 - 00:20:35.018, Speaker A: Like we could, you know, we're going to have 1559 in July and then once we have the merger by, you know, in Q one next year, most likely that's it, right? Those are like the biggest upgrades to Ethereum and they're not upgrades that are just based on narratives, right? And they're not kind of like upgrades that are based on sell the news events where everyone's like, okay, well, this happened, now I'm just going to sell on my ETH. They're upgrades that basically add value to ETH directly, which is just incredible. We get off proof of work. You know, stakers are now kind of like the people involved in the ecosystem. You know, the stakers kind of like any of the fees that they earn on top of like the fee burn. I do think they're going to restake that, right. And all the kind of rewards, or at least most of the rewards they earn are probably going to be restaked as well.
00:20:35.018 - 00:21:14.470, Speaker A: So basically, a lot of the ETH selling pressure evaporates from miners and a lot of the, you know, with 1559, obviously, a lot of the, the kind of like fee revenue goes back to ETH holders as well. So, yeah, incredibly bullish on this merge happening sooner than people think it will. Some people still think it's like, you know, 18 months away or something, or like 24 months away. I definitely don't think so. I think that the ETH one and ETH two teams are running like well oiled machines right now. And that's due in large part to the coordinators playing a huge role here, like Tim Baiko and Danny Ryan on either side of the fence. But also, you know, I think we have this very, very clear vision with where we want kind of like a theorem to go.
00:21:14.470 - 00:21:49.914, Speaker A: Everyone kind of agrees with it. Everyone sees the vision where the proof of stake chain that we have right now is the consensus layer and then the ETH one chain, once it merges in, is the kind of application layer. So we'll have proof of stake validating the transactions happening on that ETH one chain, and that'll become like one whole Ethereum. And then we'll have sharding, you know, sometime, hopefully next year, which kind of just like supercharges the L2 ecosystem that's building on top of all of this stuff. Stuff. So super, super excited to see Ray and ism kind of go live. As I said the other day, I am kind of, I'm judging this scaling hackathon.
00:21:49.914 - 00:22:29.154, Speaker A: Sorry, the scaling aetherium hackathon that's happening with, from ETH global here. So very excited to follow along with this project as they kind of build it out. It's, it's getting close. It's getting very, very close. So the Ethereum, cat earders, cat herders, rather put out this kind of like, post where they've got like an Ethereum Berlin upgrade countdown community call happening on April 15, 2021, which is tentative, which is essentially when the, the Berlin upgrade will be going live. So this is a live stream community call that will start 45 minutes before the estimated time that the fork goes through. So, you know, anyone can join this and you can kind of like, watch it on, on YouTube and things like that.
00:22:29.154 - 00:23:03.414, Speaker A: And there's got, like a bunch of resources about what Berlin is here. So if you're interested, if you're interested in kind of like, I guess, watching along or following along with this with a bunch of like minded Ethereum people, this is the place to do it. So definitely go check this out. So interesting tweet here from Devon Defi, who spends a lot of time in the index co op here. The index co op basically put out a proposal to create a synthetix debt pool mirror index here. Now, what is this? It's basically a way to mirror the debt that, or at least like the SUSD debt on synthetix. So I'll explain how this works.
00:23:03.414 - 00:24:05.768, Speaker A: Basically, when you stake your SNX tokens on synthetix to earn rewards, you mint us, you know, SUSD, which is a synthetic asset. Now, with that SUSD, you can either trade it for other synthetic assets, like Se or s, you know, BTC or things like that, or you can keep it as SUSD and keep it in your wallet, or you can go yield farm with it. But the thing is, if you keep it in one synthetic asset, you're essentially exposed to the global debt pool. Now, what this means is that as the global debt pool shifts around, you know, if ETH goes up in price, you can end up owing more SUSD because the debt pools weights have kind of like rebalanced underneath you, so your debt actually grows. Now, what this debt mirror kind of like pool aims to do is essentially dampen this kind of like volatility here, and dampen and dampen this in a way where it kind of mirrors the debt pool and essentially does the reverse of what the dead, the debt pull on synthetix does. So if the debt pull on synthetics is rebalancing in, in one way, the. The debt pull mirror on the index car will rebalance the other way.
00:24:05.768 - 00:24:30.588, Speaker A: So essentially a mirror, right? And what this does is it basically, you know, if your s USD is in the debt mirror pool, it essentially tracks, you know, the opposite of what, what synthetics is doing, so that your debt doesn't really grow. All right? Or kind of like shrink. You just basically stay flat. Flat. That's the goal of it. I know D hedge already has this in implemented as well, and it's. And it's been quite popular, but the index cop wants to have a go at this too, and kind of implement this here.
00:24:30.588 - 00:25:15.670, Speaker A: So, yeah, I look forward to seeing this kind of implemented because I think it's a big deal for synthetic stakers. I think a lot of people maybe aren't even aware of the fact that the debt pool shifts from ships underneath them, which essentially exposes them to this additional kind of like, I wouldn't call, maybe it's not a risk, but it's more like the risk that you end up owing more, you know, kind of susd later down the line. So charm kind of put their cube tokens live on mainnet yesterday. Now, what these cube tokens are is that they're essentially, essentially leveraged tokens. So you can buy one of these for BTC, ETH, Aave, Link, Uni, or iffy. They say FYI here, but I assume that's Wi Fi, and get three times leverage. So when you buy the ETH token, you're essentially buying a three times leveraged ETH position.
00:25:15.670 - 00:25:56.156, Speaker A: Now, you may be familiar with this from the index cop. They have the fly, or the flexible leveraged index, which does the same thing, except it's a two x leverage position, whereas charm is giving you three x leverage here on, you know, on a bunch of these tokens here. So, yeah, if that's something you're interested in doing, you can go check it out. And, you know, it's funny because this is like, I guess like leverage on autopilot, because the protocol handles kind of like the liquidation ratios and all that sort of stuff. Or the clarionization ratios, I should say. Sorry, and the liquidation points and things like that. But essentially, if you're, and this is an investment advice, but if you're bullish on like ETH, right, like really bullish on ETH, you set, you think to yourself, okay, it's going to double in like the next month, for example.
00:25:56.156 - 00:26:44.920, Speaker A: Well, it, wouldn't it make sense for you to kind of like increase your exposure by buying one of these leverage tokens, right? Yes, there's more risk. Yes, there's like the biggest risk is that you get liquidated because the protocol doesn't handle the collateralization ratio correctly. Um, or you kind of like magnify your losses, because if you take on leverage, you know, you magnify your gains, but also kind of like, can magnify your losses if you kind of, like, get liquidated and things like that. But, you know, because these kind of things are managed automatically, liquidation risk is, you know, ideally relatively low compared to if you're doing it on your own and stuff like that. But anyway, outside of that, you know, if you're really bullish and you think it's going to double, you can leverage up three times here with these tokens or with the flexible leveraging index, the fly from index car, which does you a two, two x and essentially get like two times, times or three times the exposure. So if ETH goes double. Right.
00:26:44.920 - 00:27:06.784, Speaker A: It's essentially like you've got four x exposure from. From. From this sort of thing. So, yeah, that's. I mean, again, I wouldn't suggest doing this if you don't know what you're doing and you aren't aware of all the risks, as I kind of mentioned, the risks are that, you know, the protocol fails to kind of like, keep a healthy collateral ratio. You get liquidated, or you magnify your losses because you didn't place the bet correctly in ETH for some reason. Just dumps 30% or something.
00:27:06.784 - 00:27:33.616, Speaker A: That can happen. I mean, even as, you know what, even the fact that we're near all time high again here, it doesn't matter. We can dump 30%. Right. I think it's a mistake a lot of people make, is that they get really, really bullish over the short term, and they think, you know, there's no way ETH can dump here. I'm just going to leverage up. And then what ends up happening is that these people get liquidated en masse, and we see those billion dollar liquidation figures come out because people just got too greedy, and then we have to reset the cycle again, where we have, like, that dump, and then, you know, slowly we move back up, and that's.
00:27:33.616 - 00:27:55.696, Speaker A: That's. That's kind of like, what attribute. What contributes a lot to this, this volatility is the. The leverage, because people just get too greedy, right? And, you know, um, there's just a lot of retail investors who just aren't aware of the risks, and they see kind of like ETH going up really fast, and they get fomo, like, I need to get more. More kind of like exposure to ETH. So they'll leverage up, and then, you know, uh, the. The spot market will just, like, dump underneath them, and they'll.
00:27:55.696 - 00:28:39.790, Speaker A: They'll get liquidated, and, you know, we kind of see those cascading liquidations sometimes. So, yeah, definitely be aware of the risks don't become too overexposed to this sort of stuff. Maybe just throw in some kind of like a small position to test it out to see how it all works. But yeah, definitely always be kind of aware of the risks here. So gitcoin posted a git coin grants round nine governance brief, which is basically a blog post going over round nine. Everything that happened there, the stats on, on, I guess like the crowdfunding stats, like the contributors and the matching and everything like that, who kind of like won each category in terms of like the most amount of dollars matched here. I'm actually curious, I haven't checked this yet, but I'm curious to see if the daily, yes, it is in the top ten and ETH hub as well.
00:28:39.790 - 00:28:59.402, Speaker A: So ethub is fifth deli, gwei seven. That's really, really cool to see that. That's awesome. I mean, thanks again, everyone for donating here, but it's really cool that, um, you know, both daily way and ether made it into the top ten there. So that, that kind of definitely warms my heart there. Um, I'm curious to see what other ones kind of, uh, kind of measured up here. So Dow Square got first for East Asia grants.
00:28:59.402 - 00:29:14.802, Speaker A: For infra grants, it was ethereum swarm. And then getcoin grants is second, umbra, which is a privacy protocol. Third, nft grants. Pop came in first. That's awesome to see. I mean, a lot of you would know what pop is and how awesome they are. Uh, and then dap tech grants, ether drops came in first.
00:29:14.802 - 00:30:07.890, Speaker A: Apy vision, civil finance, vfat tools, things like this. Yeah, so cool to see. Like the leaderboards there. Then they went over kind of like a governance brief here about, I guess, like I think, I think this talks about basically, I haven't read through it myself yet, but basically how they, they've done governance for this round in terms of like, I guess like how they manage like the payments, the quadratic funding, kind of like making sure that it's done in a public goods kind of way. Where I saw it, you know, you would have seen on Twitter, a few projects had tokens associated with them and they pulled out of the matching because of that. And then if you scroll down here, they go over the civil attacks that happened in round nine, the impersonation that happened, bribery and stuff like that, and non a theorem related projects kind of like spinning up on here and all that sort of stuff, and airdrop harvesting. This is a big kind of theme of this, of this skit coin round.
00:30:07.890 - 00:30:36.784, Speaker A: I think a lot of people donated to projects simply because these projects don't have a token yet. And I think they're going to get an airdrop and, you know, maybe they will get an airdrop because of donating, you know, to these projects pre token. So that was a big theme. And then there was a bunch of like an overview of the fraud deterrence that happened in round nine here. And then to kind of like finish off is like how they did the review and how they ratified all the results here. So really lengthy post here. I definitely recommend going and reading it to get the full overview.
00:30:36.784 - 00:30:53.116, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, grants round nine was obviously the biggest grants round. Look at this, look at the growth. Right? That's grants round eight with 4730 unique contributors. Grants round nine is. I think it's like, oh, it's not showing me the exact figure here, but it's over. Yeah, it's over. It's over 12,000.
00:30:53.116 - 00:31:32.154, Speaker A: So, yeah, basically almost triple, I think, from, from, from here, which is, which is just absolutely awesome to see. I think we can keep going with that, especially as, you know, I guess more people become aware of Gitcoin, we get more new users in here. You know, 80% of the people that donated were using ZK sync as well. So using L2 there, which is, which is really, really awesome to see as well. So, yeah, thanks again, everyone, for donating to the Daily Gwei, of course, and ETH Hub and also to donate, just donating to all the other projects in general as well. It's a very, very noble thing to do. And you've funded a lot of projects for, you know, potentially a few months now, depending on kind of like their burn rate, but definitely really, really cool to see.
00:31:32.154 - 00:31:43.084, Speaker A: All right, everyone, thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
