00:00:04.440 - 00:00:57.024, Speaker A: My name is Sebastian Bohr and I work for labs. And I used to say that I'm professional glass eater, but it's not funny and not relevant any longer. Solana development became so easy. So today, Sebastian just developer. And I'm going to talk about SPL governance, which is a contract about contract for building on chain governance for Daos, but also for really any type of organization on chain. So first I'm going to talk about the design architecture of the contract, the current state. But in the second part, I'm going to talk about the road ahead and the interesting projects that we are working on and that I feel really like, you know, want to unleash to the world.
00:00:57.024 - 00:01:43.316, Speaker A: All right, so SPL governance. We always talk SPL governance, and this is the main contract. It is DaO, or organization type, asset type, and governance type agnostic. It means it's like Lego blogs that you can take and choose the ones you want to build, the type of organization you want, the one you want to, the type of assets you want to manage, and the type of governance, right? So it's not prescriptive. You can choose this, whatever you want and build the organization you need. On top of that, we have several other programs. Like one of them, the type, I call them add ons.
00:01:43.316 - 00:02:22.426, Speaker A: So add ons, like the SPL governance chat, is a program that SQL governance knows nothing about. But the SQL governance still can use the governance rules that your proposals to create. Comments on that, but it will respect your roles, right? So you can only comment on the proposal when you are DAO member. And it knows all of that. The other type of programs, I call them add ins or plugins. So those are the programs that SPL governance knows about and has like defined interface, how to work with them. And for those programs, we have a governance program library.
00:02:22.426 - 00:03:10.782, Speaker A: So that's a set of anchor programs because SPL governance is not anchor, but all those plugins are written in anchor with your favorite tools. And if you want to check how to write those programs or you want to add your own, this is the place to go. All right, so we know that programs on Solana are composable. We can create, we can take different programs and compose them together. But usually the way it happens is you have to do CPI calls. You need developer skills. But if you add the magic ingredient, which is governance on chain governance, a magic happens because this is what I call plug and play architecture.
00:03:10.782 - 00:04:00.960, Speaker A: It allows you to compose higher order products from other programs. And this is the architecture we use extensively for SPL governance. And for dao tooling. But really, I think this is something that really not enough explored on Solana, because this way, in no code fashion, just any user can create those contracts, those solutions, right? And like in SPL governance, we have some of those general purpose plugins. This is what everybody can use. And one of them is voterstake registry, sometimes known as mango locker, because this is what has been developed by mango and it allows you to create this vested escrow tokens. So you, in order to get the governance power, you have to lock your tokens.
00:04:00.960 - 00:04:38.706, Speaker A: The more you lock, the more governance power you get. So the idea is if you lock your tokens for four years, it means you have skin in the game, which means you are unlikely to really harm the guardao or vote something, do something which would harm. Then we have NFT voter plugin. NFT voter plugin allows you to use your nfts as governance power. By default. The configuration is you have one NFT, one vote, but really you can modify it, you can have multiple nfts. And something interesting that has been recently released is the raindrops protocol.
00:04:38.706 - 00:05:18.314, Speaker A: Because raindrops protocol puts the traits on chain. That means that we can create and design governance structure where you can get extra roles, extra governance power based on the traits of your NFT. Right now, without raindrops it's not possible because the traits are off chain in some JSON file, right? So raindrops enables that. And I think that kind of interesting possibilities. We also have a civic gateway. So you know, those are the specialists for identity. And if you want to make sure that your DAO members are humans, if you want to make sure that your DAO members vote, they are unique.
00:05:18.314 - 00:05:49.478, Speaker A: The same person cannot try to vote multiple times and do civil attack. This is what you can use, the civic gateway plugin. The interesting thing about the plugins in general, and the gateway one in particular, is that you can compose them. You can use NFT voter with the civic gateway plugin. So you can say you can vote with your nfts, but you also have to be a human. You can vote with nfts, but you cannot vote multiple times. So all those interesting options are possible.
00:05:49.478 - 00:06:27.896, Speaker A: And of course, on top of that you can create custom plugins. And the custom plugins is just your rust skills and imagination, and you can do whatever you want. And we have plugins built by unique venture clubs with extra roles and permissions, from pifs, from serum, from jet, and actually I just learned this morning, I should add helium on this slide. I think this is super cool. They told me that once they done with the plugin, I won't recognize my baby. Bring it on, I want to see it. All right, so the current state, what we have on Mainnet is version v three.
00:06:27.896 - 00:07:19.296, Speaker A: V three is the next release. You can see it has been audited by author security. It's ready to go. The only reason it is not on Mainnet yet is because we don't have all those features in the UI and this is why we waiting for this. But some of the daos like serum they already released and using that version. This is something important to remember that SPL governance can be, you can use the default instance, but really what I encourage you is to use your custom instance, because this way the DAO really all the organizations owns the contract. And when you ask Max from Mango, he says that the contract is like constitution for the DAO, right? So it shouldn't be managed constitutionally by anybody else, by just the DAO member.
00:07:19.296 - 00:08:07.428, Speaker A: So I also, I think that's the best way to go. And if you really looking for any of those features for your dao that can be deployed, it's ready to go. And some of the interesting features that in v three is the council governance plugins. So the plugins before were only possible to customize the governance structure for the community, but now you can do the same for the council. And this is kind of interesting because you can do, right, you can create something like elections or like somebody had an idea to pick the council members randomly from the community and then kick them off randomly as well. So you kind of like those interesting governance solutions that you can create. Also now we support something which is called membership tokens.
00:08:07.428 - 00:09:08.770, Speaker A: It means that whenever you are a member of the council or community, you can get those tokens which cannot be transferred and also the DAO can revoke in the current version. NV two, that's not possible. And the only way for member to leave a DAO or leave the council is they have to burn the council token themselves. So that's super cool. Another thing about the councils is the idea of the council was always to protect the DAo at inception, because being a dAo on chain organization is not a state, it's a process and process that you really have to think about it. And the idea of the council is to protect it, because when you start the DAO, you don't know what's your community, what kind of governance structure you need, and you have to be very careful and the council allows you to protect that. And in the version three, we just gave it more explicit options that you can choose.
00:09:08.770 - 00:09:42.204, Speaker A: So you can give the council only veto vote, or you can change the approval quadro, or you can give it a fast forward voting. You want to update a critical change to security, upgrade to your program. You obviously don't want to vote for one week for the community when everybody can see it and steal your money. So council could step in and create fast forward votes. So all those things are quite interesting. And again, if this is any of this you need, we can deploy right now with security reviewed is off and back. All right.
00:09:42.204 - 00:10:25.708, Speaker A: So, okay. The road ahead. So that's the interesting bit, right? So I think we all agree that that's the future, right? This is Sagafon, if you don't know. And really in order to reach out to and create first class experience for users, we need mobile. And the good news is we have two great teams from the ecosystem. Guilder, which the application already exists as being used by many daos, decided to join forces with Bastion, our latest hackathon winner. And they are building the mobile Dao app and wallet.
00:10:25.708 - 00:10:57.000, Speaker A: And this is super cool. I think this is super cool. We are hoping to give the Daos again first class mobile experience. Obviously that's not easy. And there is lots of things that we still have to do and we have to build and some of them are done, some of them are planned. And that's my favorite is the dynamic thresholds. If you want to take your Dao wallet and pay for a coffee, then you don't really want to create a proposal when the whole DAO has to vote.
00:10:57.000 - 00:11:30.666, Speaker A: What I'm saying, $1.01 signature and you can do that. If you want to take 1 million, you need 60% of the DAO to agree. And this is what we are building. It's not possible yet, but that should enable this experience then this is very technical. That was preventing us from interacting of the DAO wallet with any Dapp. This is specific that when you create a new account, you create this ephemeral account where you create it for a very short of time, you sign the transaction with and then you dispose it.
00:11:30.666 - 00:11:56.038, Speaker A: And obviously it works in normal Dapps, but with proposals it won't because the proposal is set in the stone. You cannot change that. That was like a recent great pr by Gillermo from Pez. He figured it out and this is really good news, if you know what I'm talking about. That now we can create any number of those. So we can create any number of dynamic accounts in a proposal. This is super cool.
00:11:56.038 - 00:12:39.244, Speaker A: And the next one is also pr is ready because, yes, if you need one signature to buy a coffee, that's great. But what happens if you do this like million times, right? For you, it's good. You have million coffees, but not so good for Dao. And what the programmatic signatories option gives you is it allows you to create contracts which can validate the proposal. So you can create things like spending limit for individual person in the DAO, or you can create a spending limit for the whole DaO, for the whole treasury. So, for example, yes, you can pay from the Dow treasury for a coffee, but let's say no more than once a day, right? Right. Too restrictive for me, but I don't know.
00:12:39.244 - 00:13:17.932, Speaker A: Okay, so the next thing. Great. Lighthouse. You know, we know that currently the main model for governance is based on tokens, right? But it's not quite right because that means that whales have more votes. And the more tokens, the more money, the more wealthy you are, the more you can say, and we need a better way. We kind of don't know what's the better way. And I call this grape formula, because if anybody is going to figure out it's going to be grape, I believe in them.
00:13:17.932 - 00:13:55.054, Speaker A: And together with Lighthouse, they are building this reputation and membership tokens which can be through a plugin, can be used governance, and that would be another plugin. And it's extremely hard. Extremely hard. So we had a very great workshop yesterday where we discussed different ideas and different options. So I'm very optimistic it can be done and grape is going to do it. All right. Civic, you know, if you're talking about digital ids or any digital identity, those the guys you have to talk to.
00:13:55.054 - 00:14:29.902, Speaker A: And we know we can have our own id, digital ids for us personally. But if we can have an organization, shouldn't that organization also have identity? And we are doing just like that. We are building adding an option for digital ids for DaO. So there we have digital identity. So, I mean, if you know what I'm talking about. Normal pull request to add an icon to your daO. Normal pull request to add description because all of that can be captured in the digital id of your DaO.
00:14:29.902 - 00:15:28.170, Speaker A: And next thing, it's like, we all want to have digital ids, daos, you know, we as people. But what if you lose them? I mean, aren't you afraid? When I talk to most of my friends who are not crypto, they say, I want a credit card. If I lose my credit card, I call my bank and I get the credit card back, right? I'm not losing all my money. And now how we can do that, but how does it work? We just trust some random unknown people in the bank that are going to verify and return the credit card to us, not to somebody else. Using civic, you can actually replicate the same mechanics on chain. The idea is that you can create your social recovery Dao, which is like your friends, your family. And whenever you lose your id, you just ask them to vote for you and get it back.
00:15:28.170 - 00:16:07.794, Speaker A: I think that's super cool. And you can see the screenshot, it's already available and I think you can use it. Right? Awesome. And least not last, quadratic voting and cb resistance. This is also important because that allows you to, because quadratic voting allows you to give more power to individual members, because the more tokens you have, your voting power is diminishing. And obviously that's not nice. But if you cannot prevent similar resistor attacks when multiple people prevent to be the same, then it's useless.
00:16:07.794 - 00:16:40.086, Speaker A: So civic solves both problems. There's like pr pending for quadratic voting. And also civic resistance is supported by the civic plugin. All right, so community projects. I really love working with the community. And if you don't know, Mango was the original Dao that launched on Solana, on the Dao tooling. If you saw Anatoli presentation, that was like the one dao on August last year, that was mango.
00:16:40.086 - 00:17:06.168, Speaker A: We launched with them. And really, Ram's SPL governance wouldn't have existed without them. That was a big shout out to Mango for help. And they're still working with us. The interesting thing we are working with them is governance rewards. The word idea is that when you participate with the governance, you should be rewarded for that. And there is a contract that allows you to create a distribution.
00:17:06.168 - 00:17:33.298, Speaker A: But also we have now marinade, I think probably you know them, usually what they do, they cook some steak puss or something like that, right? I don't remember. But now we work with them on more governance structures. And something that's very important is aggregated delegation. We know that governance is a chore. People don't want to participate. The participation is usually low. And SPL governance supports delegation.
00:17:33.298 - 00:17:57.366, Speaker A: But this is like one to one. So it's usually used for hot wallets. So you don't have to keep like a vote or participate with governance. With your ledger, you can delegate to your hot wallet and then you can do everything with that hot wallet. Obviously, hundred people can delegate to the same person. But if that person votes, then that means you have to cast the vote 100 times. That's not really efficient.
00:17:57.366 - 00:18:41.526, Speaker A: And this is what marinate is working on, is this aggregated delegation, where you can delegate to one person, and then that person votes and represents all the others with that governance power. So we're hoping that we should make governance much easier. But that's not all. Marinade is also helping us with new voting systems, with weighted votes and gauges and conviction voting. So conviction voting is kind of interesting because there is no time boxing. So you just specify your preference and you keep it like that. And the more you are convinced this is the preference, how the time passes, the more important your decision becomes.
00:18:41.526 - 00:19:22.946, Speaker A: But also, if you change your mind, you lose everything, right? So it's kind of interesting type of governance because it's less work, because if you're really convinced that something should be done that way, you can just cast your vote and leave it like that forever and your weight grows. But also it shows that you really, really have to believe in something to vote like that. So lots of interesting stuff. And last but not least, I think we know that governance is not easy. It's not easy to manage large organizations. And what we think the solution is divide and conquer. And what I'm showing you is divide with conquer with squads.
00:19:22.946 - 00:20:06.294, Speaker A: So the idea is that instead of voting or using the whole DAO every time, for every vote, we create those pockets of authority. And those pockets of authority can then manage themselves. And you can already do this with multisigs. But what's really important is the mesh protocol from squad, because it allows you create any type of organization structure. And most important thing, that the DAO remains authority over the structure. So those multisticks and smaller teams don't behave. The DAO has authority to change that to change member, and that hopefully should solve the problem of participation and making daos more efficient.
00:20:06.294 - 00:20:35.254, Speaker A: Okay, so that's all from me. That's the QR code to our discord server. If you have any questions, technical questions, please join. I'm usually hanging there and happy to answer any questions, or if there are any questions. Right now, we are already like two minutes over time, but I think that's the last session. We can afford it. All right, thank you, guys.
