00:00:00.800 - 00:00:27.234, Speaker A: You're now listening to Alpha Leak, a podcast mini series highlighting the most under the radar projects and developments in crypto, and this series is brought to you by the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm your host, Jason Choi. I'm a general partner at Spartan Capital and an active Defi angel investor. Nothing of this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. And if you'd like for your project to be featured on this series, reach out to me on Twitter mrjasonchoi.
00:00:28.034 - 00:00:34.698, Speaker B: This episode is also brought to you by Periswap and Solana, two of my favorite projects in crypto. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:34.866 - 00:01:11.154, Speaker C: I'm super excited finally to have my friend Calvin Chu on the show. Now, Calvin is building something that is really new and really ambitious called impossible finance. And you might have seen a few headlines about the project where they raised a round from some incredible investors where they try to build out a vision for a y combinator for crypto. And Calvin himself is also formerly of the binance team and before that was also in the crypto space for a long time. So there's a lot of history for us to unpack here, and he has such an interesting story that I'm sure we'll all learn a lot, not just from impossible finance, but from looking at Calvin's personal journey. So, Calvin, welcome to the show. Finally.
00:01:11.654 - 00:01:51.410, Speaker D: Hey, Jason. It's honestly an honor to be on the show. Have listened to so many of these episodes and back when Jason and I first met. I guess this is where the history already gets to kick off. I remember sitting next to Jason at, I think it was San Francisco blockchain week, like 2018, in the midst of a hackathon. I tend to sit down and just start tapping away on my computer at any random place, including a hallway where I might be blocking traffic. And I think Jason was asking for, I think, t shirts from the event or something, and I happen to be sitting next to the table of free t shirts.
00:01:51.410 - 00:02:16.114, Speaker D: And that's how we started chatting. And so back then, I think, Jason, you were just leaving 500 startups, or maybe I think you had just left 500 startups, and we're starting to think about build out more of this podcast and didn't know what the next steps were yet, hadn't joined Spartan, and a long way that we've both come since that time.
00:02:16.414 - 00:02:46.284, Speaker C: Yeah, I was working with Bonnie from 500 startups on the podcast. Never had the honor to be officially on the 500 startups team. But I was thinking of, okay, what's next for me? And really glad we got to meet there. And ever since then, you've done a lot in your crypto career, and obviously you wrote that Twitter thread about kind of leaving Binance recently as well. I don't know how much you can go into it because I know Binance is pretty secretive as a, as a company, but would love to learn about how did you end up in Binance? What did you do there? What were the key takeaways from that? Was it two years?
00:02:47.144 - 00:03:51.224, Speaker D: It was about almost three. It didn't quite make it to three, but it was definitely an incredible journey regardless. Basically, before binance, I worked at Republic and was actually very interested in all these types of, we didn't know they would become ieos, but these types of platform launches, because in college, I was really interested in things like microfinance and trying to motivate people to invest via some sort of impact investment vehicle. Republic Co. Was a pretty advanced team that was thinking a lot about how to, let's say, get more people invested in female founders or builders of color, so on and so forth, and kind of widen the scope of what normal angel investment is compared to maybe, say, the angelist or the more traditional path of getting Silicon Valley investors right. And so that's kind of what led me down the rabbit hole. And at the same time, it just so happened that 2017 ICO mania started to pop up.
00:03:51.224 - 00:04:56.054, Speaker D: All these things were raising money. Millions in minutes is kind of what we said. And I just remember that there are some really incredible business models that teams like Republic were incubating, such as, I think there was one coding bootcamp for folks on the autistic spectrum that I thought was a great idea at the time. Coding boot camps are great, and obviously building something impactful to increase the standard of living for many people. Obviously, a lot of people on the autistic spectrum, they may not complete schooling, they may not be able to get maybe a better job than just baggering groceries, being able to present them with an opportunity to be a software engineer, where maybe their singular focus on certain projects or things can actually be very good for productivity purposes and also give them, obviously, a much better, stable income, which maybe we can touch on if we talk about axie Infinity later in this show. But for me, that's kind of the start of what got me into investing. And these types of platforms allow more people to invest.
00:04:56.054 - 00:05:41.638, Speaker D: And then we're realizing that maybe some white papers were just raising crazy amounts of money. And this project took something like 270 days to raise, like 50k USD. Excuse me. So as a result, it was kind of disheartening, I think, to see that maybe the best ideas and merit don't necessarily win, even if they have all the resources on hand. And there's still something brand new here in blockchain that could radically revolutionize how we look at investment at that time. Republic did about four or five crypto deals in 2018 prior to me graduating. But ultimately, when I graduated from the University of Chicago, I didn't have an offer to return full time.
00:05:41.638 - 00:06:09.594, Speaker D: So then I start frantically throwing my resume at as many different places as possible. Kind of got rejected down the traditional tech route, you know, like Google, Facebook. All these places didn't really even send me a rejection letter on the application process. And so what did you study back at UChicago? Economics and statistics. Double major. So, learned my first bits of python and code during a pretty rigorous. My CS classes were definitely my worst classes.
00:06:09.594 - 00:07:28.374, Speaker D: I think I was like a C minus student, and those homework assignments used to take like 50 hours a week, so it felt like a full time job, and most of the time, you just couldn't finish them. I turned most of my homework, like, half empty. But that's kind of, I think, the level of pursuit of learning that a lot of the UChicago folks that I've met bring to the table. And I think that's something that's been very helpful in driving me to continue to learn about everything that happens within crypto as well, whether it's new yield farms, as we were joking prior to this show, is starting, you know, keeping us up late at night, I feel like college, you know, exactly prepared me for this, but, yeah, so, you know, I think in particular, when, you know, we were thinking a lot about all these, you know, opportunities as a college student, a lot of what I was thinking about was like, oh, what can I do that can be like a regular job, but then what can I do to have passion projects, right. Things that I felt like I had ownership with. Because obviously, I think a lot of the big jobs that a lot of people go after are big companies. Jason, I think you were previously in consulting prior to making the leap into crypto.
00:07:28.374 - 00:08:35.473, Speaker D: I think a lot of folks have these types of paths that they've kind of pre scripted, and I think it was partially because I graduated from school a year early that kind of broke a lot of the recruiting processes because I basically just didn't have a senior year to find a job. And that kind of led me to throw my applications everywhere and then ended up having to catch an eye of a, now a great friend and also great teammates at Binance who are looking to scale the research team at that time and was able to help build out a lot of the processes, whether that's some of the listing things, as well as Launchpad, and then also had the incredible opportunity to be able to step out and start building some of the product lines that maybe you've used yourselves, whether it's something like binance staking or other pieces of the puzzle, that it was an incredible honor to be able to bridge, I think, both the technical and non technical sides and the crypto and non crypto sides of the binance business, and just have a lot of great things to say for all the teammates that I had an opportunity to build alongside while at Binance.
00:08:36.173 - 00:09:16.294, Speaker C: Yeah, and this is such an interesting thing, and we can totally do another episode just on your experience with Binance. But I'd love to talk about impossible, because now, out of all the products that you had a chance, you had hand in building at Binance, you know, staking Launchpad, the listing process and all these things, it seems like the launchpad part really stuck out to you, because when we were talking about impossible, finance your new project before, before this podcast, you mentioned that it is going to be the y combinator for Crypto. It's a launch pad for projects. So what were some of the takeaways that you had during your time at Binance that inspired you to spin out and build this new product or build this new company?
00:09:16.994 - 00:10:29.934, Speaker D: Yeah. So I think at Binance we had the pleasure of being able to get the first dibs on everything as a large exchange. A lot of people go to you as a nexus of opportunity, whether it's to get listed or to just reach this incredible audience of folks within crypto, Binance has ungodly numbers of daily active users that I think a lot of exchanges are playing catch up to. Obviously, project teams want to get their products in front of users. If they're a real decentralized protocol that wants to serve the needs of many people, the best way to start that is to kickstart that is to get your product in front of one of the largest, most engaged crypto audiences out there. And so that's something that was really fascinating. And I think that's a piece of the puzzle that maybe a lot of the equity crowdfunding or other models previous to this kind of missed the mark because they don't have a liquid secondary venue to be able to transact any shares or assets that they have kind of distributed via some sort of primary sale.
00:10:29.934 - 00:11:52.948, Speaker D: The kind of aha moment, I think, that we realized was when it was so easy to just list something on Uniswap or add a new asset pool out there that you don't really need to have something like Binance, where Binance has some incredible engineers that have built backends for things like Tokyo Stock Exchange and many other incredible platform. CZ himself is from Bloomberg. And so clearly there's a lot of financial experience on this team. Many folks from other blue chip companies within the finance and tech spaces went over to bolster up the binance team. But for a project team, a lot of folks, they can just go down the Uniswap route. Or as we saw in Defi summer, people doing balancer, lbps and other kind of, I'll say, self serve ways to distribute your tokens to the masses without needing to build or rely on someone that has built an incredibly powerful exchange because of the openness and the transparency of these permissionless defi protocols. And so as we saw, more and more of these pain points get solved progressively across all these dexs, such as building forks of things on cheaper blockchains to use to solve the gas fee pain point.
00:11:52.948 - 00:13:39.020, Speaker D: For many users, it just became more and more clear that project teams actually have venues to get secondary liquidity, but that if they have that, they may not have the incentive to go to the previous shelling points or nexuses of crypto. It's very clear that Binance is still one of the largest, you know, entities, whether crypto or non crypto, to try and attract users in a global kind of sense. Right. Binance has its website translated to something like 30 languages for a reason, because it has users in more than 30 language speaking regions, and very, very few projects ever reach that stage of growth. But that with so many of these projects starting to go down these kinds of decentralized kind of paths, it became pretty clear that there wasn't something that was kind of structured or formulaic enough to make sure that that attention or spotlight on these projects stay on them. You might do an LBP this week, and then people move on to the next LBP next week, or some other mining farm or some yield that they're chasing, and that kind of creates this kind of ultra competitive, but it is permissionless way where users can hop wherever they want to hop, which means that user stickiness is also harder to retain. And so the more we thought about it, the more we realized that if users want to go down or project teams want to go down this decentralized launch kind of path, they maybe need something that's maybe more in between the completely self serve, a process of, say, a balance or LBP, and something that's completely handholding, like a binance launchpad or other centralized ieo.
00:13:39.020 - 00:14:19.244, Speaker D: Maybe something in the middle is maybe more both cost effective for these project teams. Whether you can avoid listing fees or other rent seeking fees that you run down in the more heavy approach with a centralized exchange, versus maybe having no fees and no incurred risk other than maybe some permanent loss for your own liquidity pool in the decentralized side, that maybe some happy medium on this kind of spectrum is maybe the missing piece to hopefully get a lot more of these projects self sustaining and growing in the long term.
00:14:19.824 - 00:15:01.770, Speaker C: That's super interesting, and I've never thought about it from the perspective of a spectrum, because there's so many different ways for founders to bring their products to market right now. And I feel like there's almost an extreme focus on product and crypto where everyone's kind of just thinking, okay, if I launch these contracts, if I launch this product, the people will come. But people are almost treating distribution as an afterthought. But as an expert in distribution, you have been at binance and you have looked at all of these defi methods of launching protocols. It's really interesting you came to this conclusion that, hey, maybe there's something that is somewhere between a binance and a uniswap when it comes to launching projects. So I'd love to dive into that. So what exactly is impossible? Finance.
00:15:01.770 - 00:15:05.734, Speaker C: How is it different from some of these other existing methods of launching your project?
00:15:06.054 - 00:16:02.842, Speaker D: Yeah, so impossible has kind of three parts. Impossible is a decentralized incubator, launchpad and swap. So the incubator part kind of more mimics something like a Y combinator, where we do a lot of hands on work with product teams, both technical and non technical, in being just this kind of strategic advisor to figure out, as you mentioned, the product market fit part that a lot of people have this kind of, I'll say, attitude of like, build and they'll come build in, users will come. Right. But in reality, I think most of the time when you're building something by yourself, you're kind of heads down in that thing, and you don't really see a more macro view of the entire space. That's probably also one of the best advantages of working at a place like finance, because you do see the proliferation of trends over time. You know, we saw the need for Ethereum scaling solutions.
00:16:02.842 - 00:16:58.518, Speaker D: So then we started betting on L2s like Matic in 2018. We saw nfts start to capture some attention. So then we did Axiom Infinity as launchpad in 2019, and then I think sandbox shortly thereafter and so on and so forth. And these are the types of trends that we were able to pick up super early on. And even when we all say maybe don't hit like a hundred or 1000 x kind of home run like some of these projects were, for example, we picked band protocol, which I think Spartan is also a investor in for the Oracle space, because we obviously saw the growth of the need for on chain price feeds. And ultimately, maybe that wasn't a hundred x or thousand x for our users, our binance users. But for example, one of the developers from band was actually nupun from Alpha.
00:16:58.518 - 00:18:22.600, Speaker D: And so it actually led to having even more deals and even more projects and integrations and obviously stuff that got built on our BSc once there was the alpha Amora suite of smart contracts. So I think the key thing to answer one of your early questions of what drew me towards these types of launchpad plays. It's kind of like when you play poker that you don't have just a certain thing that you're hoping to hit. You actually might have multiple cards that would help you win this hand and that launchpads give you a lot of cards and a lot of outs, as they say, to hopefully hit something that is the jackpot. Right? So even if you don't necessarily find something now, you build a network of incredible builders. And if you get some of the offspring projects that come out of these other projects, even if they don't succeed, you'll find a lot of really powerful and incredibly motivated folks that want to build cool things and that this, I'll say, kind of spring of constant deal flow is something that is very, very powerful and it's hard to necessarily attract in the long run. So that's part of the reason why impossible has the Launchpad platform and the swap.
00:18:22.600 - 00:20:24.118, Speaker D: So we don't want to just kind of say where, you know, helpful early stage advisors or doing stuff that, you know, you guys do as a strategic investor in a lot of projects as well. Well, we did want to have a product element to our offering such that we can help, as you mentioned, help with this distribution. A lot of folks, I think, do assume that once you build something, there will just be users that happen on it. And while it's true that a lot of DeFi users are incredibly curious in nature and just want to try out everything, the large masses still follow their friends and what they try out and use by having a platform that can hopefully be the kind of more trusted symbol in the decentralized world. Going back to this kind of spectrum logic that if we can have something that still has the user trust of maybe some of these centralized entities, but the permissionless nature and the wide distribution of these on chain decentralized protocols, we can actually offer a wider, more, I'll say smart launchpad, and especially in the era of all these defi projects where the real users of their protocols, they need to be on chain, not just some KYC individual in some country, we really do want to make sure that we place our users as close as possible to being convertible users in the adoption of each of the projects that we launch. And so that was part of the reason why placing ourselves in this decentralized spot where a project team, if they sell these tokens to this user, that user might be able to say stake or do something with them on chain right away, right after the launchpad, they don't need to do some sort of withdrawal process off of a centralized exchange in order to actually utilize the protocol. That's something that we think actually reduces a user friction in getting deeper down the crypto rabbit hole or the Defi rabbit hole.
00:20:24.118 - 00:21:23.720, Speaker D: And then the last part is that we have the swap. Just to add on an additional piece of the puzzle, if project teams do feel like they still want a venue to trade their assets in a secondary market, we built something that was branched off of Uniswap V two. We love the simplicity and the interoperability of the two asset LP token design. However, with Uni V three, I think there are a lot of incredible powerful features that are made and it kind of mimics more of an order book now, as I think a lot of people on crypto Twitter have kind of mentioned. But that for us we wanted to have something that has powerful asymmetric boosting. So we kind of mention it, we kind of describe it as uniswap and curve. A lot of these swaps are perfectly symmetrical in that xyk kind of curve, or in curve's case it's kind of more like a u shaped container for us.
00:21:23.720 - 00:21:29.896, Speaker D: We can do something like an arbitrary Nike checkmark. It doesn't have to be equal liquori on both sides, so the team can.
00:21:29.920 - 00:21:31.776, Speaker C: Set the curve themselves if they want to.
00:21:31.920 - 00:22:43.422, Speaker D: Right now it's going to be via governance. But yes, the project team can help kind of design a use case. So for example, if you don't think that Dai has any reason to break peg upwards, it should only brick peg downwards. Then you can provide less liquidity on the downside and more liquidity on the upside versus let's say a fully backed fiat stablecoin like USDC. Right? So that's where this kind of Nike check mark look can kind of be created. But I guess to your previous point, for the launchpads having something that is hybrid technical and hybrid like from a product perspective and also have some of the industry experience, not just myself but some of the other folks on our team that have worked with many projects on both the Defi side, the pure finance side, as well as new things like nfts and other stuff. Our launchpad hopes to be kind of sectorized so that then investors can go and pick and choose a theme or category that they have a thesis on and they simply just need to stake in these categories to be able to earn some allocation in project teams that fit the bill of what their thesis is.
00:22:43.558 - 00:23:29.668, Speaker B: Now before I continue, I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you. Now whenever I want to trade a token instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere because Paraswap aggregates all the popular Ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now the cool thing is theyve also integrated with ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you are a defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch.
00:23:29.796 - 00:24:13.496, Speaker A: I'd love to also talk about our sponsor Solana, a high throughput layer one blockchain. Now in the past few months I've probably talked to two dozen teams building exciting new projects on Solana and this is probably why. First, it's incredibly fast with 50,000 transactions per second. 2nd, its cheap with average fees less than a cent per transaction. That means developers can deploy contracts cheaply and also not have to worry about their apps not being composable with others as Solana does not use any type of sharding or fragmented L2 systems. Most importantly, Solana is censorship resistant with over 950 validators today. So if youre interested in building fast, scalable blockchain applications or want to test out the existing ecosystem of Defi applications and more, go to solana.com
00:24:13.496 - 00:24:14.536, Speaker A: blockcrunch.
00:24:14.640 - 00:25:13.204, Speaker C: And before I talk about the allocation part, because the staking to get allocation in specific themes is a huge differentiator here. Just to summarize for the listeners, it sounds like what impossible is trying to do is to really create a place for people to launch new project, to launch new tokens. So you have the launchpad itself and then also provide an exchange venue, a decentralized exchange venue to provide immediate liquidity for these projects. So I'm curious, because obviously impossible is not the first project to tackle this, given how big of a market this is. And one of the projects that immediately came to mind is sushi, where they also have a miso platform for project launches. So they have this auction module where people can create crowd sales, dutch sales or batch sales, different types of sales, and then immediately they can bridge the liquidity to the sushiswap Amm itself. Is that the similar concept here? And what would, would you say there are key differences for that part of impossible versus something like miso?
00:25:13.504 - 00:26:22.294, Speaker D: Yeah, so that's a great question. And we've been thinking about this ourselves over the last few months a lot, both before we started impossible as well as now as we're kind of building it. I'll say that we have a lot of respect for the sushi team and love them. And I think same for balancer as well, with the balancer lbps, I think fun fact, I think in my sophomore year internship in college, Mike McDonald from the CTO of Balancer was actually my boss. So I didn't realize I had so much lineage and ties to the AMM world and decentralized launching. But for balancer and Miso, the LBP and the miso, I think they're both incredible tools, but they're, I'll say, still on the kind of very end of that spectrum that I mentioned. They seem to be a little more self serve, and it's maybe not the full process of what something like a binance launchpad or coin list or other launch pads out there might do.
00:26:22.294 - 00:27:23.384, Speaker D: And so I think, for example, sushi Miso has actually done many private sales and distributions, and they also did a pretty interesting sale of sake, like a limited edition sake order, if you will. And I think that that's the kind of cool part that we get to do in DeFi, that we can test out a lot of things and kind of pivot very quickly if things don't work. And so that's kind of, I think, proving the model that building these things is maybe not the holy grail. It's how do you scale them? That I think that both, obviously, all the code from sushi is incredibly safe, secure, and same thing with balancer lbps. It's been able to let a lot of builders launch things very quickly. But a lot of times it's launchers that are launching to an existing audience. For example, a team that we've been speaking a lot to and have a lot of respect for, and I think I have a call later today, is Pendle finance.
00:27:23.384 - 00:28:41.704, Speaker D: And Pendle is something that we're very, very interested in trying to find more kind of collaboration points with. And that Pendle is a team that for some of the listeners that isn't very familiar, is doing some fixed income products. The TLDR. If, let's say, you deposit into Aave and you hold something in a year, you'd get both a principal back as well as interest earned. And so they essentially tokenize that into two tokens, a YT and an OT, to be able to allow users to actually basically sell or lock in their yield that they would be expecting to earn over a certain period of time. And we think that these types of projects and products are really powerful for giving users more optionality in what they want to do with their money in Defi. And so for a team like them, they did an incredible kind of twist on a balance or LBP, where they did different kind of drops of liquidity at randomized times, such that people had incentives to stick around for the entire period of the balance, or LBP, because if they add liquidity at a random time, there's essentially a dip in price, and so then users have an incentive to rush to go and buy the dip.
00:28:41.704 - 00:29:14.464, Speaker D: And we think that that's actually a very interesting twist to a balancer kind of LBP, but that a lot of teams, I think I'll say via some sort of decentralized launching platform, whether it's the kind of barriers to entry, of understanding what is a balance or LBP, or what is a miso dutch auction or other type of auction, that there's still a lot of user barriers that made it harder for a lot of folks to kind of jump in. And that we do think that that's something that we want to tackle. Tackle with impossible.
00:29:15.244 - 00:29:56.566, Speaker C: And you did mention that for something like Sushiswa, when projects want to. When new projects want to go launch their tokens, it's more of a self serve process where they kind of just use the platform themselves. It's provided to them as kind of a one size fits all thing. But it sounds like you guys borrowed a lot from the philosophy of Binance, where every single new project that launches on their ideal platform or on the launchpad platform is rigorously due diligence. And then the team, the binance team itself, if I understand this correctly, works with the team that launch on Binance as well. So how do you guys bring that across to impossible? How do you work with the teams? And most importantly, how do you make that scalable if there's like 100 projects that want to launch on impossible? Right?
00:29:56.630 - 00:30:21.230, Speaker D: Exactly. We actually just had a call about this this morning for us. I was using a phrase internally, scale not sale. A lot of people didn't realize that Binance, Launchpad, it's like Rome. It wasn't built in a day. Matic was, I think, one of the first projects that we did. I think cellar and Matic were actually two of the first launchpads in Harmony as well.
00:30:21.230 - 00:31:19.598, Speaker D: These projects from when we first met them and started doing some due diligence with these projects all the way to the date of the public sale, that might have been like a nine month process. It's like having a baby. It's not something that just like you sign up for some sort of whitelist the week before and then boom, you're on, right? The show starts way before people realize it, that you only kind of got to see the tip of the iceberg. And that's something that it is a hard question of how does this scale for something like Binance and how established it is? A cadence of a launchpad every month or so was actually plenty to keep the audience super happy because there's so many different other use cases of BNB, whether it's for trading fees and other kind of uses of the BNB ecosystem. I think there's actually a whole website dedicated to BnB use cases, like binance.com use cases or something. I forgot what it actually is.
00:31:19.598 - 00:31:55.264, Speaker D: Maybe we'll find it in this show notes. But that was also some of the philosophy that we borrowed for having both a swap and a launchpad, that while we can't promise that there's always going to be launchpads popping up every second day. We did want to have other reasons why you would want to stay in our ecosystem, but we actually didn't think that it should be bundled or tied to just one token ecosystem. Our ecosystem actually has two tokens, if for the swap side of things, and then Idia to govern our launchpad side.
00:31:55.384 - 00:31:56.804, Speaker C: So what did they stand for?
00:31:57.304 - 00:33:14.622, Speaker D: So if is just impossible finance governance token and it's kind of like the fee accrual mechanism for the swap. So you can imagine that's like one part of similar to the BNP use case where you get fee discounts or some other exchange token giving you discounts or vip tiers. And then we also have the idia, which we were fortunate to close this most recent fundraising round where we raised about 7 million from over 100, I think 20 something folks, funds and builders in this space. And the IDIA stands for is impossible decentralized incubator access token. So we wanted to think about it as more of an entry ticket for regular people to get access into binance launchpad or like a coinless quality deal flow. We saw so many different syndicates and kind of pseudo vc's kind of pop up over DeFi summer and there's a lot of, I think, deal flow that was masqueraded as deal flow, but it was really just kind of friends launching some projects. Whereas we do want to kind of think about long term thesis in the space and helping serve a lot of project teams that we work very closely with and building out more of their ecosystems.
00:33:14.622 - 00:34:33.267, Speaker D: So whether that's trying to build out DapPs to integrate something like a pendle or an axie infinity or alpha Homoras sushi, whatever it might be, that we don't really see anyone as a competitor. If we can launch a project that helps solve, let's say, minor extractable value, that helps the user experience of all of these dexs, I think it's a win win for everyone in this space. Some folks, I think during our investment rounds mentioned that they call this a defined go. And I really like this phrase because it gives us the full reason to believe in the execution power of all the different projects out there and whatever we can do to just play a little piece of the puzzle here to help all of our adjacent projects, we see it as a very positive sum game, not a zero sum kind of fight. At Binance we saw with strategic plans, plays with things like FTX's leveraged tokens and other platforms. A lot of people and a lot of volume comes from arbitrage trading across multiple platforms. So if you were just an exchange that just pissed off all the other exchanges and didn't ever want to work with other people, your users are also probably not going to trade across multiple platforms.
00:34:33.267 - 00:35:31.084, Speaker D: But I'd say a simple heuristic to measure intra exchange versus inter exchange trading, I'd say that probably is about 70% is actually inter people doing strategies that ARB across multiple platforms. And I'm sure that this number is maybe even higher in DeFi that people are running bots to go and trade between balancer and Uni and sushi such that they're actually very correlated in volume rather than direct substitutes. That actually a rising tide helps all boats within the DAX base. And we think that if we can help a lot of the projects launch and kind of do a lot of stuff behind the scenes prior to the launch, we can get a lot more robust investment opportunities for individuals to participate in within the greater defi space. And then hopefully that will bring greater trading volume, greater attention and greater adoption for our entire kind of defi nation, if you will.
00:35:31.584 - 00:36:11.642, Speaker C: So it's really about creating that flywheel and that network effect so that it scales itself. And that's a conversation that I think is relevant for not just impossible, but really for any DeFi project out there that wants to compete in over the long term. And I also love to kind of understand more about this idia side because you mentioned this is kind of like a ticketing system whereby people with these tokens can participate in future fundraisers or launches on, on the platform. And you also mentioned that these fundraises or these launches will be sectorized. And that's the first time I've heard about this idea of a sectorized launchpad. So can you describe that and how does it work in theory or in practicality?
00:36:11.778 - 00:37:16.442, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think a lot of the takeaway comes from the binance launchpad process. A lot of folks come and they treat launchpads more like a way to increase their BNB holdings. They just see it as, oh, BNB will go up because there's a launch pad, because there's a reason for other people to buy BNB now. And so they may simply sell the BNB and buy it back later after a launchpad, or they might just kind of flip the tokens that they get in the launchpad process and just add their BNB stack without really paying attention or understanding what are the actual projects that are being built at. Impossible. We kind of want to flip the model and start it with what we call a b business to developer kind of approach. We want to say how can we make a launchpad that is the most builder friendly or project friendly such that it can tap into all these users? Because we're confident that if we can get users that actually care about this project in this launchpad process, they're more likely to stick around, they're more likely to use this project.
00:37:16.442 - 00:38:41.996, Speaker D: And back to your initial comment about distribution. We're thinking about it in more like a sales funnel of how can we increase the conversion rate of someone that purchases your token to actually use your token. So if it's for example, using, let's say a indicator, like a nonsense heavy Dex trader to use as a pre qualification to go purchase a token, let's say that's working on mev stuff. We want to try and create as many different combinations that actually encourage people that like a certain topic or have demonstrated via their on chain actions their revealed preference. This is my inner econ guy coming out and saying if this guy has already done these things, he's more likely to actually want to stick around in this project ecosystem. So then if we can get these types of projects and have this type of smart launch tool for project teams, we're very confident that the best tier project teams will want to come and launch here and users care about quality. At the end of the day, I can waive my binance badge as much as I want, but it still doesn't guarantee that we're going to launch really high quality project teams, but that if I create an economic system in which the best project teams are incentivized to build alongside us, that's going to be a formula that I think will be hard to compete with.
00:38:42.180 - 00:39:12.276, Speaker C: That's such an interesting point. And I'm also really curious in terms of launching these new projects, how do you guys go about picking what projects to launch first? Because obviously the first few projects are going to be incredibly important as almost like a trailer for the rest of the projects that will come. So how do you guys go about picking what founders you want to work with, and how do you work with the initial founders? I'm supposing is a very hands on process, especially for the first few ones, right?
00:39:12.420 - 00:39:41.924, Speaker D: Yeah, and this is where I can't claim to say that everything's kind of figured out yet. We're still learning a ton as we continue to build this. I'd say that a lot of it just comes from the lack of sleep. It is the best way to measure it, whether it's reading submissions to the most recent Solana or ETH Global hackathons. Speaking with builders, I think the thing is that builders know builders. Shillers know shillers and builders. No builders.
00:39:41.924 - 00:40:35.584, Speaker D: We just don't really want to think about maybe some of the more sleazy sides of the crowd crypto space. If we continue to just talk to all the people that have been building integrating, this is kind of how we find out about the best projects. And that was kind of the same recipe that we did at Binance. I met teams like Seller and Matic at East San Francisco, where I met you, and these kinds of relationships stick around as you continue to build in this space. People then start to invest in other projects built on their platforms if they're, let's say, a L2 scaling solution, or maybe they spin out and build their own projects similar to me coming out of finance, or let's say Nippon coming out of band to build alpha, so on and so forth. And these are the types of, I'll say, family trees that kind of start to get built as people graduate out of the certain places that they previously worked at. And those networks just compound over time.
00:40:35.584 - 00:41:33.648, Speaker D: And that is something that we do think that is kind of still centralized on us, that our team does have a lot of these relationships within the crypto space, such that we have a wide coverage of people that are kind of existing in the crypto space and then how we kind of patch that is just being incessantly badgering people on Twitter, telegram and discord, so on and so forth, and just finding out about all these different projects that are super early stage as well so we can stock up the pipeline. Just like Major League Baseball. The minor leagues actually don't just have just one minor league, you know, fall, Arizona League, AA's, AAA's, so on and so forth. There's tiers similar with soccer. You have these types of like relegation leagues, right? Not everything's just Premier League. We're thinking about that. This in a similar kind of process where there's projects that are maybe closer to launch and more established, and there are also a lot more moonshot projects that will take some more time, a lot more handholding.
00:41:33.648 - 00:42:09.896, Speaker D: And this actually is perfect for a launchpad process because you just need a lineup. You don't need something to be all available every day. It's not like a master concert where you have a music festival where you need everyone to be there. In this window, we actually have a lot of time to spread things out so that we're very happy to speak with teams at any stage of the process. And I think that's the most flexible in being able to help as many projects as possible. While it is a little bit harder to scale, and I think this is something we're thinking a lot about. This is where we're doubling down on trying to build out some really robust governance processes.
00:42:09.896 - 00:43:12.596, Speaker D: I think Kane from Synthetix had an incredible article a few days back about his journey on governance related things. And I think that a lot of stuff, it is a spectrum you have to start somewhere. And for now the process of the diligence is fully in our hands, but it's something that we fully intend to try to move down, further down the governance path. So that then if users say, I'm a staker within, let's say the NFT category, and I'm really tired of all of these, let's say, axiom infinity clones, I'd love to see a different type. We want everyone to be their own judges eventually. So if we can build all the right structure in place via governance, we can actually let the community curation kind of happen in a kind of more open manner, but that we'll continue doing what we really love, which is just continuing to unearth every rock and try and find as many different projects to feed the funnel. And maybe hopefully then we don't have to be the judge of our own platform.
00:43:12.596 - 00:43:18.264, Speaker D: We can have guest judges essentially, or other folks to come in and be a part of this show.
00:43:18.564 - 00:44:00.784, Speaker C: So if you think about that, and we're coming to the end of the show, and I'd love to kind of Zoom out and think about the longer term implications of that, because what you were describing is essentially a process where you might have a team or decentralized community vote on different projects and focus on different sectors so they have different sector coverage and then they put their capital to work and invest in these products and become users of these products. So that's actually really, really similar to a venture capital process. So do you see something like impossible disrupting venture funds, especially because hating on VC's seem to be invoked right now. So do you think that impossible could potentially just disrupt the VC process? And most projects actually opt for this impossible way of launching?
00:44:02.324 - 00:44:49.512, Speaker D: So I think I'd be too cocky to say disrupt at this point. I think it's more of a experiment, I think, to see. I think that the difference between a VC and a regular guy previously was scale of capital maybe, and access or experience in these deals. I think a really powerful thing for all folks in Defi. And why I try to get so many of my friends that aren't in crypto to jump in is that I think everyone kind of starts on a level playing field because the space is so new, all the concepts are so new. And if you work hard and are driven, I think you have a good shot as anyone. And so that's, I think the biggest thing that VC's maybe have a natural disadvantage in crypto just because their domain expertise or their experience isn't building a blockchain project.
00:44:49.512 - 00:45:36.554, Speaker D: And almost nobody should call themselves an expert because there's just been no track record per se for most projects in this space. Everyone's still starting from the same ground zero. And that's where I think that in the long run, what we're building, I don't want to say it's a replacement, but I really love the idea of thinking about everything in spectrums. And I think that VC's and traditional investing is very clearly the centralized end of the spectrum. And on the other side it could be something that's fully grassroots, like Kickstarter. I'm just going to put an idea out there and maybe people will back it with no promise of any shares or anything. It's just if it's an idea that's cool and I make a cool video, maybe some people go after it.
00:45:36.554 - 00:46:04.834, Speaker D: I think, again, something in some sort of happy medium that's more automated, more hands on than something that's fully self serve, but also from a project team perspective and also from a user perspective or investor perspective, something that gives them kind of like power features that would mimic more of what Silicon Valley or VC deal flow would look like. That's something I think can be a very compelling offering to be able to get both users and project teams in the door.
00:46:06.254 - 00:46:22.310, Speaker C: Absolutely. Well, Calvin, this has been such a delight in learning more about what you are building in impossible. And for users, or for prospective users who want to learn more about impossible, what stage are you guys at right now? What are the things that they can look out for and what are the channels that they can follow? You guys?
00:46:22.462 - 00:47:18.124, Speaker D: Yeah, so we're looking forward to actually doing dog fooding our own product and actually offering our own idia token on our own launchpad within the next month. So definitely stay tuned and would love to get as many folks to kind of try it out. And we tried to kick start our distribution process by having a very wide array of investors and builders in our initial fundraising. But that ultimately our biggest test is to see can we decentralize ourselves and be able to get our tokens into the hands of as many different users as possible. And so if you want to ask more questions or chat with us, our telegram is t me impossible Phi. I've currently forgotten our discord link, so I'll send it to Jason later and then we're on. Sorry, impossible finance is our telegram.
00:47:18.124 - 00:48:05.514, Speaker D: Sorry, Jason, I might need you to edit this. Our telegram is t me impossiblefinance and our twitter handle is impossible Phi. That's impossible fi yeah, so if you guys ever have any questions, feel free to find me on Twitter or chat more with us. In our community chats. We also have a discord as well, if you prefer discord. I humbly am still learning my way around the discord world, but I'm seeing a lot of interesting communities pop up there. So we're trying to just learn from as many of the other cool builders in the space and try and make sure that there's a congregation point for all folks to think about and try and build the best decentralized incubator and launchpad possible.
00:48:06.294 - 00:48:12.794, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. And I'm excited to check it out. And good luck to the first launch, and thanks for coming on the show again.
00:48:13.534 - 00:48:14.454, Speaker D: Thanks as always, Jason.
