00:00:06.730 - 00:00:30.066, Speaker A: This is Lightspeed's First, what we'll call roundup episode. Today it's just going to be me and Mert. Solana had a pretty big week, to say the least, and I think that's one reason we wanted to start today. Our goal is to talk about some of the big topics that happened this week and just our thoughts in general. So, Mert, you tweeted this week that Solana is back and you gave like a big list. It was like six or seven items on why we're back and why you're so excited. I think a fun spot to start would be the Visa announcement.
00:00:30.066 - 00:01:02.334, Speaker A: So to just give a backdrop, visa has been playing around in crypto since at least 2019. I know they started doing stablecoin payments to some degree, or pilots on the Ethereum blockchain. But now just this last week, they announced that they're bringing USDC settlement to Salana, which is huge news in itself, that somebody like Visa is not only getting involved in Salana, but they're even going deeper into crypto. When you talk to the average person on the street and they're like, you're still in crypto. What's going on? There's no movements. Right. Well, not only is Visa the biggest payment processing network in the world, I think they processed $11 trillion last year.
00:01:02.334 - 00:01:08.130, Speaker A: So, Mert, I'm curious, what are your high level thoughts on this? Like, why is this such a big deal for Salana in the crypto space in general?
00:01:08.280 - 00:02:38.240, Speaker B: Yeah, this announcement was pretty cool for two reasons for me. I mean, one was obviously, I mean, it's Visa and they're expanding to Solana and they're doing more for crypto. So it's not just for good for Solana, but it's good for crypto. But two is because I tweeted a few months ago, I believe, in June, I was reading like I was reading on the different payments processors and I saw that Visa was using Ethereum for piloting some things, and I was looking at their use cases and I kind of tweeted like, why aren't they using Solana for this? It seems like a pretty obvious no brainer because for people who don't know my background, I did work in the banking industry before and I also worked in fintech, and so I've kind of worked in all kind of different stacks of the payments infrastructure and engineering. And so Solana just seemed like a no brainer for me. So I tweeted that and there was some feedback from, let's say, Ethereum aligned folks who I think the exact tweet was like, how delusional do you have to be to think that Visa would pick salon or Ethereum's killers or something like that and whatnot? And the first thing I did when I saw the announcement was I went back to that tweet and I replied with it. So that was fun.
00:02:38.240 - 00:02:46.270, Speaker B: But maybe some background is useful here when you send money, let's say, across the border.
00:02:46.350 - 00:02:46.594, Speaker A: Right.
00:02:46.632 - 00:03:22.670, Speaker B: I think that's kind of the context of this integration. So I'm actually in Italy right now. If I send you money, Garrett, and let's say I do it through an Italian bank or whatnot, it actually has to take multiple hops. It doesn't just directly go to you, which feels like it's probably how it should be, but that's not how it happens. There's like different hops and those hops obviously maybe have different fees, different regulations. It obviously doesn't work on the weekends. There's pretty bizarre kind of inefficiencies with that system.
00:03:22.670 - 00:04:25.150, Speaker B: And so now if you use Salana for something like this, you basically pay no fee, right? Like the salana's average fee is zero point $0.25 or dollars. And the block is finalized in 400 milliseconds. It's open 24/7 hopefully. And you can send money with just a direct at the speed of the internet with a direct connection. And that actually not only is it better for the merchants who can now get paid instantly instead of having the money wait in their acquirer account, but it's actually good for Visa because now they can save money provided they use the infrastructure, right? I'm pretty sure, and I think totally tweeted this, his dream is that Visa will actually save money using Solana, which is actually super feasible. And I think depending on how far they go with it, it's like Visa could actually save on their margins with this integration.
00:04:25.150 - 00:05:15.630, Speaker B: Now of course, that's technical stuff. But my favorite part about this is kind of the narrative, right? Obviously everybody already knows bitcoin ethereum are the big boys and Solana had been through the wringer this year, right? I mean, FTX and Outages and whatever other X thing that happened. And now to see a company that's essentially the leading provider in payments and rails in the world, right? Like it's not just like a Western thing. Visa is global. To see them utilize Solana is a huge stamp of approval to maybe some of the other people who've been sleeping on the network because of some superficial reasons. And this wasn't the first announcement. There was also announcements by shopify MakerDAO, et cetera.
00:05:15.630 - 00:05:38.038, Speaker B: We'll get into that, but I think the tech we always knew would work with things like this and would enable use cases like this. But it was really that you need a few spearheads, some pioneers in the field to get a stamp of approval. And that's essentially what Visa has done here. So pretty excited about that.
00:05:38.204 - 00:06:07.118, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. It's a form of social signaling. When you have a company like that, it gives others the heads up or the thumbs up to go ahead and go through with that project. I just think about like an investment committee meeting, for example, and this is the whole, know you can buy IBM and you never get blamed for it. It's kind of the similar thing here. If you start building on Solana, I think the narrative that you're talking about is that it's developing this almost shelling point for payments on crypto rails, which maybe at one point tried to be bitcoin, then they tried to do lightning network and then on ethereum. But that hasn't panned out.
00:06:07.118 - 00:06:34.534, Speaker A: One reason, just because of the fees and the latency. But it looks like visa and others are starting to notice that that is something you can actually do on solana today, which I think is really cool. I know some of the use cases they talked about is like global ecommerce. So payments like you talked about from country to country. Also, I think part of it is that this is more or less focused on b to b. It's not really the retail level yet. So at some point you want to get where normal people like me and you are holding on to USDC and having a reason to spend actually at the POS or the point of sale level.
00:06:34.534 - 00:07:07.010, Speaker A: And that would be like if I go buy, I don't know, a t shirt, I'm actually using USDC. The next thing that would be great to see is some type of application that takes off almost like a venmo or whatever it might be, where you have USDC sitting there and me and you want to spend it. But I think this is like that back end that's setting everything up. Oh, I saw this today actually. So coinbase tweeted USDC is like the number one used stablecoin in the US. At least I think tether probably might be still worldwide based on volume. But coinbase tweeted that as of today, over 1 million verified coinbase users now hold USDC, which is just awesome to see.
00:07:07.010 - 00:07:43.854, Speaker A: They obviously have a reason to be very bullish USDC. Not only did they have the partnership, they also bought into circle itself, but the more people that are holding on to USDC, the more people are getting paid in crypto. Then this actually becomes a reality. Because I think one thing that's held people back is you saw this in 2018 19 and even today you hear these really cool use cases and how you can use smart contracts. It's almost like an escrow service, whereas if a, b, and c happen, then do y. But the problem with that is you have to have all payments on chain. I worked at a company where we wanted to essentially use smart contracts to ensure that growers like farmers that had wheat, barley grain were paid on time and that was based on payment terms.
00:07:43.854 - 00:08:30.350, Speaker A: But you can only do that if you can convince the trader to actually use digital payments like using crypto. Or that smart contract doesn't come into play. But I think one way around that is you have someone like visa in the back end who you have that trader who has no idea that they're even using USDC or crypto. It's going through visa, which then that way you can almost onboard it into crypto through there. So I don't know I think there's a lot of interesting use cases here, but really it's such a big win for Solana. And I know we're in a little bit of a bubble mert here, but you're starting to only I hear ethereum Cosmos and Solana, and a lot of what you hear in Cosmos is like they're just trying to figure out what are going to do with the hub, but people are using it for app chains and exploring that. But otherwise it seems like Ethereum and Solana has now established itself is almost like in that big three and that's where everyone's looking to build.
00:08:30.350 - 00:08:49.720, Speaker A: So I just think that's super exciting because if you were to talk about November, December this last year, I think people would have thought Solana is on its way out. And if anything, it feels like the community is stronger than ever and the narratives are building, but maybe the actual users haven't come to the chain yet. So it's almost like perception versus reality. There's still like that difference, right?
00:08:50.570 - 00:09:31.362, Speaker B: Yeah. At the end of the day, these systems, these blockchains are technical system. I mean, they're technical systems. They're socioeconomical plus technical. I'm not sure what the term for that, but they have the trifecta and a lot of discourse has been dominated, obviously due to the communication medium that is X.com to be very sensational, right. Like it's popular to say just bizarre things and get engagement for them, whether they're true or but like somebody is established as Visa, they move enormous amounts of value over the year, every single day, every single second.
00:09:31.362 - 00:10:46.346, Speaker B: But they also have a massive reputation. A company such as this would not just pick a blockchain because of some crypto Twitter narrative, right? They would do the work. They need to do research, they need to have their guys look at it, they need to test it. In fact, I'm pretty sure in the announcement it said that they've actually moved millions of dollars with this system and piloting phases already. There's the CT narrative, which we all play in, but then there's kind of the other, maybe slightly more real version of the business side of these things. And it's good to see the asymmetry between perception and reality kind of shrink a little bit when it comes to Solana. Obviously I've been talking about this for way too long at this point, but I think it'll only get my guess is that with this announcement from Visa, I think probably the biggest benefit or maybe the most impact from it won't actually be for Visa or from Visa, because I think that'll probably take some time, but it'll actually be to other people who are looking to build in Crypto, and they're like, wait a minute.
00:10:46.346 - 00:12:11.830, Speaker B: If Visa is using Salana, I could probably consider it as well. Maybe Ox Altcoin Trader 58 is not so correct about this after all. Maybe I can use this blockchain to build my applications and obviously there's like permissionless coming up, these breakpoint coming up, these conversations will start happening. And actually, while we're on the topic of coinbase, I saw that base went down, was it two days ago? And I think Polygon just literally restarted the other day or like yesterday for maintenance. So you can kind of see like these L two S that have been kind of promised as some grand triumph in scaling will work eventually, but right now, it's not really close in my view. Like right now, if you want to build a product and you want to scale and you want to just focus on the product instead of your app chains details or your roll ups, fraud proofs or whatever, you basically have no option in my view, other than you build on Solana. Now, you can build maybe an app chain, but that'll require some you know, we had Marius on the show a couple of days ago where he talked about how if you build an app chain, you actually have to bootstrap this economy for this network all by yourself.
00:12:11.830 - 00:12:31.820, Speaker B: And that's just not going to if you're just a product guy and you're like, okay, I have an idea. I want to iterate, I want to ship it, deploy it, get feedback from users, create value. Solana just seems to me like the only real feasible choice at this moment. And hopefully people will start seeing that more with this news.
00:12:32.510 - 00:12:55.890, Speaker A: Yeah, I 100% agree with you. I feel like that's a little bit of a we could pivot into Rune's post talking about forking the Salana SCM code base because that has to do with building an app chain. Right? But what's so interesting about this is you have someone that's native to Ethereum. I think he's been, I don't know when Maker started, but he was starting to look into something like Maker Dow since like 2014. So he's a complete OG that's been in this space a long time. And I'm sure everyone knows this. Quick overview.
00:12:55.890 - 00:13:31.198, Speaker A: Essentially, MakerDAO has an end game where it's like, where's MakerDAO going to go from here? And three years out, Rune is saying that they need to have their own chain. And the main reason for that is that they need to be able to have like one the customizability. But really what he says the main reason is so that they can fork in case something goes wrong. Whereas if you're on Ethereum, you couldn't fork away. And in the post, he mentions the SVM as the best code base that he's seen and that he's considering right now, Solana's, SVM, and also Cosmos. But at the end of the day, he points towards Solana being where he thinks MakerDAO should build new chain for a few reasons. And one of those is just the community.
00:13:31.198 - 00:14:14.646, Speaker A: So he mentions what happened with FTX and you've seen that community actually grow stronger and just all the talent there knowing that they're going to continue to build out the SVM and also, like, the tooling and the infrastructure. I think the main point some people missed is he notes at the end of his post that he likes the SVM because it's live and working today, whereas you have something like the roll ups, which are great, and there's some out there, but they're all in training. They all very few of them actually have proofs enabled. We don't have validity proofs. They're all on training wills right now, essentially, like you were talking about base, pretty sure there's nothing there in place from Base just shutting off the chain immediately, which I think is fine if you know that. But if you're somebody like Makerdow or even an institution, you want to see something that's working today. And I think that's why Rune, which him just acknowledging the SVM, I think one just shocked everybody in Ethereum.
00:14:14.646 - 00:14:41.910, Speaker A: It was like, oh, no, we have this person from our ecosystem. And I don't know if you saw Kane's post, kane from Synthetics, he had a post and he was actually talking about how they may eventually launch an app chain as well. I think it's just to have once you grow so big, you're thinking about this customizability. But I'm curious, what are your thoughts on Rune's post? And again, it's just another acknowledgement of Solana being this shelling point beyond Ethereum. And people are acknowledging that the tech that's been built there is extremely compelling.
00:14:42.810 - 00:15:14.530, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a lot of takeaways from Rune's post, and I didn't read too deeply into the actual proposal itself. I just saw his post and his points on why SPM and whatnot. And again, there's multiple aspects to this, but the one I find most interesting is the Orton window shifting. Right. You have Rune from Makerdown. For those people who don't know MakerDAO, makerda is like an OG Ethereum protocol. It's about one of the earliest ones.
00:15:14.530 - 00:15:59.950, Speaker B: They're behind the Dai stablecoin as well. Actually, a few of my friends from school got their starts in crypto at MakerDAO MakerDAO, and now they have their own crypto startups like Lucas Manuel and Charles St. Louis. And we always talk about the OGS kind of maybe setting the ground or setting the playing field for some of the narratives that we see today. And so seeing Rune talk about Solana and not just talk about it, but actually say, I will literally move some part of my code base to use the SVM because it has property X and it's actually pretty good. That's just a social shock. And you can kind of see it from the responses.
00:15:59.950 - 00:16:52.294, Speaker B: If you look at maybe that meme, like, okay, very nice. Now look at the quote tweets and if you look at the quote tweets and some people are kind of maybe in denial, some people are actually happy that it validates the app chain thesis. Some people are obviously Solana bowls. And then there's some people who are like, why not just use roll ups for this? Why not just use sovereign roll ups? Whatnot? But, I mean, he says it kind of right there, which is that they haven't been battle tested. Solana has been battle tested, actually. I don't want to say more than Ethereum, but I think, given the timeline for how long Solana has been around and how long Ethereum has been around, solana has only been around during high periods, high activity periods in crypto. Right? They launched two and a half Ish years ago and straight into high volume.
00:16:52.294 - 00:17:30.966, Speaker B: And you kind of have these engineers trying to fix the bugs in the system in production while you're getting insane amounts of volume, like NFT Summer, DeFi Summer. And you also have all these community externalities that have happened. I'm not sure I can even list them. There's been at least over six or seven. And so battle tested is maybe even understatement. We know that the system, both technologically but also socially, will hold up, and we have proof of this. Pithnet, for example, is Pith, which is like an Oracle network.
00:17:30.966 - 00:18:19.980, Speaker B: They're developing their own solution on something called Pithnet, which is like a fork of the SVM. And so, again, the part that interests me the most about this is the overton window slowly shifting. If this leads to maybe a few more people from Ethereum considering Solana, that will lead more people to consider Solana. And then you kind of have this flywheel starting off with this momentum. But just putting tribalism and whatnot aside and there's aside, it just does the job, right? Like, the SVM had the benefit of the doubt or had the benefit of hindsight in its saw where Ethereum or the EVM came short. Right? Like, the global fee markets maybe aren't so great. Single trading is maybe not so great.
00:18:19.980 - 00:19:01.146, Speaker B: It learned from the mistakes there, and then it built a more efficient VM by people who have been doing this their entire lives. Right. Tolly Greg, Et, like, these guys are first and foremost engineers. One thing that I personally was drawn to about Solana is that I'm a very big proponent of Theory comes after practice, as opposed to practice comes after Theory. And I think Salana kind of embodies that. Well, we have people in the core engineering team who write code iterate in, testnet, whatever, and have 2030 years of experience even writing these systems. It's all they've done.
00:19:01.146 - 00:19:31.170, Speaker B: Just make systems faster. Whereas Ethereum is a bit more research oriented. And when you have Theory before and you maybe iterate on Theory before practice, you start missing some gaps, especially when designing something as hands on as a VM. And so that is to say, never mind the social shift. It's also just a good play tech wise. And I think Brune sees that, and he wouldn't have made that decision otherwise.
00:19:31.510 - 00:19:57.058, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's interesting, too. The end game is, like I said, it's like a three to five year project by Rune. And we all know projects last longer. They take longer than you plan, ahead of time. But I think that goes well. When you hear Anatoli talk about if he talks about if you're not building your blockchain or your layer one or your virtual environment to scale with compute bandwidth and hardware improving, then you're not really scaling. And that's one reason I think, defaulting to the SVM.
00:19:57.058 - 00:20:24.800, Speaker A: Not knowing how long this project is going to take is something that you can actually count on because you don't know where compute, you don't know where everything's going to be in five years. But you know that Solana is building around that. That's almost Solana's pure purpose is like, we want to scale with hardware, and as GPUs and CPUs and the number of cores improve, we want to be able to scale with that. So he talks about, you can spend all the time you want on an algorithm to speed up consensus or make these tweaks, but if you're not actually scaling with hardware, all those little tweaks are going to be marginal at the end of the day in like, five years. Yeah, I think that's pretty.
00:20:27.370 - 00:20:51.802, Speaker B: Was it on our podcast where he talked about his time at Qualcomm, where he would write all these efficient optimizations to the software, but then it would take like, two years, and by that time, Mors Law would kick in, and then the code he wrote was useless, so he had to now rewrite it again. And so you need to really make sure that the code that you're writing in blockchains with longer time horizons really needs to work with hardware anyway. So I think you put it well there.
00:20:51.856 - 00:21:17.854, Speaker A: One of the questions is if Solana scaling with hardware, every other blockchain can do this, right? And we actually asked Anatoli that. But I think the difference is Solana is focused on this at every single stage of the pipeline, whereas if you're not doing that, you're just focusing on, say, stage two of five, you're going to be bald and neck to one of those. And it's exactly what Solana is optimizing for. Theoretically. It's easy to say, but it's hard to implement in practice. And you can see that with just, like, the amount of time Solana puts into this. But I think it's really exciting.
00:21:17.854 - 00:21:29.100, Speaker A: You saw, like, Nick White, who we're a huge fan of, he's on the show. He said that this is bullish for the SVM bearish for monolithic chains. I am curious to see what you have to say about that. I have some thoughts, but yeah, what do you think?
00:21:30.750 - 00:21:45.178, Speaker B: Well, so I'll first reject the premise that they're called monolithic chains, and I'll encourage everyone to call them integrated chains, which is historically the correct term. Sorry, what did he say? He said bullish SVM bearish monolithic.
00:21:45.274 - 00:21:52.590, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. So he's essentially saying, yeah, they think the SVM is great. But they decided to build their own App chain which goes into the Celestia's whole playbook.
00:21:55.250 - 00:22:48.930, Speaker B: I think it's probably I need to maybe think about that a bit more. But I'm not sure why it would be bearish for integrated chains. I mean it's bullish for integrated chains in that at the end of the day these are open source software, right? Like these are software systems and if people like parts of it and they want to use it in some other way and maybe they improve the systems and then maybe that gets contributed back to the SVM or something. That's pretty bullish for the integrated systems as mean. Like we already saw this with dYdX I think DEXes and maybe some of these highly financialized use cases. That's maybe one of the only things we've seen that actually work with appchains and where it makes sense to potentially concern Appchain. But stepping back a little bit, I'm just not sure how it could be bearish.
00:22:48.930 - 00:23:37.214, Speaker B: Because first I think the most important part here was in this context was the social aspect, right? Which is that people just had an allergy or like an Ick towards Solana and integrated chains and their code base and just this entire perspective around these things. And now with shopify Visa maker that is slowly shifting. And so now I think that was the biggest mean the tech has always been much better than anything else on the market. Today, I'm not sure if that remains forever. Obviously it probably won't because that's just not how tech works. You need to compete over a long period of time. But the biggest problem with Solana currently or in the last few months or maybe even a year has been the social aspect.
00:23:37.214 - 00:24:43.160, Speaker B: And so now that the social aspect is slowly improving and also the tech is also improving, right? There used to be outages or block or what did the block called them? Prolonged block production stalls or something like that. And now we don't have those. Obviously being the co founder of Helios, we've hosted some very high activity mints on the chain which did not affect the chain at all. But before the local fee markets, like Quick for example, these things would have really hurt the chain. And so now the tech has been improving all this time, but now the social layer has improved and continuously improving. I think David from Bankless just asked a question yesterday like what is Solana's solution to the state problem, state growth problem? Which is a good question to ask, but it also signals that hey, these people are actually thinking about the SVM and Solana more now. It's more of the mainstream conversation, right? CNBC changed, took out like Litecoin or something and put like Solana's Price, which maybe isn't that.
00:24:45.370 - 00:25:00.254, Speaker A: Know on. Bankless has had like three Solana episodes in the last like three weeks. I don't know what there's obviously some strategy behind that one. Thing is they're just noticing that people want to hear about it. But two, I think they're like, okay, we don't want to give up this ecosystem. This is a big community that we'd love to cap. Sure.
00:25:00.254 - 00:25:35.846, Speaker A: And obviously they're Ethereum focused, but you've noticed that. And Mike Ipolito from Blockworks was on there, and he talked about the conversions to different ecosystems, but he talked about, again, cosmos, Ethereum, and Solana. So it's quite interesting to see, like you said, the overton window shift on what's being acknowledged. And it wouldn't be such a big deal if Solana didn't almost implode not even a year ago, right? Or just around a year ago. I was talking to some Salana D Five devs actually filling in for you because you were too busy galvancing around Europe. And we were talking about the messaging for Salana. And as we got into it, it's like, I haven't been in this industry that long.
00:25:35.846 - 00:25:57.482, Speaker A: I've paid attention since 2017. I've never seen an ecosystem, one, get so much hype then absolutely crater, which has happened all the time in crypto. Right. You've seen a ton of projects get hyped in Crater, but then the community actually staying together. Well, those that actually care and are building the software. I would say the community is even building more. You're hearing Solana's name appear everywhere.
00:25:57.482 - 00:26:27.366, Speaker A: You have Visa, the shopify integration. I mean helium deepen. It's like, not only are they it's not a copy pasta of Ethereum in the sense that you had avalanche get hot for a while, right, and they're still around, but it's something brand new, just like deepen or focusing on CLOBs and consensus at the speed of light in the global state. If you listen to even, like, I'm researching avalanche right now because we're going to talk to them. Their lead developer says that if you could build a global state, a single global state, that that's actually the optimal way to build a blockchain. So it's not is that the best way? It's just is. It possible.
00:26:27.366 - 00:26:52.158, Speaker A: And right now, that's what Solana is focused on. So I'm with you. I think it's really exciting. I do not think this is bearish for integrated chains at all. I'm going to go on a really quick tangent, Mert, and then you can butt in, because I have this analogy that I don't think anyone cares about, but I think it's great. It's literally in 2019, the D to C, which is direct to consumer industry, just exploded. The whole thought was by going direct to consumer, you can have your own website.
00:26:52.158 - 00:27:20.470, Speaker A: First of all, the reason you could do this now is because you had tooling like easy websites to build. You had logistics that you could plug into is basically the supply chain. To be a store was modularized, whereas in the past, if you wanted to sell something, you pretty much had to go to Walmart. So you I was thinking about this in. Crypto is like right now we're seeing these modular frameworks being built out that enable you to go D to C, right? And the reason why these companies went D to C was a few reasons. One, to save costs on markups by selling through a retailer like Walmart. The other reason is you can collect your consumer data.
00:27:20.470 - 00:27:43.390, Speaker A: You can have full customizability of how you actually do the selling process, how you do your messaging. A lot of really good selling points, right? You also have to do all of your marketing. Like everything sounded great, but 99% of these companies failed. And they failed for one reason. They couldn't actually get customers. They couldn't get liquidity. So instead, you probably heard that quote that 30% of all VC funds that were raised by D to C companies went to Facebook and Google.
00:27:43.390 - 00:27:59.906, Speaker A: Why did they go to Facebook and Google? Because those are the aggregators. That's where the demand is. That's where the liquidity is. And you have shopify, which is great. They're arming the rebels, right? Like they enable you. I think Shopify is almost these modular frameworks that you can have kind of like Eclipse or something like optimism. These companies started struggling with customer support.
00:27:59.906 - 00:28:25.422, Speaker A: They started struggling with actually building that trust. Like when you buy from Amazon, you know that you're going to get it in two days. And if you don't, you can say, I didn't get it, and they refund you, right? Like you can't actually get this trust on a DDC brand on a random website. And that's very similar to something with a Solana integrated chain versus something that just pops up and is a standalone app chain. I think a few will do it. I think most applications will actually try to launch their own app chain. They may not try to launch it, but they're going to research it.
00:28:25.422 - 00:28:56.678, Speaker A: One reason is because their token will probably pump, right? Like if you're a token holder and you're like, oh, we're going to build our own app chain, like if you're uniswap, like, oh shit, we're going to get all of this mev now this is going to be great. This could change over time. But we saw Compound try to do this, right? They tried to launch their own chain. I think it was actually on polkadot. dYdX is a unique example. Like we've talked about, there are examples where you could use an app chain. But anyways, the whole point was, I think this is very similar to the D to C thing aggregators, which is where the liquidity where the users are often, they're the ones that not only build all this value, but are able to capture it.
00:28:56.678 - 00:29:33.074, Speaker A: And I just think that's something like the Salana, the L one, probably liquid staking providers, a few wallets that end up dominating. It's just going to be extremely hard for an application to actually get users to come over and to get that liquidity and that's just my take there that I think maybe people can learn from. And to polish it off, you're even seeing this now with Shopify, who is arming the rebels, is now teaming up with Amazon because the trust and the brand and the logistics that Amazon has, whereas Shopify had its whole logistics. They built it out, right? They invested billions of dollars into having logistics. So that if you're a business, you can just plug in. Think about that like plugging into a sequencer. Well, they ended up saying that that's extremely hard.
00:29:33.074 - 00:30:08.670, Speaker A: It costs a whole lot, and it's not extremely efficient when you're not a vertically integrated company like Amazon is. So now they're actually enabling buy with prime on all their Shopify stores so that users like me and you, when we go to these stores, we actually can tap into that trust and brand and efficiency that you get from Amazon. And I think that same thing will happen with Solana. And you could see that, like the SVM maybe plugging into Solana so that you can have trust, minimize, know place to place or maybe that's going to be settlement. I don't know what it'll be. I just think there's a lot of lessons to learn from what's happening in other industries that apply to and like, there's no doubt app chains are great in theory, but they're going to be really hard to execute.
00:30:11.890 - 00:31:20.854, Speaker B: Not I'm not a big fan of analogies, but that's not a bad mean. I think it makes a lot of sense and there's certainly some similar mean. By the way, I was going to say Amazon is just an absolute beast of a company that is like the one company I try to take so many lessons from. But I think you put it well there. And one thing that is super I don't know if the right word is interesting, but this modular talk is just so interesting to me because I think somebody tweeted the other day about there will be thousands of chains in the future, or something like that. I was like, what the hell is that about? It just feels like building Web Two in a slower way because in my view, and people will disagree on this, but that's fine. The globally shared state is like a very key future of a blockchain, right? For example, the Visa thing, if that wasn't a globally shared state, if it was just a bunch of different app chains connecting together you have now invented how the financial system works already, which is all these independent jurisdictions that have to kind of bridge between each other.
00:31:20.854 - 00:31:57.646, Speaker B: And then that's why everything just takes so long and is inefficient and people keep taking fees everywhere. You do not want that if you can you want a globally shared state. That's the killer future of blockchains. Anyways, that part I don't get. But okay, maybe even a more obvious point is, okay, imagine you're a startup. Or imagine your company why would you? Or imagine you're an investor in a startup, okay, let's say you have your own money or angel investing or something, and you find out the Steam. And the Steam is like, you know what, we're actually going to launch our own app chain, and it's a seed stage company.
00:31:57.646 - 00:32:30.140, Speaker B: And you're like, wait a minute, but you don't have a product. Do you even have users yet? Why are you launching your own app chain? And they may be like, well, to capture more value, or something like that. And it's like, well, you haven't created any value yet. What will you be capturing? Exactly, right? I don't understand the train of thought that goes into these things. I think app chains are pretty interesting to consider once you're an established company that creates value, right? Like dYdX, I think. What is it? Dy DX four. Like, v four or something.
00:32:30.140 - 00:33:16.742, Speaker B: That's probably the most interesting part about that. Integration is V four, right? It's not V one, it's not V two, it's not V three, it's V four. And the reason is because the biggest bottleneck in crypto right now is a lack of useful applications. People who are actually trying to solve problems with solutions, talking to users, deploying stuff, and iterating on the product lifecycle. We just don't have that. And now, while we already don't have that, the proposal is to actually focus even less on products and more on infrastructure and app chains. I feel like I'm going crazy sometimes just plug into an existing system that scales elastically, that you don't have to worry about fees.
00:33:16.742 - 00:33:50.066, Speaker B: It is decentralized, it is secure. Other big companies now use it. Just build something on it. Iterate if you are finding that you're getting shafted by fee captures or something after you've already established PMF or something, then maybe an app chain will work better for you. Maybe an app roll up will work better for you. But at first, it's bizarre to think that you should do anything other than just talk to your users, get out something, iterate on it, et cetera, et just this injury just continues to I don't even know what to name it.
00:33:50.248 - 00:34:12.480, Speaker A: You see people like Kane had his post, he mentioned an app chain, and then people go crazy on Twitter being like, did you see his post? He's talking about an app chain. I told you. It's like, this is the most obvious thing we've been talking about for a long time. These big brands are going to be talking about launching an app chain at some point, whether they do it or not, because that's just what businesses do. I mean, Amazon, great business, right? Great strategy. They launched a phone. Why did they launch a phone? Because you can't help yourself.
00:34:12.480 - 00:34:42.646, Speaker A: And did it work? No. And for most people, it's not going to like, I think there's just so few narratives in general around the blockchain space that we talk about these same things over and over. But yeah, maybe let's just get back to applications. But that's why payments to me is so exciting for Solana because that is one of the only use cases that we can point to right now. And that can be a killer use case. And I don't exactly know how it's always going be used, but again, if I wanted to send money to someone in Mexico, I could do that today on USDC so easily, right? I can't do that otherwise. And so that's a real use case.
00:34:42.646 - 00:35:21.970, Speaker A: And if Solana can find a way to become like the payment network platform, to me that's just going to attract new institutions, new developers, new apps who launch new tokens. And a lot of those will fail, but you want more and more of those, so eventually some of them work. So anyways, I think it's exciting. The Shopify integration is awesome because that could be really huge in the future. I do want to say, just because I was a little bit fooled, it's not a partnership, it's an open app integration where you can create a plugin, right. It's not that Solana and Shopify actually partnered together on this, but Shopify did approve this plugin and now these merchants can actually use it, which I think is really cool. Do you think there's anything else to focus on on this? I mean the visa shopify or payments?
00:35:22.950 - 00:35:34.882, Speaker B: I think the payment stuff is something I've been talking about on X.com and I am actually quite good at calling it X.com instead of Twitter. Now I don't even use the word Twitter.
00:35:34.946 - 00:35:36.550, Speaker A: I can't do it. It's always Twitter.
00:35:37.210 - 00:36:39.482, Speaker B: Hopefully Elon will give me extra monetization. So the payment stuff is super interesting because like, I mean, I don't want to talk about myself too much here, but put it out there. It is something I have worked on in varying levels of finance. I started with the big banks in Canada where I helped write code that moves money, but not like the actual code that moves money because that's like anti kitted, like bizarre. But like, I mean, for example, I work for a fintech that we actually built like a virtual card and the card would be required for like it's like a cashback card if you're an entrepreneur and whatnot. And you can kind of see all the different problems with payments when you kind of work on those systems. And I actually worked at Coinbase, right, where know fund movements, the team I was on would do transaction histories that you see on the Coinbase app or settle the trades that you make on the Coinbase app.
00:36:39.482 - 00:37:20.234, Speaker B: And then most recently I was in Solana and I'm obviously still in Solana and the difference is just crazy to me. As a developer, in no other time in history have you been able to just get a laptop or I mean, you don't even really need a laptop. You can just use your phone's code editor browser or something. You can write a few lines of code like Salana's web, three JS library or something, and you can move millions of dollars at light speed for free with basically zero hassle. And that's it. You can do that, right? And you can build applications that other people can use and they'll run forever on the blockchain. That's crazy to me.
00:37:20.234 - 00:38:13.690, Speaker B: I feel like the way that we messages developers has been a complete failure. But if they just understood that instead of changing your shopify stores buttons or something like that, like the color of the buttons, you can actually write code that moves millions of dollars around. It feels more impactful. But this actually ties in well to and I talked about this earlier, the payment stuff is only really possible or not possible, but it's really the most efficient with a global state. Right. A few weeks ago, I believe there was a post about when you pay somebody with Apple Pay or like Mastercard or something, it takes like a few seconds or like milliseconds and it's like great. UX, how can you beat that? Possibly, but it's actually the wrong comparison.
00:38:13.690 - 00:38:47.554, Speaker B: First of all, in slot of confirmation times are like 400 ms if you can see from the USDC APIs. So that's already actually pretty close. Like when you actually pay with a credit card, chances are it's not going to go through in 400 milliseconds. Like I was just paying somebody with my Mastercard today and I tapped and it took like two, 3 seconds. Whatnot? So it's actually not even that good right now, I would say, but it's actually the wrong comparison. Right. Salana or a blockchain is actually or in the case of Visa, they're using as a settlement, right? And settlement is kind of the last part of finance when you make a payment.
00:38:47.554 - 00:39:16.480, Speaker B: And you can kind of see this with apps like get code or not get code. They're just called code, but their Twitter handles get code. The way traditional payments work is, let's say you tap your Apple Pay Watch or whatever. It checks to see if you have the money. It checks to see if you have authorization. It checks maybe some fraud things. Like if you're just simultaneously spent in multiple countries at the same time or something and it does these checks and then it says it goes through.
00:39:16.480 - 00:40:00.826, Speaker B: But not in all cases does it actually go through. The actual physical movement of the funds doesn't happen for sometimes up to 48 hours, right? And so that's actually what you're competing against if you're salana. Whereas on salana, the actual movement of funds happens in 400 ms. But if you really want to say it's hard, finalized, maybe like a few seconds. And now if that wasn't a globally shared state, then you have the problem of roll ups. And in the case of orus you have the 30 day withdrawal period with ZKS depending on obviously your entire payment stack is not going to be on one ZK probably. It'll probably have to land on somewhere else.
00:40:00.826 - 00:40:37.762, Speaker B: Maybe you have different jurisdictions that you want to work with like bridges, all those are going to introduce delays. And so Payments is actually this interesting use case that's really only feasible on Solana. I know I used to say only possible on Solana. There's obviously still cases that but only feasible on Solana, or at least only feasible on Solana at this current period in time. And that's why Payments I'm super excited about and there's so many sweet teams on Solana that build on this, right? Like there's code, there's tip link which you just literally send a link and then you claim it. That's it. There's otter which is ex cash app, folks.
00:40:37.762 - 00:41:37.660, Speaker B: Right? So that's obviously good validation that Ex Cash app folks are like, wait a minute, if you want to build a startup on payments, we're going to use Solana. It's like, okay. And then previously head of products at also they have a company called Meso Network which does off and on ramps. There's like Dchap, like all these insane and obviously Solana pay, all these insanely talented payments talents are slowly coming to Solana. And I think if you can focus on that vertical a bit more and tell a story a bit better obviously regulation and stuff will slow this down or cause some friction, but also something that people don't really think. About which something is recently I've been playing with is that really the biggest barrier to payments so far hasn't maybe been the tech, but it's been the fact that on ramps and off ramps, Right. But Solana, if Solana is going to be the deep in chain, that means you actually earn crypto right on the chain itself.
00:41:37.660 - 00:42:12.726, Speaker B: So you can imagine you're somebody that has a hotspot in helium or maybe high mapper, you actually earn your money directly on, right? So there's no KYC or off on ramp. And then you can use Jupiter to swap the USDC and then now that's it. Now you can spend the money, right? That's a very interesting use case of composability where the global state enables people to earn crypto directly on the chain and then you can also spend it directly on the chain as well without doing weird bridges and all that sort of stuff.
00:42:12.908 - 00:43:07.062, Speaker A: I hope there's two different use cases at least for Payments, in the sense that if you're B, two B, if you're making international ecommerce payments, or you're airbnb who operates in 220 countries and 80 currencies, if you can save 1%, if you can save less than that, you're going to do it right? As long as it's not like skirting the law because it's a lot of money to you, people like me and you every day, it's not going to make a huge difference. It's not everyday part of our lives, but what is something like Venmo, which a lot of those teams are working on. Solana I think the big thing is somehow having a default way that you can pay or receive USDC because, say, my Venmo balance. At first I didn't even put money in there similar to what you were saying on and off ramps, but I had other people pay me and over time that balance just built up and then I was like, okay, this is actually a useful app. Like, I'm paying other people with these Venmo dollars, but I never actually funded that myself. It's just I got in situations where people paid me. And I think that's what crypto needs to find either through like an application or whatever it might be, is that people don't actually even all have to onboard themselves.
00:43:07.062 - 00:43:36.846, Speaker A: I mean, there's airdrops and so forth, of course, but it's like, no, you're just getting paid out for whatever it may be in here and then you can play around with it. And I think that would be the huge thing for payments. You don't really see this in Ethereum today. I mean, I might just be missing it, but that's probably just because the fees, layer twos, like you said, they're not really proved out yet. I think the main thing is just if you're a big company, you're dealing with payments, you want to do something that's live and operational, and I think Salana might be the best place for that. We've been talking about salana d five 2.0. And actually, Mert, I need your help here because I think we need to like Salana D Five 2.0
00:43:36.846 - 00:44:09.706, Speaker A: is great, but I did not necessarily like the answer of when we asked people what it meant. I'm thinking for like a narrative for Salana, right? And when we ask, it's like, oh, D Five essentially after FTX, like everything after FTX that may make sense on a timeline basis. I don't think that's a really great marketing spiel. I do like, for example, how Tristan talked about back in the day in 2020, our protocol was held together by Silly String and we had too many users. Essentially, we as developers weren't ready for it. They saying now our protocol is ten times better, but the hard part is getting these users. So I think you hear the term Slan and D Five 2.0,
00:44:09.706 - 00:44:29.726, Speaker A: and to me it just really means, like, hey, for the first time you actually have teams that are completely focused and ready for new users to come on. The only difference is it's like Salana is this guy that's been working out all summer and then it hit winter. He can't show any results yet. We got to work for the next season to come around. But the fact is that they're ready. So I don't know. What are your thoughts on Salana?
00:44:29.758 - 00:45:18.322, Speaker B: D five 2.0 yeah, that's a fun analogy. Salon d Five 2.0 is since it's like an organic term and it's not like top down from some marketing agency, it's obviously a little overloaded. I think some people use it to mean like Salon 2.0 is actually salana but without the low float, high FDB tokens which were predatory and maybe propped up by some of the Alamedas of the world, right? So now with solana D five 2.0 retail can actually use DFI without getting wrecked by these massive whales and then like what Tristan Mario said, which is that well actually now we have better tooling, we know what we've learned, our lessons, we are ready.
00:45:18.322 - 00:46:09.966, Speaker B: This chain is ready, right? Because these DeFi teams went through some stress when the chain would have performance issues and they're like wait a minute, what do I do? What can I do? Because the transactions won't go through, we have to spam, et cetera. So there's that. But probably this is what they mean in my view is that a lot of the activity in DeFi and ethereum or like the TBL talks is really due to a few major protocols and them actually having right, like uniswap is a token. Like most of those big companies or protocols have tokens. Solana not so much. I mean there is like Bonk essentially which is like a fun community coin which I really like Bonk but it's not a DeFi token. It's not from a like there's a lot of upside in slant DeFi.
00:46:09.966 - 00:47:23.838, Speaker B: Because when these protocols do release tokens, and they will, I'm assuming it'd be super unlikely that none of them release tokens. Then you're going to have more activity on chain, you have more upside, you're going to have more TVL and you have now these point systems which like margin phi and others are playing around with to maybe see how to iterate. It's like a low cost way of iterating and still rewarding your early users. And so it's really just this maybe combination of new tokens, new tokens that are not predatory and also lessons learned with a better chain and better developer tooling combined into one. Maybe the fourth one is the liquid staking thing that people have been talking about which is that Solana I think has a very low ratio of liquid stake tokens to state tokens. Right? There's a lot of people who stake tokens on solana but they don't necessarily do activities with liquid state tokens whereas on ethereum which is actually causing problems to lido, there's a ton of that. And now that seems to be a pretty big focus for most of the teams I've seen, like Jito Marinade, there's something called Sanctum now, which there's Lido.
00:47:23.874 - 00:48:01.586, Speaker A: In there too, but they're hurting. Just to get you on your numbers, I think there's 70% of sol is staked, but only 3% of that staked sol is in LST, whereas on Ethereum you have 21% of ETH is staked, so the number is much lower. But of the ETH staked 45% of it is actually liquid staked. So 45% is liquid stake compared to 3% on Salana. And the whole thing is what's the best asset to have as collateral in DFI? It's really usually the LST of the native asset of your network, which is ETH and Ethereum, Sol and Salana. So you have like Jeto Sol, you have lido, you have Marinade. Marinade has like 102,000,000 TVL.
00:48:01.586 - 00:48:33.774, Speaker A: Lido is 48. Geeto soul is 32 front lido. They're actually talking about potentially sunsetting the protocol, which I think is really interesting and just the sense that it's really hard to bring a brand from the ethereum ecosystem where lido completely dominates over to Salana, where you had somebody already over there like marinade, and then somebody that's native to Salano, which is jeto and jeto. A lot of people just know Jeto through their mev client, but now they have jeto soul, which is like a liquid staking token. And it's only at 32 million. So compared to Marinade it's much less. But just in June they only had 600,000 stake sol, and then today they have 1.6
00:48:33.774 - 00:49:10.970, Speaker A: million. So the growth is absolutely insane. But lido is actually going through this thing and they say, okay, we only have two options, we're running out of money. So either the lido dow needs to give us X amount of money over the next couple of months or we're actually going to sunset the protocol and lido. Just last month, the team that's leading lido on polkadot shut down the developer efforts there. So it's really interesting to see that somebody as dominant as lido in Ethereum isn't actually able to make it to other chains because you often ask in our interviews, like, when you're looking for new users and projects, do you focus on new teams and users or are you looking for projects from other chains like Ethereum? And this is one case where it just shows that brand is actually really hard to bring over to a new chain. Like being native to Solana actually matters.
00:49:11.870 - 00:50:11.530, Speaker B: Yeah, it absolutely matters. And this is something, this is probably my earliest thesis that I have in crypto, really, which is that I saw all these teams during the summer, or maybe not during the summer, but right after the summer where things were getting harder, start moving chains to maybe get margin more users. And I was like, wait, what? Even in web two, if you're migrating tech staff, it's going to take you so much time and effort and you're not going to get much out of it other than maybe a short term pump. And you've seen this, right? Like you tried polygon did not work. They literally could not be paid $3 million to move over to a chain because the brand, the chain, they're not decoupled. People seem to think like, oh, blockchains will be fully abstracted and it's like, okay, maybe in some X amount of years some applications might be not all but the reality is right now they're not going to be. And I always found it crazy that as a team, as a startup, you're basically building on other startups, right? Like Salana is kind of a startup.
00:50:11.530 - 00:50:33.862, Speaker B: L two S are startups. The only thing that's probably not a startup is Ethereum and Bitcoin. But even they change frequently. Or not bitcoin, but ethereum does. And so now you have a company with products on like five chains, let's say, and those chains are constantly iterating and you have to keep up with them. So now you're spread too thin. You can't give the best product experience and that's just the technical side.
00:50:33.862 - 00:51:03.186, Speaker B: On the top of the technical side there's a social side which is like people have different beliefs on those chains. Like a Bitcoin maxi is not going to get along well with an Ethereum person. An Ethereum person might get along well with a Solana person, but maybe not a monetary person. There's different cultures to these things, which is super interesting. We should probably do an episode on that, but it's just super. I think the only case where it makes sense personally is like a wallet. If you think of wallets as digital passports to different nations, that makes sense.
00:51:03.186 - 00:51:25.480, Speaker B: Or maybe like a very small vertical that you have for yourself, like maybe like fine art or something, that could work. But if you're working with very advanced technical infrastructure, stuff like liquid Staking, that feels like it's going to be difficult. Especially because now you're getting trolled on Ethereum for having too much success there.
00:51:26.170 - 00:51:53.040, Speaker A: So anyway, you see that with MetaMask. So they have MetaMask snaps. So MetaMask obviously works across ABM chains but now they have snaps and you can somehow plug into apps that are on Solana and other chains, which is really cool. But anyways, we're in the deep end so if you made it to this part, thanks for staying. I'm just thinking to close it out, tell us something. About what's? Either something you're paying attention to in crypto or maybe outside of it. I've give the audience a little inside track to.
00:51:57.570 - 00:52:54.878, Speaker B: Been so I want to talk about myself. I can maybe talk about some ideas I've been thinking about. One is I think something that's been on my mind for a while is this messaging of blockchains to people who aren't in crypto. I've been kind of on like a little Mediterranean travel Itinerary thing for the last week and it kind of gives you good perspective into how much people don't know about tech. Funny enough, there was some random Bitcoin exchanges and whatnot, which I thought was hilarious. But there are so many merchants that I saw that would hate you if you want to pay with a credit card for a $2 transaction because it would add into their margins pretty heavily. I know people think maybe it's for tax reasons, but I don't think it's for tax reasons.
00:52:54.878 - 00:53:43.060, Speaker B: If it's $2, I think at that point they're just like, literally losing money to service you. And that's pretty and it's like, okay, well, there's a clear solution to this, which is crypto, right? Less margins or better margins, less middlemen, better fees, et cetera. And so then there was also this thing with Creator League, I believe, from Mr. Beast or something, where some gamer guy, I mean, I don't really know my gamers, and that's probably a good thing. And he distanced himself from the Creator League thing because he found out, oh, well, the technology that uses NFTs or something. And for some reason that was like a cardinal sin for him. Not sure why.
00:53:43.060 - 00:54:23.810, Speaker B: It's a entry on a public ledger that has a pointer to some metadata, probably an image. That's what it is. You don't need to get angry about it. Then it's like, I kind of put those together and I was like, wait a minute. Everybody knows crypto is hard to understand, but this messaging part is really getting annoying because we're focused on proto Dank Sharding 4844, or something like bizarre like that. Which obviously, to be fair, it's internal to the community, but people out there don't even know what ethereum is. I know some people might find out how to believe, but they actually don't.
00:54:23.810 - 00:55:26.038, Speaker B: The vast majority of the world don't yet alone, solana, I mean, if I said solana, people would be like, what? They probably think I'm speaking like Spanish. And so something that's super important going forward is going to be how to message this simpler without ridiculous jargony terms to just everyday people and how can help them. And so I was thinking about you kind of had the personal computers, like PCs by IBM, because the way it worked is, when computers first started, it was only in big companies because computers were super expensive and clunky. But then IBM started iterating, and they're like, okay, actually, now we have the PC, the personal computers, you can actually take it home. Now maybe you can have community computers, right, like CCS or something like that, where you can compute or perform interesting consensus and computations. Obviously that's at a low level with entire communities, and maybe you can use that to bootstrap networks. And so that goes into maybe Dows and network states.
00:55:26.038 - 00:55:39.794, Speaker B: I know we had an episode on why governance needs to be sexier or something hornier, actually. So I think that is like a pretty underexplored area.
00:55:39.932 - 00:55:40.620, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:55:41.550 - 00:56:38.220, Speaker B: So I've just been thinking a lot about how to message this better, and I don't have a great answer yet, but what I do know is that everybody needs to work on it. In my view, it can't just be like a marketing agency or somebody's comms department that just can't work. Everybody needs to write use Mirror XYZ or something, substack beehive, whatever it is, write your thoughts. I posted a tweet the other day about by Paul Graham and I think it was something like somebody who's never written down something about an idea will never find non trivial insights about it or something like that, or has never thought about it nontrivially. And that's totally true, right? Because you never really understand the gaps in your ideas unless you write them down. So even after this podcast, I can go and try to write some of these thoughts down and realize, wait a minute, some of these thoughts maybe weren't so fully formed. I need to work on them.
00:56:38.220 - 00:57:11.474, Speaker B: And that's kind of the same thing here. I think the way that we've done messaging is kind of just like ponzi's casinos, tokens, dot coins, ultrasound money, laserise, et cetera, et cetera. Crypto.com sponsoring like UFC. There's all these bizarre things, but really they're community computers that allow for a better Internet, right? The goal here is to build a better Internet and how do we communicate to people? So that's been on my mind lately and I'll keep you guys updated on my progress.
00:57:11.602 - 00:57:35.470, Speaker A: The more complicated it can sound right now in crypto, the more clout you earn. And that's one reason is because the people left in this space are usually really technical and you can almost show how technical you are. Whereas once you actually have users in the space, that's not how you're going to do well. Right? It's just like it's a very short sighted thing that works on your Twitter comment. Yeah, I just want to say the same. I wish I actually did long form writing, but I used to be embarrassed about why I have this thought. Kind of interesting.
00:57:35.470 - 00:58:17.594, Speaker A: Should I tweet it? Should I not? Whereas now I'm just like, look, I look at it as like I'm forming my thoughts here and you can also put it into the world. And the great thing about Twitter is you get quick feedback. So I think that's something that's really fun about that. And then my last comment on you talking about kind of switching from mainframes to PCs. I think another interesting thing in there is like when the Internet was first created, it was created for researchers and universities and a way for them to communicate and share research that at the time and this is where it was really technical. I remember there was pushback even adding inline images to websites because they thought it would take away from actual research itself. And it didn't really reach normies until you had something like the browser and the GUI, right, where people could actually have a graphical user interface and have a mouse and something that looks like a trash can and actually drag and drop it into there.
00:58:17.594 - 00:58:44.786, Speaker A: Whereas if you think about in crypto, people are probably like sometimes we're like, why would we do this? This is silly. But sometimes you need those things to actually bring users in. So I think this is probably overstated, but what is going to be the browser or the GUI for crypto, because right now it's more in that research phase where the more technical you are. That's great. And it's really fun to push the space forward, but Normies don't care, so at some point we've got to get beyond that. But anyways, Mert, I think this is fun. So anyone that's lasted this long, thank you.
00:58:44.786 - 00:58:59.606, Speaker A: This is our first time. Interesting fact, me and Mert have not met, but we're both going to permission next week, so we'll meet in person there. Yeah. Mert. This is fun. It was a really great week for Solana. I think our podcast today for anyone that hasn'tuned into it, it's basically a Solana DeFi panel.
00:58:59.606 - 00:59:02.220, Speaker A: We go into all this and more, so please tune in.
00:59:03.550 - 00:59:20.030, Speaker B: Yes, sir. Thanks for listening to our ramblings, and let us know if you have any topics that you'd like to see next on one of these roundup episodes. Anything from, I don't know, cardano to Solana's inner workings, just let us know.
00:59:20.100 - 00:59:33.360, Speaker A: Yeah, I think a recurring segment would be fun, too, so we'll come up with that. But if you guys have anything you'd like to kind of hear on a curing basis, that'd be great. And we never say this, but if you're a listener, hit subscribe. Be huge for us. YouTube spotify. Whatever it is. So, anyways, we'll see you guys next time.
00:59:33.360 - 00:59:54.530, Speaker A: It's.
