00:00:00.200 - 00:00:30.760, Speaker A: Hi, Kristen Bibby from Louisiana State University. Kristin will talk about super solvable posets and fiber type arrangements. Thank you. Thanks to the organizers for the opportunity to speak here. So, this is joint work with Eamonwale Deluki, who's based in Switzerland. And it's a story about something purely combinatorial, these super solvable posets, and something that's very topological fiber type arrangements and the connection between them. And it'll be a while before I get to what those words mean.
00:00:30.760 - 00:01:11.150, Speaker A: I want to start with a motivating example, which is maybe a little bit closer to what a lot of you work with. Um, so a configuration space is a collection of n tuples of, of points in your favorite space, x, um, where no two of those points are the same. So n tuples of distinct points in x. And for what I'm going to say next, I want my space x to be a nice manifold. And one really important tool in studying the topology of these spaces is a structure of a fiber bundle. So there's a way of taking a configuration of n plus one points and forgetting the last point. And this gives you a configuration of n points.
00:01:11.150 - 00:01:50.770, Speaker A: And this is a perfectly nice map. But what's special about it is that if I look at any configuration downstairs, so if I have n distinct points, um, all of the things that sit above it in the fiber are all of the ways that I can add this extra point that is not the same as those n that I already started with. So you can, can easily see that the fibers are all the same. They all are just x minus endpoints. Um, but moreover, this has the structure of a fiber bundle. So, um, there's actually, you know, a little neighborhood of this where this is, is a trivial bundle. And this tool is used to study a lot of the topological invariants of these spaces.
00:01:50.770 - 00:02:19.418, Speaker A: So I'm going to list a few of these. Um, or really the first thing I'm going to say. So this, this is going to be in the case that x is equal to c. Um, this is particularly interesting because its fundamental group is a pure braid group. I drew a little picture up at the top of an example of this kind of t equals time equals zero at the top, down to t equals one at the bottom. You can imagine a configuration of three points here. They can move around the plane, but they're never allowed to comply to collide.
00:02:19.418 - 00:02:53.466, Speaker A: So you get these little pictures of braids. And one thing that you can see from the fiber bundle directly is that all of the higher homotopy groups vanish. So when you have a fiber bundle, you get a long exact sequence in the homotopy groups. And the fiber, in this case c minus some number of points, has the homotopy type of a wedge of circles. And you can use an inductive argument to say that, well, the fiber I know is homotopy equivalent to the edge of circles. So it has no higher homotopy groups. The base, by induction has no higher homotopy groups.
00:02:53.466 - 00:03:41.000, Speaker A: So in the middle, we can't have any higher homotopy groups. So these are k PI one spaces. And this also gives us so all of the higher homotopy groups vanish. But then when, when you look at the fundamental groups, we get this short exact sequence, and there's actually a section of the bundle that makes this a split short exact sequence. So you can build up the fundamental groups of these as iterated direct, semi direct products of free groups, the free group coming from the fiber. You can also say something similar about the rational homotivity groups. And when looking at the cohomology, another thing the fiberbundle gives us is a tensor product structure on the cohomology rings.
00:03:41.000 - 00:04:43.050, Speaker A: So if you have a fiber bundle, you can use something like the serospectral sequence to try and compute cohomology. And this is like the best case scenario, where this local system in the fiber is trivial. And you can really just write the kolmology of the total space as the tensor product of the comology of the base into the fiber. And if you look at just the dimensions of these, and so let's say this is with rational coefficients and count the dimensions of them. And with the Poincare polynomial, this tensor product structure breaks up into writing. This Poincare polynomial is just a product of linear factors, where this coefficient is counting the number of points in the fiber of each at each step. And something a little bit more modern is you could also look at what happens as n increases and the symmetric group acts on these configuration spaces by permuting the points.
00:04:43.050 - 00:05:37.312, Speaker A: And so as n increases, you start to see the same representations of the symmetric group. Okay, so there's a lot of other really nice things that we can say about these, the topology of these spaces. And really the reason why we can is because of that fiber bundle structure. And that cyber bundle structure exists because of some underlying combinatorics. So I want to say where this combinatorics comes from, and it's from viewing this configuration space as the complement to some collection of sub manifolds. Um, so here I can think about the configuration space, which contains n tuples of distinct points as being the complement of all of these spaces where two, two points are the same. So these are kind of these, these bad configurations, um, these diagonals.
00:05:37.312 - 00:06:10.658, Speaker A: So every point in this complement was, must then have distinct points. And the way that these, these diagonals intersect each other is where the combinatorial structure is coming into play. So over on the left I have so let's look at all of the intersections of these diagonals and I'm going to view it as a partially ordered set by reverse inclusion. So the picture that I drew here is that I have, so this is the case that n is equal to three. So I have my ambient space. All of this is sitting inside of x three, each of these diagonals. So this is where the first two points collide.
00:06:10.658 - 00:06:53.080, Speaker A: This is where the first and third do and where the last two points collide. But then if I intersect any two of these, so if I intersect these first two, I'm requiring the first and second to be the same and the first and third to be the same. And that's really forcing all three to be the same. So any two of these or all three of them intersect at this, this sub manifold where all three of them are the same. And the way that I've drawn this picture is that these lines denote inclusion. So each of these diagonals is contained inside of the ambient space and this subspace is contained inside of each of these three. But we can describe this purely combinatorially by looking at partitions of the set one through n.
00:06:53.080 - 00:08:06.504, Speaker A: I can think about one of these intersections as putting some equivalence relation on the indexing set. So here x one and x two must be the same. So this corresponds to a partition where one and two are equivalent to each other and then three is all by itself and same. Here this is, this is forcing one and three, um, to be equivalent to each other and two by itself. And up at the top, one, two and three are all in the, all equivalent to each other because all three coordinates are equal. Okay, so this, this has a lot of nice combinatorial structure. And so really the question that I want to explore is when do we get similar kinds of, of vibrations? So what if I look inside of some x to the n plus one, remove some kind of bad subspaces and look at the complement of that? And when can I restrict there and get a nice fiber bundle? And in particular can I describe this combinatorially using some sort of intersections among these, these subspaces? And there's a couple of variations on configuration spaces where we can see this, this happening.
00:08:06.504 - 00:08:40.060, Speaker A: The first is a partial configuration space. So here, instead of requiring any two points to be distinct, I'm going to loosen this a little bit and let it be determined by a graph. So here I'm going to make sure that xi and xj are distinct whenever I and j are an edge of my graph. So the complete graph has all possible edges. And this is going to force any two points to be distinct. But this is kind of another example. So this is a graph with, with four vertices.
00:08:40.060 - 00:09:12.750, Speaker A: And here the way this is written is the first point has to be different from the second and different from the fourth. But it doesn't matter because there's no edge between one and three. It doesn't matter if one and three are the same. Okay, so I can start to ask whether this has a fiber bundle structure. So this sits inside of x to the fourth because it has four vertices. And I can ask what happens if I forget the fourth coordinate. So this will go down to now a graph which looks something like this, dropping the fourth vertex.
00:09:12.750 - 00:09:34.420, Speaker A: And if I look above a point like this. So this is three points. And here the first and second have to be different. The second and third have to be different. But I don't care. I don't have any conditions on the first and third because I'm missing that edge. But if I look at what's sitting above that, what I need to do is add a fourth point.
00:09:34.420 - 00:10:09.970, Speaker A: So that fourth point can't be the same as the first and it can't be the same as the third. So if I'm looking above a point where the first and third are the same, then there's really only one point that I have to exclude. But if the first and third points are different, then the fourth point can't be either of those two points. So there's two points that I have to exclude. So this has different fibers and so we're not going to get a fiber bundle structure out of this. And the problem was exactly that. This fourth point was connected to one and three, but there was nothing connecting one and three.
00:10:09.970 - 00:10:40.720, Speaker A: So we can look at a different graph. So this one here is exactly that, this fourth point. Now if I did connect one and three, I will get a fiber bundle structure, um, forgetting that first point. Now going into a configuration where all three points must be distinct. And what I've drawn here is, is kind of a sequence of these. Um, so when I started, I talked about this configuration space of n plus one points for getting a point to n points. But you can keep doing this and get a sequence of these.
00:10:40.720 - 00:11:14.060, Speaker A: And, and graphs which allow this happen are what are called chordal. So you can start with a graph like this. Vertex five, it's connected to one, three and four, and one, three and four must all be distinct because they're all connected by edges. So then I can drop five, I get down to graph like this. Vertex four, it's connected to one and three, and one and three are connected to each other as well, so I can forget that one. And then the same thing down here, vertex three, it's connected to one and two which are connected. So we're going to get a fiber bundle there.
00:11:14.060 - 00:12:16.980, Speaker A: Okay, so we can characterize when these have fiber bundles by something that is purely combinatorial, this property of being chordal, and I didn't say what chordal actually means. So one definition of chordal is exactly that, that I can order the vertices in such a way that each vertex is connected to vertices that are all adjacent to each other. But another way where the word quartile is really coming from, whenever I have a cycle like this is a four cycle that has more than three edges, it must have a chord. So this is missing that cord which this one has. And another case where we can see this fiber bundle structure is for orbit configuration spaces. So this is a generalization where you have not just a space but also a group acting on your space. And then I'm going to look at configurations of points where they don't necessarily, or where they don't just have to be distinct, but they have to be from distinct orbits under the group action.
00:12:16.980 - 00:13:24.420, Speaker A: And this has a similar kind of fiber bundle structure from forgetting one of the points in the configuration. Okay, so the next, um, the next case, which I'm gonna talk a bit more about, um, is, is when we let choose x to be a connected abelian l group. Um, we can use this to define some particularly nice subspaces of x to the n. So what I can do is, is because I, I have a group structure, I can take an n tuple of points and use this group operation to pick out some element of xdev, take like a linear combination of them. So if you're thinking of say c like we were before, um, this is just taking a linear combination of points in c and then the kernel of this. So if I had c, this is really looking at a map from c to the end to c. This is a linear function and its kernel is defining a hyperplane.
00:13:24.420 - 00:14:01.164, Speaker A: If, if I was doing, uh, the configuration space that we started with. Um, I could take this linear combination to be like xi minus xj. And the kernel of that is exactly that diagonal where xi equals xj. So this is, this is giving me something of a similar kind of flavor. Um, all right. And so what I'm going to do is kind of like with the configuration space, I viewed it as say c to the n minus a bunch of these diagonals. Um, here I'm going to look at a collection of these things.
00:14:01.164 - 00:14:41.450, Speaker A: So, kernels of these maps, um, a finite set of those. And what I care about is the complement of this. You should think about each of these as defining kind of bad configurations that I want to throw out and look at the complement and these spaces in general. Um, when x is, is not compact, we can understand the cohomology. Um, but even if I took like s one times s one, we don't know very much about the cohomology of configuration spaces on that. So there's still a lot that's not known. And so it would be nice to have a fiber bundle structure around to give us a little bit more leverage to try and understand this.
00:14:41.450 - 00:15:11.700, Speaker A: And the combinatorics that's coming into play is, again, I want to look at how these, these guys intersect each other. And I'm going to have some examples on the next slide that, that show this. But, um, they, these intersections don't necessarily have to be connected. So I'm going to look at their connected components. So maybe I should skip to some examples which will be a little bit more enlightening. So here's, here's something a little bit, um, a little bit maybe more familiar. So this is just in c two.
00:15:11.700 - 00:15:39.370, Speaker A: Uh, except here what I've drawn is two reals. So these, these things. So if I looked at, say, 10, this is defining the equation one times x plus zero times y equals zero, or just x equals zero. So this is this line in c two. But I've drawn two reals because I can't draw c two. Um, and if I had 10, this is defining the line y equals zero. And if I had two comma, one, this is defining the line y equals two x there.
00:15:39.370 - 00:16:04.740, Speaker A: So I want to look at, so these are our three lines inside of a plane. And I want to look at the complement of that. And the combinatorics that's controlling this is a picture like this. This is the same kind of combinatorics that we had for the configuration space. I have my ambient space down here. Each of these lines sitting above it. And then they all intersect there at the origin.
00:16:04.740 - 00:16:38.226, Speaker A: So my next favorite example is when I take X to be C starved. So here we're getting what's called a toric arrangement. So each of these things is going to define a subtorous inside of C star squared. And I can't draw C star squared, so I've drawn s one squared. So this is the usual square for s one times s one, where the opposite sides are glued together. And now if I look at this 10, this is going to define. Well, C star is a multiplicative group.
00:16:38.226 - 00:17:18.460, Speaker A: So this is going to define x to the one, y equals y to the zero equals one. So it's this subtorus inside of the two torus where the first coordinate is equal to one. And then this is going to be y equals one. And then this last one, this is x squared. Y to the minus one equals one, or y equals x squared. So this is here, it's like a little subtorous that wraps around this torus twice. And if I look at how these things intersect each other, I again have, everything is sitting inside of my two torus.
00:17:18.460 - 00:18:04.576, Speaker A: And then I have each of these, this yellow, then this blue, and then this red guy that wraps around each of those is a connected subtorus. And then we can see that these three all intersect here at the identity where x and y are both equal to one. But the blue and the red intersect here as well. So I get another intersection point there. So kind of one big difference between these two things is when I do have, in the case of C, these posets have a lot of nice structure. They're called geometric lattices, or they're the lattice of flats of a matriid. And over here, we get something that's quite a bit more complicated.
00:18:04.576 - 00:18:47.754, Speaker A: So if you look kind of around a little point. So if I looked at this point here, and I just looked in a little neighborhood of it, what I see are kind of a yellow line and a blue line and a red line all intersecting at that point. So in this post set picture down here, I'm looking at the identity and I look at all of the stuff that contains it. And that little piece of this post set looks exactly like this. So we have this kind of local picture that this locally looks like these lines intersecting. And we can see that in the poset by looking kind of underneath something. But it's a little bit more complicated because we also have this, like blue and red here.
00:18:47.754 - 00:19:36.080, Speaker A: They intersect in two places. So if we look above them, we get these two kind of minimal upper bounds. Okay? And one more example that will be useful. So the one thing that I changed here is the first one is a two comma zero. So now this defines on a torus, x squared equals to one and x squared equals one actually has two connected components because x equals one or x equals minus one are both solutions to that. So we get these kind of two subtori coming from that one thing. And the difference in the poset picture down here is I have this extra yellow guy coming from that connected component.
00:19:36.080 - 00:20:18.030, Speaker A: And now all three of these guys intersect at that point. Okay, questions on this combinatoric so far. So the question is really when we get these fiber bundle structures. So let's go back to the left. So what I'm doing, so this is sitting inside of c two, and I want to forget the second coordinate. So I'm going down to c and I want to look at the complement of these three lines. So if I restrict to everything that's not on these three lines, the image of that is everything except for where x is equal to zero.
00:20:18.030 - 00:20:55.960, Speaker A: And if I look above a point that's not zero, what I see is all of the ways that I can add a point Y so that I'm not on this blue line and I'm not on this red line. So I see that Y is not allowed to be zero and Y is not allowed to be two times x. But it didn't matter which X I had. It's always going to be, I have kind of a c, many choices except for two points. So my fibers all look like this c minus two points. Again, I've drawn r minus two points. Okay, so, right.
00:20:55.960 - 00:21:36.436, Speaker A: I hope I convinced you that the fibers are all the same. It's maybe not so hard to imagine that it's locally trivial. If I looked in a little neighborhood here, you get kind of a strip here, and you can imagine leveling out this line. So it looks like kind of that little neighborhood times this, this fiber. All right, but let's look at these toric examples. So here, if I were to forget the second coordinate, I'm looking again at the complement of all of these subtori of my torus. And I get out of this all possible x's, except for x, is equal to one in the image.
00:21:36.436 - 00:22:29.554, Speaker A: So this is mapping down to c star minus one. And if I look above points, most of the time, what I see, if I pick an x out here, then sitting above it, it looks like I can pick any point in c star except for the blue and the red, which most of the time are distinct, except when x is equal to negative one. When x equals negative one, then both the blue and the red are at the same point. Okay, so we don't get a fiber bundle here because the fiber bundles aren't the same. But on the right, we do get it because this, now if I remove this x equals one, now I don't have to worry about that bad fiber. Okay, another thing that I could have done. So this picture is that one just flipped.
00:22:29.554 - 00:23:07.870, Speaker A: So I swapped x and. Ydehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehehe so now, instead of forgetting the second coordinate, I'm going to forget the first coordinate. Um, and when I do that, so this sends x, comma y, down to y. The image of this is everything except for where y is equal to one. And if I look above any point, what I see now are any c star, except for three punctures, this yellow and two reds. Okay, so this is also going to have the structure of a fiber bundle. So I want to see this combinatorially.
00:23:07.870 - 00:23:44.800, Speaker A: Um, so here's kind of, uh, the, the same pictures that we saw in the last slide. Okay. So I want to see combinatorially why these three are fiber bundles and this one is nothing. And really, the thing to look for is exactly this kind of intersection here that the red and the blue intersected at a point that gave me this notably bad fiber. And in the poset, what we see is this red and the blue, they intersect at this point here. That's what we're seeing there. And the problem is that that point is not contained in this yellow.
00:23:44.800 - 00:24:19.080, Speaker A: And this is a lot like that chordal graph property that I was talking about is kind of we need, like, if I have two edges connecting to this new point, they had to have been connected by an edge already. Okay, so we can make this a little bit more precise. So what we're looking for, and maybe I should go back, one more thing. So what I've drawn here. So in these posets, what I've drawn is. So downstairs, what we see is an arrangement of some things. It's a little bit, it's a small example, right? Because this is just c minus a point.
00:24:19.080 - 00:24:52.954, Speaker A: But what I've done is in these postsets, I've highlighted the intersection pattern of the downstairs arrangement. So downstairs. So here, what we see are two points inside of c star. So we see kind of two points inside of c star. So this highlighted bit is describing the downstairs arrangement. Okay? And I want to look at how that highlighted bit sits inside of the big poset and the key property. So, to really describe this intersection bit downstairs, what we need is.
00:24:52.954 - 00:25:41.918, Speaker A: So it should be downward close. So what that means is, if I have something in there, everything below, it should be in there. I'm looking at all of the stuff that contains it, and it has to have this property of being join closed, which means that if I have two things in there, then their minimal upper bounds should also be in there. So something, I guess these two guys, they don't have a common upper bound, so that's fine. But if I had something like this guy and this guy, they have this as an upper bound. And I would need to include that if I had both of these guys in there. But the really key property that makes it, that is going to give us these fiber bundles is what gives us what's called an m ideal, which I need.
00:25:41.918 - 00:26:22.580, Speaker A: So here in the postet, I always have my ambient space at the bottom, the stuff right above it. These are coming from those subspaces in my arrangement. In poset language, these are called atoms. So what I need is, for these two guys that are kind of in my arrangement, but not downstairs. What I need is, if I look at an upper bound of them, a minimal upper bound of these two guys, then it should be sitting above some atom in this highlighted part. Okay? So that's why this one is not. Because these two guys, they intersect at this point, which is not contained in this, in this yellow guy.
00:26:22.580 - 00:27:04.810, Speaker A: But it's fine for something like this, because the redhead and the yellow here, they intersect only at this point, which is contained in blue. And it's fine over here because this red and blue here, they intersect at two points. This one is contained in that yellow, and this one is contained in that yellow. Okay, so this is the key property that we need. There's also a slightly stronger one, um, which asks that if I had something. Um, so here's here. This satisfied the property that I just discussed.
00:27:04.810 - 00:27:49.178, Speaker A: But there's something extra that we can ask for, which is if I had something that was not in the highlighted part and something that is in the highlighted part. Um, and I look at their common upper bounds, it should be unique. So this one doesn't have this stronger property because these, these two have both of those two sitting above them. And that's more than one thing. So this is saying that these two guys, they intersected at a point, at two different points, so their intersection is not connected, but this is fine for everything else. So this blue and this yellow have only one point sitting above them. Okay? So this, so these, the left and the right guys have this stronger condition that I'm calling a tm ideal.
00:27:49.178 - 00:28:26.756, Speaker A: This one is not an m ideal, and this one is an m ideal, but not a tm ideal. So these are the Combinatorial Conditions for having what's called an m ideal. But what I really want. So this is going to give us a single Fiber bundle. And what we really want is this kind of Tower of Fiber bundles, this successive, like forgetting a point, and then the next one, and then the next one, and so on. And so to get that inside the Post set, what I really need is the chain of these m ideals. So I say I'm super solvable if I have a chain of m ideals, and I'm strictly super solvable if I have a chain of these tm ideals.
00:28:26.756 - 00:28:56.782, Speaker A: A stronger condition. Okay? And this is a purely combinatorial property. So I'm saying it in the context of these, these intersections of these arrangements. Um, but it makes sense for any Post set that has this kind of Local Structure. So I said already that this, this guy on the left, this has the structure of what's called A Geometric Lattice. It doesn't necessarily have to come from an arrangement. And these guys over here kind of locally have this structure of geometric lattices.
00:28:56.782 - 00:29:34.824, Speaker A: It doesn't necessarily have to come from an arrangement. Um, but we can get this same kind of combinatorial structure and some nice combinatorial consequences of that. Um, but what I'm interested in here is the topological consequences. Okay, so the top is a recap of those examples. Um, and then below it is, is, um, the main theorem that this m ideal is exactly what you need to get a fiber bundle. Um, and your m ideal should be co rank one. So what that means is that these maximal guys should be just one under that.
00:29:34.824 - 00:30:04.220, Speaker A: So that's a, that's going to say, um, that's going to give us this dimension drop by one. Um, and this is exactly what gives us the fiber bundle. And if we had this super solvable, so the chain of m ideals, this is going to give us a tower of vibrations. And it's always the case the fiber is just going to be x with a few points removed. Okay. All right. Another pause for questions.
00:30:04.220 - 00:30:31.370, Speaker A: Yes. Ah, good question. So I might say something related to that momentarily. I think there's still a lot that we're kind of working on. But I want to give you another way to think about it, connecting it back to configuration spaces. And maybe that'll say something. So.
00:30:31.370 - 00:31:04.546, Speaker A: And it's really coming from understanding what's the difference between these, this super solvable and strictly super solvable. And topologically. And what's happening is in the strictly super solvable case. So, over on the right, notice that in the fiber, I get one blue and one red, where it's. It's not strictly super solvable. This is where I got these, these two red punctures. So this red and the blue, they intersected at two different points.
00:31:04.546 - 00:31:44.320, Speaker A: So in the fiber, I'm always going to get two red punctures. So when I'm strictly super solvable, the punctures are all distinct. That's exactly what that having a connected intersection with the yellow guys is. Um, and I'm going to get not distinct things, not just, I guess, right, more than one puncture coming from the same, same guy when I'm not strictly super solvable. So when they are distinct, what I can do is get a map to a configuration space that picks out what these punctures are. So if I had something downstairs. So, downstairs, what we have is here c star minus these two points where I have one and minus one.
00:31:44.320 - 00:32:20.474, Speaker A: And if I picked a point x that is not one or minus one, and I look, sitting above it, I have all y's, except for where y equals one and where y equals x squared. So if I just record one and x squared, those two punctures, these must be distinct points, because this was strictly super solvable. Um, so these are two distinct points in C. Starden. And let's see. Maybe I should already enlighten that. Okay.
00:32:20.474 - 00:32:42.590, Speaker A: Um. So. And I actually have. So in that case, um, I have a map from this arrangement, complement to this configuration of two points. I have that fiber bundle from the very beginning that forgets this last point. And actually, this is a pullback of that fiber bundle. When I don't have distinct punctures, I can still get a map to a configuration space.
00:32:42.590 - 00:33:24.410, Speaker A: Um, but modulo this symmetric group action, because here I still get three distinct punctures, but I don't necessarily have a well defined way of ordering those punctures because those two are coming from the same place. And really, the obstruction is, um, I wrote here this non trivial monodromy. So, again, user imagination. Downstairs, I have c star minus a point. So in the fundamental group, I have a little loop around zero. Uh, and as I go around zero. You might see that kind of on one fiber, you know, this guy is, say, the bottom puncture, but as I go around, it swaps place with the other red puncture.
00:33:24.410 - 00:34:03.320, Speaker A: So we get this kind of non trivial monodromy action. Um, that, that doesn't allow us to kind of write these three punctures in, in a nice way, but we can always write the set of those punctures and get a map to an I, unordered configuration space. Okay. So when you're strictly super solvable, this is just pulling back this configuration space bundle. So a lot of these properties that you get for these configuration spaces can be pulled back to this. And this monodromy can be described in terms of braid groups as well. Okay, let's see.
00:34:03.320 - 00:34:33.577, Speaker A: Um. And maybe just a side note. So up here I kind of wrote an extra little bit. So this, we get this map to configurations of two points in C star. It's a pullback of this bundle from three points down to two points. Um, but we can also map from the configuration space of C star to c. Um, sorry, the configuration of C star to a configuration of c, because one and x squared being in C star means they're not equal to zero.
00:34:33.577 - 00:34:54.549, Speaker A: So I can add zero. And now I have a configuration of three points in c. And sitting above that, I have this fiber bundle of configurations of four points down to three points. And let's see. Right. So, and then it's a pullback of that bundle as well. Okay.
00:34:54.549 - 00:35:19.200, Speaker A: Right. And this is where we really do get the. I guess I, um. The, the, right, I should have said this before I mentioned the braid groups. Uh, so this is where we can really pull back a lot of the more familiar things. I mean, right, there's for, for an arbitrary x, these bundles are still not always. I mean, these configuration spaces are sometimes a little bit hard to grasp.
00:35:19.200 - 00:35:45.944, Speaker A: But when x is equal to c, and we can pull that back in this toric case, um, we get some really nice consequences. Okay. Uh, and here's a few of them. Um, so this configuration space bundle has a section. Um, and it always. So for these, because X is a group, it's the ordered configurations based bundle will always have a section. Um, there's a nice way to.
00:35:45.944 - 00:36:20.800, Speaker A: And by a section, I mean I want to go from configurations of endpoints to configurations of n plus one. So I need to add a point in some nice continuous way. Um, and I think so when you're non compact, you can do this with the unordered configuration space as well. You can kind of add a point that's really far away from all of the points in your configuration. So I think I wrote the hypotheses not quite well. So for C and C, I just need super solvable. For s one times s one, I actually need strictly super solvable because I need the ordered configuration space bundle.
00:36:20.800 - 00:37:24.000, Speaker A: But once I have this, I can do the same argument that we did for configurations on C, of looking at this long exact sequence in the homotopy groups, and I can see that these are k PI one, because each of these. So the reason I restricted to these three is because that's when the fiber is a wedge of circles. So that's k PI one. And so again, by induction, these guys will be k PI one. And then when we have this section, so again, for c or c star, when you're super solvable, or for any of these when you're strictly supersolvable, um, this, this short exact sequence on fundamental groups splits, and we get this semi direct product structure of free groups. Okay? And for a torus, um, for c and C star, again, there's a lot of nice things that we can say, but here, only when we're strictly super solvable. Um, so this is, again, where we don't get this, this, um, this monodromy, because what happens is the fundamental group does act trivially on the commodity the fiber, when it is strictly supersolvable.
00:37:24.000 - 00:38:05.746, Speaker A: This does not happen when you're only super solvable. But this trivial action actually tells us, again, if we want to use the serous spectral sequence or something to compute the cohomology using this fiber bundle structure. It is a best case scenario that the homology of the, the total space is the cohomology of the base tensor, the cohomology of the fiber. And I wrote kind of these two examples on the left is strictly super solvable, where we do see this. So here, the kolmology of the top is the tensor product, the comology of this, and the comology of this. So remember, this is c star minus two points. So it's really a wedge of three circles up here.
00:38:05.746 - 00:38:31.610, Speaker A: Again, c star minus two points, really a wedge of three circles. I just wrote down the Poincare polynomial. So this is, you know, wedge of three circles times wedge of three circles. Um, but we need this strictly, because, again, this, this monodromia is not allowing us to break it down as this tensor product. Uh, let's see. Um. And you can see also the Poincare polynomial doesn't factor.
00:38:31.610 - 00:38:51.632, Speaker A: Okay. And. All right, and one last consequence. Uh, so, right, the poincare polynomial. So when you're strictly super solvable, the poincare polynomial factors. So I wrote that down here. So when we're strictly supersolvable, the poincare polynomial.
00:38:51.632 - 00:39:37.990, Speaker A: If I just record, you know, the dimensions of these cohomology groups, it factors into this nice linear thing. But there's also an interesting connection to the fundamental group. So if you look at, for the lower central series of the fundamental group, um, and the successive quotients, uh, then this lower central series, uh, kind of formula holds. So this was something that was observed, I guess, in. In the case of x equals c. But when you're looking at these toric arrangements and also strictly super solvable, you get the same kind of relationship between the lower central series and the poncho polynomial. Um, and it really boils down to the fact that this is a case where you can do nice inductive arguments on the tower of vibrations, and it boils down to just checking something like this for the free group coming from the fiber.
00:39:37.990 - 00:39:44.050, Speaker A: All right? And I think that's all. So thank you.
