00:00:00.120 - 00:00:21.718, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan there's a signer. And today's the 24 February 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So before we get into the craziness of the last 24 hours, just wanted to say that this will be the last refuel until March 8. So as I mentioned the other day, there'll be no refuels next week.
00:00:21.718 - 00:00:40.454, Speaker A: And I worked out exactly what days I'll be able to get back into it. So March 8 is a Wednesday. So that means there won't be any refuels on the Monday and Tuesday, not next week, the week after as well, because I will be on a plane plane. So I will not be able to do a refuel. Maybe one day I'll be able to do a refill on the plane and upload it. But yeah, Wednesday the 8th. I should be back.
00:00:40.454 - 00:01:11.856, Speaker A: Depends how bad the jet lag is. The time zone difference is pretty crazy between Australia and the US, but I will endeavor to make a refuel on Wednesday the 8th. If not worst case scenario, it'll be the Thursday the 9 March day and I will be doing a longer episode. It won't be half an hour, probably be an hour plus, because there'll be a lot of news to cover. I'm anticipating a lot of announcements to come out of ETH Denver, and I can't wait to be in person when these announcements happen. I'm just super excited for. For Ethan by super excited for the Daily Gwei meetup that I'm hoping to see a lot of you at.
00:01:11.856 - 00:01:53.544, Speaker A: And if you aren't, you know, if you weren't able to get a ticket at to the meetup, because we did have a pretty strict kind of capacity limit, over 100 people. You can catch me at the conference, of course, and just come up and say, hey there. But yeah, just wanted to say that this would be the last refuel until at least March 8. All right, so moving on to that big news I was talking about. Well, this was basically what I said yesterday. I was talking about how Coinbase and optimism were teasing something on yesterday's refuel, and I surmised that it was Coinbase launching their own l two, and lo and behold, it came true. Now, I wasn't surprised by this at all, considering that I had already thought that this was going to happen based on connecting the dots, but still, I am surprised by a few things.
00:01:53.544 - 00:02:18.784, Speaker A: Now, I'm going to spend probably the bulk of today's episode talking about this, because I think it's a really important topic to talk about. There's a lot to cover here. So exactly what did Coinbase launch? I think. I think there was a bit of confusion around this. So Coinbase has launched something called Base, which is basically a fork of. Of optimism. It's using the op stack that optimism has developed, and this is a brand new optimistic roll up that will be settling to Ethereum using optimism's technology.
00:02:18.784 - 00:02:52.400, Speaker A: So that's why people are being saying, you know, it's built by Coinbase, powered by optimism, and secured by Ethereum, because that is basically how the stack goes with this. Now, is it decentralized? No, it's not decentralized from day one, obviously. Live. No, it's not live yet. There is a girly testnet that is live, and there is actually an NFT that you can mint on main net, but that's about all you can do right now with base. There's been a slew of projects that have already announced that they'll be supporting base, which is really, really cool to see. And obviously, this being Coinbase's own l two, they're going to be throwing a massive amount of weight behind this.
00:02:52.400 - 00:03:22.584, Speaker A: This l two, as obviously the months and years go on here. Now, this is, I think, setting the kind of context here and saying that, you know, this is just day one. This is not like bases at a mature stage, fully decentralized roll up has fraud proofs, all that stuff there. No, it is, as I said, not live yet. It's going to be centralized from the get go. There is a path to decentralization. They actually put a blog post about how they're actually going to decentralize the l two, which is surprising, considering a lot of people thought that if Coinbase was to launch an l two, it would be a centralized world guard and it'd be KYC.
00:03:22.584 - 00:03:41.192, Speaker A: And I think I said yesterday that I didn't think that would be the case. I didn't feel like it would be something that was actually worth launching, so. And I feel like this is Coinbase's answer to BSC. You know, binance obviously has BSC. That has actually been quite successful. So. Yeah, but will base have a token on that note, obviously BSC has the BNB token.
00:03:41.192 - 00:04:05.224, Speaker A: No, it will not. They actually said in their second tweet here, base is not a token. And they do not have any plans to issue a new network token for base. They would just be using ETH as the native gas token. Another thing that I said was most likely to happen yesterday. I think this is probably purely due to regulatory stuff. If Coinbase could, I, I would assume that they would love to launch a token for this thing because I mean, tokens aren't bad.
00:04:05.224 - 00:04:37.540, Speaker A: I really do think that tokens get a bad rep because there's just, there's a lot of shit tokens, right. But tokens, when done well, can lead to some beautiful incentive alignments, which I think that, you know, a few projects have done. Obviously Ethereum with ETH has done magically here, but it's, it's great that they're not even doing a token anyway. I mean, I think if a project can survive and thrive without a token, that's even better. So yeah, they have announced that they do not plan to issue a new, new network token. Um, who knows if they're ever going to do it. Like maybe they'll do it sometime in the future, but for now and for the foreseeable future, they don't plan to launch a token for this.
00:04:37.540 - 00:05:16.924, Speaker A: And we'll be using ETH as the native gas token. Um, so, so yeah, and then they continue on by saying that base will be the on chain home for Coinbase. It'll be an open ecosystem where any elon, anywhere can build dapps that reach the next 1 billion users. A bridge that brings our users on chain enables them to go anywhere, including l one, other l two s, and ecosystems like bitcoin and solana. So they're not just building, I guess, the l two, they're also building bridges around this so that people can hop between these different layers. You know, maybe you start on base and you say, okay, well, I want to go to arbitrum now, or I want to go to optimism now, or I want to go to another layer. One, I think that's pretty cool as well, being able to bring all this together and onboard people.
00:05:16.924 - 00:05:57.546, Speaker A: And obviously people will want to stay where they get the best user experience and they continue on, you know, describing a bit about this as well and linking to the decentralization blog post, which I highly recommend giving a read. By the way, the fact that they're already talking about decentralizing base is a really, really positive sign. And they're also, they've also confirmed that they are going to be working directly on the op stack with optimism. So they're the second core team that's going to be working on the op stack alongside optimism. So basically a bit of, I wouldn't call it client diversity, but development diversity here, which is, which is obviously very, very awesome to see. Well, okay, so that's bases thread on it. There's also coinbases thread on it, which you can give a read to.
00:05:57.546 - 00:06:22.930, Speaker A: It's. It definitely doesn't have any really new information, just links to a bunch of blog posts here. There is Jesse Pollack's thread. Now, I think I mentioned Jesse Pollack yesterday and I've talked about him a bunch on the refuel. He's doing a lot of great work when it comes to coinbase and l two s. Well, he has his own thread on this here and he was also on bankless. So that stream that bankless did, Jesse was the guest on that, you know, talking about all of this and answering everyone's questions.
00:06:22.930 - 00:06:47.082, Speaker A: And Jesse in this thread goes through basically how he came to, to develop this. So I feel like this is his main project for the foreseeable future. It's definitely the thing that he's going to be spending the most amount of time, time on. And it's his baby, really, which is very, very cool. So this is just a great little thread to get context and history around exactly where this came from. So you should definitely go give that a read. And also there was some terminology thrown around by optimism.
00:06:47.082 - 00:07:51.658, Speaker A: They have their own thread on this, but they're calling what they're doing with the op stack, the super chain, which is basically from a high level. It's their thesis that they can bring all these op stack chains together to make one big interoperable super chain instead of things being siloed. So instead of baseball and, you know, normal optimistic ethereum network being siloed, that would be part of this super chain that essentially allows them to interoperate and have composable liquidity seamlessly. Now, people have brought up a few concerns around this saying, you know, would that mean that the security is compromised in any way? Like how does the actual super chain work? How does the composability work? And those are all fair questions, but as I said just before, we're really at day one of this sort of stuff. This is, this is not something that's going to be mature or anywhere near mature. We're basically in the pre alpha stages of this sort of stuff here, so don't expect any kind of maturity here. But on top of that as well, base has actually committed to submit a portion of transaction fee revenue backed to back to the optimism collective treasury, furthering the vision for a sustainable future where impact equals profit.
00:07:51.658 - 00:08:28.994, Speaker A: So essentially Coinbase is going to be using their own l two to generate fear revenue and donate some of that fear revenue to the optimism collective treasury, which goes towards funding public goods. So ergo, Coinbase is funding public goods via their l two. Really awesome. I mean, honestly, like, I wouldn't be gushing so much if Coinbase just launched an l two and didn't put as much effort as they have into explaining exactly what their goals are with it, what they want to do with it, how they want to align with ethereum values and optimism values, how they want to support public goods. There's just a lot of great stuff happening here. So yeah, kudos to them for that. But all of this stuff obviously will be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:08:28.994 - 00:09:13.840, Speaker A: But now I get to the thread that actually, I wanted to talk to each point because it actually, it actually kind of summarized my own thoughts that I was having. And I thank Ryan Sean Adams for putting this out, but he starts off this thread by saying the Coinbase thing is a big deal. So here are ten reasons why. So the first reason they choose Ethereum instead of launching their own l two, this is a massive vote of confidence for Ethereum. Now, I touched on this point yesterday, but this is definitely a massive kind of point. I think that this can't be overstated how massive this is for Ethereum, because Coinbase has a choice between Ethereum L2s, other layer ones, similar technologies, maybe hybrids, and I guess, like, not doing anything at all. Right.
00:09:13.840 - 00:09:57.666, Speaker A: Out of all the choices that they had, they chose an ethereum l two. And they didn't just choose any l two to build with, they chose optimism, which is considered, I guess, one of the most aligned l two s in terms of as close as they align with the Ethereum vision, not just socially, but technically, because I believe optimism is the closest you can get to basically an l two that looks like l one ethereum. So they embody all those values. That's not to say the other ones. The other Altus don't have those values as well. As I mentioned the other day, scroll is trying to be, that Polygon is definitely that arbitrary as well. But optimism definitely has taken it a little bit further, I think so, and a bit further along in that journey in particular, which, which I think is really cool.
00:09:57.666 - 00:10:27.676, Speaker A: But that alone is a massive vote of confidence for Ethereum. It's basically telling the world that Coinbase, one of the largest exchanges in the world, believes that ethereum is going to be the world sentiment layer. They believe that the Ethereum l two roadmap is the best way to scale a blockchain. They believe that the best technology comes from the teams that are most aligned with Ethereum, and they also are trusting the Ethereum ecosystem with managing their users funds, so to speak. Right. Because obviously base will be secured by Ethereum. So that's, that's point one there.
00:10:27.676 - 00:10:55.780, Speaker A: .2. This sets precedent that other crypto companies will follow, then fintechs, then banks. Eventually the world will use Ethereum as a settlement and property rights system. So just falling off of what I just said about Ethereum being the world sentiment layer, which is not a new thing, by the way. I've talked about this for years. I think I have a post in the Daily Gwei newsletter from 2020 where I talked about this. This is not anything new, but this is just Coinbase validating the thesis that myself and a bunch of other people have had around Ethereum becoming that settlement layer.
00:10:55.780 - 00:11:13.572, Speaker A: And as Ryan Sean Adams says, yeah, it sets a precedent. It basically signals to the world, hey, come settle your stuff on Ethereum. It's worthy of your, of your kind of settlement. It's going to give you good settlement guarantees. It's going to give you good credible neutrality and censorship resistance and all that good stuff there. So, yeah, definitely agree with that point. Third point.
00:11:13.572 - 00:11:33.242, Speaker A: This is a maximally decentralized way for an exchange to launch a chain. No token, no walled garden, all open source. This is good for crypto values. More defi, less c five. This is really impressive that Coinbase has done this. As I mentioned before, they could have gone the totally, you know, we'll keep it world garden centralized KYC route. But they obviously understand that that doesn't work.
00:11:33.242 - 00:12:01.654, Speaker A: That doesn't work at all. It's going to fail if they do that. So instead of doing that, they're like, let's just make it all open, right? Let's just make everything open, make it actual defi, make it actually decentralized. Um, you know, don't have a token as well, be open source. Uh, and that's exactly what they've done. Now, obviously there's been regulatory questions that have been raised over this. People, some people are taking the opposite kind of, uh, approach here and not being excited about this, but being worried that it's going to draw regulators in even more and it's basically bait for regulators.
00:12:01.654 - 00:12:33.612, Speaker A: To that, I say, you know what? The regulators are already here, they're already at our doorstep. They're already being aggressive. So let's just do things and ask for forgiveness later. Like, there's no point tippy toeing around all this stuff anymore, unless there's actually going to be like pure criminal liability for doing these sorts of things for the individuals, I think it's worth the risk. And I guess, like, for the criminal liability stuff, let's just say you're a us citizen and you start using tornado cash. Okay, maybe that's not, that's something that you should be doing, right? It's not advised that you should do that. It's obviously illegal and there's a severe punishment there.
00:12:33.612 - 00:13:02.614, Speaker A: And I'm not encouraging anyone to do anything illegal or against regulators. But I guess my point is, is that Coinbase obviously did this risk reward analysis and they thought to themselves, we are going to build this thing. We think it's cool, we think it adds a lot of value to the world and we think that the regulators are wrong about everything. I mean, I think it's pretty clear that they think the regulators are wrong about most things, if not everything. And they're actively trying to educate regulators as well. They're actively trying to change, get legislation through and change bad legislation. Brian is in DC.
00:13:02.614 - 00:13:38.916, Speaker A: Brian Armstrong is in DC doing this. Uh, but they're not going to wait around for that, right? They're not going to wait around for the old world to catch up to the new world. They're going to be pioneers and they're just going to cop any heat that comes their way because there is definitely going to be heat from the regulators on this. I completely agree with that point that other people have brought up. Whether that heat actually leads to enforcement action or leads to base not being able to be launched, it's another story altogether. And that's obviously going to play out over time. And then fourth point that Ryan continues with, if Coinbase converts 20% of its 110 million verified users to L2 users in the coming years, this alone will ten times the number of total crypto native users.
00:13:38.916 - 00:14:00.110, Speaker A: This is a point that I think a lot of people miss. We don't actually have that many users in crypto, guys. And I'm talking on chain. I don't actually count the people who buy crypto on an exchange. As a user, I don't really consider holding an asset to be using the chain. I kind of feel like that's nonsensical. Even if you're doing self custody, you're still obviously withdrawing to your own address and you've used the chain.
00:14:00.110 - 00:14:26.346, Speaker A: But I mean, if all you're doing is holding it in cold storage, eh, you're not really a user of the, of the tech, right? Uh, so it's just like, if I have a Facebook account that I've spun up and I don't, you know, it's just there, it's just sitting there and I don't. I haven't looked at it in years. Am I really a Facebook user? No. And that's why you always delineate between users and active users, whether they be daily, monthly, or whatever. But me personally, I don't consider that person to use it just because they have a Facebook account that they haven't used in five years. Right. And that's kind of like me.
00:14:26.346 - 00:15:10.776, Speaker A: I don't use Facebook at all, but I still have my account there. But on that note, if you actually look at the total number of on chain users that we have, and active users today are not in the bull market today, in the depths of the bear market, there aren't that many. I would struggle to think that there's more than a few hundred thousand active users across all of the on chain stuff. And maybe we're talking monthly active users here. Even that would surprise me. Now, in saying that, I've argued before that measuring active users for financial applications is kind of hard, because I would still consider you a user of something if, say, you've got a Dai loan on maker, but you haven't actually touched that loan in a year, because there's, you know, you don't have to do anything to touch it, right? Like you're not, you're not ready to pay it back or anything like that. You don't want to draw more Dai out of there.
00:15:10.776 - 00:15:58.560, Speaker A: Uh, you would still be considered a user, but you wouldn't show up in the active addresses or the active monthly users or whatever, right? So there are delineations to be made here, but regardless of all of that, as Ryan said here, if Coinbase converts just 20% of its 110 million users into L2 users, that would be an insane amount of growth. And the thing is, is that 20% of 110 million is what, like 22 million? Right? If I'm doing my math correctly there, to 22 million people, you could even just bring that down to like, 1% of 110 million, get to 1.1 million people. That is still a massive step up from where we are today. And I believe it's going to be more than 1%. Because if Coinbase really wants this thing to succeed, I think they understand that they need to put all their effort behind this and all their weight behind this, and they'll be nudging users to go use the base chain. The fifth point Ryan brings up.
00:15:58.560 - 00:16:42.142, Speaker A: This is an answer that the regulator is asking our industry, how will you protect retail without our control? The answer is regulation by code, a trustless money system built on transparent open DeFi protocols. Look, this is something that I agree with in principle, but disagree with in practice, because the regulators don't care about this answer. This is already an answer that they've been told many, many times, right? They've been told that these are transparent open systems that, that uses self custody. Yes there are rugs, yes there are scams. Yes there are big projects that can fall over like terror, that pretend to be defi but really aren't. But the core actual DeFi protocols, you know, are exactly what the regulators should be loving, but they're not because they're not really open to, to Defi. They're not open to free flow of money.
00:16:42.142 - 00:16:59.078, Speaker A: They're there to protect the state. You know, they're there to protect the state's interest. And the state's interest is not in the free flow of money. They want to be able to see where all the money is going, what, what it's all doing. They can on a blockchain because it's all transparent. But they want total control. They don't want just, you know, the same control as an everyday user has.
00:16:59.078 - 00:17:21.401, Speaker A: They want total control over everything. And I think that's what our pill battle is against is that total control from, from the regulators there. And then Ryan says, this is incredibly bullish for Ethereum block space demand as his 6th point. That's self explanatory. You know, more users using Ethereum, more block space demand, more, I guess, like fear of renew, more ETH burnt. Incredibly bullish faith. No need to explain more than that.
00:17:21.401 - 00:17:52.544, Speaker A: 7th point. This incense coinbase to build public goods infrastructure like ERP 4844, which will speed up our progress. And they actually have been doing this for a while now. I mean, Jesse Pollack has been on the, on the calls and helped with 48, 44 a lot. And I'm sure other people have, Coinbase have done so as well. But this is another incentive for them to do it, like on top of the incentive that they already had, which is obviously very cool. Number eight, Coinbase somehow got this through their legal and compliance team in the US, which is bullish, since the current regulatory regime in the US is the most oppressive I've ever seen.
00:17:52.544 - 00:18:38.026, Speaker A: If big Gov wants to fight decentralization, they'll have to fight their people. This is an interesting point because, I mean, I've obviously talked about regulation a lot just over the last few minutes. But the fact that, like, even if Coinbase is compliance and legal team told Coinbase that you're not allowed to do base at all, they. I don't think they would have been able to launch it even if they wanted to, because these compliance and legal teams, especially for a publicly traded company, if the executives go against them, there is a. I guess, like a fiduciary duty that they have, that the board and executives have. And if they break that by ignoring legal counsel and compliance counsel, there can be ramifications for that. So I do believe that Coinbase was actually able to get this past those teams and get them to sign off on it, which, yeah, is very bullish, considering the hostile environment that we have today.
00:18:38.026 - 00:18:54.146, Speaker A: Now, will that mean that Coinbase will be spared from the wrath of Gary Gensler? We don't know. Right. He may come along and say that base itself is a security, because Gary Gensler loves labeling everything as securities. I, you know, the base of the chain, that's a security. No, I don't. I don't think he's going to do that. Maybe.
00:18:54.146 - 00:19:09.514, Speaker A: Maybe he will. Right. But I don't think Coinbase is going to avoid regulators here. But I don't think it's going to be as bad as it will think it is where regulators are going to go to Coinbase and be like, you have to shut base down right now. And if they do that, I reckon Coinbase will fight it. I don't think they're going to go down without a fight on that. Notes number nine.
00:19:09.514 - 00:19:41.686, Speaker A: This will supercharge l two infrastructure, tooling and development. I mean, that's pretty self explanatory. More users, more developers, more brains. You know, brainpower going into l two stuff will increase the amount of l two stuff that we have. And 10th and last point from Ryan is that this shows that credibly neutral technologies, the ones that no one can control or corrupt, these are the technologies that win bullish bankless money systems, bullish self sovereign values, and bullish for the people. As I said at the start, Coinbase chose Ethereum for a reason, for many reasons, and these are some of them. So I completely agree with Ryan on that one.
00:19:41.686 - 00:20:21.450, Speaker A: But that's it for his thread. And the reason why I wanted to go through each point is, as I said, this was basically everything that I wanted to say just packaged nicely in a tweet thread from Ryan here. As you can tell, I'm super excited for base. I'm super excited to see how it develops how much value Coinbase can add to the Ethereum and l two ecosystem on top of all the value that they've already added. And I'm really, really glad to see Coinbase put their weight behind Ethereum. As I said before, I've had longstanding kind of thesis and theories and opinions on blockchains generally, on Ethereum generally, and I'm talking long, long standing, like since 2017 and 2018, 1920 that are slowly coming true over time. And it just validates me personally.
00:20:21.450 - 00:20:49.040, Speaker A: It keeps me motivated, it keeps me really, really obviously excited about all this stuff going on. And I hope it does for you as well. Last thing before I move on from the base stuff is that Etherscan has actually built a base block explorer called base scan and it's at base scan.org dot. Currently it is tied to the girly testnet, but obviously it'll be changed over to, uh, the base main net when that goes live. So kudos to Etherscan for building this for base here. All right.
00:20:49.040 - 00:21:23.274, Speaker A: Oh, and just one last thing. Uh, the build on base NFT actually topped the burn leaderboard over the last 24 hours, as you can see here. So that's why the gas fees were quite high because there was an NFT that you could mint. And I'm going to assume that a lot of people minted it because they think that if Coinbase does a token in the future for base, right, by any chance they'll potentially airdrop it to NFT holders, which actually isn't a bad assumption. Right. I actually think that if Coinbase was to do a token for base at some point in the future, they would airdrop it to, you know, base token holders or NFT holders. So that's why I think at top, they'll burn leaderboard there.
00:21:23.274 - 00:22:27.436, Speaker A: All right, moving on. So Danny Ryan put out a really, really great blog post today, reflecting on, I guess, Ethereum generally in the last five years of Ethereum protocol development, the, you know, the technology, the social layer, things that are happening, you know, worries that he has, concerns that he has as well, and all these kind of things wrapped in a very, very nice blog post. Honestly, this is one of the best posts I've ever read on Ethereum. Like this just is so concise. It's not that long. I think it's about 5000 words, but it goes over pretty much everything that I talk about regularly on the refuel and everything that the core a theorem community thinks about a lot, such as the roadmap, obviously, and how it's going to take quite a while mev complexity of Ethereum's roadmap, uh, development of l one and how uh, you know, potentially it could be, you know, maybe it, could it be captured one day? Could the governance be captured, uh, where, you know, when l one Ethereum should ossify how l two s playing to that, you know, l two alignment here and a bunch of other stuff that hangs off of that as well. So I'm not going to read through the post.
00:22:27.436 - 00:22:54.746, Speaker A: I just wanted to say that I highly recommend that you go and read it. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. And for those of you who don't know who Danny Ryan is, I mean, I think all of you know who is by now. But I have to reiterate, without Danny Ryan at the helm, I actually don't think proof of stake and the merge would have shipped for, you know, a very long time. Definitely wouldn't have shipped last year. The, the merge and maybe ever. The amount of coordination work that Danny has done has been incredible.
00:22:54.746 - 00:23:31.524, Speaker A: Like he has just done so much for the Ethereum ecosystem and he's done a lot of it behind the scenes. He definitely does not get the props that he deserves from the wider community simply because he's just generally not a very public person. And he can't really be very public because there's a lot of work to be done on the Ethereum core protocol and he's at the heart of it. But him and Tim Baiko, as the coordinators over the years, have done so much. And not to diminish the other people's work, the older researchers and the core developers, but in terms of coordinating it all, Danny Ryan and Tim Baiko, definitely your men in that arena there. But yeah, go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:23:31.524 - 00:24:08.124, Speaker A: All right, so Steve, speaking of Tim Bico, he actually put out a thread around testnets today. So I spoke yesterday and the day before about this testnet drama that's been going on in Ethereum. Well, Tim put out a thread where he said the topic of Ethereum testnets came up again this week, which is something people either feel like there's zero information about or that everyone already knows. Short thread to give context on the current situation and future plans, you can give this thread a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below, but it basically recasts what I've been saying over the last few days about how girl is going to be sunset. And he's not for app developers, it's for staking or super polio is for app developers, and there's going to be another testnet spun up and all that stuff. But.
00:24:08.124 - 00:24:44.170, Speaker A: But Tim's thread gives a lot of context around that that I didn't give and a lot of. A lot of new things that, that I didn't even know as well. So I highly recommend giving the thread a read, which of course will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so here's a fun one. Eclipse, which is a roll up, or I guess like an l two platform, is launching a l two based on Solana's technology on Polygon. Now this is an l two insofar as I don't believe it's a roll up yet, it's going to be using Polygon avail I believe. So it's like a validium, a kind of hybrid here.
00:24:44.170 - 00:25:10.664, Speaker A: But what I think is funny is that I've always said that I think that Solana would work better as an l two on ethereum. Like, I actually don't think Solana's execution engine is bad. I actually think it's quite, quite novel and quite good. I just think that it doesn't work very well as an l one. I don't think Solana as an l one is going to have a very bright future. But as an l two, you know, it could work, right? Who knows if it's going to work or not. Like, as I said, the technology is interesting, but there's so much more to these things than technology.
00:25:10.664 - 00:25:32.694, Speaker A: But I think this is just an interesting thing to, to keep an eye on. Now, in saying that, I don't know much about it, I haven't studied it too much. There's obviously a lot of trust assumptions here. We don't know if you know how well it's going to work. We don't really know how centralized or decentralized is going to be. As I said, it is not a roll up. From what I can understand, it is more like a validium, where they're storing data off chain.
00:25:32.694 - 00:26:08.174, Speaker A: But it's still cool. It's still cool to see this technology coming to Ethereum and Ethereum kind of taking the best parts of other ecosystems and bringing it in house here. So if you want to learn more about this, there is a ten crunch article on this, as well as a little thread here that you can check out. But I think the main driver here, or the main draw here for people is that if you're already a Solana developer and you're already familiar with the Solana tooling and languages, and all that stuff. You can do that on this l two. Now instead of using Solana, you can use this. And it's the same experience or similar experience to building on Solana, which I thought was, was definitely pretty cool there.
00:26:08.174 - 00:26:38.778, Speaker A: All right, so okay, this thread I should have talked about before, but this is another thread on base. This is basically optimism's thread about base and their wider plans around it. You can go check this thread out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, that was all about base, so I should have spoken about that earlier. But it's just a thread that recaps a bunch of things that I've already talked about but will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so Lava network. Testnet is now open, but you know what the faq is lava.
00:26:38.778 - 00:27:01.112, Speaker A: Well, lava is a network. Lava Network is a decentralized network for RPC and API providers, offering fast, high uptime and scalable services to developers. Any provider can join, meaning new chain support can be quickly added to the network. So how does it work? Decentralized access. Any Apple provider can join the network. Accountability mechanisms. Providers stake and are rewarded according to their quality of service and data integrity.
00:27:01.112 - 00:27:34.410, Speaker A: And private sessions requests cannot be profiled or front run. So basically they're trying to do, I guess, a more decentralized version of the RPCs that we have today and the APIs that we have today, such as Infuria and alchemy. And Infuria is actually trying to decentralize now as well, which is pretty, which is pretty funny because they've been centralized for a while. But I think they see the writing on the wall. So that's very cool to see. But yeah, I just wanted to highlight this project for you guys. I don't know that much about it besides seeing this thread, reading through it and it seems legit, like it seems pretty cool and it seems low risk anyway, since it's just an RPC and API provider.
00:27:34.410 - 00:28:16.024, Speaker A: It's nothing that's going to be taking your funds here. But yeah, it's on testnet now if you want to play around with it, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. All right, so a bit of drama here in the Ethereum staking community. So Nikso said here, forking repos is good. It's why open source is great, because we can iterate and improve on work. But probably best to say, hey, we're a clone of this other protocol, and here's where we improved rather than wait for the community to start recognizing vestigial code you forgot to remove. And what Nixo is talking about here is that Stata labs, which is another Ethereum staking service that's currently development forked rocket pool and forked the smart note stack and didn't really change anything except the color.
00:28:16.024 - 00:28:50.690, Speaker A: You can see here that their stator is purple, rocker pool is blue, and yeah, they didn't change anything, and they didn't say they were forking rocket pool. I don't believe, and it seems pretty blatant that they've done this now. I think that this repo that people found was supposed to be private or something like that. I don't think it was the state of one. I don't think it was meant to be public. But still, I think it's a pretty bad look because I haven't seen Stata talk about this anywhere else. In all their promotions, they've just been talking about spinning up this new, I guess, like infrastructure staking infrastructure that they're building, and they've got a few features that I think rocket pool doesn't have yet or something like that.
00:28:50.690 - 00:29:34.864, Speaker A: But the funny thing is, is that they've pretty much almost, word for word, copied rock a pool here and fork the software, which I guess is flattering for Rockerpool that they're getting forked like this. But I think from my point of view, I'd love to see, you know, state of labs make a, I don't know if they made a statement about this, but I'd love to see them be more honest here about this. There's nothing wrong with forking, but I think it become wades into dodgy slash grifter territory when you do it and you don't tell anyone and you do it so blatantly as well. But I don't know that much about this. I'm not going to give any strong opinions here, but the evidence is pretty damning, and I do trust that Nixo did her due diligence here. It isn't just calling anything out for the sake of it. And I saw other people talking about this from the Rockerpool community, of course, as well.
00:29:34.864 - 00:29:54.966, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll have to see how this evolves. Hopefully stayta can come out with something and say and, you know, and improve from here. But yeah, I think on that note, that's gonna be it for today's episode. A reminder, no more episodes until at least Wednesday the 8 March. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up.
00:29:54.966 - 00:29:59.734, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all in about a week and a half. Thanks, everyone.
