00:00:00.560 - 00:00:33.394, Speaker A: Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate this. And so I hope to both be somewhat useful, but also just thought provoking. My name is Brewster Kael. I'm the founder of the Internet Archive, a large library on the Internet. The idea was to try to build the Internet into the library of Alexandria, version two. Could you make all the published works of humankind available to anybody wanting to have access to it? That was the dream of the Internet in many ways, and it was the goal of my career, unfortunately, still at it.
00:00:33.394 - 00:01:16.270, Speaker A: So why? I mean, technologically, it's just not that hard. So what can we do to try to make this all go forward? But the real goal out of this talk is going to be actually on a much narrower concept of decentralization. But who am I to actually talk about any of this? So I guess I'm just one of the old guard, the original gangsters of the Internet, to try to build this. This is a picture of the Internet Archives building in San Francisco. Please come and visit us. We have open doors, we have an open lunch on Fridays and tours and fun things. We can see petabytes of blinking lights, which is kind of fun.
00:01:16.270 - 00:01:51.194, Speaker A: We're probably best known for the wayback machine. We archive the worldwide web. We collect over a billion URL's every day. The idea is to try to keep the record of human life that's going on, on the web alive. And it's used a lot now. It's, I guess, two and a half trillion captures, or URL's over time that gets queried five or 6000 times a second. We're about the 300th most popular website, but we also have television, books, music, video and the like.
00:01:51.194 - 00:02:56.614, Speaker A: But this talk is really responding to a call that I made to try to fix the web, try and make a better web, a web that works for more of us. Can we build a decentralized web? Could we go and make something better, that is, than just having a few walled gardens grow up and monopolization happen? Could we go and restore some of this ideas to build a decentralized web? So there's been a lot of work towards this in different camps, and things are moving along. This was the original paper. I'm kind of proud of this one because it was signed by Vince Cerf, Tim Berners Lee and myself at our first gathering to try to pull this together. We're going to have another decentralized webcam in the Bay area under the redwoods. In a couple of weeks of gathering those that are trying to figure out how to build an Internet that serves more of us. So in that general theme, I'd like to just discuss and register a question of decentralization.
00:02:56.614 - 00:03:57.934, Speaker A: It's gotten to the point where decentralization is kind of like the word open. You just sort of sprinkle it on things and it's supposed to give an aura of positiveness to it. Like the world's going to be better because it's open, or this technology is awesome because it's decentralized. Is that really true? I think there is this concept of decentralization, but what is it really? And why are we thinking that it is desirable? And if we achieve decentralization, are we going to look back on this part of our lives of industriousness and go and say, you know, we just got shafted and it's something, you know, yes, some people got rich. It was a different bunch of people that got rich, and the world sort of is worse for it. That would be bad. So I would like to bring up in this short talk and then think about questions, because it's going to be short enough that you're going to be able to ask questions.
00:03:57.934 - 00:04:52.020, Speaker A: I'm going to suggest that the real goal of what we mean by decentralization is we want a game with many winners. We want a society with many winners, not just a few, and then everybody else gets to sort of grovel around, but that there's lots of independence, freedom playing in a more decentralized way. Are we getting there with some of these technologies, such as Ethereum or any of the blockchain? I think we should worry about this. So let's go over for a moment, what do we mean by decentralization and to just kind of ground this. So it's not just a philosophical talk. I would like to just say the Internet Archive committed to this by going and publishing a paper and trying to get people to go towards a decentralized web by decentralizing the Internet Archive. The Internet Archive.
00:04:52.020 - 00:05:43.092, Speaker A: I spent my career going and making websites work in a distributed way, probably not decentralized, distributed way, and then the Internet archive tried to hoover it back together again, which is kind of weird. How have we tried to make the Internet archive a bit more decentralized? So one was to go and have copies in different jurisdictions, because what happens to libraries is they're burned. They're burned on purpose, usually by either used to be king or church, and now it's governments and corporations. So that's what happens to libraries. The powerful don't like having this stuff come back around and undermine their power. So they tend to destroy the libraries. They tend to be sorry about it later, but it's already too late because the libraries are destroyed.
00:05:43.092 - 00:06:49.390, Speaker A: So let's design for that. So the Internet archive has partial copies, but only partial copies, sorry to say, in Alexandria, Egypt, which is kind of cool. In Amsterdam and in Canada, working really hard in Canada, this is what some of the servers look like. In San Francisco, there are two full copies in the Bay Area. So that there's some geographic distinction, but not jurisdictional, to try to build some level of redundancy and robustness to this by having it in different places, controlled by different people and the like. This is what the website looks like, but we tried to then make this website, but decentralized. Could you go and make websites decentralized in the sense like BitTorrent, that basically things come from everywhere and nowhere, that with content based addressability, you could go and ask for the homepage, and whoever happened to have downloaded that homepage matches the hash and gives it to you.
00:06:49.390 - 00:07:20.260, Speaker A: You can go and have a website that lives everywhere and nowhere. It's much closer to how libraries used to work, where libraries, publishers would come out with books or whatever, and lots of libraries would buy it. And so even if a couple of libraries went down, that work was still available. The web doesn't work that way. The web works. It's that there's one server or one organization that's on top of that materials. And if they want to change it or delete it, they can at will.
00:07:20.260 - 00:07:49.996, Speaker A: The average life of a Web page is 100 days. So when Tim Berners Lee called web pages pages, it was kind of a cruel joke. You think of pages Gutenberg or things that last for hundreds. It's 100 days. So can we go and rethink some of the structures of the Internet and the web using some of our new crypto technologies and cryptographic and content based addressability to be able to make this go. And that's some of the goals of dWeb dot archive.org dot.
00:07:49.996 - 00:08:26.350, Speaker A: So it integrates and tries to put it so that our movies and things like that are in different places. So that was one step towards decentralization. Another step is one of the things that came up right around the time of our whole decentralized web thing. And I think it's somewhat causal, is filecoin and ipfs. And they've been helping us, and we've been helping them by going and reaming an enormous amount of material faster and faster into it. And we're right around 500 terabytes in it, which is kind of awesome. And they've been helping out try to make this work.
00:08:26.350 - 00:08:58.965, Speaker A: So think of it as an Amazon web services of storage s three. That is decentralized, where there's lots of different players that are going and mining. And mining means storing and you pay for it with these coins, with this whole incentive structure, which is kind of insanely complicated. But we're trying it and we've now got 500 terabytes in and it's moving along pretty well. Here is our dashboard of it. And we just crossed over 503.5 terabytes, which is kind of awesome.
00:08:58.965 - 00:09:30.574, Speaker A: Hooray. We've packed up 1.3 petabytes and offered it to the miners, but they don't quite know how to take things as fast as we can, can produce them. And things are going up and to the right. This is a list of some of the collections common crawl, some of the end of term crawls of government information, our big movie collections and things like that. So that's. So the Internet Archive is trying to encourage and going and putting our materials into some of these more decentralized systems.
00:09:30.574 - 00:10:16.654, Speaker A: There's another one called storage with a j. We're about 84 terabytes in that system, and thanks to them, to have granted us free access to it, which is kind of great, but what do we want out of decentralization? So let's go back to the philosophical thing. So I'm trying to. Okay, at least the Internet archive is trying, but what do we want out of it? One is we want no central points of control, right? So that's, I'd say a key component like the Internet plumbing, the ip infrastructure. You just needed a router and somebody to talk to or a few people to talk to. And you then part of the Internet, there wasn't a centralized point of control of how the Internet was built. The web is different.
00:10:16.654 - 00:11:07.290, Speaker A: And now that we've gotten to, like the Facebooks and the Twitters, it's even worse. But I would say that that's not enough. I'd say within the sort of the ETH community, the bitcoin community, we've made some progress in the no central points of control. But if we achieve that, have we really gotten what we want? And I would say there are a couple other goals that we also want. And I've been feeling that we're getting really some problematic responses out of our society based on runaway wealth inequality. And I'm not sure that these bitcoin or ETH worlds will help. But as a goal, I would suggest if we're going to build a decentralized a game with many winners, we're going to have to curb the idea of a few people accumulating a lot of the wealth.
00:11:07.290 - 00:12:05.712, Speaker A: Then there's also power, and so can we curb the powerful with our decentralized technologies? And I'm not sure that's built into our blockchain type worlds very well. So what do I mean by that? So we want no centralized points of control. I would suggest the easiest one liner on that was we want protocols, not platforms. We want to know how we are going to interact with each other, but there won't be kings that go and control the platform and the like. And we need some mechanism to have governance by some understandable system as opposed to benevolent dictators. And I think actually in this area, some of the experiments in governance in the blockchain world have been really quite encouraging. And I'm really very encouraged by the ethereum community of going and making a fundamental switch from proof of work to proof of stake.
00:12:05.712 - 00:12:44.080, Speaker A: That's a big deal. And that that kind of evolution happened is really a big step forward beyond the bitcoin world. So I just, you know, hooray, right? There's some, there's some sense there's a responsive system that is getting better. Now let's go for wealth inequality. This is a tougher one. How are we going to do this? And I'm a big fan of David Graeber's work and the debt with interest. So if you just by holding wealth, by lending it out at interest, it tends towards a runaway concentration of wealth.
00:12:44.080 - 00:13:45.214, Speaker A: And it happens very quickly, 25 to 50 years. And if you don't have a mechanism of doing a reset, things come apart and you can kind of have civil unrest leading to civil wars. Michael Hudson said that during the sumerian, the babylonian times, that all the civil wars were debt wars, that basically people ended up with too much wealth. They forced the commoners to be very, very unhappy, and they came back with pitchforks. So they devised mechanisms of wiping the slate clean at the beginning of every monarch to go and wipe away debts, and the farmers could go back to actually having their fields again. Their daughters that were put into bondage would kind of be restored to the families, and you'd actually have civic life again by facing down the very, very rich. Jubilee was how it was built into the jewish system.
00:13:45.214 - 00:14:48.384, Speaker A: If you don't have this, you're going to end up with the Bolshevik revolution, the maoist revolution in the United States, we had a bloodless revolution, which was called a new deal, which faced down the very rich and brought them under control using taxes. But crypto world thinks of inflation or as a bug, that the idea of having an ability to go and do a reset as a bug that should be reamed out of the system. And if you have debt with interest, which is what you can get with smart contracts, it's not gold, really, that we're talking about here. We're talking about smart contracts and there's debt with interest, that this crypto thing actually might really come back to haunt us in the wealth inequality area. So I would just like to just put out there that this is an issue that we may be on the wrong side of within the crypto community, but how can we decentralize power? And so let's let. Okay, so that's. Wealth inequality is the same as power.
00:14:48.384 - 00:15:42.804, Speaker A: I'm going to use power in the sense of, like, corporate power, the ability to go and make limit your choices, and I'm going to use this object as a pact idea. So this is the book the power of the powerless by havel. And it is a book translated into English at this wonderful Shakespeare bookshop, the Centrum, or right on the other. Anyway, great bookstore. A friend of mine, Althea, went and bought it and gave it to me, and I've been reading it. It's like, oh, that sounds cool. What's revolutionary about that? What's revolutionary about that is almost nothing of that is going to be offered to us in the electronic world.
00:15:42.804 - 00:16:36.536, Speaker A: So what do I mean by that? Ebooks that are offered by the big publishers aren't for sale in that same way. They cannot be given in the same way. They are probably going to constrain what it is that's published. So this book is published on vintage books, which is owned by Penguin Random House UK. Penguin Random House is this global corporation that's suing the Internet archive. And it is suing the Internet archive because where we wanted to buy ebooks, they will not sell ebooks. They will only license them in weird ways in such a way that they can change them or delete them at any time.
00:16:36.536 - 00:17:28.499, Speaker A: And they do. And they're changing electronic books such that in all libraries, all at once, there's a new edition. You don't even have a copy. Libraries don't have the bits to be able to compare them against the new one to find out is it changed. It's really that bad. And because the Internet Archive is not allowed to buy books, like buy them, we can pay the money to rent them such that actually, the way it works in most libraries, if you're getting, if you have a Kindle or whatever, and you're going to your library to go and borrow a book, what your library is doing is shuffling you to the database product of the publisher. So the publisher surveils on all of the patrons books that they are downloading and controls every one of those bits, and the libraries don't have a copy.
00:17:28.499 - 00:18:12.802, Speaker A: The libraries cannot preserve those books. So in the electronic world, we're running into real troubles. And that's sort of, I take it as sort of analogous towards what we're trying to do in the crypto or digital world, is try to build a world where you have many winners. But now we have an ability for publishers to hold on to things even after you've paid for them. In fact, it's not even clear what it is you own or have. It's clear that you've paid, but you don't have the ability to preserve it or give it away or hold onto it, compare it to a new one. And also, there are fewer and fewer of these very, very big players.
00:18:12.802 - 00:19:08.646, Speaker A: So Penguin random House, again, suing us, is one of four big companies, multibillion dollar companies, that are suing us about. And why they're suing us is because we couldn't buy the e books. We buy the physical books, we digitize them, put the physical books away, and then we lend our electronic crappy PDF using their same DRM technologies that they use, so that only one reader at a time can borrow that book. So that's what we do with a large number of books. Mostly people read them for about five minutes to check a reference or get a quotation for their high school projects, whatever it is. That's how mostly people use our research library. But the idea to the publishers that there could be anything in the electronic world that could be owned was so anathema to them that they sued us over it.
00:19:08.646 - 00:20:17.116, Speaker A: So they think they've basically wiped out the idea of digital ownership already. Now, this book is called the power of the powerless, right? And it was published by Havel during the soviet era, and he, it was anonymous, but not anonymous enough, and he went to jail for three years for having done this. But the idea of having small scale publishers be able to sprout up and sell their works is a problem. So what does a book mean if you cannot own it and you cannot own an ebook? So this is putting way too much power way upstream Pearson, the textbook company, is really thrilled about nfts because it means that they can stomp out the resale market. They want to stop resale. So I would suggest a key meme is free market is an oxymoron. Markets have rules, and I would rather live under rules than arbitrary licenses of the powerful.
00:20:17.116 - 00:20:56.174, Speaker A: We need digital ownership that goes and transfers something that then it can go and evolve in a new and different way as opposed to always having things attached to them. That would be what I would hope as decentralized power. So what do we mean by decentralization? I'm going to try to sum it into, we want to make a game with many winners. Let's. As we go through this period of inventing a new set of technologies, I've seen the ARpaNET, the web, different of these search engines. Da da da da da. Through my career, this community is really involved in some of the crypto worlds.
00:20:56.174 - 00:21:38.834, Speaker A: Let's go and make things that we don't look back on in 2030 years and say, oops, right, let's go make sure we have our goals straight and try to optimize our technologies towards that. The three problems is decentralization of control. Try to curb wealth inequality and curb power. Thank you very much. Did I use up all of my time? Did I use up all my time? Or do we have opportunity for questions? Please. If that was not insulting enough or controversial enough, I failed. Please ask questions.
00:21:40.694 - 00:21:53.494, Speaker B: Thank you. It was a very interesting speech. I was wondering whether the wealth inequality issue, would it not only be an issue should crypto become big, potentially a global reserve asset, especially bitcoin, in terms of deflation.
00:21:54.474 - 00:22:41.652, Speaker A: So what I want out of the problem, the currency aspect, is Alipay. That's not creepy. So we can go and pay people easily and smoothly and not have it all be watched and controlled by, well, the government? That's what I want out of it. What I think we may be building, unfortunately, is debt with interest, where there's going to be runaway fewer and fewer entities that control more and more of a fixed asset. And we have no reset ability, we have no mechanism of making a jubilee. There's no way of inflating the currency in such a way that those that are just holding, hodling this stuff don't have ever more inherited power over time. So that's my worry of where we're going with this.
00:22:41.788 - 00:22:42.664, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:22:44.244 - 00:22:45.664, Speaker A: Any other questions?
00:22:50.834 - 00:23:04.978, Speaker B: Hey, thank you for the talk. And my question is regarding. Well, you mentioned that the average lifespan of a website is 100 days, and you're concerned with preserving information digitally.
00:23:05.066 - 00:23:05.586, Speaker A: Yes.
00:23:05.690 - 00:23:20.394, Speaker B: And I wonder what are the difficulties in regarding to then selecting, let's say, worthy information? Because if you preserve a lot, you also need to kind of select.
00:23:21.534 - 00:23:44.884, Speaker A: Do we select? We try. Yes, we do. Total collections of the Internet archive is right around 100 petabytes, maybe a bit more at this point. So 100 petabytes, which is a lot. A television channel for a year, is ten terabytes. And we collect a lot of television. We collect a billion web pages a day.
00:23:44.884 - 00:24:04.472, Speaker A: But it's sort of ever bigger. So can we scale? The answer is yes, we actually can. We're only about 2020, $5 million a year organization. And just the San Francisco public Library is 180 million. Okay. I'm a little envious. Right? They get 100 million, we get 20 million.
00:24:04.472 - 00:24:39.936, Speaker A: But it means that there's a lot of growth as long as people care. And we get our money from libraries paying us to collect web pages for them, like the Library of Congress and a thousand other organizations. But a lot of it is by basically the 130,000 people every year that hit the donate button. So there's room to grow. It's not infinite, but cultural information is limited. People could only be typing all of the time and it just doesn't come out to be much. Video is bigger, right? So we can't collect all of YouTube, so we just try to get the popular stuff out of YouTube.
00:24:39.936 - 00:25:07.456, Speaker A: So we are selective, but we try towards what people care about, and then we digitize a lot. Anything else you can shout out, go, okay, livestream. I'll repeat. So you said it that Pearson is.
00:25:07.480 - 00:25:12.044, Speaker B: Excited about nfts because they can tap into the secondary market and like stomp it.
00:25:12.544 - 00:26:01.374, Speaker A: I love the idea of nfts in the sense of digital ownership, that you can register your ownership, which is great, but there's this contract thing that allows you to get royalties on down the line. And it's a very un american way of doing it where there's this right of for sale that you basically, once it kind of goes. I was talking with one of the royalty of Prague and his family way back when. Helped Beethoven was the helper, the funder of Beethoven and heroica. But imagine of eroica, that wonderful symphony never went into the public domain. How would you do that? A contract, right. You know, contracts don't expire.
00:26:01.374 - 00:26:43.184, Speaker A: They don't evolve over time by based on rule of law. So I think we have a possible problem of things being held onto for too long and also this sort of micro optimization of rights. Maybe make it so that libraries just can't exist in the future because you can't figure out what it is you're allowed to have. So I think we need some basic norms. I'm not saying that the norms that have been built up by our current governments and our current copyright system are any good, but right now the corporations, even though they've corrupted the copyright scheme, such as completely tilted towards them, they say that's not good enough. We want licenses that never end. They don't allow anything for the blind and dyslexic.
00:26:43.184 - 00:27:45.444, Speaker A: There's no preservation in their worldview. It's a problem that we've now, with our technologies, we've made some things possible that can make it so the abuse of power will make us wish for the old days. So how do we go and bring balance to that? And it's not just a technical problem. So how do we go and make it so people can sell things on the Internet? Really sell them, right? By dropping a couple ETH and then they get encrypto a way of decrypting that banned song. How can we go and make that kind of thing happen so we don't end up with more itunes Amazons? I mean, the hell with that, right? So why don't we go and build the decentralized system for making a lot of human activities more possible. But beware that the big guys are looking for how they're going to crush it in such a way that it will be a very small number of winners and they're at the center of it. Thank you so much.
