00:00:00.330 - 00:00:24.994, Speaker A: It's Tuesday, which means it's time for me to put some facts firmly in your face. Today we're talking about Axie Infinity. The katana Dex has launched. Ron rewards are live. But what is it all about? Well, if you've had these questions in your mind about what Axie Infinity is, we're going to answer them for you right now. We're going to start with a little primer on what Axie actually is. Then we're going to give you a little quick start guide to just getting started in Axie Infinity.
00:00:24.994 - 00:00:35.394, Speaker A: Really brief, short, sweet. And then we get into the good stuff, Katana, how you get there, how you use the Ronin bridge, all of that's coming up. Oh yeah, after this message from our sponsors.
00:00:35.522 - 00:01:25.074, Speaker B: Don't let DFI interest rate volatility hold you back. With notional version two, you can lock in your rates for up to a year. Notional serves borrowers and lenders alike, so you can leverage up your crypto portfolio or build a fixed rate income stream on your assets. On notional's easy to use interface with version two, liquidity mining LPs earn note token incentives, liquidity fees and interest on deposits of USDC, DAI, ETH or WBTC. Plus LPs can even borrow against their liquidity for maximum capital efficiency. Notional delt, finance stability and certainty now available in your crypto portfolio, Tracerdao is a derivatives meta protocol that allows anyone to create a financial market through Tracer's permissionless open source infrastructure. It designs and installs financial derivatives as deployable smart contracts via the tracer factory.
00:01:25.074 - 00:02:08.638, Speaker B: Financial contracts like the perpetual swap can be engineered and added to the factory for deployment, where it's voted on by Tracerdao governors before the new market is created. With Tracerdao, they envisage a world where you can effortlessly manage your local consumption risk, things like how much fuel you'll need and use. For example, one of Tracerdao's first products, perpetual pools, is a leveraged token that allows individuals to gain fungible leveraged exposure to a price feed without the risk of liquidation. Tracerdao currently has liquidity mining incentives for users to enter into leveraged positions on either BTC or ETH. And there are extra incentives to provide these fungible leveraged tokens to specific balancer pools, shoring up secondary market liquidity.
00:02:08.734 - 00:02:40.286, Speaker A: So let's just get straight into it. Axie Infinity, the big play to earn game that's been hogging all the headlines recently. There's so much to talk about here. We'll do a whole play to earn video because the category is growing and there's something really interesting going on here. But Axie Infinity itself, it's an NFT based online video game, pretty simple, really. Developed by Sky Mavis. They're a vietnamese game developer, and in it you breed trade and battle axes, these cute little chubby things that have abilities and they can evolve over time.
00:02:40.286 - 00:03:11.554, Speaker A: And it's a play to earn model. So as you work your way through the game, you get paid in SLP. And you've probably heard about these communities in the Philippines that were basically tiding themselves over during the corona crisis, which we're not out of it yet, but they're still doing it by playing Axio Infinity. It has its own native protocol token, which is AXS. We'll look at that in a bit in a future. But there are big names invested in this thing, as we can see. Axio Infinity raised $152,000,000 in funding, led by a 16 Z.
00:03:11.554 - 00:03:34.426, Speaker A: Who else? $152,000,000. That's quite a lot. Although in terms of gaming, not so much. But on their website, you can see they've got some pretty big headlines here. 90,000 plus ETH traded in the in house marketplace. So they're in house marketplace, not their decks, with all the expected volume from everywhere in the world, just their in house marketplace. 300 ETH was the most expensive axe ever sold.
00:03:34.426 - 00:04:03.820, Speaker A: That puts it on a par with. Well, that puts it on a par with expensive punks and even the most expensive art blocks. They're not that expensive, but they're really big. Number 250,000 plus daily active players. That is a lot. And it does mean that Ronin, which is the chain on which Axi is now positioned, they built their own chain to handle their own transactions. It doesn't mean that they're the most profitable chain anywhere in crypto, which is quite nice.
00:04:03.820 - 00:04:28.900, Speaker A: So this is the AXS token, Axio infinity. It's kind of shocking to see this, but it's ranked number 24 by. By market cap. Number 24, that would have been unthinkable a few months back, and a year back, that would have been. Think so. Axio Infinity, the token ranked number 24 by market cap, that would have been unthinkable a year ago. And you can see here how much it's gone up.
00:04:28.900 - 00:05:11.406, Speaker A: And yeah, it doesn't seem to be showing any signs of slowing down. So it's about 6.8% off its all time high. Not much at all. But that does compare to SLP, which is the rewards token, which had an enormous run up here. I tried to capture what the all time high was, thirty six cents, and then crashed precipitously during the May bear market and then raced up again all the way up here and then crashed again. And if you go on Twitter, you will see people angrily saying, why do you keep dumping your SLP? And I would argue that, well, if things have gone up this much, of course people are going to sell.
00:05:11.406 - 00:06:09.890, Speaker A: If you look at who's actually earning this token and how much all of this is worth to them, then, yes, of course they're going to sell. So it's up 2340% on the year, but it's down 80% from its all time high and sort of jiggling around here, around, what is it, seven cents at the moment, which isn't too bad. One of the things that's sort of popped up through all of this is play to earn guilds. So these axes are quite expensive, and if you're a lonely farmer or someone living in the Philippines, of course, you can't buy the axe itself so you can become a scholar. So guilds have forms to acquire axes and that they then allow scholars to use and play the game. So they rent them out, essentially, and everyone participates in that. There are some implications to this which are not necessarily as wholesome as we would like to believe, but guilds particularly yield guild games.
00:06:09.890 - 00:07:01.138, Speaker A: With Gabby Dizon and his team, they are showing the way towards a different way of doing games, play to earn and what this could be. I don't know if I know exactly where this is all going yet, but it's certainly one paradigm for this that has definitely made people think very differently about how mobile games might work, because the free to play freemium model is changing rapidly, and there's a degree to which mobile games are kind of ripe for disruption. In a way, teenagers don't play them. Weirdly enough, it's actually middle aged women that play them, a statistic I was not aware of, but apparently that is the case. So we have yieldgill games and Merit Circle, and these are the two biggest ones. Yieldgill games. YGG is actually invested in Merit Circle, so there's some synergy there.
00:07:01.138 - 00:07:41.610, Speaker A: But expect to see more of these, particularly on different ecosystems, like binance smart chain. I would imagine we'll see quite a few of these pop up the ronin sidechain. So, the Ronin is a side chain that Axie themselves developed, and it was designed to mitigate the effects of gas wars. And as we know now, if you're looking at gas 100 plus in your browser extension, then you'll know that it's very expensive to transact on ethereum right now, and there's no reason to assume it's going to get any better. So Axio Infinity said, well, if we want people to play this game, interact with axes, breed them, we need to make it as cheap as possible. And so they set up their own L2. It's called Ronin.
00:07:41.610 - 00:08:38.466, Speaker A: And that is where everything that happens on axe happens now. And the reason this can be successful is it's just dedicated to that one game. You can imagine that if there are more games designed and built by Sky Mavis, that they might put them on Ronin, but of course, they could also just spin up a clone of Ronin for that particular game and make it very specific to that ecosystem. There are huge advantages to having your own chain when it comes to handling 250,000 data users, and those become much more apparent when you have that scale. So one of the things about public permissionless blockchains is that you can get people from all over the world, but if you have a very large ecosystem or a larger network already in place, then having your own blockchain to handle specifically those transactions, to keep them as cheap as possible, makes a lot of sense. And you can make it very efficient because you've only got a few assets that need to be moved around. And there you go.
00:08:38.466 - 00:09:14.854, Speaker A: So the average block time, 3 seconds. Not that fast, to be honest, but it's definitely a lot faster than Ethereum and, of course, a lot cheaper. And that went live in April. This tweet from Hassan Basiri talking about Ronin launching a new governance token. Ronin currently holds around $8 billion in assets, which is more than all other L2s combined. That just kind of contextualizes how big axio infinity actually is. We think about polygon and arbitrum and optimism, but this is bigger.
00:09:14.854 - 00:09:40.086, Speaker A: And it's bigger because they built the game first and they built a successful game. And of course, you might be thinking now, oh, yeah, all I have to do is build a successful game. Yes, build a successful game. So easy. So there's the governance token coming, which is Ron. And Ron will only be farmable, so there will be no VC bags of Ron. It'll just be farm it, get it, and then off you go.
00:09:40.086 - 00:10:38.486, Speaker A: And we'll see how you can farm it in a bit on the katana Dex. The Katana Dex itself has just launched, so about three days ago, I believe, and it will allow anyone to swap various ERC 20 assets within the axe ecosystem. So these are the ones that are pertinent to that ecosystem, the axe token AXS, SLP, USDC and wrapped ETH. And you can provide liquidity to the DeX, earn swap fees, stake liquidity pool tokens to earn Ron although it's actually wrapped Ron. So their rationale for this, it makes using our products like Axie easier and less expensive. So if you want to swap assets, you can do it directly on the Dex and use your Ronin wallet to do that, reduces their reliance on other parties, becoming the largest exchange for ecosystem tokens, and then increases liquidity for assets in our ecosystem. So the Axio Infinity world is rich pickings if you know how to take advantage of it.
00:10:38.486 - 00:11:13.918, Speaker A: And if you're not having to swap backwards and forwards between Ethereum and ronin, that's a good thing. So I guess they just see this as part of their ecosystem and a necessary cog in the wheels of making it all spin as fast as possible. So that's basically the kind of essentials of the Axio infinity ecosystem. Very, very quick overview of that. What we're going to do now is just go through a quick kind of quick start guide on how playing axie infinity actually works. So here we go. So to get started playing Axio Infinity you need to get hold of some axes and these can be found in the marketplace.
00:11:13.918 - 00:11:53.194, Speaker A: Now, you can buy these outright and some can be had relatively cheaply, but there is an alternative way to obtain them by enrolling in a scholarship program. These are programs started by other axie owners who lend their axes in return for a portion of your SLP earnings. Now Coingecko has a helpful scholarship list and a tracker to help you get started here. You need at least three axes to start playing once you've snagged them, then go ahead and download the game itself and you are ready to play. There are two game modes, Adventure mode Pve and arena mode PvP. Now if you win in any of the game modes, you'll be rewarded with an SLP token. Axes can also increase in level by getting EXP from winning adventure mode.
00:11:53.194 - 00:12:34.682, Speaker A: There are also a total of three simple daily quests to be completed. You can claim a fixed 50 SLP every day by finishing all the quests. Now new players generally start off by playing adventure mode. Here you can earn Axie EXP, which is needed to play an adventure or arena battle, and up to 100 SLP per day by playing it. An axe will get stronger as it increases in level, but this is for adventure mode only. Also, it is important to train your axes Exp so you can farm at a higher level stage and accumulate your daily 100 SLP faster. Now, based on your arena MMR or matchmaker rating, you will earn different amounts of SLP for each win in arena mode, which is the PvP mode.
00:12:34.682 - 00:13:09.318, Speaker A: The higher your ranks, the more rewards you will get per win. Now Taylor this is an average based on community calculations, and the battle system works the same for both of the game modes. You will win once you eliminate all of your opponent's axes. Likewise, you will lose if your opponents eliminate all of your axes. Axes can also be bred to create offspring. While the ancestry of every axe is immutably recorded on the blockchain, breeding an axe requires two resources, AXS and SLP tokens, and each axe can be bred a maximum of seven times. And that's how it works.
00:13:09.318 - 00:13:44.402, Speaker A: So now that we know how to play Axie Infinity, let's dig into how we actually get funds onto the katana Dex and start swapping them around. So before you can get started with katana, you're going to need to set up a ronin wallet and activate it using the Axie marketplace. So let's head over to the official Ronin wallet page and you can check the description below for that link and install the wallet for the browser of your choice. It says chrome here, but I'm using brave and it works just fine. Next step is to create a new account, set a password, and then write down your seed phrase somewhere safe. Usual protocols here. Don't store it on your computer.
00:13:44.402 - 00:14:16.810, Speaker A: Make sure you have a physical copy and keep at least two copies in different locations. Next, we need to create an Axie account via the Axie marketplace. Again, check the description below for that link. Log in from the button on the top right and here we can log in with our newly created Ronin wallet. Confirm in the pop up window and we've now created an account on the My Account page. You can also set up your in game name and add an email address. Any assets you earn in game will go straight into this wallet, but you might need to move assets from the ETH main chain to Ronin.
00:14:16.810 - 00:14:45.042, Speaker A: And to do this, you'll need to use the Ronin Bridge link. Oh yeah. In the description below, select deposit, connect your wallets. Here I'm using Metamask and now enter the ronin address you created earlier. Choose the asset you want to transfer, choose the amount, and then confirm the transaction. Once you're happy, it should take about ten minutes. Using the katana Dex is pretty much identical to other uniswap clones enter the swap details into the box by picking which assets you want to swap.
00:14:45.042 - 00:15:44.306, Speaker A: You can easily flip the pair around by clicking the arrow button in the middle of the swap box and once you're happy, click on swap. If you're using the decks for the first time, you may be asked to authorize the decks to interact with your tokens. Don't worry, this is normal now you can also add liquidity to the Dex and earn some rewards using the pool tab. These are two sided pools, so you will need to add two tokens of equal value to participate, and once you enter the desired amount of one token in the box, the Dex will tell you how much of the other token you need to supply. There are currently three pairs supported ax ETH, SLP ETH and ETH USDC, but Ron ETH and Ron wrapped Ron pairs are planned in the future, which brings us to the farm where you can stake your LP tokens to earn wrapped Ron. If you want to use Ron as gas in the Axie Infinity ecosystem, you will have to unwrap it first. But all that functionality is coming soon, so I hope you enjoyed that very hopefully comprehensive view of the Axio Infinity ecosystem.
00:15:44.306 - 00:16:07.022, Speaker A: There's a ton more that we could get into, specifically strategy guides and how to play the game, but there are tons of videos out there already that will do exactly that. If you have any suggestions for us for things you'd like to see in tutorials, do drop us a comment in the comments section below. That's where you'll find comments. Yes, and don't forget to subscribe. Like ding the bell. Do all the things that you're supposed to do on YouTube because that's why you're here. Thank you very much.
00:16:07.022 - 00:16:07.740, Speaker A: See you on the next one.
