00:00:00.400 - 00:00:33.810, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 27 April 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it for today. So just a note here. Actually, I did discuss yesterday about the importance of ETH two client diversity, and I did speak about how Prism was the only one with a Windows client. So I thought that that was kind of contributing to the centralization, I guess, around Prism. Maybe centralization isn't the right word, but like the concentration on Prism, turns out that I'm wrong there, which is, which is awesome.
00:00:33.810 - 00:01:13.870, Speaker A: Ben pointed out today that Tikku and Nimbus also fully support Windows right now, and Lighthouse is currently working on an implementation which is really awesome to see. I mean, I hadn't checked it since Genesis, really, because like once I got set up for Genesis, I didn't like kind of check on the other clients or anything like that. Since then, just let been letting my validator kind of validators kind of run, run along there. But it's really awesome that, that this is the case and I don't think many people are aware of this. So I mean if you're running a windows setup and you were just running prism, definitely go check out take care numbers here. Or you could just wait for Lighthouse and check that out when it comes out later. But yeah, same kind of like messages yesterday.
00:01:13.870 - 00:01:50.184, Speaker A: Definitely want to get the ETH two clients much more diverse than what they are now. So this is just another barrier that kind of comes down for, for kind of like stakers here. So. Yeah, and I was talking to people in the Discord channel, the daily grade discord channel around about this as well. And you know, I definitely kind of sympathize with the people who are like basically saying they don't want to change anything with their staking setup just in case something goes wrong. And changing clients, you know, depending on I guess like how, how complex your setup is or kind of like how, I mean, you know, kind of like how many validators you have and things like that, and maybe it can get messy and you might not want to risk it. Totally understand that.
00:01:50.184 - 00:02:31.646, Speaker A: But if you're the kind of person who loves to kind of like Tinker with this stuff and kind of wants to help the network and wants to keep it as healthy as possible, there are definitely tons of guides out there for staking and I'm sure if you had any questions you can join the Discord channels for the various kind of client teams, and they'll be able to walk you through it and help you with it as well. So, yeah, if you're running windows, you can. You can use three clients now, Prism, Tiku, and Embass, or you can wait for Lighthouse to come out to use that one if that's what you prefer. But yeah, thanks, Ben, for pointing this out. And I've spoken about Ben before. He actually runs an ETH two newsletter called ETH two News, and he also works on the TQ client here, so he's obviously an ETH two expert. I would highly recommend going and subscribing to ETH two news.
00:02:31.646 - 00:03:03.400, Speaker A: It is the best ETH two newsletter ever. I mean, I've spoken about it tons of times before, but if you haven't subscribed to it yet, definitely go there. That's where I keep up to date with everything happening with ETH two, and I don't know how I'd be able to follow along without it. So, yeah, definitely go check it out at ETH two news. So Mark Zeller put out a, from Aave, put out an interesting tweet today where he basically says, if your blockchain node requirements look like this, you're not decentralized. Use a spreadsheet. And he has a picture here of the node requirements for Solana.
00:03:03.400 - 00:04:08.854, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to pick on any one project here, but this is really kind of what it comes down to at the end of the day with a lot of these networks is, you know, the reason why Ethereum is so limited in scalability is because of its decentralization. And I know I'm preaching to the choir on the refill here, and a lot of you will already understand this, but for those who don't, running an Ethereum kind of full node, right, a node that lets you validate the network yourself, is very easy to do as compared to something like Solana or one of these other chains like EOS or whatever, or BSc, these kind of chains that run on supernodes and just have like, you know, all this scalability because they've essentially centralized their validator set. So, you know, from that perspective, like, I mean, it comes back to the fundamental question for me. It's like, why are you even using a blockchain to begin with? Like, what's the benefit here? Like, if you're not decentralized, then in my eyes, there's just no reason to run a blockchain. You are much better off running on a centralized server because it's much faster, much more efficient. You don't have to deal with all the blockchain y stuff. And, you know, the reason is obvious as to why people prefer to kind of like spin up these kind of blockchains is because there's lots of money involved.
00:04:08.854 - 00:04:49.336, Speaker A: Now, I'm not going to say that this is the reason kind of like the Solana was created or this is the reason why any other ones were created, right? Some of them definitely were created just to suck money out of people. And some of them are clear scams. Like, I'll just call out like Tron as a clear scam, right? But you know, that's, that's kind of like the incentive there. It's because you can't, you know, you could achieve the same thing with the same kind of levels of decentralization, aka close to zero on Amazon AWS, for example. But issuing like a token and calling yourself crypto would be basically impossible then. And this isn't to discount the work that a lot of these other teams are doing. And, you know, I think that some of these projects are interesting from like a computer science perspective.
00:04:49.336 - 00:05:28.060, Speaker A: I know that, you know, I'm not a huge fan of Solana or that ecosystem. It's just not what I want to focus on. But if I look at it as not a blockchain, but as a kind of like a distributed computing system that essentially is pushing the limits of what you can do with, with server grade hardware, which is basically what this is in this picture here is server grade hardware. This is not something that most people will ever use. It's expensive to use as well. But if I look at it from that perspective and look at these guys, because a lot of them are hardware engineers, so they kind of like trying to get as much juice as they can out of this hardware, then it's impressive, right, to me. But if I look at it from a blockchain lens, it's literally completely just like unimpressive.
00:05:28.060 - 00:06:28.300, Speaker A: It means nothing to me. It's not doing anything kind of novel on the decentralization front. And that's why to me, Ethereum kind of like wins on that because Ethereum is preserving its decentralization while also tackling the extremely hard problems of being, of trying to scale a system that is inherently unscalable because it's trying to be decentralized, right? So, you know, from that perspective, I think it's just good to kind of understand why these different systems are the way they are and why different people don't like other things. I see a lot of people saying, oh, it's just ETH Max is coping because these other chains, you know, they don't like these other chains because it's competition. It's like, well it's not like it's not competing in the same arena at the end of the day, like it's basically two different, completely different things, right. I think like Solana and these other super node blockchains that are basically kind of centralized are essentially trying to compete with things like AWS, if I'm being honest. And you know, there are obviously lots of use cases for that, but the use cases aren't going to be decentralized, they're just going to be centralized.
00:06:28.300 - 00:07:02.974, Speaker A: And you know, I know a lot of these chains say, oh, we've got a path to decentralization over time, whatever. I'm like, but you can't get there if these are the requirements to run a node. But anyway, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna pick on one project too much here. This applies to so many projects in this ecosystem. And if you see a lot of projects claiming that they've been able to kind of scale layer one, most of the time it is because they've just sacrificed decentralization. The only way that I've seen, or the only credible way that I've seen to scale a blockchain without sacrificing decentralization is what Ethereum is doing with sharding. Now that is still an open problem.
00:07:02.974 - 00:08:06.142, Speaker A: Sharding has a lot of attack vectors that have to be worked out before it can even be pushed into production. We can do data sharding, but like I'm talking execution charting. Now, I know there's other chains like Zilliq, Zilliqa that have, that have kind of tackled this, but from, from, as far as I know, it is not like very decentralized either from, from kind of like my cursory research there, but I'm open to learning more at the end of the day. But yeah, when I just see people saying, you know, it's just ETH maxi cope, I just kind of like tune those people out completely. I actually block a lot of them now because it's just, it's such a crappy way to kind of think about these things and you know, just calling someone a maxi because they disagree with your viewpoint or they, they kind of like have another kind of educated view and it doesn't align with your view is just like not a great way to debate or think critically about things. So yeah, anyway, I just wanted to give like a little bit of a rant there that we were actually discussing in the Daily Gwei discord today about noob friendly videos, like standalone videos that I should do. And this one came up as, like, pretty much the one that I should start with, essentially, like, why decentralization matters and like, what new people should know.
00:08:06.142 - 00:08:40.030, Speaker A: And I think that it is the most important question because at the end of the day, it all comes back to that. The reason why we are building any of this stuff is for decentralization because we could do all of what we're doing on blockchains today, you know, by just using like a kind of like centralized kind of implementation of it. Right. But that would kill pretty much, like the entire point of it. Like, I just, I mean, I'm preaching to the choir here. I know, I know a lot of you understand this, but I think, yeah, noob friendly videos are definitely very important because it's very easy to get duped by a lot of the marketing. There's a lot of money involved.
00:08:40.030 - 00:09:00.308, Speaker A: So people will make money on certain things then and get attached to them and all this kind of stuff. Right. I'll leave it at that for now. I'm gonna definitely try and focus and find the time to do these, these newbie videos because I think they're incredibly important. And, yeah, I guess if you want to help with those, it's gonna be a community effort, a daily grade community effort. It's just not going to be me kind of putting it together. I'm going to come to the community for feedback on things.
00:09:00.308 - 00:09:37.466, Speaker A: So if you're interested in helping along with that, be sure to join the daily gray discord. And we're discussing it in there. So I put out this kind of tweet today discussing, you know, how to spot early Alpha in crypto. Now, I get asked this question all the time, like, literally pretty much every day in Discord DM's and Twitter DM's anywhere. Right? People always ask him, it's like, how do you find the alpha? Or like, the opportunities in crypto really early on, and not just opportunities to make money, but also opportunities to be part of a community from the ground floor. Now, there are multiple ways to do this, and I listed them out here. You can talk to the devs of these projects, right? You can monitor the GitHub repos.
00:09:37.466 - 00:10:27.520, Speaker A: You can read or contribute on the governance forums. You can join the Discord channels or the Telegram chats and talk to the core community, or you can even talk to the big backers of the project, like early investors and funds and VC's and stuff like that. Now, this can apply to both, as I said, price and the fundamentals of the project. If you want Alpha and you want to see what's coming down the pipeline for a project because you want to make a speculative bet that the token price is going to go up because not many people understand what's coming. Then you talk to the devs, right? You monitor, like the GitHub repo, you monitor like the, the governance forum and see what's being posted there and all that sort of stuff. If you do this, like, I think a couple of weeks ago when, or maybe it was a little longer than a couple of weeks ago when the Aave liquidity mining post was on the forum and you knew that was coming, you could have bought aave back then and now you would have been up a lot on your money. So there's kind of things like that going on a lot of the time.
00:10:27.520 - 00:11:26.616, Speaker A: And this happens basically everywhere because of the fact that it's very kind of, like, noisy in crypto, a lot of these teams won't even bother marketing the stuff that they're building or won't even bother talking about it and until it's actually released. So if you want that early Alpha, you have to just go seeking for, like, looking for it yourself. And I follow, I put a follow up tweet here by saying, you know, there are multiple research firms that will do this all for you, but they're not cheap, right? Or come at a price. But if you don't have the time to do this yourself, then I would say it's worth it. But if you want to be very, very early and, like, before these research firms are even into it, then you need to put in the time and effort yourself to kind of research this stuff. And, you know, and being early doesn't mean that you're basically like, kind of like being there from day one. You can, there are lots of projects that go, you know, months or even some years without any kind of like, massive, I guess, hype behind them or any kind of massive price movements, and then one day they'll just explode up because people will suddenly kind of pay attention to it.
00:11:26.616 - 00:12:14.972, Speaker A: And, you know, even a theorem was like this, for example. Right? I mean, Ethereum was quiet for quite a while until, you know, I would argue that Ethereum as a community and as an ecosystem was very quiet until 2017. You know, that's basically three years after it was, was announced, essentially over three years after, since it was announced, so and then there's a lot of other projects that I'm seeing within Defi, within the Dao space, the social token space, all of these things that are just like grinding, bustling building and people just aren't paying attention to it. So to find those, and I know inevitably people are going to reach out to me after I'm saying this and tell me what to look for. I'm not going to tell you what projects to look for, sorry. But like, I don't want to do that because I feel like if I do that and then, you know, you buy something because I told you about this project and then you lose money on it, I'll feel bad. That's why I don't recommend any kind of like tokens or anything like that.
00:12:14.972 - 00:13:04.738, Speaker A: But, you know, if you just, I mean, you can just pay attention to what I, what I kind of like talk about on the, on the refuel and what I kind of like, pay attention to on Twitter and all that sort of stuff and you can read between the lines. But, but anyway, from this perspective, like, the way I kind of find these projects is exactly this. You know, sometimes they'll reach out to me as well because they want to get like early kind of reviews on their projects and kind of like, I guess early kind of feedback on it and stuff like that. But at the same time, I also reach out to people on Twitter randomly. Like, I cold DM founders of projects all the time and, you know, maybe I have more of a chance of getting a reply just because of, you know, I'm probably more well known in the ecosystem, but I don't think that means that, you know, people still shouldn't try it. I think joining a Discord channel and directly pinging the team or the founders is going to get you a reply. I've seen it happen plenty of times.
00:13:04.738 - 00:13:33.242, Speaker A: Like, I see founders in Discord channels all the time. Like founders CEO's talking directly to just random people. They're not even like people that have an identity. It's just an a non account and they're answering questions and they're being upfront with them and talking about things that is just like pure alpha. So from that perspective, crypto really does level the playing field here. I know there's still like early deals and stuff like that where people get into them as like seed deals and, and private funding rounds. Like I, you know, obviously partake in that as well.
00:13:33.242 - 00:14:19.040, Speaker A: As an angel investor, you might have seen in that, but that, I mean, that doesn't mean that there isn't plenty of public opportunities available. I actually think the public markets have been, to an extent, more lucrative than the private markets for a lot of people. And the private markets also come with vesting, and a lot of teams have long vesting, too. Just as an example here, I'm a pre seed investor to Mstable and an advisor, but my tokens vest out over a long period of time. Like my pre seed investment was in January of 2019. My tokens didn't start vesting till July 2020 and invest out over three years. So, you know, from that perspective, if I had bought Aave or synthetix in early 2019, I would have probably made just as much, if not more than what I had made from the private market.
00:14:19.040 - 00:14:35.342, Speaker A: So it's. It's not like that. You know, everything's just private markets, and you can't even kind of, like, have and pay attention to the public markets and make the same kind of returns there. It may be harder and maybe a little bit more riskier, but it's there. The opportunities are there. They're. They're going to be there for a long time.
00:14:35.342 - 00:15:13.782, Speaker A: The information asymmetry within crypto is pretty insane. So, you know, if you're. Even if you're just watching, like, me on the refuel and paying attention to, to, you know, I guess, like, crypto, Twitter in general, you have a much better view of the ecosystem than a lot of other people. And think about how much other people still have to come into the ecosystem that aren't even paying attention right now. That that's kind of my thesis on the whole space and why I remain bullish on the whole space is that, as I've discussed before, there's at most a few hundred thousand defi users at this point, right out of, like, the potential billions of users. So if you look at that, then, I mean, it's very hard to be bearish. Right? But anyway, I'll leave it at that.
00:15:13.782 - 00:15:46.892, Speaker A: I think, you know, I'm happy to answer questions about this sort of stuff if you want to ping me in discord about it, but I just, I'm not gonna just tell you what to kind of look at. I mean, I can tell you what projects I find interesting, but I'm never going to tell you what to buy or anything like that. I'm never going to give it investment advice or stuff like that, for obvious reasons. But, yeah, I'll leave it at that. You can feel free to reach out to me on the Discord channel there. So Justin Drake put out a new spreadsheet today. He loves his spreadsheets, and I love his spreadsheets, where he basically captioned it with 120 million ETH peak supply question mark.
00:15:46.892 - 00:16:09.234, Speaker A: Now, the way he got to this was he put together this spreadsheet here where he basically assumes the EIP 1559 activation date and the merge date. Now, obviously, until we have the merge, where we are still paying out to miners. Right. Proof of work. Miners and I discussed how we're paying out roughly 4.5% new ETH issuance a year to miners, and we're paying 0.35% to stakers right now.
00:16:09.234 - 00:17:09.668, Speaker A: And then once the merge goes through, we'll only be paying it to stakers. And I assume that it's going to level out at 0.50.6% or something like that. So what Justin does in this table is he essentially takes those numbers and says, okay, well, if we have the merge done by, best guess, 1 December 2021, and obviously 1559 activated by July, what will the supply be when both of those things happen? So you can see here that the supply when the merge goes through would be 118 million, 117,981,000. And then you can go like he has, like rows here, sorry, columns here for less conservative and conservative. So even if in the most conservative scenario, where 1559 doesn't get implemented till August and the merge doesn't happen till March 2022, we would still be under 120 million ETH by that time, accounting for new proof of work issuance and new proof of stake issuance, and then also the average daily fee burn up until that date as well. This is very plausible.
00:17:09.668 - 00:17:37.549, Speaker A: I actually think we're going to get the, I think we're going to get the best guess here, obviously. I do think 1559 is going to go live on the 14 July the merge, maybe. I think something like this, 1 February, maybe December, I don't know. I could see it happening. As I mentioned yesterday, it's kind of very ambitious, but I could see it happening. But anyway, that would still put us at under 120 million ETH here. And then we're going to be burning more in fees than we issue in new ETH, which makes ETH deflationary.
00:17:37.549 - 00:18:15.370, Speaker A: So potentially we never go over $120 million, 120 million ETH supply here, which essentially, I guess, like technically hard caps ETH at whatever the value was before we had these two things happen, which is, which is quite insane to think about. And I actually remember a post from Vitalik back in the day where he basically asked, like, should there be a max ETH cap, like, sorry, a supply cap on the amount of ETH issued. And I think one of the numbers that he threw around was 120 million. And at the time, everyone said no. Right? And it's still no. Like, we should have perpetual issuance with fee burn, and that's what we're going to have. But it's funny to see that this works out like that.
00:18:15.370 - 00:18:41.930, Speaker A: Like basically almost 120 million here. So I don't know if Vitalik's a time traveler or a what at this point, but I mean, he seems very kind of, like, prescient here. So, yeah, an interesting kind of table from Justin Drake. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you all to go check out as well. So Santiago put out another interesting tweet here today. I mean, he just a stream of good tweets. I just realized that I talk about his tweets a lot on the refuel, so go give him a follow if you haven't yet.
00:18:41.930 - 00:19:34.428, Speaker A: But he put out a tweet saying ETH flipping BTC is increasingly possible. When you consider ETH powers, DeFi and the digital metaverse, ETH issuance slows down negative. With 1559 staked, ETH generates cash flow and demand for ETH increases due to drivers one to three and becomes reflexive. I mean, this is a lot of stuff that I've been talking about, right? My bullish thesis for ETH the other day was based heavily on this, particularly the merge and 1559 and ETH being deflationary, and then obviously defi and all that sort of stuff. But when I really think about this, BTC capturing digital gold is such a niche area. Like, I've spoken about this before, even if it captures the entire gold market cap of $10 trillion, that is still nothing compared to what ETH can capture being the backbone of a new global financial system. It can be $100 trillion plus in market cap.
00:19:34.428 - 00:19:59.930, Speaker A: Like. I mean, you know, and I know, like, that would give ETH near $1 million price. And I'm not going to say that that's going to happen anytime soon. I'm getting a bit crazy here now maybe. But I just think that, I don't know if Ethereum succeeds at everything that it is trying to do, and ETH remains the backbone of the ethereum ecosystem, which it will, it always will. Like, there is not going to be a time. It is.
00:19:59.930 - 00:20:32.216, Speaker A: I mean, I would put the chances of ETH being replaced in the ethereum network by some other asset, you know, as the backbone, especially within, like, staking and for paying fees and stuff at, like, effectively 0%. The chance is so low, it's not even worth thinking about. So just purely based on that, right, I think ETH can, and the Ethereum network can be worth 100 trillion plus one day. And this, this is, that's going to take decades. That is not going to be anytime soon. Don't get me wrong, that's going to take a very long time. Maybe it happens faster than I think it will, but still, it's not, it's not anywhere close.
00:20:32.216 - 00:21:05.234, Speaker A: And I'm not saying that ETH is going to get to a million dollars per coin, like, you know, tomorrow or something. But anyway, if we take that perspective, I do think ETH can flip BTC much. I mean, much earlier than that, though. I don't think it has to go to a, you know, $100 trillion cap to flip BTC. I think ETH can actually flip BTC much, much sooner than that. But we're going to have to see how that kind of pans out there. But, yeah, really, really good tweet from Santiago here fits in exactly what I've been talking about, what I, what I've been thinking, what a lot of ethereum people think and what you see them kind of like, talk about on Twitter.
00:21:05.234 - 00:21:40.274, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, you know, flipping BTC isn't just a fundamentals thing, it's also a market structure thing. Like, I can imagine the same thing happening that happened in 2017. When ETH gets too close to BTC in market cap, what ends up happening is that it becomes, like, too risky to hold ETH for traders and for people just speculating where they're like, well, you know, they think to themselves, while ETH is getting really close to flipping BTC, you that's not going to happen. And then, you know, people start selling ETH, whether that's for bitcoin or for cash. And then, you know, it becomes like this self fulfilling prophecy where everyone's thinking the same thing and. And things just fall. So maybe that happens.
00:21:40.274 - 00:22:15.544, Speaker A: But I think over the long term, the fundamental value outstrips that kind of speculative value, and that will lead to a flippening. And I've always believed that. I believed that ever since 2017, ever since I got into Ethereum. And I don't care how long it takes, you know, even if it takes ten years for ETH to do this, which I don't think it will, but even if it did take that, it would still have, I would still have been right in saying that there was a, you know, e flip, bitcoin. So that's how I kind of look at the flipping. But really, you know, and really just based on fundamentals. At the end of the day, not, not speculation, there's speculation in there, of course, but fundamentals is how I evaluate a lot of these things and, and the value of ETH.
00:22:15.544 - 00:22:59.132, Speaker A: So Vitalik had a really great post on Reddit a couple days ago that I missed until today. He basically put together a list of some of the less appreciated benefits of Ethereum's proof of stake. You can read this, I'll link it in the YouTube description. But essentially the major benefits that aren't really talked about include block time distribution, so on. In proof of work, Ethereum block times are based on a poison distribution, which means that it's basically random. So, you know, you, on average, you can get one block every 13 seconds, but it typically, but sometimes it can actually take as long as 30 or 60 seconds between blocks because of this distribution. Now with proof of stake, you have a very kind of like set in stone block time of 12 seconds.
00:22:59.132 - 00:24:00.606, Speaker A: And when you make a transaction, it's 6 seconds. So that's one thing there, faster pre finality confirmation. So with proof of stake, you get much faster finality and then better, like client protocols, which is part of, I guess like the stateless Ethereum kind of work as well, faster ability to detect network issues, which is actually really important because if you, if you see the other day what happened with the, the prism kind of bug on main net, we were able to detect that pretty much instantly because that we can see the participation rate dropping from 99% to, you know, whatever it dropped drops to, whereas in proof of work it takes a bit longer because we saw the other day when, when my, when electricity got shut off in a province in China, I think 20% of the hash rate went offline for bitcoin now. And it was kind of a lagging thing. So it was, it was kind of like, you don't know what's, what's kind of going wrong until like maybe a few days after, kind of what's, what's happened. So that's a benefit there, but I'll link it in the YouTube description. You can read the whole thing here.
00:24:00.606 - 00:24:29.448, Speaker A: I like that Vitalik's been more active on Reddit lately. I need to be more active on there. I think it's still a great, very good community and there's a lot of people on there. But I guess for me, I spend most of my time on Twitter, of course, and in discord channels. But yeah, Reddit is still a really great place of alpha, and there's a lot of new people that come in through Reddit as well. So probably somewhere I need to spend more of my time in. So I was digging through kind of EIP 1550 nine's history today, and I came across some really interesting things.
00:24:29.448 - 00:25:23.432, Speaker A: And it's funny because I put together this tweet where I basically said EIP 1550 nine's journey to Mainnet. Essentially, there was a paper on blockchain resource pricing published by Vitalik on August 8, 2018. Then there was a fee market change issue opened on the 7 November 2018 by Vitalik. Then 1559 was officially created and specified on April 13, 2019. And then obviously IPO 1559 will go live on Mainnet on July 14, 2021, which is almost two years after it was formalized and specified, but three years since this paper was published by Vitalik. And there was actually an earlier thing that Vitalik published in July of 2018 here. But then even earlier than this, someone pointed out to me in July of 2016, Vitalik was talking about not 159 as we imagine it today, but kind of the ideas that inspired 1559.
00:25:23.432 - 00:26:05.896, Speaker A: So it'll have been five years since those first ideas came to light before 1559 went to Mainnet, which kind of just shows like, how kind of long the research and development process is for these major changes. And kind of like, I guess 15 is just one example of this. And I wrote about this in the Daily Gwei newsletter today. You also have stateless Ethereum. You also have proof of stake, which took a long time. It took like seven years. You know, we'd been talking about proof of stake since 2014, at least Vitalik had been, or at least late 2013 as well, when he kind of officially revealed the Ethereum white paper sharding as well, right? You have data availability kind of problems as well, been talked about for a while.
00:26:05.896 - 00:26:57.914, Speaker A: There's all this kind of stuff that's just been spoken about for so long, L2s, right? For example, just, just so many things. But eventually they do come to mainnet and it may feel like forever because it really is a long time in crypto land. But, you know, by the time they get to Mainnet, they are some of the kind of most robust upgrades that we'll see on Ethereum. So, yeah, I just thought this was really interesting, looking into the history here and looking into kind of how far we've come since then. Ethereum protocol, core protocol development today is much better than it was in the past in terms of like speed to main net and kind of getting those upgrades out there and understanding the different open research problems and things like that. So, yeah, really cool to see this. I'm glad I dug into it because it was just like super interesting falling down this rabbit hole today and finding the other things that have been around for quite a while that I kind of forgotten about and assumed that it was just kind of a recent thing, but really they had been around for quite a while here.
00:26:57.914 - 00:27:24.886, Speaker A: So Ave's liquidity mining program went live today. This is the first time Aave has had liquidity mining on the protocol itself. They have been one of the fastest growing DeFi protocols without liquidity mining to this. To this stage. And, you know, I actually think that them doing the liquidity mining now makes sense because it'll spur the next kind of like, I guess, phase of growth for them. And they're already at over $10 billion on. On Ethereum.
00:27:24.886 - 00:27:59.016, Speaker A: They're at over $1 billion on polygon as well. So a total of over 11 billion in liquidity. And what you can do is essentially a bunch of assets you can lend or borrow them. It's. It's very similar to compound where you can earn tokens, but on Aave, you earn staked Aave. So basically the aave that it staked and can participate in governance instead of the aave token itself, whereas on compound, you obviously earn earn comp there. But, yeah, it's not like a very super lucrative farm where you can get like 1000 APY or anything like that, but it's still very good for a relatively safe farm.
00:27:59.016 - 00:28:26.652, Speaker A: And you can kind of stack your yields here where you can kind of borrow stable coins from AaVE after depositing some collateral and then taking those stable coins to another yield farm, maybe yearn or M stable or something, and earn kind of apy on that too, or earn a yield on that as well. So, yeah, cool to see this go live from. From Aave. And I'm. I'm really curious to see if this can get them to, like, much higher than what they are now. I think 10 billion is cool, but 100 billion is cooler, right? So let's see if they can. They can get there with.
00:28:26.652 - 00:28:43.186, Speaker A: With this liquidity mining program. So element finance has detailed their road to mainnet here. So essentially it's very close. They'll be on Mainnet on May 21. That's what they're targeting. On April 30, their code will be open sourced. All the security audits will be out there.
00:28:43.186 - 00:29:18.254, Speaker A: They'll launch a bug bounty program, and on May 7 they will have a public test net for people to play around with. I've spoken about element finance before on the refuel. Essentially what they're doing is they're essentially creating a way to split yield bearing assets into multiple tokens or less. That's what they're starting with. Essentially what this means is that you can deposit, say you deposit some funds into Aave, for example, and you get it like an, a token. Say you get like a USDC, and you're earning a yield on that. You can split that, a USDC into two parts, the yield bearing part and the principal part, and then you can do whatever you want with those as separate assets.
00:29:18.254 - 00:29:44.610, Speaker A: That's essentially what element finance is trying to do in a nutshell, but they have a lot more in the pipeline, from what I understand as well. So very exciting kind of times here. M stable launched on Polygon yesterday, which is a very awesome to see. Now, I need to do a big disclaimer here and say that I am an advisor to both Mstable and Polygon. And I had a pretty big hand in making this happen because, you know, I mean, I spoke, I've spoken about Polygon a lot. I love what they're doing. I love what they're doing for Ethereum.
00:29:44.610 - 00:30:33.578, Speaker A: Scalability. And mstable being a kind of like defi savings account, as I like to call it, where you can earn a very nice yield on your stable coins is just like a match made in heaven with polygon. Because I believe that, you know, there's a lot of smaller users who just want to put like a few thousand dollars into these protocols, earn some yield on them, but have been locked out because of the high gas prices on Ethereum. So that's why I kind of like made sure that instable was deployed to polygon. Because I'm like, you know, let's get these users with enjoying these low fees on a system that is very ethereum aligned and kind of like wants to help like all these projects kind of scale and things like that. So yeah, really excited to see this. What you can do right now is you can take your, your USD onto a polygon, whether that be USDC die or USDT, and kind of put it in m stable and earn a very high yield.
00:30:33.578 - 00:31:08.698, Speaker A: Last time I checked it was about 300% that's going to come down. That's not, not going to be stable. Like, I would actually not count on 300% being, being there for very long at all. It's probably already below that, but it's still, it's still pretty, pretty nice yield. And for those of you who don't know how M stable generates yield, it generates it from the swap fees because they're also a stable coin swapper, the redemption fees from people redeeming assets and also from lending out the assets on Aave because Ave's on polygon. So. And from that perspective as well, the yield is also going to come from the matic tokens that are earned on Ave from M stable.
00:31:08.698 - 00:31:39.274, Speaker A: So that's going to boost the yield too. So yeah, if you're looking for some stable coin yield, definitely go check out m stable on either a theorem or polygon. And you know, the really cool thing is that you can actually borrow stable coins on Aave on polygon and put them in m stable to kind of like get that recursive yield farming going. And all you have to bring across is your ETH. So yeah, definitely go check this out if you haven't yet. But as I said, big disclaimer, I had a big play, a big part in making this happen and I'm very proud of this. So definitely want you guys to go check it out.
00:31:39.274 - 00:32:13.590, Speaker A: So Nexus Mutual launched their protocol cover yesterday. What this basically means is getting covered with Nexus now includes economic incentives, oracle and governance attacks on any chain and on L2 as well. So they've essentially expanded their coverage offering to basically everything in Defi. Right. I think Nexus mutual over time has come under fire for not having coverage for like, you know, all the possible attack scenarios that can happen on these networks. And they've kind of, I guess met that head on with protocol cover here. So I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:32:13.590 - 00:32:46.872, Speaker A: You can go check this out and essentially you can read the details here. You can see that they're supporting other protocols and other kind of chains here. And you can, you can see like the, I like these memes because like, I think Nexus mutual being a coverage protocol, they like kind of the adopted the mascot of a turtle because turtles have like a hard shell, right? And they've gone with the Ninja turtles here. That's a pretty funny meme. But essentially they've got things like yield token cover as well and investment earnings and stuff. I mean, this is great. Like if you're worried about all the risks in Defi and want to cover yourself, Nexus mutual is.
00:32:46.872 - 00:33:27.994, Speaker A: That is the way to go here for sure. So definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. So the index coup is launching a new product soon called the BTC two X Fly because it passed the governance vote that it needed to pass to get launched here. Now, for those of you who are aware of the ETH, two X Fly product that is already kind of live, that has about $30 million of TVR, and it lets you basically go get leverage on your ETH automatically. Essentially, you buy the fly token and then the leverage position is managed for you automatically by Defi pulse. And that's, you know, exploded in growth, obviously, because a lot of people want to leverage, go leverage long on ETH because a lot of people are bullish on ETH now.
00:33:27.994 - 00:34:07.664, Speaker A: They've got a BTC product coming here, which, you know, obviously a lot of, you know, I don't, I don't really like, I'm not super bullish on, on BTC or whatever, and I'm not like, I don't hold any BTC, but I don't think that matters. I think there are a lot of people who are bullish on BTC and they hold it and everything like that. And this is just a really great product, I think, for the index co op to support here. And, you know, I'm an index token holder. I work closely with, with set, which is a big part of the index co op here. Obviously, I'm an advisor to set as well. But, you know, I think these more innovative products that people can get like leveraged exposure to these assets without taking on like massive risk and having kind of like automated exposure as well is very important.
00:34:07.664 - 00:34:33.534, Speaker A: So, yeah, go check this out. If you're a BTC holder, this will obviously appeal to you. And if you haven't checked out the ETH fly yet, as an ETH holder, I would suggest going and doing that as well and kind of like researching it and seeing if it's a product that you may be interested in. I personally love it. I love it as much as I love something like the Defi Pulse index. I think it fits a real need and has real product market fit. So, yeah, definitely go check out these products when you have some time.
00:34:33.534 - 00:34:46.164, Speaker A: All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel if you, you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
