00:00:00.320 - 00:00:38.258, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisino, and today's the 5 January 2022. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I've had a few people kind of like, ask me today about what's going on with the Polygon Pos chain, why gas prices are so high on there, and kind of like why their transactions are failing and things like that. So I'm going to go over that in a sec. But Poly now had a great tweet thread about this today where they basically started off the tweet thread by saying the Polygon Pos and Solana situations are more interesting data points in the transaction quality trilemma discussion. By optimizing for low fees and censorship resistance, they suffer from spam and very low quality transactions.
00:00:38.258 - 00:02:00.448, Speaker A: And then polynomial goes on to describe how we can kind of like rectify this or solve this with things like layer threes and being able to kind of like filter out obviously low quality spam transactions and all that good stuff there. Now, what I wanted to kind of like, talk about is the fact that I've brought this up before, right where I've said that these ultra low fee networks, whether they be kind of like side chains, alternative layer ones or L2 or anything like that, they're always going to end up in the same spot where there could be legitimate spam transactions or they could be transactions that are happening on the network that are just very, very low value, don't make much sense, and a borderline spam. But, you know, someone's maybe coded up a smart contract in there in the kind of like incorrect way that's encouraging spam transactions and all that sort of stuff there. So I think when you look at it from that perspective, I agree with poly. Now, when they say here that fees should be basically from one cent to ten cent range, instead of the fees being kind of like basically free, because then you just get really like lots of spam, lots of kind of like bot activity, you open yourselves up to DDoS attack and all that sort of stuff like that there. So this is an open problem, I think. You know, Polina says that there are, there are some clear solutions, like recursive roll ups or l three s, where l three s can have ultra low or even zero transaction fees, but where, but use web two style dDos, DDoS protection, filtering out the spam transactions.
00:02:00.448 - 00:02:37.584, Speaker A: Now this is what I believe, kind of like Solana users at their layer one, they basically have like a QoS or quality of service system where they filter out kind of like transactions that they suspect the spam. I'm kind of on the fence about this. I think that it basically amounts to censorship, right. Because, I mean, you're not going to get 100% hit rate. You're not going to be able to determine that all the spam, that all the transactions that you've dropped were actually spam and weren't and weren't legitimate transactions. So I think that there is an argument to be made there that that kind of, like, amounts to censorship. But I think that the, the point here is that if it's being done at like a L2 or layer three, you get a lot less censorship.
00:02:37.584 - 00:03:08.374, Speaker A: Resistance guarantees, uh, the kind of like, further up the stack you go, as opposed to something like layer one. So you could imagine layer one as kind of like the most decentralized and censorship resistant layer. Basically, you know, near impossible for you to be censored on layer one, ethereum. Then go up to L2. Well, depending on the L2 that you're using, the sequences can sense you. Right now, album and optimism both use a centralized sequencer in if arbitrary optimism that the teams of chain labs optimism team wanted to censor you and or censor your transactions, they could, and there's nothing to kind of stop them right now. Uh, then you go to layer three.
00:03:08.374 - 00:03:45.130, Speaker A: It's the same kind of deal there. So I think that as long as people are kind of, like, aware of these trade offs, it's fine. But this is kind of like one of the really, really hard problems that exists within kind of like scaling any kind of crypto network, is that you, you know, there's that trilemma, right, that, that Pauline has written about before, which is, I'll show the blog post there for the trellum art. You know, you've got it here as a triangle. You have spam at the top of the triangle, censorship resistance on the left side, low fees on the right side. And you can really only have kind of like two. You know what I mean? Like, you can really, you can have low fees and censorship resistance, but then it kind of leads to spam.
00:03:45.130 - 00:04:01.048, Speaker A: You can have spam and censorship resistance, and then it go kind of leads to low fees. I mean, it's just, it's a very, very hard problem, as I said. Right. And you should give this blog post a read. It's not a newer one. I believe it's from October, uh, last year. But you can give this a read for, for kind of like more information about this.
00:04:01.048 - 00:04:50.716, Speaker A: But I think that this kind of like relates back to the polygon situation, because on the pos chain, obviously, the fees are basically negligible most of the time, right? I mean, you know, they're measured in way, but that that's measured against the Matic price, not the ETH price. So in dollar terms, it's basically, you know, a few cents on the dollar sort of thing most of the time, probably even cheaper than that, depending on, on what the network's doing. But what happens on the pos chain recently is that some NFT projects kind of spawned, I can't remember what's what it's called, but it got created and it got, you know, pretty popular. But it's basically, I think it's a borderline scam or Ponzi, but they coded it up in such a way where essentially everything's done on chain. So it basically encourages people to, because of the monetary incentives to keep doing stuff on chain, which drives up the gas prices. And as I mentioned before, people are happy to pay the gas prices if it's worth it to them. Right.
00:04:50.716 - 00:05:21.044, Speaker A: That's why everyone is paying expense. Not everyone, but that's why a lot of people are paying the fees. On Ethereum l one still is, because a lot of the people using Ethereum l one are happy to pay the high fees because they're getting that value or more out of it. So the same is true for any network guys, like a block space demand is literally unlimited. Doesn't matter which network it is, doesn't matter if it's an alternative l one or side chain l two. There is always going to be a ceiling that gets hit, at least in the short to medium term. We hope that we can get to a point where we've scaled up so much that it becomes very, very hard to hit that ceiling.
00:05:21.044 - 00:06:00.588, Speaker A: Just like in the web two world, it becomes very, very hard, very, very difficult to flood a kind of like server because there's all those kind of techniques in it, whether the quality of service techniques, load balancing, all that sort of stuff there. And we don't have that yet within crypto. Besides kind of like fees, fees are the load balances of crypto networks. Like, there's a reason why the layer one fees on ethereum are so high is because the gas limit is low, right. The amount of transactions that can be processed by the network is low. But we get from that, we get guarantees that the network's not going to go offline, if it's hit with too much activity, it's just that the fees go up. So, but on these kind of like, l two networks or all these kind of like, cheaper networks out there, they're offering lower fees.
00:06:00.588 - 00:06:38.310, Speaker A: So they fill up, you know, really? Really, you know, once they fill up, they go, they basically revert back to what, what a theorem l one has. Or they start to slow down, as we've seen with something like Solana, where they slow down to a crawl, or they go offline sometimes as well. So there are plenty of kind of like, trade offs here to be had. There is plenty of infrastructure still to be built. There's plenty of kind of, like, optimizations to be made on these l two networks. And for now, that's just what we're going to have to kind of, like, deal with. And I don't know if the, if I'm kind of, like, happy with basically filtering out kind of like, spam transactions as a solution to this, definitely not going to happen at layer one, which is fine.
00:06:38.310 - 00:07:06.330, Speaker A: Layer two, maybe, I don't know. Depends how you can do it at L2, I don't think. I know it's possible at L2, but it's a lot harder. And I think, and I think it's something like a layer three, it becomes a lot easier, easier to do. But then, yeah, you have like a, you have way less of a guarantee that your transaction is going to go through, right. Your transaction may get caught in that spam. You may kind of like, have to retry it or something like that, which, I mean, it's okay if you, if you have to retry it and you're not purposely being censored.
00:07:06.330 - 00:07:26.280, Speaker A: It's kind of like you just get caught because they think, you know, the network thinks you're a bot or something like that. But I don't know. I don't believe it's kind of like the ideal solution, but, yeah. Anyway, give this blog post a read from Polinar goes into a bit more depth about that there. So the ultrasound money account gave an update today of ETH scarcity engines. So currently, 8.9 million ETH is staked in ETH.
00:07:26.280 - 00:07:49.668, Speaker A: Two, 9 million ETH is locked in Defi, and 1.3 million ETH has been burned as part of ERP 1559. Now, this locked in Defi metric, I don't think it's counting L2s, which I don't believe it's counting L2s, actually, because the last time I checked, Defi policy, if I bring it up here. Actually, I bring up Defi policy. I don't believe DFI pulse is tracking l two s right now. And I think that's where they're getting the nine. Yeah, that's where they're getting it from.
00:07:49.668 - 00:08:26.266, Speaker A: So if you were to kind of like count L2s in this kind of like, metric here for locked in Defi, I'm assuming that would be over 10 million at this point. Last time I kind of checked, because there's a lot of ETH locked on in kind of like arbitrum and optimism and a few other networks out there. So I'm sure that's higher there. But, yeah, still really cool to see. I mean, almost 9 million ETH staked in ETH two. This is kind of, like slowed down considerably, and I think it's going to basically remain that way until kind of, like, we get a clearer window around the merge. But even still, like, I think a lot of people are expecting that withdrawals are going to get enabled with the merge for some reason, when in reality they're going to be three to six months out.
00:08:26.266 - 00:09:03.274, Speaker A: I think Vitalik, on a recent bankless podcast said that they're more likely six months after the merge. So if the merge happens in June of this year, then we probably won't be expecting to see kind of like, staking withdrawals until the end of 2022. So that's pretty crazy, right? And that means, like, for a six month period, we're literally going to have no net new issuance entering the market. So price could do some crazy things there. I mean, we not only have that triple harvening with the merge, but we also have that kind of, like, period where there's no new ETH kind of entering the market as well. So not only are we deflationary, we're like deflationary by a lot, a lot more than we would be. And then when.
00:09:03.274 - 00:09:29.890, Speaker A: When the withdrawals are finally enabled, it's not like everyone can just unlock their ETH and sell it at once. That's not how it works. As I've mentioned before, how it works is that there's a kind of withdrawal delay or there's like a maximum amount of ETH that can be withdrawn each day. Unless this changes, I think it's about 30,000 ETH a day or something like that. So definitely not a scenario where, you know, 1 million ETH can be withdrawn and just sold instantly. That's definitely not how it's going to play out. So, anyway, I'm pretty curious to see how this plays out closer to the merge.
00:09:29.890 - 00:10:05.208, Speaker A: Like, are we going to get to 10 million ETH stake before the merge? Are we going to see a spike once the merge happens? Because as I've mentioned before, the APY is going to go up for staking your ETH because there's going to be the unburnt fee revenue and possibly mev going to stakers as well, which is probably going to push, I think, like the APY up to 15% to 20% at current staked ETH amount and current fee revenue amount. So that's going to be pretty crazy. But yeah, we'll have to wait and see there. But great to see this kind of like scarcity engine update from the ultrasound money account here. So Opensea announced their series C fund arrays today. So I think they've raised. My Internet seems to have gone offline again.
00:10:05.208 - 00:10:31.840, Speaker A: Yep. I believe they raised something like $300 million at a. Oh, yeah, that's right in front of me. They've raised $300 million. But I was thinking of the valuation at, uh, I think it was a $15 billion valuation or a $13 billion valuation or something, which is absolutely crazy, right? I mean, I think that is the biggest kind of like crypto valuation, uh, especially for a series C that I've seen so far. And apparently there is really not going to be a token. I mean, I commented here when token.
00:10:31.840 - 00:10:52.840, Speaker A: But from everyone that I've talked to and everything that I've heard, they're pretty confident that there's not going to be a token. Opensea is basically just going to go public and IPO and it's. And that's going to be basically all they do there. I think this is incredibly short sighted. As I've discussed before, I think Opensea is absolutely ripe for disruption. If they're not careful, they could become the pets.com of, of the NFT ecosystem.
00:10:52.840 - 00:11:52.386, Speaker A: Look, I think that's a low chance of that happening, but I really do think that, as I mentioned, I think yesterday or the day before about these grassroots communities around things, if Opensea doesn't do a token, the community is going to be pissed, right? If that depends how much that counts for. I know a lot of people use opensea that aren't kind of like crypto people, right? They're just kind of like normal general people and maybe they're not going to care, but I think that if they don't do a token, they basically open the floodgates to any other NFT platform that does do a token to essentially do a little bit of a vampire attack on them and get some volumes that way because people would go there kind of like, you know, because they'll use that instead because they hold the token or something like that. And you could even do like an airdrop of, you could literally just kind of like fork Opensea, do an airdrop of the token to the same users and then kind of get some traction that way. Because as I mentioned yesterday, Opensea has 96% of the current kind of, like, market. I mean, nothing stays that high for long, like, in terms of dominance. Like, it just not how it plays out. So I'm curious to see how that goes there.
00:11:52.386 - 00:12:20.158, Speaker A: But still, this is an absolutely massive raise. We all know nfts are crazy. Crazy, right? Bigger than any of us thought they would get. And I think they're going to get even bigger this year, to be honest. I think that the funny thing is that there's still so much hate for nfts. And I actually view the haters as potential customers later down the line, or potential users of nfts, because the haters are not going to hate nfts forever and ignore them forever. Eventually it's going to get to a point where nfts are going to become ingrained in, you know, their everyday lives of what they want to do in products and services that they use.
00:12:20.158 - 00:12:43.034, Speaker A: And the people that boycott things are definitely in the minority. I don't think they're in the majority at all. And I do. I do think that once Ethereum moves to proof of sake, it's going to be a lot easier to kind of like, kill those arguments around energy, energy use and all that sort of stuff. And then really it just becomes the minority who just think that NFTs outright scams. And to be honest, they're going to come around eventually as well. These, most of them will like people.
00:12:43.034 - 00:13:20.378, Speaker A: I think when it comes to people, they can be stubborn, but only for a certain amount of time. I think eventually people come around and, you know, there's obviously a small group that will basically forever remain stubborn and kind of like boycott NFTs for whatever reason, but they'll definitely be in the extreme minority there. So, yeah, I think NFTs are going to get much bigger from here. I think the investors know that, too. That's why they've given Opensea $300 million at a 413 billion dollars valuation, which is absolutely massive. So I guess congrats to them. I'm curious to see if they do kind of like, when they do their ipo and maybe they do a token, I would say it's not a 0% chance, but I would say it's an extremely low chance that they're going to do a token.
00:13:20.378 - 00:13:57.630, Speaker A: But if they do, it's going to blindside everyone because no one's really expecting them to do a token right now. And I think that would actually work really well as a nice surprise there. But don't hold your breath for it, that's for sure. So speaking of NFTs, Justin Taylor, who's the head of consumer product marketing at Twitter, gave an update today about their NFT integration. So he said, yes, we are still working on NFT profile verification. No, I don't have any timing updates I can share, but I'm currently testing it on my phone. So I remember covering this on the refuel a few months ago where basically you could have your NFT as your profile picture and then you would have like a little ETH logo next to it to kind of say that, you know, you actually own this NFT.
00:13:57.630 - 00:14:20.430, Speaker A: It's tied to one of your kind of like known addresses, you know, such as your ans, such as Cecil dot eight. So really cool to see that they're still working on this. Someone asked in the comments about like how they're going to do the verification. Apparently they're just now they're just pointing to Opensea and using their verification now. Maintenance not working. Whoops. Now I think that's okay as like a short to medium term solution, but we need a better solution longer term.
00:14:20.430 - 00:14:36.390, Speaker A: We can't just rely on a centralized service for verification. We need decentralized verification. I think that's going to come in a big way. There's projects like CMO tackling that in a privacy preserving way. Signing with Ethereum can tie into it as well. So that's going to come. But right now I guess like really the most scalable way to do it.
00:14:36.390 - 00:15:25.078, Speaker A: And the platform that has the most kind of like data about this is Opensea. But yeah, cool to see that they're still working on this and I can't wait to see when it goes live. So speaking of ENS, Brantley from the ENS team put out a great tweet today where he said ENS is open source, has no gatekeepers, is self running on chain specified with EIP standards governed by community DaO, had no special allocation to VC's fully self custodial with ETH names for compatible with legacy DNS sends all protocol revenue to the DAO hashtag web3. This is a true web3 protocol. We always talk about web3 versus web two. Decentralizing it, not having VC's involved, having it truly community owned. I believe ENS is one of the only protocols today that can actually call itself a true web3 protocol for all the reasons that Brantley has outlined here.
00:15:25.078 - 00:16:09.200, Speaker A: If other protocols wanted to get to this stage, they can, but it's kind of uphill battle. ENS didn't get here overnight. They took many years to get here, and they only recently did their token, which basically gave ownership over to the community. And, you know, they were in a unique position where they didn't actually need to raise money from VC's, whereas a lot of other teams aren't in this position. And that's fine, but there are ways to raise from kind of like VC's and angel investors and things like that, while still keeping it majority community owned. Like say you only sell five to 10% to these kind of like people just to bootstrap the, you know, and to actually build a thing, and then you release the token out into the wild and you can, you can even do like a public token sale, which honestly, I think public token sales maybe not the way icos were run, but just generally are still an underexplored thing. I actually think that they should be.
00:16:09.200 - 00:16:40.830, Speaker A: They should be used more often. I know that balancer was doing some things with their LBP and stuff like that. I know that coin list has a pretty popular service where they, you know, obviously there's KYC and things like that, but if you're an angel investor or a seed investor, you get. Or a VC, you get Kyc'd anyway, so it's not too dissimilar from that. And I think that that would be better than the current, like, status quo of giving a large chunk to these kind of like insider VC's and angels because you need the money. Whereas I think if token sales didn't get such a bad rap in 2017, we would be seeing more of them. But I do hope they come back in a big way.
00:16:40.830 - 00:17:06.660, Speaker A: And obviously, there's kind of like a regulatory issues with that as well. But I mean, that's going to be an issue for a very long time. So I think that it's kind of like do or die for a lot of web3 apps. More of them are going to get launched anonymously, I believe. But I think they definitely need to follow the ANS playbook if they want to be a true web3 protocol, because I can't really think of much else that is. That is true web3. I mean, ethereum, obviously, but I mean, Ethereum is the protocol.
00:17:06.660 - 00:17:35.496, Speaker A: It's not an specific application. Whereas ens, I mean, the term protocol and application gets thrown around a lot, but I'm talking about kind of like a generalized kind of thing. Whereas Ethereum is generalized, it has all these applications on them, whereas something like Ans is more of, is more of just like a, you know, an application kind of like standard here. So I'm just thinking in my head of any others that are like true web3. Uniswap's pretty good, but again, they had like VC's and stuff like that. There's. Yeah, I mean, I can't think of any off the top of my head, but there's very few that, that look like Ans.
00:17:35.496 - 00:17:58.934, Speaker A: But Ens, to me, is the gold standard for web3 applications. So take note, app devs or future app devs or future builders. If you want to build something that's truly web3, then Ens's playbook is the one to follow. So Fawkes three. Three here or exalted? Fawkes is exalted Fox. Well, not Fawkes is their handle here on Twitter. Put together a thread on protocols building on arbitrary.
00:17:58.934 - 00:18:19.854, Speaker A: And these are the protocols that are native to arbitram versus the familiar multi chain giant. So you've got here things like Umami Finance, which is a market maker and liquidity network, natively built on arbitram. Of course you have Dopex, which is being pretty popular. I've seen on crypto Twitter lately. A lot of the DJNs are really into dopex. It's a pretty great platform from what I've heard. It's an options protocol on there.
00:18:19.854 - 00:18:33.942, Speaker A: Then you have no up. No, sorry. Not know of markets nor of markets. Will explain to you what Dopex is. You have GMx, which is on arbitram. I'm just going through the list here. Treasure NFT, which is apparently a really cool NFT platform on arbitrary right now.
00:18:33.942 - 00:18:54.626, Speaker A: I've heard a few people talk about that. Just scrolling down the list into cap finance here. Premier hundred finance, tracer, Dow Lemma Finance, Vesta Finance, Primitive finance. I mean, there's so many, I didn't realize how many there were that with native to arbitrary here. So that's really cool to see. Sorry, I can't load any of these things up, guys. My Internet seems to have cut out.
00:18:54.626 - 00:19:17.474, Speaker A: It's funny, all day it was working well for the first day in like three weeks that I've been here. It was working really, really nicely, and today it decides to cut out. And the reason why it's cut out is because it's using my hotspot from my phone. I have to wait till Saturday to get actual home Internet. But yeah, sorry, I can't, can't kind of like dive deeper into these. But of course this thread will be linked in the YouTube description and you can dive deeper on your own. But I just wanted to kind of like talk a little bit about arbitrary here for a sec.
00:19:17.474 - 00:19:49.570, Speaker A: I don't know about you guys, but I've been looking at arbitrum statistics lately, or metrics lately, and they've been really, really good. They've been growing steadily. Arbitrum obviously doesn't have a token yet, but their ecosystem seems to be building itself out really nicely. And they have a bunch of projects on there that have a really nice community following them now. And all these projects are kind of listed here in this thread. But I love seeing this because I've mentioned before how I think that L2s will need to do tokens to incentivize usage to an extent. But at the same time, I believe that the longer they don't do a token and the more organic kind of like usage and growth that they get, the better it is for the longer term.
00:19:49.570 - 00:20:20.880, Speaker A: Because tokens and liquidity mining is all well and good, but it's very short term, right. It's very mercenary. It doesn't really lend itself to long term, long term sustainability unless done right. And I actually think that if these L2 networks do tokens, which they will, I think that a lot of it should be reserved for the builders. They should just pay out the builders in these tokens as grants instead of just giving it to mercenary farmers who are just going to dump your token anyway. Obviously, you know, you'd want to do an airdrop and things like that. But I really do think that at the end of the day, a platform is all about the applications that are on there.
00:20:20.880 - 00:21:05.122, Speaker A: And as we've seen with basically all of the l two s l one side chains, whatever, the ones with the best applications, the best ecosystems that develop are the ones that get the most usage. I mean, the Polygon PoS chain has basically all the star Ethereum apps on there. And you know, obviously uniswap v three went live on there recently, and they're just continuing to grow. I mean, they're the only other chain with Opensea live on there. You know, Opensea is only on Ethereum, and the Polygon pos chain so it really is about the builders, the applications, getting those kind of like ecosystems developed there. I know Polygon had liquidity mining back earlier in 2021, and that's all well and good. It's just, it should be used to kind of like bootstrap a little bit of an ecosystem to an extent, but it shouldn't be used to kind of like, um, you know, pay out this perpetual reward to these farmers who really are just going to sell your token.
00:21:05.122 - 00:21:24.380, Speaker A: And then they're kind of like liquidity locust and they just kind of like go somewhere else. Once the, uh, once the game's up, I think that's how it should be played. And I think that's how some of these l two s are playing it. But as I said, I do believe most of them are going to be having their tokens launched in the first half of 2022. Not. Maybe not all of them, but most of them, definitely, I believe. But anyway, go give this thread a read.
00:21:24.380 - 00:21:54.352, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. So rainbow is teasing another integration here. Basically in the Rainbow mobile wallet app, as I can't load this, I can't make this image bigger because my Internet's off here. But basically in the Rainbow mobile wallet app, you can do the whole ens kind of like flow. So you can register your Ens name, then kind of like edit a few of the fields here and then have it set up with your profile, with your NFT showcasing and everything like that. Straight in the Rainbow mobile wallet app. This is really cool.
00:21:54.352 - 00:22:28.370, Speaker A: You know, you guys know I've talked about Rainbow before. It's one of my favorite mobile wallet apps out there. I think these kind of like integrations, these kind of, I guess, really nice looking ones, the easy one to two click things, as I've mentioned plenty of times, this is what the normies want, right? This is what mass adoption is going to look like. It's not going to look like them using metamask and kind of like seeing all this weird stuff and editing the gas fees and all that sort of stuff. I'm sorry, but like, that is not going to be what most people do. And it can't be because most people don't want to sit there and kind of like. And play around with it and mess around with it, even if they're given a monetary incentive to do so.
00:22:28.370 - 00:22:47.316, Speaker A: Cause it's just not worth their time. They get frustrated. It's a headache for them. They don't have the time to do it. A lot of the, a lot of the time. And that's why it took until things got very simple with the Internet, like especially with smartphones, for, for it to really take off and to really reach mass adoption there. But yeah, really cool to see this new feature from, from Rainbow here.
00:22:47.316 - 00:23:28.530, Speaker A: You can go check out the, you know, closer look at the screenshot. It'll be linked in the YouTube description and I hope to see more of these really cool integrations in the future from them. So finally, here we have Joey from Fay protocol talking about a new ERC called ERC 4626, which Joey's calling a landmark interface for yield bearing vaults that will supercharge defi innovation on this rock. We will build our empire tldr adopt ERC 4626 or not going to make it here is what this interface means for the tribe and for defi general generally. So just giving Joey gives a bit of a recap about yield bearing tokens here. You know, they'll come in all shapes, sizes and implementations, but they have no cross compiled compatibility. With ERC 4626.
00:23:28.530 - 00:24:10.878, Speaker A: It will standardize this paradigm of depositing and withdrawing from a vault denominated in a single token, which makes it incredibly easy for aggregators and plugins, which now only need to implement a single interface rather than dozens of adapters. So you can think of this as similar to like the ERC 20 standard, where instead of everyone using their own token standard to, to kind of like issue a token, everyone just uses ERC 20. Or at least most people use ERC 20 foot for, for a fungible token, not for an unfungible token, obviously. And that's supported everywhere. It's just a very standard interface and that's what ercs are, they're basically standards. So with 4626, this would standardize basically yield bearing tokens and depositing, withdrawing from vaults and all that sort of stuff. Which means that everything would work much better, right? Everything would work in a much more composable way.
00:24:10.878 - 00:24:38.662, Speaker A: There would not need to be adapters built. It would just make it much easier for these defi projects to all work together. So very very very cool here. I'm glad that Joey highlighted this is not something that I've thought about, because I'm not a developer, I'm not a builder. Obviously a lot of these things just get adapters built for them, but it would be a lot easier if devs didn't need to do that. And these adapters, from what I understand, also introduced more smart contract risk too. So obviously anything that we can do to reduce that risk is a welcome change.
00:24:38.662 - 00:25:18.448, Speaker A: There so go give this thread a read. I think Joey links to some GitHub repos as well, so you can dive deeper in there if you're a developer, even if you're not a developer, I'm sure you can give this a read and learn something about it as well there. So, yeah, I have five minutes left again on today's episode. I did want to talk about something else, but just quickly wanted to mention that it's still kind of like the first week of January, so it's been kind of like slower news days, I think, and that's why there hasn't been as many updates. But I'm sure it's going to be back to our regular scheduled, scheduled programming next week. But for the last five minutes, I want to talk a little bit about the merge now. The merge, guys, I've said it plenty of times before that, my own estimation, I expect the merge to happen in q two of this year.
00:25:18.448 - 00:26:10.952, Speaker A: We've had the Kintsugi merge, debt Testnet or Devnet, whatever you want to call it, that's still ongoing. I haven't had any updates yet about this, but I expect an update either later this week or next week on that from Danny Ryan or Tim Baiko or kind of like one of the core dev organizers there. But what I wanted to talk about is people always say things like, or ask me, is the merge delayed? Right? Like, is it delayed? Is it going to happen in Q two, Q two, or is it going to happen in Q three or Q four, or is it going to happen in 2023. I want to make it clear that the merge can't be delayed because there's actually been no date. Given my estimation of Q two is literally my own, there is no, like, I'm not getting that from anywhere else. I'm just basically getting that from looking at what the currently available information, looking at how long it would actually take to implement these things. Based on previous comments from core developers and then extrapolating a window from there.
00:26:10.952 - 00:26:24.804, Speaker A: There's no date. There's no quote unquote official window. The core devs haven't said anything. It's basically, I mean, the core devs have basically said when it's ready, we'll ship it. Right. Which is, which is the path of the course for Ethereum upgrades or for basically most software upgrades. Right.
00:26:24.804 - 00:26:50.572, Speaker A: So if it does end up happening in Q three or Q four or even next year, which I doubt it, right. But I can see it if something goes wrong or something, you know, if the core developers don't feel comfortable about. I can see it getting pushed to Q three. Right. I can see it getting pushed to Q four, but don't. I wouldn't consider that a delay. But where this kind of becomes a bit murky is that there is a general kind of narrative that develops over time where doesn't matter if whatever I say doesn't matter.
00:26:50.572 - 00:27:18.704, Speaker A: Whatever someone else says, what ends up happening is that people just believe that Q two is the kind of, like, official window, and that is when everyone kind of expects the merge to happen. And if it doesn't happen, then everyone's going to be, like, super disappointed, and they're going to say there was a delay, and then everyone's going to get really upset. Those narratives just form on their own. There's not much that I or anyone can do about them. I think that they're bad and very poor narratives. They form based on poor information that a lot of people spread within the ecosystem. It's the same poor information.
00:27:18.704 - 00:27:37.516, Speaker A: I mean, it's similar to the information about the merge leading to decreased gas fees. Right. Like that is, oh, man. I've said it before and I'll say it again, that is going to be the worst time to be in Ethereum when the merge happens and everyone asking where, why aren't the fees lower? Right. I thought, you know, this is ETH two. I thought the fees were going to be lower. It's gonna be so bad, but it's gonna something.
00:27:37.516 - 00:28:18.698, Speaker A: It'll just be something we have to deal with. But, yeah, just generally, when it comes to timelines, take them all with a grain of salt. Don't actually think that that's any kind of, like, official things, even if it's coming from someone like me who's really plugged in. I just give estimations, and I said to you guys, I will literally update my estimation if the second that I believe that it's not gonna happen in Q two or it's not gonna happen in something like June, but we're gonna have to wait and see. I think we'll be able to kind of, like, get a better idea in the next couple of weeks once the update gets posted about the Kintsugi testnet, how that's going, how the developers feel about things and kind of like what they. What they think needs to still be done and kind of like how much work needs to be done on, you know, both the. On the client side, because I think the research is all pretty much done.
00:28:18.698 - 00:28:38.016, Speaker A: It's more about the client side and the implementation side and testing it, making sure everything goes well. Because as you guys know, this is the biggest upgrade in Ethereum's history. It cannot be taken lightly there. But, yeah, just a little bit of, I guess, like thoughts around the merge there. I will definitely keep you guys up to date on all of that, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:38.016 - 00:28:45.104, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
