00:00:00.120 - 00:00:05.198, Speaker A: Okay. Okay.
00:00:05.326 - 00:00:11.190, Speaker B: Thank you everyone, for joining us today. We're very happy to have Andre Shui.
00:00:11.302 - 00:00:12.354, Speaker A: Of UBC.
00:00:14.134 - 00:00:18.394, Speaker B: And is gonna speak about arithmetic statistics and was awake.
00:00:19.854 - 00:01:00.224, Speaker A: Thank you, Paiman, for the invitation. And I would like to thank all the organizers for this opportunity to speak at the fields number three seminar. This is the first time I'm speaking at the field seminar, so I'm really looking forward to it. So, my topic is arithmetic statistics and Iwazawa theory. So these are two big name terms which are not really seen together very often. So let me start by going over some of the basics in both of these subjects. So before continuing, I just want to mention that everything that I'll be talking about today is joined with Debanchina kundu.
00:01:00.224 - 00:02:00.926, Speaker A: So let me just recall a few facts from arithmetic statistics, which are very well known to the audience. So we'll be talking about the arithmetic statistics of elliptic curves. And of course, one of the most important invariants associated is the rank of the model wave. So essentially, arithmetic statistics has to do with the study of the average behavior of certain invariants, and these invariants will be associated to the model wake. The main invariant that is studying is the rank of elliptic curves. So, for instance, the rank distribution conjecture states that one half of elliptic curves of rank zero and the other half of rank one. So this is based on certain heuristics, tax and Sarnoc in particular.
00:02:00.926 - 00:02:57.534, Speaker A: This implies that 0% of elliptic curves are expected to have rank greater than equal to two. And of course, like, I'll talk about, you know, what it means to like for one half elliptic cursor ran rank zero, one half of the elliptic curve rank one. Essentially, if two curves are ordered according to height and. But I will make that notion precise later in this talk. So I want to go over like some of the, some very well known results about rank distribution. And essentially, the idea goes back to Bhargavan Shankar, who studied the average size of certain Selma groups. So essentially, one relates these Selma groups to certain integral forms and then studies the average size using techniques from the geometry of numbers and algebra geometry.
00:02:57.534 - 00:03:43.624, Speaker A: So here are some consequences. So, um, he showed that the average size of the five Selma group is equal to six. And as a result, they're able to show that the average rank of all lipstick curves is less than 0.885. So this, this average rank, of course, is conjectured to be equal to 0.5. Because one half elliptic curve is supposed to have rank zero, the other half is supposed to have rank one. They show that less than 20% of elliptic curves of ranking. Once again, this is conjectured to be 0%.
00:03:43.624 - 00:04:49.144, Speaker A: We show that at least 20% elliptic curves are ranked zero. Once again, this is conjectured to be exactly 50% followed the curves. On the other hand, iwasalva theory is based on a very different philosophy, and it is, it is a study of certain Galva modules associated with the curves. And so essentially it's like a very Galba theoretic, the methods are very Galva theoretic, and these galva modules also rise from Selma groups. And the study of the structure of these selma groups is one of the main motivations of this subject. However, there's one key difference between the Selma groups that we study in Ibu saba theory and the cell groups that Bhargava and Shankar study in arithmetic statistics. And the main difference is that in Ibu saba theory, one studies the Selma groups defined over certain infinite towers of number fields.
00:04:49.144 - 00:06:02.814, Speaker A: So this might sound like very complicated and unnatural, but it turns out that the behavior of these Selma groups is the Selma groups a lot, well more well behaved over these infinite towers. And in some sense, you know, it, we have more techniques to study them over infinite towers than over, like a given number field. And I want to sort of convince you that, you know, doing something like this actually gives rise to a lot of very rich and interesting mathematics. So let me briefly talk about the Galois representations associate, I'm sure that what I'll talk about is very well known to the audience, but I want to set some notation so that e b elliptic curve defined over the rational numbers. So given a prime p and prime p is going to be fixed throughout this talk, that's going to be one of the main themes of u s alot arrays. Fixed prime p. So for fixed prime p, let e p, the n be the p, the end torsion subgroup of e of two bars.
00:06:02.814 - 00:06:53.464, Speaker A: So this is, this is basically just as an abstract group, two copies of z mod pn, and it's also equipped with the action of the galaxy. So we want to construct some kind of linear algebraic object out of these modules, ep to the n. So p is going to be fixed and n is going to vary. And the object that we want to consider is called the p adic tape module. So what we do is we observe that for every n, the multiplication by pmap gives us a map from e p, the n plus one, to epdn. So there's a natural map which is multiplication by p. And respect to these match, we take the inverse limit and this inverse limit is called the periodic gain module.
00:06:53.464 - 00:07:57.834, Speaker A: Now, it's an exercise in the theory of elliptic curves to show that this p adaptive module is just zp plus zp. So it's a free Zp module of rank two. However, it's not just an abstract Zp module of rank two. It's also equipped with an action of the absolute Galva group, the Galva group of q, where q bar is the algebra closure of q. So the abscalbeck group, which is a very rich, it's very rich in structure, acts on this free zp module of rank two, and it gives rise to what's called a Galois representation for every prime p. And this is a non abelian object, a non abelian projection of this abstract. So for every pair e and p, we get one such gal, and here gl two zp is the automorphism group of this tape module.
00:07:57.834 - 00:09:08.588, Speaker A: So the tape module is two copies of Zp. The automorphism group is therefore gl two zp, and so we encode the action of this Alps Galva group on the teeth module via a homorphism from the absolute Galba group to gl to z group, and we get one such homomorphism for every pair e comma p. Okay, so now we want to study two interrelated problems, and from the perspective of this talk, you know, we're going to study questions in Ibu Sava theory. However, if we consider the slide, we can study questions that arise naturally in theory of Gab representations as well. And some of these questions are currently being studied by myself and Tom Rest, which are not directly related, to use our theory. However, in this talk, we talk about u theory only. So what we can do is we can fix the curve over q and then vary all, all primes key, and then we get one Galbraith mutation for each prime p.
00:09:08.588 - 00:10:02.734, Speaker A: So we get rho ep for each prime p, where e is fixed. And as p ranges over all primes, we can study certain invariants associated to these gal replications, so we can sort of study the variation of such invariants. On the other hand, we can consider the dual problem. And this dual problem is sort of like more in line with, you know, what people classically refer to as arithmetic statistics of elliptic curves, right? Elliptic curves actually allow to vary. So what we can do is we can fix a prime p and then study the average behavior of invariants associated to rho EP where p is fixed. Now, e ranges over all elliptic curves, and these elliptic curves are going to be ordered according to height or conductor just like in arithmetic statistics. So these are two interrelated problems that one can study, and this is the main theme of this talk.
00:10:02.734 - 00:10:52.904, Speaker A: Okay, so now, in order to sort of motivate Ibu saba theory, I mentioned that one studies some of the groups over certain infinite extensions. However, one does not consider any arbitrary infinite extensions. It turns out that for many reasons, one wants to consider a very specific infinite extension called a Zp extension. And it's because, and this, and these Zp extensions will have some really favorable properties. So the canonical example of a Zp extension is called the sticky tomic ZP extension. In fact, there's going to be one for every number field. So let me go over the construction, which is relatively simple.
00:10:52.904 - 00:11:50.424, Speaker A: So let's fix the prior number as always. So the prime number is p, and then for every natural number n which is greater than equal to one, that qn be a z bought Pdn extension of q. So this is a degree p to the n extension of q, which is contained in the cyclotomic field generated by p to the n plus first root of it. There's a unique sub extension of degree pbm which we call qn, and we have one for every natural number n. And we're going to set q naught to be equal to q. Okay, so then one can show that. So given number field k, we're going to let k n be the composite of k with qn.
00:11:50.424 - 00:12:33.664, Speaker A: Kn is called the nth layer in the cyclotomic zp extension. Now one can show that basically these, these number fields indexed by n form a tower. So k is equal to k, naught is contained in k, two is contained in kick, sorry, k one is contained in k two, etcetera. And this is called the cyclotomic tower. It's called the tower because it's an infinite extension. So you can think of these number fields sort of like lying on top of each other, and it's a tower. So it's called the zp extension because of the following reason.
00:12:33.664 - 00:13:20.496, Speaker A: One can take the union of all these number fields, and taking a union of these number fields, one gets an infinite extension of q, which is gal one, and one can show that its Galva group is actually isomorphic to the p adic integers. This is an exercise in infinite Galva theory. Turns out that the Galba group of kn over k is constructed as z mod p, the n. And then one just gets an inverse limit of z mod p, the n which is z, the pf integers. This is why it's called the zp exception. So I want to talk about some early investigations conducted by Ibu Sawa, which sort of led to a lot of interest in this subject. So what Iwasawa did was given number field k.
00:13:20.496 - 00:13:59.524, Speaker A: He studied the variation of the p class groups of kn as n goes infinite. So of course, p is fixed throughout. So just to make that more precise, consider the class group of Kn. So, kn is a number field. Its class group is a finite abelian group. We take the p primary part and we just consider en of k, which is the p primary part of this class group. And so Ibisawa showed that there's a precise formula for the order of en of kick for large values of n.
00:13:59.524 - 00:15:02.414, Speaker A: So the order of e n of k is basically a power of p. This power is expressed in terms of certain invariants. These invariants are called mu, lambda and mu. And these are the Ibisawa invariants that we are going to study. At least we're going to study them in the context of the curves, but they also classically show up in this context for class groups. So as one can see, if this number mu, if the mean variant is positive, then that means that the order of the class could increases very fast. So the question is, can one show that the mean variant is actually equal to zero? So if the mean vein to zero, that means that the order of these class groups will increase in a linear way in n, at least the power will increase in linearly.
00:15:02.414 - 00:15:39.604, Speaker A: So that's a question that one wants to think about. However, we want to first touch upon Ibisava's approach to sort of show that such a formula must exist. And I'm going to sort of make this a little bit more precise later in the talk. So, for every, for every national number n, there is a norm map from en plus one to en. So these are, after all class groups. There's a norm map relating these class groups, and one considers the inverse limit. So this is an inverse limit taken over all values of n.
00:15:39.604 - 00:16:12.874, Speaker A: And it turns out that we want to think of this inverse limit as some kind of a. I mean, it's related to some kind of a Galva extension of k sec itself. So there's actually like an action of the Galba group of k sec over k. So the. So this is zp. So there's an action of this, this Galva group on this inverse limit. So, so this inverse limit, a sig of k, it admits the action of zp, which is this, this Galva group, but it's also Zp module.
00:16:12.874 - 00:17:26.024, Speaker A: So therefore, Ibisa observed that such modules will actually be modules over a certain power series ring called the Iwusawa algebra. So the way in which he sort of introduced this ring was as follows. So, for every n, one considers the galva, one considers the group ring zp of the galva group of k, n over k, and he just considers the inverse limit of all these group rings. And then he shows that this inverse limit, which is called lambda, the yubisawa algebra, is isomorphic to, non canonically isomorphic to a power series ring over zp in one variable. So in other words, this inverse limit of class groups is a module over a power series ring in one variable, which is a really nice problem. And the structure theory of Zp of x is fairly easy to understand. And therefore, in analyzing the structure theory of zp of x and modules over Zp of x, one is actually able to define these and prove the result of yamsava.
00:17:26.024 - 00:18:29.644, Speaker A: And I'm going to sort of talk about this a little bit more detail when we talk about lifting curves. So, the last thing I want to talk about respect to number fields is following results of Ferrero and Washington. So, Ferrero and Washington showed that if k is in a billion extension of q, so in other words, a number field extension of q, whose Galva group, which is Galba, and whose Galva group is a billion. So for any, any such extension, the mean variant must vanish for any parent, and the same as they actually expected to hold for arbitrary number field extensions. Okay, so now we want to transition to Ibisawa theory, elliptic curves. And so the main idea here is to replace class groups with Selma groups. So Selma groups are not exactly analogs of class groups, because if I want to think of them in terms of Galva homology, um, they are defined by certain non trivial local conditions.
00:18:29.644 - 00:19:10.024, Speaker A: However, class groups are defined in a totally different way. However, there is some sort of an origin. And so, theory, elliptic curves, was initiated by Maesr. And throughout I want to talk about elliptic curves of the queue with good ordinary reduction. So unless I'm going to state otherwise, they're going to have good ordinary reduction. So what Mazer did was, so recall that Iwasawa studied the variation of class groups of the cyclotomic tower. Mazer studied the growth of the ranks of the tick curve of the sigthatomic helm.
00:19:10.024 - 00:19:51.454, Speaker A: And so, in doing so, he was naturally. So he naturally started to study the variation of Selma groups as one goes up the tower. So, let me talk about Selma groups very briefly. So the idea. So the key idea behind defining a summary group is to, is to understand the model weight group in a Galva chromological way. So it gives us some kind of a Galva homological description of the model. So let me try and explain what that means more precisely.
00:19:51.454 - 00:20:33.904, Speaker A: So EP infinity is the p primary torsion of the elliptic curve. So this consists of all PBn torsion for all values n. Now, the absolute gable group acts on EP infinity. So EEP infinity, in fact, is two copies of Qp mod Cp with an action of this downward group. So we define the p primary summary group as follows. So let f be a number field extension of q. So the p primary summary group consists of certain Galva khomorgy classes for the action of this Galva group on EpN three.
00:20:33.904 - 00:21:36.212, Speaker A: Now, these Galba conversion classes satisfy some local conditions. So in other words, at each decomposition group, at every prime, there's going to be a local condition that these commonality classes will have to satisfy. I'm not going to specify what those local conditions are in this talk. However, I can point out certain references for the definition of these local conditions. Essentially, the idea here is, I mean, the takeaway here, that is that the Selma group actually sits inside, sits in a short exact sequence, sorry, sits in a short exact sequence. So on both sides of the short exact sequence, on one side we have the p primary part of the model wake, on the other, on the other side we have the p primary part of the THF rubbish group. So now both of these groups on their own independently, are very mysterious.
00:21:36.212 - 00:22:40.434, Speaker A: So the Molavige group is very mysterious, the teacher for which group is very mysterious. However, the samura group is sort of more amenable to study, because it is given by some very exclusive gala homology classes with some very explicit local conditions. And therefore it becomes possible to actually, like, use tools from algebra, geometry and Galva homology and Galba theory to study the object in the middle, even though the two objects on either side are actually very mysterious. So this is really the main idea behind this group. It gives us some kind of a, it gives us more control over the model in this way, of course, there is also the THF bridge group that plays a role. So, for instance, the Selma group will be, um. So the teacher average group is always expected to be finite, and the Selma group will be infinite precisely when the model weight rank is greater than one.
00:22:40.434 - 00:23:16.934, Speaker A: So that's, for instance, one, one thing that one can observe from the short exact sequence. So just like we did with class groups, what we do is we just pass up the cystotomic tower. So we have one solid group for every layer in the cytotomic tower. And then we take a direct limit of these solid groups respect to some very natural maps called restriction maps. And this is the pre primary summary group over the synatomic extension. And this is the main object of study in the arithmetic in the elliptic curve. Sorry.
00:23:16.934 - 00:23:58.094, Speaker A: Now the point here is that the Galbraith group of k sec over q actually acts on the summary group. So this object also has like some very rich structure. So what we want to do is we want to observe that. The first thing that we observe about the summit group is that it's actually sort of a cofinite object. So it's not, I mean, it has no chance of being finitely generated over Zp. It's sort of profoundly generated. So what one does is one considers the Pontiac dual, and then when one takes the Pontiac and dual of the Selma group, this is just a little bit of a technicality.
00:23:58.094 - 00:24:41.804, Speaker A: Then it turns out that this is finitely generated and torsion over this Iwu Salva algebra, which is Zp. So this is a very deep theorem of Kato that it's actually tortured. So we're going to call this object Msig. And now we can introduce the Ibisawa invariants that we are interested in this talk. So, as a Zp of X module, msec decomposes into cyclic modules, it's torsion. So it directs some of these cyclic modules. This actually follows from the structure theory of Zp of X modules.
00:24:41.804 - 00:25:41.024, Speaker A: Now I should mention here that it's not on the nose isomorphic to direct semiciplic modules. I mean, you can think of various modules over zp of X, which isn't, which aren't. However, it is isomorphic to this direct sum up to what's called pseudo isomorphism. So up to a certain finite kernel and co kernel, there's actually like a decomposition like this. So now in these, in the cyclic decomposition, some of the, sometimes we're quotienting out by powers of p, and sometimes we're quoting out by f g of x, where f g of x is a monic polynomial whose non leading coefficients are those by p. So there's a unique, there's a decomposition like this, which is not unique, but the invariants associated to this decomposition are sort of well defined. So what one does here is one adds up the powers of p.
00:25:41.024 - 00:26:33.854, Speaker A: And there, once we add up the powers of p, we can get the mu invariant. So this, the sum is equal to the mean variant, and the lambda invariant is just the sum of degrees of these distinguished polymers. So there's another way of the more implicit way of sort of defining these invariants. But I just want to point out that the lambda invent is nothing but the zp rank of msip. Okay, so I want to sort of start talking about the arithmetic statistics for these invariants. But first let me touch upon this very well known conjecture of Greenberg in the subject which is completely open. So Ep is a two dimensional fb vector space with the gal wa action.
00:26:33.854 - 00:27:33.974, Speaker A: Now if it is irreducible as a Galva module, then it is conjectured that the mean variant is equal to zero. This tells us a lot about what to expect for the mean variance supposedly fixed in the ticker of a q, which does not have complex modification, and we vary all primes p. Then it follows from Sare's open image theorem that EP is irreducible as a Galva module for all the 5D many primes. So this condition is satisfied for all the finely many primes when you fix elliptic curve without Cm. So therefore one would expect that the mean variant will vanish for all the fat d many primes. Actually more is known. So if is semi stable, then it's actually irreducible for all primes strictly greater than eleven.
00:27:33.974 - 00:28:23.714, Speaker A: And finally, if you want to consider dual problem where we fix the prime p and variable to curve. So given a fixed prime p, will duke showed that EP is irreducible as a Galvan module for 100% of elliptic curves. So now we are fixing the prime p and varying elliptic curve, and now EP is irreducible for 100% elliptic curve. So this sort of shows that the mean range should actually vanish like most of the time, in whatever sense that most of the time means. So for a fixed prime p, it should vanish from 100% elliptic curves. For a fixed elliptic curve, it should vanish for all but finding many primes. So these are all, these results, all are conditional on Greenberg's conjecture.
00:28:23.714 - 00:29:30.064, Speaker A: So now the question is, what about the lambda invariant? So one can show that the lambda invariant is always greater than or equal to the model wave ratio. And so we want to basically model the behavior of both the mu and lambda invariants in two cases, when e is fixed in p varies first, and then the more conventional question in arithmetic statistics, when p is fixed and e varies over all lipstick curves over q. So we consider the following results of Greenberg. So suppose we elliptic curve over q and its model v rank is zero. Then for 100% of the primes of good on reduction. The mu and nambin veins are both zero, and the Selma group is actually zero on the nodes. So this is a result of Greenberg, which is known a long time ago.
00:29:30.064 - 00:30:20.574, Speaker A: And one can also extend this results to the super singular case. So suppose we have liptic curve with the same condition, the rank is zero. Then for all but finitely many primes of super single reduction, one can prove the same result. The mu enlarged invariants are zero, and the selma group is zero on the nose. Now, one observes that there's basically like, um, slight difference. And the point is that there's actually like a sum in plus and minus on all of these terms. So what is, what does this refer to? So when we have a primal super single reduction, the Selma group is no longer a torsion model.
00:30:20.574 - 00:31:08.174, Speaker A: So it's not so easy to work with. However, what one does very. So what is the convention in new south theory is to study certain portions of the semicircle. So one introduces more straight conditions at p local conditions, and one gets two different quotients, the Selma group called the plus and minus quotients, and these portions are actually torsion, and the mean variance and lambda invariance are basically associated these portions. So we have the analogous result. So in the rest of the talk, I will not be touching on these plus and minus sum of groups. I just wanted to indicate that one can prove results in the super singular case as well in the slide.
00:31:08.174 - 00:31:53.958, Speaker A: And I just want to give a heuristic for what should happen when the rank is positive. So these results are all known when the rank is zero. I want to give a heuristic for what happens when ranking positive. So I want to introduce an object called the characteristic, so that gamma denotes the Galva group of q sig over q. Now, as you mentioned before, this Galva group acts on this December group. So what one can do is one considers the gamma invariance, so the subgroup of the sample group which are left fixed by gamma. And then one can also consider the gamma co invariance.
00:31:53.958 - 00:32:42.244, Speaker A: So this is the quotient which is left fixed by gamma. And since the group on the right hand side is a quotient, there's a natural map from the left to the right. It just takes an element in the selma group to its residue class in the quotient. And this map is called phi. Now, conjecturally, both of these groups are supposed to have Zp co rank equal to the rank of the model. So the generalized, so the generalized or truncated or the characteristic is the order of the kernel divided by the order of the cochlear. Now, this need not be, so these orders need not be finite always, but they are finite whenever the rank is either zero or one.
00:32:42.244 - 00:33:52.774, Speaker A: And there's actually an explicit condition for this, for these, uh, for these kernel, for the kernel and co kernel to be finite, which I will not get into. But essentially, we are only more or less interested in the cases when the rank is zero one, because, um, it's, it's conjectured that 100% of the curves have rank, either zero or one. So we're going to assume that this number is always well defined. And so, why are we introducing this quantity? The point is that this truncated, all the characteristic is related to these mu lambda invades, these ibisalm invades. And so, this is a theorem of mine from a previous paper with Sujata, where we actually studied the effect of congruences on Euler characteristics. But I'm not going to talk about that in this, in this talk, the essential idea is that the other characteristic is an integer. It's the power of p, but it's also an integer, and the other characteristic is equal to one if and only if the mean vent is zero, and the lambda invent is equal to the model wavelength.
00:33:52.774 - 00:34:49.327, Speaker A: So, this actually gives us a way to relate this Euler characteristic with the main. This is the, I mean, this is related to what's called the p adic BSD conjecture that we introduced. But this is basically the main tool used to sort of study these invariants, on average. To sort of study the problem, try and study how often the, all, the characteristic is equal to one on average. So, what is the goal behind this, this relationship? The idea is that there is an explicit formula for the other characteristic due to Peru and Schneider. So, assume that the t traffic group, the p primary part of it, is finite. This is a very standard assumption.
00:34:49.327 - 00:35:34.854, Speaker A: We also assume that the regulator is nonzero. I'll talk about that briefly later. So, under some very natural assumptions, the Euler characteristic exhibits a formula which looks a lot like the BST formula, but it's a piatic version, which is why it's called a, I mean, it's related to, it's called a p adic BST. So, I just want to touch upon, like, what these terms actually mean in this formula. So, here, Rp refers to what's called a p adic regulator. It's basically a p adic analog of the usual regulator. So there's a piatic analog of what's of the height pairing for the curves over q and the p adic regulator is nothing but the determinant of this height.
00:35:34.854 - 00:36:17.064, Speaker A: So when I divide this pionic regulator by p to the power of the rank, this is basically a power of p non negative power. This quantity here is called the normalized pionic regulator. Sha E over q is the t char. From which group, which you're familiar with from the previous slides. At a prime l not equal to p of bad reduction, cl of E is the Tamagamba number. This is an invariant associated to the codirect, which tells us a lot about the codirectype of mutant curve. E of fp is the number.
00:36:17.064 - 00:36:54.950, Speaker A: So e of fp is the group of fp value points on the reduction of either. And so this formula is actually like an explicit formula for this order characteristic. And so the idea is to sort of study how often these terms in the form are actually like units, periodic units. So that's the main idea. So I want to introduce some shorthand rotation here. So the normalized regulator is going to be called rep. So just the p primary part of the regulator, Sha Ep is going to be the p primary part of the th group.
00:36:54.950 - 00:37:31.206, Speaker A: Tau is going to be tau. Ep is going to be the p primary part of the Tamagawa product. And finally, Alpha Ep is going to be the p primary part of the group EMF. So essentially what I'm doing here is I'm just using some shorthand notation for all these terms so that it's a little bit more convenient to work with. And we're sort of not very interested in, you know, we're just taking out the p primary part. So we're sort of throwing away the p adic unit because we're not exactly interested in, you know, what that p adic unit is. We just want to understand if this is when this is equal to one or not.
00:37:31.206 - 00:38:22.434, Speaker A: So, so now the idea is that if all these four, all these four terms are equal to one, then the other characteristic is equal to one. And then we have this generic situation where the mean weight is zero and the lambda is equal to the rank. So we want to basically study how often these invariants are equal to one. So now let me, let me just pause for a moment and let's just go back to this formula and just, let's just look at it. So the tsharfish group is assumed to be finite. So this is like an integer. SP primary part is going to be one for all but finely many primes, because it's an integer.
00:38:22.434 - 00:39:26.514, Speaker A: This is also an integer, so its primary part is going to be one for all the find many friends. So now we look at this term e tilde of FP, and it is a theorem that this term is actually equal to one for 100% of the price. So the only term that sort of causes a problem is a regulator, which is the first term in the periodic BSD formula. So one would expect that the mean range should be zero and the lambda invinc should be equal to the rank for 100% to the primes. And this is precisely the case when the regulator is equal to one for 100% of the probes. So computational evidence shows that this is to be expected. So for instance like one can look at a lot of primes and one will find very few examples where the regulator is actually not a piatic unit.
00:39:26.514 - 00:40:28.224, Speaker A: I think of this as some kind of a, an elliptic curve analog of, I mean, of the question of finding b frick primes. So I mean, b frame primes are very rare, but you know, one doesn't know whether they're infinitely many of them or if they're like 0% of the primes or b primes, et cetera. So this periodic regulator being equal to one is a very sort of related question. And I mean, I'm not going to justify exactly why I think of these two questions as related, but there are some reasons. So this, this allows us to make a conjecture. So this conjecture is, recall that this conjecture is true when the rank of elliptic curve is equal to zero. So if having the fixed lip to curve a queue, then for 100% to the primes, the mean range is zero and the lambda is equal to the rank.
00:40:28.224 - 00:41:25.974, Speaker A: And this is, this conjecture is true precisely when the p adic regulator is a unit for 0% for 100% of the primes. So now we want to move on to talking about the dual problem with the prime piece fixed and the elliptic curve over all lib to occurs to find over two. So we fix the prime p. And then I want to now make precise what it means for the liptic curve to be. So we're going to assume, we're going to consider liptic curves which are non cm and associates such a lifted curve. We have a y structure patient given by y squared equals x cubed plus ex b, where a and b are integers. And then this equation can be, one can find such an equation which is minimal in the following sense.
00:41:25.974 - 00:42:06.582, Speaker A: The GCD of a cube and b squared is not divisible by twelve power. So one has one such equation for every elliptic curve. And the point here is that this is the reason why one considers elliptic curves over q, because elliptic curves over q have this very nice property that there is this minimal wires equation. So essentially the idea is that we sort of thinking of elliptic curves as being parameterized by pairs of integers. So we think of them as like points in a lattice. So now we want to talk about the size of elliptic curves. So like some elliptic curves are sort of have larger size than the others.
00:42:06.582 - 00:42:43.974, Speaker A: This actually gives us a way to count the elliptic curves. So the size is basically called the height. In this situation, one can also also order the curves according to conductor. But in this it just becomes a little bit more convenient for us to order them according to height. So we take the absolute value of a cube and b square and take the maximum of them. So a and b are the call are the coefficients of the y stress equation. So given a positive number, positive real number x, that e of x be the set of all elliptic curves of height strictly less than x.
00:42:43.974 - 00:43:21.564, Speaker A: So if you want to think of elliptic curves as lattice points, you know, this is basically going to be a certain, this is going to be a certain region in space. And as x increases, this region also increases and the number of lattice points also increases. So once again, recall that we fix a prime p. It becomes convenient to fix a prime p greater than five. So let ep of x be the subset of all elliptic curves for which which are not very generic. In the following sense. The rank is zero.
00:43:21.564 - 00:44:01.584, Speaker A: The elliptic curves have good order reduction at p. And finally, the mu invent is positive or the lambda range is positive. Recall the generic cases when the mu invariant and the random inventor both equal to zero. However, we want to consider the ones which are exceptional. So either the mean range is positive or the lambda range is positive. So we want to get some kind of upper bound for the density, the upper density of Ep of x inside e of x. So what we do is we take the lims, so as x goes to infinity of e p of x over e of x, and get some kind of an upper bound for it.
00:44:01.584 - 00:44:47.494, Speaker A: So once again, let me just go back a few slides. And so the essential idea once again is one wants to study how often this order characteristic is equal to one. So one wants to study how often all of these terms in the numerator are equal to our periodic units. And when the, sorry, when the elliptic curve is ranked zero, the regulator is actually trivial. So this term here is trivial. And then one must study how often these three terms in the numerator are p adic units. So then one, this is where one gets the expression on the right hand side of the theorem.
00:44:47.494 - 00:45:35.854, Speaker A: So there are three terms. Each one of them are contributions from the three terms in the numerator that we were looking at. So let me just explain what these terms mean. So, f naught of p is a proportion that occurs at rank zero for which p divides the order of the t shirt for each group. So we do not have unconditional upper bounds for f dot p. However, there is like this, I mean, so Cohen Landstra developed heuristics for the variation of class groups, and Delaunay extended these heuristics to the variation of thrift groups. And these heuristics are very robust.
00:45:35.854 - 00:46:12.844, Speaker A: And the exact prediction for this density is given by this number. So it's one over p plus one over p cube. And then there's some kind of an alternating sum, there's some kind of a sum pluses and minuses. But essentially the order is pretty much like one over p plus one over Pq. So the, essentially, the idea is that this proportion is sort of like going to become smaller and smaller as p becomes larger and larger, and so they actually rapidly decrease. But this is only, this is only assuming Cohen Lancet heuristics. This is not an unconditional statement.
00:46:12.844 - 00:47:04.052, Speaker A: So that was the first term in the above formula, and then zeta p minus one. This term actually arises from the analysis of the atomic numbers and how often. So each codara type has some, gives some restrictions on the model vacations, and we kind of study those restrictions, and then putting all those conditions together and restrictions together, we get a total of zeta p minus one, actually number much smaller than zeta p minus one. But just to give a nice formula, we have zeta p minus one as a contribution from those taunt government numbers. And finally, the last term is the contribution of what we have e of FP. So here I just want to explain what that term Dp is. So, Dp is the number of pairs in Fp plus Fp such that the discriminant is non zero.
00:47:04.052 - 00:47:58.584, Speaker A: And the associated model, dissociated weisstrass model has a point of order p over Fp. So their total of p square t, poles ab, and so Dp is the number of pairs for which there is a point of order p over f. So Dp of p squared is some ratio which is smaller than one. And this, this value Dp, is actually related to certain class numbers associated to certain forms called the chronicle called class number but one can actually compute this using sage. So one can compute these values using sage. And we see that in general, the values of Dp over p squared actually decrease as pull increases. But there's actually a lot of oscillation in this data.
00:47:58.584 - 00:48:26.280, Speaker A: So let's just look at this data for a little bit. So, initially, these values, these values are still all very small. They're all smaller than 0.1. But initially, at seven, the value is like 0.08. And then it goes down, and then it comes up again, goes down, comes up again, goes down for a while. You know, it goes down, comes up again randomly. But then as one just looks down this table, one sees that the values are like approaching 0.01,
00:48:26.280 - 00:49:20.092, Speaker A: which are like much smaller than the values in the beginning. So it turns out that one can computing more values, it seems like the value should go to zero. So the question is, like, what exactly should one expect for Dp over p squared? The point here is that this number is related to the number points, points on x, the model of x one of p over Fp. And Niels Brun was telling me that there are some papers about, you know, the variation of the genus of, you know, these, these curves, and I mean, over fp. And then the point count, the point counts of these curves. And, I mean, there are some issues related to, um, the models for these curves. I I feel like I'm still not, still not 100%.
00:49:20.092 - 00:49:50.644, Speaker A: Uh, I don't think I understand the topic well enough to sort of come up with some kind of conclusive heuristic for what DP square should be. But at least computationally, uh, it seems to be like going to zero. Um, but I just want to say that the question is related to, um, you know, uh, model v curves over, uh, over finite fields and how they vary. Sorry. Uh, to model the curves over finite fields and how they. Sorry. X one of, uh, how x one of p varies.
00:49:50.644 - 00:50:30.684, Speaker A: Sorry. Um, so now I just want to talk about some more recent work where we talk about where we prove some lower bounds for these, uh, these densities. So, recall that this term is an upper bound for the density of exceptional curves. And now we want to talk about some lower bounds. So, we want to talk about elliptic curves for which the lambda vein is actually very large. So recall that this lambda vein gives us an upper bound for the rank of the elliptic curve over qn as n goes to infinity. So it gives us this kind of upper bound all the way up the cyclatomic tower.
00:50:30.684 - 00:51:20.274, Speaker A: On the other hand, the model v the model v rank of the curve of q is expected to be sort of bounding. So this lambda invent. On the other hand, one wants to study if this lambda invent also is bounded or not, as one considers all lipstick curves defined over q. And Greenberg showed that mu plus lambda is actually can be arbitrarily large. So given a prime p, the mean variant plus the lambda invariant can be arbitrarily large. So this is a classical result of mean brain. But one wants to sort of understand if it can be arbitrarily large for positive proportion of frames, for instance, and what exactly that proportion is going to be equal to.
00:51:20.274 - 00:52:11.150, Speaker A: So here are some, so there's some lower bounds as follows. So let's fix a prime number p great five as always. And let's take, let's fix a natural number n. So one wants to consider all elliptic curves of a q for which mu plus lambda is greater than equal to n at that given prime. So Greenberg showed that, well, there will be at least one elliptic curve with mu plus lambda green equal to n wherever. What we show is that there is an explicit lower bound which is positive for the density of such elliptic curves, which mu plus lambda is being determined. And this explicit bound involving both p involves certain infinite sums, but it's still very explicit.
00:52:11.150 - 00:53:11.044, Speaker A: So it's a very complicated expression involving some infinite sums, but this quantity actually becomes smaller and smaller as n increases and p increases as well. So it's sort of giving this sort of very explicit result. And of course, throughout we assume the finiteness of sha in our arguments. So now I want to point out that the question is, can the lambda invent the arbitrarily large a. Greenberg's conjecture implies that the mean variant should be zero for 100% of the elliptic curves. So therefore this assuming Greenwood conjecture, this statement mu plus lambda gradient n should be replaced, can be replaced by lambda gradient. So it's, so, even though the rank elliptic curve is mostly bounded, the lambda vein, which is an evosava theoretic analog, can be arbitrarily large.
00:53:11.044 - 00:54:16.154, Speaker A: And it is, it is larger than equal to n for positive density set elliptic curves. So, I want to touch upon some recent work. So, the methods that we use in this paper are fairly robust. It can be generalized in various contexts, contexts. So, for instance, with Hackney and Ley, we studied analogous question for anti atomic zp extensions. So these are certain zp extensions of imaginary quadratic fields. And now we can also study the question where analogous question where the imaginary quadratic field is actually locked away over an infinite collection in magnetic quadratic fields, assuming that the elliptic curve is defined over t, and we prove a number of results about the variation of all these questions when you know the way, the magic quadratic field is also activated, and we get some better results in that case.
00:54:16.154 - 00:55:14.120, Speaker A: In fact, sometimes the assemble groups that we consider in this paper are not even tortured. So then I also want to talk about some recent work with Danish and Kundu in which we basically use these ideas related to all the characteristics to study the arithmetic statistics of rank jumps and jumps and growth of sum of groups in certain z mod p z extensions. So, essentially, the idea here is that one can fix elliptic curve over q and just look at all z monkeys that extensions of Q. And so that's an infinite collection. However, one can order them according to conductor. And essentially, one can study how often there's actually an increase in the rank of the model vapor. And one can also study how often there's an increase in the growth in the t shirt average group.
00:55:14.120 - 00:55:59.770, Speaker A: One can also study how often there's an increase in the order of the summary group. One can also study these questions for a fixed edmod p z extension and varying lips to curve. So, I mean. So in this paper, we study a number of these questions in the case when the curve is ranked zero. And in a forthcoming work paper of mine, I will be proving like much stronger results about z morph z extensions and the variation of some of the groups on average, the jumps of some of the groups on average, and if I enter, instability. But maybe that is a topic for another talk. All right, that is all that I want to talk about today.
00:55:59.770 - 00:56:01.054, Speaker A: Thank you so much.
00:56:02.554 - 00:57:03.798, Speaker B: Well, thank Anwas. Are there any questions? I can't see anything in the chat box, but if anyone has any questions, you can just unmute yourself and ask, or you can just put it in the chat box, whichever you prefer. Okay, if that. We'll thank Amrish again for a very nice talk. Very clear. I think you gave us a lot to think about, Amish. Thank you.
00:57:03.886 - 00:57:04.454, Speaker A: Thank you so much.
