00:00:01.840 - 00:00:57.114, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. It's great to see so many familiar faces from Breakpoint last year, and of course, so many new faces that are here for the first time. Really excited to join today to talk about Metaplex and the digital asset economy. It's been an incredible journey this year in nfts on Solana. And formerly as the head of product at Solana Labs, I had a chance to work across the ecosystem, working on stake pools and with the validators, and now have the privilege to lead the incredible team at Metaplex Studios as its CEO. For those that aren't familiar, Metaplex is a decentralized protocol for digital assets built on Solana. More commonly, you may know Metaplex as the NFT protocol and developer platform that underpins the Solana ecosystem.
00:00:57.114 - 00:01:46.564, Speaker A: Since our launch in just June of last year, over 150,000 creators have used Metaplex to mint over 22 million nfts for over 7 million collectors. And that's actually now eclipsing all of Ethereum by unique wallets. Put simply, yeah, let's go, let's go, let's go. And importantly, this community was built by the glass eaters, independent artists and creators. No minimum guarantees, no large brand deals, no sports leagues. This was all done from the ground up, and we're incredibly proud of that. So, put simply, Metaplex is not only the largest protocol in Solana, it's also the largest source of new user acquisition into the ecosystem.
00:01:46.564 - 00:02:28.084, Speaker A: And the economic impact of this has been staggering. Metaplex has helped creators generate over $1 billion of revenue and facilitated over $3.5 billion in total commerce through its contracts. And we've traveled some distance since we were together at break point of last year. And despite these tremendous market headwinds, there's no slowing down the creators and builders in the metaplex ecosystem. We are up and to the right. Standing behind these numbers, we've seen the explosion of crypto native community building.
00:02:28.084 - 00:03:36.262, Speaker A: Many reporters and analysts look at PFP collections, and they understand them as art and collectibles. And while this is true to an extent, the deeper shift that's occurring in plain sight is the birth of crypto native social networking and community building. In web two, your identity and your community membership lives in the row of a web two, advertiser's database. And in web3, your identity is a digital asset that you own tokenized on a censorship resistant blockchain. This is a fundamental shift in the way that social organizing and community building will evolve over the next hundred years. We are in the earliest stages of this transition, and Metaplex will be the open platform and toolset that accelerates the creation and growth of these communities. Given the strong sense of community amongst gamers, it's unsurprising that we've also seen the rapid growth of NFT based games on Solana as well, where your characters, your in game items, and even the game tokens are secured on chain.
00:03:36.262 - 00:04:51.954, Speaker A: If you're at the Solana game day or have played a game like Aurori or Zulana, you've used Metaplex. The interoperability and the portability of the assets in these games is laying the groundwork for an open metaverse where new worlds and economies are growing up in real time. And last, but definitely not least, one of one, artists and photographers have found a home on Solana using Metaplex to sell their art and engage with their communities. Artists like Todd McFarlane, John Lay, Degen, poet Scuba Steve, and photography collectives like immutable image or street dreams are showing the power of NFTs and are elevating the independent art movement. But we didn't get here on our own. It took an entire ecosystem of builders to make this possible, and I just want to take a moment to extend a deep thank you to all of the incredible teams that have worked with us over the last year to make Solana and Metaplex the fastest growing NFT economy and community in the world. And this is just the beginning.
00:04:51.954 - 00:06:28.114, Speaker A: Today, deep in the throes of crypto winter, I know we all feel it, we'll be turning the page and preparing for the next leg of this journey, going beyond the phase zero of NFTs into building a free and open digital asset economy. This economy will be one that elevates and empowers the individual, one that is globally accessible, infinitely programmable, and censorship resistant from the whims of overzealous governments, politicians, and corporate executives. While Metaplex provides a broad set of tools for developers and creators, many of which you may be familiar with like our JavaScript, Android, and iOS SDKs, along with programs like Candy Machine, auction house, Hydra, Gumdrop, Pax. Today we'll be focusing on a number of recent advancements in the metaplex protocol that will become key growth levers for this next wave of innovation on Solana. First, we'll discuss the future of asset creation powered by on chain compression. Second, we'll outline how token Metadata will be expanded to provide on chain royalty enforcement for both new and existing collections. Third, we're excited to announce Fusion, a new system for creating digital assets with complexity that will open up a massive trait and in game item economy for NFT communities and games.
00:06:28.114 - 00:07:53.864, Speaker A: And last, we'll discuss the creator studio, a fully no code solution for creators that allows them to directly harness and unleash the power of the metaplex protocol across defi payments communications governance. We've seen the creative unlock as blockchain solutions become more cost efficient. Over the last year, we've been working closely with the Solana Labs team to introduce the next generation of minting and asset creation on Solana. Instead of storing the metadata for an asset directly in account space on Solana compression stores a cryptographic proof of metadata on chain, allowing for cost improvements in the multiple orders of magnitude while still maintaining decentralization as a core tenant. Since any independent actor can reconstruct the off chain data by reading the blockchain transaction history, this is a fundamental shift, and I can't wait to see what's next. Now in beta, with support from Solflare, Genesis, Go and Triton, Metaplex is ushering in the next generation of nfts on Solana by leveraging on chain compression to dramatically lower the cost to mint and store digital assets. This will solidify Solana's advantage as the most economically viable blockchain for nfts.
00:07:53.864 - 00:08:53.634, Speaker A: With this new method of minting and storage, an enterprise can mint 1 million nfts for five sol, compared with the current cost of 12,000 sol. That's a 99 point. I'm reading my notes, 996% discount. We're incredibly excited, and the conversations, even over the last few days, have made us even more bullish that not only does the Solana community recognize the opportunity, but has boundless creative energy to take this technology and to bring it into every major sector of the economy. If you are interested in being an early adopter, we'd love to hear from you. You'll see many of our team around the conference over the next couple days. You, of course, can dm us on Twitter or just yell at us on Twitter and we'll respond to that as well.
00:08:53.634 - 00:10:29.444, Speaker A: And we'd love to work with you. Okay, now for royalty enforcement, if you are on crypto Twitter, which I assume most of you are, it's been near impossible to have missed the rapidly evolving conversation and shifting community sentiment around royalties. With major marketplaces fighting to capture trading volumes by allowing sales on their platform that bypass creator royalties, we believe that this creates a structural risk to the NFT economy at large because it breaks the incentive alignment between creators and their communities. And these communities need solutions, and quickly. As a result, we're excited to announce that we will be extending token metadata, the base layer program for Solana NFTs to provide on chain royalty enforcement for both new and existing collection collections by introducing two new asset classes. The royalties non fungible asset class is an NFT that can only be transferred through new instructions on token metadata, and identity is a new asset class introduced alongside of it that will enable free transfers between wallets owned by the same person. On Friday, we released the full tech spec on how this new system will work, balancing the need to prevent attack vectors on one side while also preserving the composability and portability that makes NFTs so unique and in the spirit of building in the open building open source, we love the sauce.
00:10:29.444 - 00:12:03.022, Speaker A: We are looking to find a solution that balances interests across the community and will be taking feedback and iterating on the design over the next couple weeks before it's finalized. Already had some amazing conversations. There's obviously strong opinions on this topic, but ultimately our view here is that the community deserves choice, and that while this won't be the perfect solution for everyone, it will be an option that many creators will find appealing and will be eager to experiment with. However, I do think it's important. I won't go into the sort of the details of the technical design, but I do think it's important to call out that one aspect that's unique about this solution is that because it extends token metadata, we are able to support existing collections, or the majority of existing collections in migrating to the new royalties non fungible asset class, should they choose to do so. And even more excitingly, as of this morning, I'm pleased to announce that ute's will be the first collection to migrate to the new asset class. I really want to emphasize the significance and the impact that the dlabs and the dust labs team have had in the growth of the Solana NFT ecosystem.
00:12:03.022 - 00:12:55.614, Speaker A: I want to shout out Frank and Kevin, who are once again pushing the edge of what's possible on the back of an incredible drop using the third generation of candy machine. I know this is just the beginning and you know, let's try some new shit out, as they say. Let's go. If you have an existing collection and are interested in moving over, we'd love to hear from you. While we don't believe this solution will be right for everyone, again, we do strongly believe it's fundamentally important for creators to have choice, and that's exactly what we're providing. All right, up next, Fusion. Today we're excited to announce Fusion a new capability in the metaplex protocol that enables the creation of composable nfts by letting you combine multiple assets into a new one in Mainnet.
00:12:55.614 - 00:13:35.544, Speaker A: Now, as of a couple days ago, Metaplex now has a token owned escrow primitive within token metadata that allows nfts to behave like wallets themselves. Because fusion nfts are Metaplex NFts, they are fully compatible with all existing marketplaces and wallets. And developers like Coinboy have already started building on Fusion. This is an example of what a trait marketplace and customization experiences on Fusion will look like. The crypto gauntlet is very rare. I'm going to actually now for a deeper look, kick over to Danny from Cave World to give you a demo of how this can unlock the in game item economy.
00:13:41.124 - 00:14:21.960, Speaker B: Bitcoin developers my name is Danny. I'm the cto of Cave world. We're a 3d player versus player battle arena on Solana and I am excited to show you Fusion by Metaplex and what we're going to do with it. So a few words about Fusion. Fusion is a program that is on chain and it allows you to fuse multiple nfts together and treat them as one whole. Why is that exciting? It's exciting because it allows all sorts of use cases like tokenizing traits, creating dynamic stats that are tokenized and fused under the main player character or any NFT whatsoever. It allows you to compose with that process and watch it online and react to it on chain.
00:14:21.960 - 00:15:12.878, Speaker B: And you don't need any databases or any web, two helpers to make that happen. So we are going to use it for so many things. And the first one that I wanted to show you is a prototype that I made in just one day of a simple inventory system. So keep in mind that I did it here at Solana breakpoint in one day so you can do much better, much shorter once you get your hands on this. So this is running on a local instance on my computer and I have a Solana local validator running. And the concept is basically taking inventory items from the right and equipping it to the character on the left fully on chain. And then we're going to run a game, see if the game can load that up and show it in 3d.
00:15:12.878 - 00:15:52.538, Speaker B: So I'm going to equip a shield. And as you can see immediately we see that on chain the shield has been transferred to the character. Now behind the scenes what happened is that this was sent to an escrow account and that escrow account has a special slot for the left arm. So once I have that left arm slot filled in, I've set a specific permission with a constraint that allows me to only put one item in that specific slot. So it's really powerful. I'm gonna do iron shoes. Let's complete this look and just pick the rusty door armor.
00:15:52.538 - 00:16:12.904, Speaker B: These are all items from our upcoming game. We'll get the iron sword. Let's see. Did we forget anything? No, we have the full look. And what we're gonna do now is this freshly equipped character on chain. We're gonna pull that information and we're going to play it in 3d in our game. So this is our game.
00:16:12.904 - 00:16:48.684, Speaker B: Let's see. As you can see, we have Ark of the warrior with all of this stuff equipped. And let me show you how it looks. We've equipped on the character is loaded in real time from chain, and it's shown in 3d graphics. And this is just one simple use case. There's so much more exciting things that you can build with it, so I bet you can't wait to get your hands on it. And I'm so excited that I could show you this one little use case.
00:16:48.684 - 00:16:52.124, Speaker B: Keep building and bye bye.
00:16:58.924 - 00:17:14.864, Speaker A: Thank you, Danny. I think Danny's in the back there somewhere. Appreciate you, man. Fully composable, fully on chain complexity for NFTs is here. The in game item economy is here in Mainnet. Excited to build. Let's build some games.
00:17:14.864 - 00:17:58.364, Speaker A: Lastly, the creator studio. Since launch, we've heard from creators this is actually like the forever feedback in discord. I love Metaplex, but I don't have a developer to deploy my candy machine or to set up my drop. Creator Studio puts that to rest and allows creators to directly harness the power of the metaplex protocol and drop when and how they want. With over 50,000 creators currently on the waitlist, the response from the community and from creators across across all blockchains has been overwhelming. And this week we are opening up early access in the v one. The tool will provide no code setup for candy machine, open edition, limited edition, and mint pages.
00:17:58.364 - 00:18:45.998, Speaker A: And excited to announce that one of the first drops will be Klanosaurs, which provides studio level animation, professional execution, and a universal design that will take NFTs into the mainstream. There's no doubt that the next Disney will be born in web3, and the Klanosaurs team has the deep experience and the knowledge of web3 to capture that moment. We couldn't be more excited to work with them. All right, so that's coming to the end. Honestly, this is the best part of the job is shipping. So I know we've been running through quite a bit here, but before I go, I want to share one last bit of Alpha. In partnership with the render network.
00:18:45.998 - 00:19:13.906, Speaker A: We're excited to welcome beeple to Metaplex and Solana. Honestly, surreal even saying that out loud. Debuting the future of streaming and immersive 3d nfts. Now, I don't want to steal Jules Thunder, so I'm going to leave it at that. But I highly encourage you to come back tomorrow for his talk here at 1255 to learn more. Thank you all. It's a pleasure.
00:19:13.906 - 00:19:18.234, Speaker A: I hope to meet some of you outside later today, and let's keep building. Appreciate it.
