00:00:02.970 - 00:00:40.062, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Michael Saylor and MicroStrategy get sued for tax fraud Michael Saylor and MicroStrategy are being sued for tax fraud in Washington, DC. Carl A. Racine, attorney general for the District of Columbia, tweeted that Taylor is a billionaire tech executive who has lived in the District for more than a decade but has never paid any DC. Income taxes. In addition, Racine's office claims that MicroStrategy aided Sailor in his intent to evade taxes on his earnings. Sailor allegedly declared that he lived in Florida or Virginia, where state taxes are lower, instead of Washington, DC.
00:00:40.062 - 00:01:37.994, Speaker A: Where, according to the complaint filed last week, he lived in a luxury penthouse and docked multiple yachts on the District's Potomac waterfront from 2005 to present. Both Sailor and MicroStrategy deny the accusations. I respectfully disagree with the position of the District of Columbia and look forward to a fair resolution in the courts, said the former CEO of the company. The District of Columbia's claims against the company are false, added MicroStrategy in a statement. Racine estimates that the back taxes and penalties for both Taylor and MicroStrategy could total up to $100 million. Could this lawsuit put pressure on MicroStrategy to sell Bitcoin? This will likely just add to the pressure for them to capture cash on their Bitcoin position, especially if they have a large tax back bill, said Adam Cochrane after the news broke, the shares of MicroStrategy tumbled. 4% cloud service provider enforces ban on crypto mining or Staking after the Office of Foreign Assets Control sanctioned Tornado cash.
00:01:37.994 - 00:02:48.910, Speaker A: Cloud service provider Hertzner, which hosts more than 10% of Ethereum nodes, said that running any miners, including Ethereum miners or proof of stake validators on its cloud infrastructure, is a violation of their terms of service. The prohibition could mean that Ethereum would rely more heavily on cloud service providers like Amazon, making it more centralized and more prone to censorship. As the Ethereum community continued to discuss sanctions related censorship on Ethereum, Martin Coppelman proposed a shutterized beacon chain, which essentially aims to encrypt key transaction details so they cannot be censored by validators. Both validators and relays wouldn't know whether to censor a transaction as they wouldn't be able to see its sender or its recipient. Martin was on this Tuesday show with lawyer Drew Hinkus discussing what the sanctions mean for Ethereum as it moves to proof of stake, so make sure to listen. Arrested Tornado Cash developers'links to Russian espionage are denied Alexey Perzev, the web developer arrested in the Netherlands, possibly due to his work on Tornado cash, was accused of espionage for reportedly having worked at a company linked to the Russian secret service. Xenia Malik perzev's wife denied the accusations.
00:02:48.910 - 00:03:44.926, Speaker A: Alexei has never been associated with the FSB of the Russian Federation and similar organizations, she told CoinDesk. We moved to the Netherlands in the hope of a quiet, stable and free life, which is unimaginable in military Russia. Perzev is still under arrest, and there's still no clarity on the charges for which he was brought in. Is Dai going to abandon its USD peg? Rune Christensen, the co founder of MakerDAO, proposed a free floating model for the protocol's staplecoin Dai. Maker lets users mint Dai after depositing assets as collateral and is considered one of the OG DeFi applications. At the moment, there's almost $7 billion worth of Dai in circulation. Concerned about the sanctions on tornado cash and all of its Ramifications like circle freezing USDC and DFI front ends Censoring transactions, Christensen wants Maker to reduce its real world assets exposure, which would require Dai to free float away from the US dollar.
00:03:44.926 - 00:05:01.098, Speaker A: Tornado cash had extremely little exposure to RWA or real world assets and is highly decentralized, but that didn't stop it from being sanctioned, he said. Christensen's justification to DPEG is this as all other currencies pour fuel on the fire of the global financial Ponzi scheme that is already deeply in overshoot, we can prepare for the worst and focus on accumulating resilient collateral such as ETH or even eventually physically resilient RWA and build something that could end up meaning the difference between life and death for millions. The proposal sparked a ton of reactions within Maker. If you're looking for a great recap of the various camps within Maker and their positions, Greg DePrisco, the former head of business development at MakerDAO and the founder of RWA co wrote up a great tweet thread explaining the philosophies of these three groups, which he dubs the Futurists, the Centralists, and the Decentralists. By the way, if you're interested in the written version of the weekly news recap, sign up for my Bulletin newsletter at laurashin Bulletin.com, where you can get the links to everything mentioned in the recap. Speaking of stablecoins Tether, the issuer of the largest Stablecoin USDT denied a Wall Street Journal report that claimed the issuer might have problems with its balance sheet.
00:05:01.098 - 00:06:01.950, Speaker A: The company also said that it will provide monthly attestations starting in January. In swayed of criticism over the lack of a formal audit, avex stumbles upon wild accusations Crypto Leaks, an outlet that claims to reveal wrongdoings in crypto, posted a document accusing Ava Labs Disclosure, a sponsor of Unchained of using law firm Roche Friedman to initiate lawsuits against competitors like Solana for a strategic advantage. The accusations were categorically denied by Eman Gunser, the CEO and founder of Avalabs, which is the entity behind Avalanche, a layer one blockchain. Avalabs believes in transparency and facing the world head on, not through behind the scenes dealing or activity, said Sear in a statement. The document has not been corroborated to date. In addition, it appears that Cryptolinks is tied to a company called ICP, which is going through a fraud lawsuit brought by Roche Friedman. All three cryptolinks investigations can be linked to attacks on ICP, which calls into question the legitimacy of the accusations.
00:06:01.950 - 00:06:57.202, Speaker A: On Wednesday, Kyle Roche, founding partner of Roche Friedman withdrew as counsel from several class action lawsuits against crypto related businesses, including Tether, Bitfinex, Tron and Finance. AVAX, the native token of the avalanche network, fell 11% following the news, hitting a low of $17.56. However, it later recuperated almost all of its losses and is now trading at $19.30. Welcome to Crypto FBI On Tuesday, the FBI warned users about investing in DeFi platforms. Cybercriminals are increasingly exploiting vulnerabilities in decentralized finance or DeFi platforms to steal cryptocurrency, causing investors to lose money, the agency wrote. The public service announcement comes after the US Treasury sanctions on tornado cash, citing a report from the Blockchain analytics company Chainalysis, which described the $1.3 billion stolen in crypto during the first three months of this year.
00:06:57.202 - 00:07:55.220, Speaker A: The FBI asks people to research DFI protocols before using them. It also recommends that DFI platforms introduce better practices. In related news, Representative Raja Krishna Morthy sent a series of letters to regulatory agencies and some crypto exchanges. He requested information on how they are preventing crypto fraud and what actions they are taking to protect customers. I am concerned about the growth of fraud and consumer abuse linked to cryptocurrencies, he wrote. In addition, Reuters reported that US authorities have asked Finance to provide documentation on its antimoney laundering practices and also requested that the exchange provide communications between CEO Changpeng Zhao and twelve other executives. Speaking of regulation this week, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, which will be addressing how companies should handle accounting for crypto held on their balance sheets, has decided not to include NFTs in its cryptocurrency accounting project.
00:07:55.220 - 00:09:01.062, Speaker A: Final bit of regulatory news this week, asset manager Grayscale said that crypto tokens Stellar, Lumens, Zcash and Horizon may be securities after receiving queries from the SEC. Three Arrows Capital founder Suzu claims liquidator lied. Suzhou, the cofounder of bankrupt crypto fund Three Arrows Capital, claimed that Teneo, the company in charge of liquidating three AC's assets, misled the High court of Singapore. The claim comes days after the High Court of Singapore gave approval to Teneo to probe the local assets of the hedge fund, which means that Teneo would be able to request any financial information and dig deeper into the matter. According to Bloomberg, Zhu said the Liquidator had not provided an entirely complete or accurate version of events to the court. Also, for those interested in his whereabouts, which had been unknown, he delivered his affidavit in person in Thailand on August 19. Speaking of troubled crypto, lenders Celsius, which has been in bankruptcy proceedings since July, filed to reopen withdrawals for certain customers in the custody program and withhold accounts.
00:09:01.062 - 00:09:41.510, Speaker A: These accounts have deposits worth over $210,000,000 from more than 58,000 users. The filing will be discussed by the bankruptcy court in a hearing next month. Also, Singapore based lender Hodlnat was granted creditor protection to organize its Restructure on Tuesday, and Voyager, the bankrupt crypto lender, extended the deadline for its biding and restructuring processes. El Salvador's Bitcoin bond delayed again till later this year. Bitfinex and tether CTO. Paolo Arduino told Fortune that El Salvador's Bitcoin bond was delayed once again until later this year. Bitfinex was set to be the sole exchange provider.
00:09:41.510 - 00:10:19.714, Speaker A: El Salvador was the first country to adopt BTC as legal tender. About a year ago, the government also announced a Bitcoin bond, which would be used to build a bitcoin city. The release of the bond, also known as the Volcano Token, was originally slated to happen in March of this year. Time for Fun vids crypto com's expensive Mistake In May 2021, a woman from Melbourne asked for a refund of 100 Australian dollars from Cryptoexchange. Crypto.com, which disclosure is a sponsor of my shows. She got the surprise of her life when she received more than 10 million Australian dollars in her bank account.
00:10:19.714 - 00:10:46.170, Speaker A: It looks like someone mistakenly sent her more than 100,000 times her refund. The exchange didn't even realize the error until a Christmas time audit. By then, the money was gone. The woman had accepted the gift, bought a luxury mansion, and sent $500,000 to her daughter. Crypto.com has now initiated legal action against this woman, asking for the funds to be returned. If this had happened with Crypto, the $10 million would have been lost forever.
00:10:46.170 - 00:11:15.620, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about a 16 z's new NFT licenses, check out the show notes for this episode. Get exclusive access to more of my content through bulletin subscribe. For interviews you won't find on the Unchained podcast, visit laurashin Bulletin.com slash subscribe unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin pulled up from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Juanovanovich Pamba, Jimdar Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening. It.
