00:00:01.450 - 00:00:20.240, Speaker A: Next up, we have fast tackle here in the chat, a presentation on NFTs using IPFS. I'll let them give the introduction that I cannot more than welcome to start your presentation when you're ready.
00:00:23.250 - 00:00:27.800, Speaker B: Great meeting you, Luke. Thanks a lot. Do you mind if I share screen?
00:00:28.250 - 00:00:30.040, Speaker A: Go for it, go for it.
00:00:31.530 - 00:00:37.842, Speaker B: So it's telling me here you cannot start screen share while the other participant is sharing. Oh, here we go.
00:00:37.916 - 00:00:38.860, Speaker A: There we go.
00:00:42.110 - 00:00:59.870, Speaker B: Great. Yeah. So. Thanks, Luca. Great meeting you. We launched a protocol on Wednesday called K Spec. So this presentation has come together pretty quickly, sort of hacked it together overnight.
00:00:59.870 - 00:02:16.760, Speaker B: But before we jump in, I'll just give a very quick background on myself and the collective that I'm contributing since March. Well, from the very beginning, I've been contributing to this collective called Canon, which is a group of senior museum curators and conservators who are operating pseudonymously. So they all sort of work at the top art institutions of the world. And then a few of us are also technologists and with backgrounds in crypto, Djens, basically sort of react engineers and solidity engineers. Myself, personally, I'm not an engineer, but I've spent a lot of time sort of developing software products, semi proficient in node, but also a very avid NFT collector since about December. So, very briefly, I topped the charts in super rare until the actual real whales started moving in. Around January was when it really started taking off.
00:02:16.760 - 00:03:04.630, Speaker B: But the protocol that we've developed really came out of the issues that I was seeing in my own collecting. So when I started collecting, I found myself developing very close and fun relationships with a whole bunch of NFT artists. And we were running up into a lot of constraints and satisfactions with the way that these NFTs are structured. So Kspec is, first of all, it's open source, it's permissionless. It's completely on chain. And what it does is it gives artists unconstrained freedom to create. So we'll go into some of the constraints, the most common constraints that they end up encountering.
00:03:04.630 - 00:04:01.366, Speaker B: And then for collectors, for people like myself also, these things I made the mistake very early on of peeking under the hood, and there's some real serious issues there in terms of how long these things will actually last. And also provenance is very brittle, which we'll get into. And then for NFTs, the protocol gives them adaptability and updatability. So normally, NFTs, as many of you might be aware, they're immutable both at the token level and also at the contract level. And so the protocol gives the artwork that these artists are creating updatability and adaptability. So the protocol actually works with any NFT. So this is super important to me because I spent an irresponsible amount of ETH on NFTs.
00:04:01.366 - 00:05:15.060, Speaker B: So this protocol works with any NFT, even if they've already been minted, and there's no need to stake or burn or otherwise encumber your NFT. It's non invasive. So, as I said, we launched on Wednesday and I thought when we were putting this together, I had an inkling that this might be big. And I'm getting more and more conviction that actually this is a game changer for NFTs. So diving into what the actual problem was that we were looking to solve, a lot of you might be familiar with this, but I'll just go through it just to make sure that everybody's aware as to how these things work at the low level. So typically an NFT is a smart contract and there are thousands of these that have been deployed and each one of them so say that the structure of an ERC 721, which is the most common standard, is effectively you can think of it as like a table with rows, and each row is a token. And tokens have a token Uri property that then returns a single link.
00:05:15.060 - 00:06:09.262, Speaker B: Or you can also pass like bytes, or the token Uri can respond with a package of bytes. But effectively it's just like a static response, string response that is returned by the contract. And then it also tracks an address that controls the ownership of each token. So that's at the contract level. And practically the way that platforms implement the contracts is if you're an artist and you want to create an NFT, put a file, best practice, obviously save it on IPFS sometimes. Or you can return bytes directly because obviously that's on chain. But for practical purposes, the platforms restrict what you can upload.
00:06:09.262 - 00:07:05.886, Speaker B: This is Rarible. So it's 100 megabytes, super rare, or restricted to 50 megabytes. And crucially, it's generally just one file that you can upload. So basically an NFT at the moment, if you're trying to create an NFT and if you're trying to create art, you have to squeeze everything into a single 50 to 100 megabytes file. So when you're trying to do that, that really chokes creativity. And one thing that for me, because I'm not from an art background, the very first NFT that I collected was the very first piece of art that I collected, that was in December 2020. And what took me a bit of time to realize and then obviously then working very closely with these museum conservatives, is that digital art has been around for decades, right, and artists have not been facing they don't face constraints when they're creating.
00:07:05.886 - 00:08:57.394, Speaker B: So for them, it's really torturous to have these wonderful creations and then having to try to jam it into a single megabyte file. So that ends up being that, for instance, like this anima music video, normally the artist is working in ProRes or four K, and those files are this file is actually 4GB. And so how are you going to squeeze that into 50 megabytes? Well, you're facing the choice of that either really degrading the art, degrading the resolution, or clipping the length, or both, which is just awful. Right? So you can serve the file offline but then it's not connected to the NFT. So that's probably the most common limitation that I encountered in my own collecting and also that I hear artists most frustrated by but then know in the real world, art is actually often more complex than just a single file. So for instance, this is an art piece by an artist called Rachel Rose, which is actually a multi part installation. So how do you represent something that's got multiple parts in an NFT that's very challenging and then with an area that's particularly of interest to to me given, you know, I really love these, you know, sort of like 3D avatars is, you know, these it's basically the three moment is in a very nascent stage.
00:08:57.394 - 00:09:41.490, Speaker B: So the ecosystem is evolving very rapidly and the formats change. And as an artist it's very risky to commit to any particular format because right now sort of GLBs, gltfs are the formats, but even those have all sorts of variations that change over time. So if you have to commit to a file upfront and then you can't update it, you're not going to stick it into the NFT. So some of the solutions that you're seeing are off chain. Like in mebis, for instance, this is just coming off their own server. So there are some hacks around it. But you can see here to me at least when I see this, this is Sir Ten Berners Lee NFT.
00:09:41.490 - 00:10:35.110, Speaker B: So sometimes the solutions that people come to is like try to jam everything into the description field of an NFT. But even this you can't change subsequently. So the solution that we came to, by the way, this is a problem that's very well understood and there are some solutions, a lot of the solutions that we've seen are sort of hacks, right? Like this one where you try to jam everything into a description. The other one is like trying to attack the problem at the smart contract level. But the problem is that then obviously everything that's been created before, you're not going to be able to take advantage of that. So say my NFTs do not benefit from somebody launching a new smart contract. But also these smart contracts, they're difficult to untangle, difficult to understand.
00:10:35.110 - 00:12:01.954, Speaker B: And if you've got like three, four competing alternatives and you're an artist and it took me 2 hours, right, to disentangle how the smart contract works, how that contract worked, and then if you're on super rare, if you use another contract, then you're migrating away from that platform, it can get pretty messy. Pretty quickly they start trying to solve this at the smart contract level. So for us, the solution came from two insights. One of them is philosophical and one of them is technical. So from a philosophical perspective, the insight is that the NFT is not actually the artwork. So all the NFT is it's a certificate of ownership that gets passed back and forth and there's no point trying to jam your artwork unless your artwork is just simple, just like a GIF or an image or a single low resolution video, then it might work. But if it's anything more complex than that, and as I said, the vast majority of the art outside of NST is generally much more complex, then you're just going to end up massacring your art to try to squeeze it into that.
00:12:01.954 - 00:13:25.440, Speaker B: So just treat it as a certificate and then develop the art in a fully expressive parallel state. And that is where the artist has complete freedom to decide and to describe and to secure what the art is and have that parallel state being inextricably tied to the NFT. So that's all very well said and that's all very well, but how do you actually pull that off? So that's where the technical insight came in, where all NFTs, so all NFT contracts, ERC 721s, ERC 1155s, they have a function called self transfer, sorry, safe transfer from and the parameters for that function are a from address, a to address and a token ID. So those are the three ones that normally get used. And then there's a fourth parameter in there called the data parameter. And sorry, I should have screenshot it here, but I didn't put it in here. But that fourth parameter is the key to unlocking this parallel state because in that fourth parameter, that data parameter, you can pass it any arbitrary string sorry, that has to be invites, but you can pass it any arbitrary data.
00:13:25.440 - 00:14:27.170, Speaker B: And that's what we use to construct this parallel state. So we pass a carefully constructed data package where we then describe on chain what the artwork is. So what you're looking at here is an actual live example of an artwork by an artist called Yanasutila. So we created the token and then in the parallel state we created a data package which I'll show you shortly because it actually relies very heavily on IPFS. We pass a data package where we describe the artwork and it includes a 1.8 gigabyte ProRes version of the artwork which doesn't fit into the super NFT. And then we define a valid case pick transaction as a transaction where Yena sends the NFT to herself and so that records the dotted package on chain and then she sent us the NFT.
00:14:27.170 - 00:15:38.200, Speaker B: Then imagine in six months time, yena comes up with a cool idea about adding like a 360 version video. So like a VR version of the video, what we would do is we would send the token back to Yena and obviously there are non custodial ways of doing this, but at the moment we're just manually doing it right where we send the NFT back to Yena and then she know an updated data package. So again, this is all on chain and that will add the additional asset to the NFT. She does self transfer to record that and then she sends it back to us. So if this were, for instance, like a 3D avatar and some new platform had emerged or file formats had moved on, then as an artist you're not too stressed about that because you can always update the parallel state and it's also much more expressive. You can express whatever you want in that state. So I'll go through a quick demo.
00:15:38.200 - 00:16:32.934, Speaker B: As I said, we launched on Wednesday and we've got a quick demo application. So Anima and Marigold, they actually created this music video. So this is the first full resolution, full length NFT of a music video that we used K spec for. And what I'll link to now is our demo application which is we've called IDDQD and you can pass it any NFT smart, so any 721 or 1155 smart contract and a token ID. And it's going to read directly off chain whether it finds any valid case spec data package. So in this case it found one. And you can see here that we've defined a case spec as having three components.
00:16:32.934 - 00:17:15.602, Speaker B: This just described what kind of case spec it is and this is a header. And then the body is where we actually store the metadata and the actual data. So there's one area that I'll just quickly take you to, which is the credits because this in and of itself is a know. I personally find this super exciting. So what you're seeing here, this is anima's address and this is Marigold's address. So immediately here we can see that they're both signing this and actually in the header, I won't go into the details. In the header you can actually see a hash confirmation, signature confirmation from Marigold who's the co author.
00:17:15.602 - 00:18:01.142, Speaker B: So here you already have a system for multiple people attesting to the providence of go to. If you follow that transaction. Actually here in our application, if you type the path parameter ID at the end it'll actually take you to who made this NFT. And again, all of this is on chain. And here let me inspect the second result which is Marigold and we'll go all the way to her records. I mean there's metadata on her identity which I won't go into, but you can explore I'll link this in the chat if you guys want to explore that, everything that's in there. But just very quickly I'll show you again.
00:18:01.142 - 00:18:40.834, Speaker B: This is all on chain here in the storage. What we have is data replication. So we've got fallbacks, so we've got a centralized URL which will facilitate fast sharing but also decentralized alternatives. As I said, it relies heavily on IPFS. Rweave we use as well, but anything bigger than a gigabyte really is not practical to use Rweave. So just click here just to quickly show what that looks like. So this is Marigold reading her ID.
00:18:40.834 - 00:19:45.222, Speaker B: So the beauty of this as a collector is I don't have to rely on say, Sotheby's or even super. I trust them, right, to verify this. But I can now verify this for myself on chain. And even more importantly, machines can pull this information without having to send an email right to soda these and going like, hey, how did you verify that this thing is actually made by the person who made it, who says they made it? And also it allows people to use platforms like say like Zora or OpenSea to create these things and have an inbuilt provenance chain. So basically there's no reason for there to be fake NFTs now basically, which is one of the big problems in these permissionless environments actually, I think I've covered the storage component right. But yeah, as I said, you can go through and inspect this. There's a lot packed in there.
00:19:45.222 - 00:20:37.560, Speaker B: Let me see if there's anything quickly interest. Oh, one thing that's interesting here is that we've defined like a distribution element so that pulls things from storage as required. So again, if there's some new application that emerges that requires a particular format for the NFT to be ingested, you can just define a new element here that serves that particular application. It could be like decentraland or spatial or something like so every NFT you can define an arbitrary number of records and you can also define an arbitrary number of components to the artwork. So I'll leave it there. But if there are questions as to this actual structure, we can cover that. Here it is.
00:20:37.560 - 00:21:27.362, Speaker B: Okay, so as I said, we launched on Wednesday. So what sucks for us is to at the moment we're implementing these manually in collaboration with platforms and selective platforms and selected artists. But we want to put this in everybody's hands. So first step is developing docs. We then need to create a graphical user interface to sort of broaden the number of people that can actually use this. We need to build applications. So for example, what this enables is like cross platform staff, aggregators and sort of attribution as well, which is a big problem right now where if you're a Minter and you have collaborator, the Minter is going to get the stats for the sale, which has a big impact on artist earning capability.
00:21:27.362 - 00:22:02.100, Speaker B: So those are the things building applications and we've got a fantastic team of engineers working with us, but we're looking for help as well to help build out this protocol because we're going to need a lot of hands. We're already seeing a ton of demand and we've been warned by some platforms to get ready to scale up because we're seeing a lot of demand from the artists and the collector side. So yeah, I'll pause there and yeah, Luke, thanks a lot for the opportunity.
00:22:03.910 - 00:22:29.180, Speaker A: Of course, we're happy to have you. We're excited for the launch, know, sort of following up on that. I know you mentioned there's been a positive reception so far, but how have things been going? I mean, you just launched, I guess, for some of the hackers here who are interested. What could you use specific help with, or potentially what could they use this tech for in their projects going forward for the next three weeks?
00:22:30.530 - 00:23:44.660, Speaker B: Yeah, so we're trying to work that out ourselves. I mean, I think where we're going to start, I think any application that sort of helps someone create this data package, like, imagine an artist, right, that doesn't know how to handle JSON, doesn't have like hashdeep or whatever installed on their command line. An application that would construct this, validate the schema for it. That would be something super interesting and that artists would find. Because what we're seeing right now is we've got a ton of artists who are DMing us with the stuff that they haven't been able to create because they were facing the limitations that they did in NFTs and they're saying, how do I create a case back? And the best I can tell them is, okay, we're going to get you docs soon, very soon. So anything that can help them create this thing for themselves, I can basically give you like a list of ten people who would be ready tomorrow to start to start implementing it.
00:23:45.530 - 00:24:05.020, Speaker A: That's excellent. Yeah. There's been so much expansion in the NFT space, specifically over the past year. I think everyone, like the question on everyone's tongue is sort of like what will be next? Where I guess, do you expect things to be maybe next year? In a perfect world?
00:24:06.430 - 00:25:25.570, Speaker B: Yeah, well, in a perfect world, all artists, we can even handle anonymous identities as well. We've got like an Attestation system that we can use with this. So I think all artists have verified their identity on chain, and then for anything more complex than a video or a GIF, then creating this structure for those NFTs on chain and then that just opens up a whole ton of possibilities. You could use this for journals, for instance. I'd love to see this being implemented for academic journals. Right. And VR AR, let me put it this way, I would love to see the complexity of the art just explode and to be surprised in a year from now going like, holy crap.
00:25:25.570 - 00:25:48.234, Speaker B: We thought that 3D avatars were cool and we thought that in a year's time everybody would have their 3D avatars in an NFT, which we're working on, by the way, but being there in twelve months ago, yeah, we did that, but this other thing that we just never saw coming, that would be pretty cool. Yeah.
00:25:48.432 - 00:26:00.000, Speaker A: There's just a myriad of possibilities. A sort of super nuanced question for you here, if you could explain for us in the call right now how the parallel state works.
00:26:01.730 - 00:26:41.334, Speaker B: How the parallel state works? Yeah. So by parallel state we basically mean a state for the artwork right. At the moment here. So this is a token, right? So token two 60 90 on super rare. So that's a real token. And this all exists right now. And the state of the artwork at this point includes a 50 megabyte file, which is a low res file used for serving on the Internet.
00:26:41.334 - 00:27:26.330, Speaker B: And it includes a pro res, almost two gigabyte file. So you can think of it as Ethereum is a state machine, right? So at any particular point in time, it's like a snapshot of what the data is. So that's what we mean by parallel states at this point. This is the state of the artwork. Then if you want to modify that casepec, has permissioning built at the lowest level. So that, for instance, I can't just modify this myself. So the way we enforce that is by defining a valid case spec as one where the artist has to send the artwork to herself.
00:27:26.330 - 00:27:57.880, Speaker B: If K 21 sent this to themselves, which just would be ignored by the protocol, but because here she sent it to herself, we know that both K 21, which is our collection, and the artist consented to this updating of the artwork. So here, this was the state before and this is the state now, and the new state includes an additional file. So I don't know if that answers the no, that makes sense.
00:27:58.810 - 00:28:27.440, Speaker A: I appreciate the definition being pretty synonymous with the syntax chosen. As far as next steps for you guys, I know you've sort of mentioned what your plans post rollout are. Maybe delving back into that a little bit for case spec. You've got the applications you're hoping to build, and if you could just, I think, go a little bit further into that for people who are still with us. I'd be pretty interested to see what you're working on.
00:28:28.050 - 00:29:34.126, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. You can always take you step by step as to where we're going. I think first we're going to start with an application that allows people to create their casepec IDs because those data packages are very standardized. That's a good place to start. And also, it also helps artists prepare for when they have a product because you require a case spec ID to create a valid case. We've got a product designer, right? And so, again, we launched this on Wednesday, so we haven't really exactly defined how that looks like, but our product designer is fantastic, and we'll come up with a great UX for creating that UI. Then I think the next step would be creating UI that tackles the 90% use case, which is that artists run into this like 50 megabyte, 100 megabyte limit.
00:29:34.126 - 00:30:28.758, Speaker B: And what they actually want to do is they want people to experience a three gigabyte file on an LCD screen, whether it's at a gallery or in the collector's helm. So there we're talking about actually constructing a graphical interface for constructing a standardized case. I always I think there's always going to be room for someone like Canon. But it doesn't have to be just us, but someone like Canon creating these more bespoke ones. Like, we did one, for instance, for a website that the artwork is actually like an entire self contained website. So that takes a bit more thought and those are going to be a bit harder to handle in a standardized way. But 90% of the artwork is at the moment anyway, right? 90% of artists will be able to use this graphical interface and get their artwork done.
00:30:28.758 - 00:31:52.570, Speaker B: And it also might serve as like a reference implementation for any platform that wants to just sort of build that in into their own applications. And we also are quite interested in this idea of matching collectors and artists and then sort of like developing a noncustodial way, because at the moment, as I mentioned, the permissioning system requires you to send the token to the artist. I'm not particularly concerned about the security of that because most of the time, the likelihood that a legitimate artist is going to run away with their own token, that'd be disastrous for them. But still, obviously for completeness, it'd be good to have like a noncustodial solution. But more than that, to be able to do it, asynchronously I think is important, and hence why I think if you've got that capability for the noncustodial, where someone could deposit the token and then have that performed at some point, and then that would be super useful. And then, as I mentioned, like these applications that read sales. So sales statistics in particular.
00:31:52.570 - 00:33:17.500, Speaker B: And this is something that artists have actually shared with us. It's very difficult right now because each platform has their own way of tracking sales statistics, even though everything's on chain or should be on chain, but also things like, say, in this Anima video, this is a collaboration between Anima, who's the music artist, and Marigold, who. She's the visual artist or the 3D animator, and Anima minted the work on Super Rare, and he received the credit for whatever it was like 21 Ether or something like that. And Marigold did not like on the platform. She did not there's no way for Super Rare at the moment, right, to make that attribution because the credit is provided, like in the description, it's not machine readable, but with K spec, it's completely machine readable because it's very well structured and defined. And it's that's that's one application we're very interested in because it directly helps artists to have somewhere where they can show the track record of the sales and everything which is super critical to what they can expect to get for subsequent works.
00:33:18.510 - 00:33:43.086, Speaker A: I love it. I can immediately see the value for the creators going forward, especially in this sort of decentralized economy. That's going to be incredibly important. I want to thank you for presenting today and showing us everything that you've been working on. I'm really excited for your team, and really, I guess we can also we're proud of the developments being made on your side. So thank you. Thank you again for all of your time today.
00:33:43.268 - 00:33:45.700, Speaker B: Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Luke thanks, everyone.
