00:00:00.320 - 00:00:43.462, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 9 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think the biggest news from the last 24 hours was that El Salvador, a small country in Latin America, basically voted to adopt bitcoin as legal tender in the country. Now, I mean, I've got a lot of thoughts about this, some kind of like, I guess good, some not so good. So I wanted to give my kind of quick thoughts around this. As someone who is like in Ethereum and Ethereum and spends a lot of time in the ethereum ecosystem and not much time in the bitcoin ecosystem, I want to start by saying that I think that this is overall bullish for crypto in general.
00:00:43.462 - 00:01:27.404, Speaker A: I think that these sorts of events just further legitimize crypto in the world's kind of eyes here. Now, in saying that, I can guarantee that most of the world doesn't even know that El Salvador exists. It's just, you know, kind of the way it is here. And I guarantee a lot of people even in the crypto ecosystem, didn't know what El Salvador was. Maybe they had heard of it, but they didn't know kind of like that it was its own kind of sovereign country that was in Latin America. And that's just, I think, speaking the truth at the end of the day. But, but in saying that, I think, you know, once more people kind of learn about this and they see that this kind of like sovereign, sovereign condemnation here and then other, maybe potentially other ones, kind of, you know, that they may be small, but, but the fact that they're adopting kind of like a cryptocurrency as legal tender is a really big deal, I think.
00:01:27.404 - 00:02:11.570, Speaker A: So specifically talking about El Salvador here, they've done it in a way where there's, the bill itself has a bunch of different kind of like articles in it. The ones that stuck out to me was, I guess, people being able to use whatever wallet they wanted to use so they didn't have to use any kind of like government sanctioned wallet or whatever. The government has their own kind of wallet. You can use that that's built by some lightning network team called Strike, which is obviously centralized in custodial and all that sort of stuff. But then they also said you can use kind of like other wallets when, when doing these sorts of stuff. And they, they want to support lightning network as well, which I thought was a bit odd because I think lightning Network is so far away from being ready and on, like ready for kind of any type of adoption. And I also think that lightning network is kind of a little bit of a dead end.
00:02:11.570 - 00:02:34.922, Speaker A: I think there are fundamental problems with it that I don't think can be solved. But we'll see. We'll see how that kind of like plays out there. And the other kind of bigger, big piece of it was that given that bitcoin is now legal tender, every business within El Salvador has to accept bitcoin as a form of payment. They don't have to do it starting today. There's like a grace period and all that sort of stuff, but they have to except bitcoin. Now this is where I kind of have like a little bit of sour thoughts on this.
00:02:34.922 - 00:03:39.358, Speaker A: And I, and I get why this is a thing because if something is legal tender, then, you know, it obviously has to be accepted by businesses. And that's, that's kind of like the legal definition here. But what I kind of have an issue with is it just feels coercive because what if people don't want to accept bitcoin? I know that you can accept bitcoin and directly convert it to USD or some other kind of currency, but what if businesses just don't want to do it? What if it's too much of a headache for them? What if they don't want to go through the process of doing this and now they're forced to do it like by law? They have to, they have to accept it. They have to accept it because it is legal tender in the country. And this to me just goes against, I guess, like the bitcoin kind of, I guess, spirit and the kind of like bitcoiner, I guess, mission or at least values, I should say, sorry, where they're heavily libertarian, where they believe, you know, in true freedom that people should be able to do whatever they want, essentially. But isn't it very coercive to force people into using bitcoin, to accepting bitcoin? I'm sorry, not to use it, but like into, into accepting it for kind of like goods and services at their business and things like that. So that's where I kind of, like draw, I guess, like some, some kind of like sourness in, in this announcement here.
00:03:39.358 - 00:04:11.814, Speaker A: And I also think that a lot of it looks like a publicity stunt because, as I said, the lighting network isn't ready for this sort of stuff at all. And they don't have to use the lightning network, but using layer one bitcoin is not made for, for payments. In no way isn't made for payments. So it does heavily rely on the lightning network. And I also think that it's just going to be something that takes a long time to be adopted. I don't expect, like all the businesses in El Salvador to be, you know, to be doing most of their transactional activity in bitcoin anytime soon. For those who don't know, I think this is the case that El Salvador doesn't have its own currency.
00:04:11.814 - 00:04:43.682, Speaker A: It just piggybacks off the US dollar and uses the USD as their national currency. I think that is the case. Might be wrong there. But if that is the case, well, then I don't see them switching off USD to something like bitcoin. Especially because bitcoin is volatile and especially because the kind of like the merchants are not going to hold bitcoin or at least not going to hold most of their sales in bitcoin. They're going to go to USD anyway. So from that perspective, I guess, you know, I'm a bit, kind of like, eh, about that.
00:04:43.682 - 00:05:16.774, Speaker A: But at the same time, as I said at the start, I think just it's overall bullish for legitimacy of crypto in general because it starts with the smaller nations and then it probably goes beyond that. I think it goes to medium sized and then eventually to the large sized nation nations. And it means crypto now pretty much has a front seat at, in the, in the geopolitical sphere where you're going to see different countries react kind of like differently to crypto. Some of them are going to ban it outright. Some of them are going to adopt it. Some of them are going to put them on their balance sheet. Some of them are going to do what El Salvador does and make it legal tender.
00:05:16.774 - 00:05:57.332, Speaker A: And for those countries that kind of like, don't adopt crypto, they just left behind in my eyes. And this goes for all of crypto, not just bitcoin, like a theorem, of course, and, and defy and, you know, other, other cryptocurrencies out there, other crypto assets that kind of like hold promise and hold value here. So that's what I'm most bullish on, is that legitimacy. And I've spoken about this before, how I thought something like a CBDC was also lending legitimacy to crypto because it was basically the government saying, well, we, you know, we know that this thing, this thing exists. We don't want to necessarily use something like bitcoin, but we're happy to build our own version of it. And, yeah, it's a centralized. It's like, completely against everything that crypto stands for.
00:05:57.332 - 00:06:22.024, Speaker A: But it is still kind of like a. A cryptocurrency to most people. Because at the end of the day, most people look at this industry and they see if something's digitally native, if there's no physical aspect to it, like, obviously with. With fear, there's a physical aspect to it. There's a. The note, the dollar notes you can hold in your hand, or the coins or whatever, or, you know, whatever, whatever fiat it is. And then to make it digital, you kind of, like, put it into a bank account and kind of get an IOU.
00:06:22.024 - 00:06:38.624, Speaker A: Whereas with. With crypto, it is digitally native. It is bear, it's a bearer asset. It's. It's. There's no physical kind of aspect to it that no one prints. Like, you can print a paper wallet, but it's not the same thing where you print a paper wallet and has its private key on it, and you can kind of give, you know, some crypto to someone.
00:06:38.624 - 00:06:53.400, Speaker A: It's not the same thing. Cause it's created digitally first, whereas, you know, when. When money is printed, um, at least, uh, you know, for the longest time, I think it's a bit different these days. But for traditionally, when money is printed, it's. It's physically printed. Now. I think they actually can just change numbers in a computer.
00:06:53.400 - 00:07:17.274, Speaker A: So, you know, the lines are getting blurred there. Um, but that, yeah, generally, that's why I think that this kind of movie is just more of a legitimacy boost to crypto rather than something that's gonna translate directly to adoption. And I do think that the lightning network is not fit for this purpose at all. Bitcoin is not fit for this at all. I don't think bitcoin can be a good currency because of its volatility. I don't. And saying that, I don't think ETH can be a good currency either.
00:07:17.274 - 00:07:50.048, Speaker A: I mean, like, ETH is money, but it is not a good money because it is not stable. Maybe it becomes stable one day in the future, but I'm much more interested in stable coins, and in particular, stable coins that are not pegged to the USD. So, obviously, there's a lot of algorithmic stable coins out there that have failed that look like Ponzi schemes, and they just outright scam some of them. But I think there are very interesting experiments happening right now. In particular, one called rye from reflexer labs, which basically uses ethers, collateral, and pegs to itself. Now, this is not proven or anything like that. This has not been proven out at scale.
00:07:50.048 - 00:08:27.624, Speaker A: This is still very much an open experiment. But for me, I want to see if so, what I want to see play out in terms of, like, adoption of these things is I want Ethereum to be the backbone of the new financial system. I want east to be the asset that backs that up through its money ness and store of value properties. And in saying that, I don't mean as like a minimum of exchange or a unit of account for the ecosystem. I mean as a trustless store of value, trustless collateral used in staking, right. All that sort of stuff. And I want it to be the economic bandwidth of this new system, whereas the money that we use, in my mind, needs to be like a stable coin that is not pegged to USD.
00:08:27.624 - 00:09:00.980, Speaker A: Now, this is all long term thinking here. I don't think this is going to happen anytime soon because there's a lot of things to iron out here. But again, this El Salvador news is a stepping stone on Crypto's journey to getting more and more legitimacy. Legitimacy over time. And as I've said time and time again, like I've said it like a lot on the refuel, the leap from non crypto to bitcoin is much larger than the leap from bitcoin to ETH. So wherever bitcoin goes, ETH is very, very close behind it. And I don't have no doubts in my mind that these nation states won't just stop at bitcoin.
00:09:00.980 - 00:09:34.206, Speaker A: I think that that will create, that will put, like other things as legal tender. I think that they will work to kind of deploy services to defi, to etherium, use stable coins, stuff like that. So this is going to be very interesting. We have now, I think you could, you could basically mark the last 24 hours as the time that crypto officially entered the geopolitical sphere. And it's going to get wild from here. So, yeah, those are my general thoughts on what happened with this. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of deeper thoughts, specifically around what this means for bitcoin and lightning network and all that sort of stuff on bitcoin, a podcast.
00:09:34.206 - 00:10:09.644, Speaker A: You can probably go check those out. I don't really listen to those, as you might imagine, but I can imagine that they're going to be an interesting listen to get more kind of details here. So if that's something you're interested in, keep an eye out for that. But on that note, I'm going to move on for today. So the index co op or at least David Silverman, who helps out the index co op here, shared a post today that they are looking for feedback on this internship program that they are interested in kind of like building out here. So if you want to kind of, I guess, give your feedback here or kind of like put any of your thoughts down, be sure to do so. Jump into the forum here and do this.
00:10:09.644 - 00:10:46.952, Speaker A: Um, but this also speaks to what I was talking about, I guess, yesterday, and I had a lot of people reach out, actually, about this, where I said that right now, it is so kind of like maybe, maybe easy is not the right word, but there's so many opportunities to get a job in crypto. There's so many teams hiring for not just developer roles, but for every role you can think of. And there's so many daos hiring. There's so many things you can contribute to, literally. You know, the. I think the easiest way to get a job or to start working in this ecosystem is to join a discord channel of your favorite project. Ask the existing team members or the existing contributors what you can do to help, and then just do it.
00:10:46.952 - 00:11:07.876, Speaker A: Um, you know, maybe you just do it for free or for, for a little bit of compensation, but this is your way of getting experience. This is your way of becoming a contributor. This is your way of building a name for yourself. Because really, at the end of the day, it's about building your network out and building a name for yourself. And I think that's what a lot of people tend to miss, is that a lot of career building is network building. And maybe you're an introvert. You don't enjoy doing that, and that's fine.
00:11:07.876 - 00:11:44.272, Speaker A: I mean, I'm an introvert. Like, I might not come across as that, but I am definitely an introvert. Talking to people too long at conferences burns me out really badly, and I end up kind of like going home early. I don't really go to the parties or anything like that. But in saying that, I mean, I found with being an introvert is that when I'm behind my computer and just typing to people, talking to people, um, it's, it's much easier for me to do so I don't get exhausted or anything from that. And in saying that you can remain anonymous if you want to, you don't have to be known. There are a lot of teams out there and a lot of daos out there specifically that will take you on and pay you, and you can stay completely anonymous because there's no kind of like, need to know who you are.
00:11:44.272 - 00:12:06.258, Speaker A: At the end of the day, they're paying you tokens from like a treasury. And your reputation is your work. It doesn't matter who you are. You can be literally anyone from anywhere in the world. No one needs to know, no one needs to care. As long as you're doing the work that is required, that is what you're compensated based on, which I think is really, really awesome. So yeah, if you're interested in learning more about this DAO internship program for the index co op, check out this thread.
00:12:06.258 - 00:12:38.178, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But now I'll move on to some massive announcements from Polygon today. So Polygon scan, Polygon's version of Etherscan, is now live, which is amazing. It is such a breath of fresh air because, you know, a lot of us have been using Polygon's existing block explorer Explorer, which is called vigil or something like that, which was very not user friendly if they had to put it mildly. So the fact that they now have Polygon scan is absolutely amazing. And if I bring it up here, I think this is the blog post announcement here. If I go to actual polyscan.com,
00:12:38.178 - 00:13:03.034, Speaker A: you can see it here, looks exactly like Etherscan. It's the UI and ux we all know and love, except it's just monitoring the Polygon network instead of Ethereum, which I think is awesome. And you can even go into here and see the charts and stats and things like this, which actually, you know what? I'm going to leave this for now. I'm going to cover this in the data pump, which because I think it's going to be very interesting to cover the data pumps gonna come out soon. I know I promised it on the weekend. I just ran out of time. So it's gonna come out soon.
00:13:03.034 - 00:13:28.940, Speaker A: But this is just awesome to see that, you know, Polygon finally has an Etherscan like a block explorer here. Arbitrums is coming up next. Optimism is already live. ZK sync, I think, is gonna have it too. I mean, I'm just assuming that every layer, two side chain, other network is gonna have an Etherscan like block Explorer now. Because that's what people want at the end of the day. Like, no one wants to learn how to use a new block explorer.
00:13:28.940 - 00:13:52.696, Speaker A: And etherscans, kind of like the way they build these things is just awesome. I mean, the amount of features they have on the actual ether scan is incredible. Like you can look up transactions and get so much, so much detail about it. And you can also do historical lookups and things like that for tax purposes. There's so much cool stuff going on here. So I definitely think this is just like super cool, super bullish for, for polygon, you know, disclaimer here. I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:13:52.696 - 00:14:15.996, Speaker A: Of course. Of course. I'm very excited about this. But the other thing I'm excited about as well is that that Polygon is kind of like, I guess, promoting hot protocol here as a solution to getting in and out of polygon from ethereum relatively quickly. So I've discussed hot protocol a lot on the refuel lately. I discussed how it worked yesterday. So if you want to go check that out, it's in yesterday's refuel.
00:14:15.996 - 00:14:46.912, Speaker A: But it's good to see that polygon is promoting this to their audience here because I think that the common kind of, I guess, like, complaint that I've gotten from people is that the withdrawal from Polygon takes too long. Right? You go there and then you kind of come back and you have to wait a few hours to get your money back into ethereum, whereas with this tool, they're promising, you know, 1 minute and 30 seconds withdrawals here. Now, I don't know if this is currently live. I haven't used this just yet. I have to check that out. But, you know, I think this is going to be live soon. Yeah, I think soon.
00:14:46.912 - 00:15:24.234, Speaker A: So that's really, really cool to see that polygon is promoting this to their audience here. But anyway, two really big kind of like, things out of Polygon today, which I think just work to, I guess, like build more of a moat around polygon. Now, I know there's been like, drama around Polygon because of it's the pos chain and it's kind of like its own blockchain or side chain, whatever you want to call it. It's not like a true l two or whatever, but I can tell you right now, keep your eyes peeled. You know, as an advisor to Polygon, I definitely know that those guys are cooking up something really, really cool right now. So consider that a little bit of an alpha leak, I guess. But they have promised this in the past, right? They've promised L2s coming online soon.
00:15:24.234 - 00:15:44.690, Speaker A: They've promised a lot of different things that they've got the SDK out there. Now they're going to be adding tools to build these L2s, like ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups. Relatively soon, I believe so, yeah. Keep your eyes peeled there. Don't get hung up on these kind of like, technicalities. I believe you know, I've explained my kind of stance on polygon before. I'm not going to go into it again now.
00:15:44.690 - 00:16:20.334, Speaker A: But I think, yeah, just really, really cool to see that. They kind of finally have this etherscan like block explorer up. And this is absolutely massive for polygons adoption, I believe. So Kayvon from foundation put out this interesting thread, I think was a couple days ago. Now, I missed it initially, but basically announcing why, or at least detailing why, splits. The splits feature on the foundation platform changes everything. Now, the TRDR and what this is, it's basically a way for people to encode nfts with a split so that the royalties can be paid out automatically.
00:16:20.334 - 00:17:28.624, Speaker A: So for example, when you want to pay out royalties in the kind of, I guess, traditional world, you have to wade through a lot of complex stuff like paperwork, lawyers, courts and legal fees. But with splits on foundation, an artist mincing an NFT can basically unlock all of this and unlock all of the same economic tools that have basically only been in the domain of record labels or galleries or Hollywood studios and things like that. So to put this practically, what you can do is say you're an artist and you want to create an NFT and you want to pay out 10% of all proceeds to get coin grants forever, just as an example here. So what you can do is you can set up this, this split, and then every time this kind of like artwork is resold or kind of like on sold or whatever, these royalties are paid out or 10% of them are paid out. To get coin automatically skips through all the bullshit. You don't need anything. It's all handled by smart contracts and automatically on the Ethereum blockchain, which I think is absolutely awesome and something that's definitely not covered enough in this kind of like, I guess, ecosystem is this concept of like automating all of these financial activities in like a, in like a way that impacts people beyond something like DeFi.
00:17:28.624 - 00:18:31.302, Speaker A: Like, I wouldn't, I mean, I consider there's some parts of NFT, the NFT world to be defi, but I don't know if I consider this to be defi as we know it. Like a lot of defi is, you know, the swapping of, you know, different assets, the money markets, the borrowing, the, so not the borrowing, the, the options protocols and everything like that and, and stuff like Alchemyx and whatever. Whereas I think that with, with splits and with kind of like paying out royalties and doing things like, I guess, like even like superfluid and Sabley are doing payment streams and stuff like that. And I think that's when the things get really interesting and really impact the lives of people that are here to build fundamental value at the end of the day, like, and build it for different reasons. Whereas, you know, defy is one area, NFTs is a different area. And in nfTs, like artists generally, and I'm not just talking about artists as in like paintings or whatever, talking about artists like musicians or like people making movies or kind of like short, you know, kind of like 3d artists and stuff like that. Like all of these kinds of people, these creative people, I guess, like that's the catch all term.
00:18:31.302 - 00:19:16.048, Speaker A: They now get to control their royalty flow. They can just use the kind of like foundation platform or any other NFT platform, I believe, and kind of do this on Ethereum and they don't have to deal with kind of the complex, the complex paperwork, you know, lawyers, courts, legal fees, all that sort of stuff. So it just speaks to how, I guess, Ethereum collapses all of this stuff completely and basically makes it so that anyone, wherever you are in the world, as long as you have an Internet connection, you can do this. And I think this is going to change a lot of people's lives, honestly. Because at the end of the day, you can profit off of your work as an artist, but you can also give back to the community that allows you to do this. So you can give back to get coin, you can give back to the Ethereum core developers if you want. You can kind of do royalties to your fans.
00:19:16.048 - 00:19:37.248, Speaker A: Like maybe you set up a dao for your artwork and you have like a token in that dao that you're kind of like a social token. And your fans hold that well. You can set up the royalties to stream to the treasury of your social network. Social token, kind of like Dao here. So the possibilities here really are endless. And I'm really impressed with kind of the work the foundation is doing here. I think this is really, really cool.
00:19:37.248 - 00:20:27.346, Speaker A: So yeah, definitely, you know, check out foundation and some of these other NFT platforms if you haven't already, if you're a creative, if you're an artist. I think the future of work also kind of like encapsulates a lot of this stuff with the NFT stuff. I know I've said multiple times now that NFTs are in a little bit of a bear market, but I've also said in the past that bear markets are the best time to get involved with different things. And, you know, on that note, actually, I have a tweet here where I said that, which is in relation to what I just said, where I said, the more time you spend in the Ethereum ecosystem, the less you care about what the market is doing. And I wrote about this in the Delaware newsletter today. But basically, the reason this is true is because in Ethereum, and I mean, I've talked about this a lot, but in Ethereum, looking at the price of ETH is like one tiny part of the entire ecosystem. Looking at the price of different defi tokens is another tiny part.
00:20:27.346 - 00:21:32.560, Speaker A: But the thing is, when the ETH price is like what it is doing now, like just ranging between 2000 and $3,000, it's kind of boring, right? And the market's cooled down and a lot of assets have cooled down, and maybe you lost money because you bought higher, whatever. But the general thing is that even if the market is doing this, it doesn't really matter. Teams are still building, teams are still shipping, the research is still being published, you know, and not just defi teams like NFT teams, the core protocol work. You know, people like me are still putting out like educational material, media and all that sort of stuff. And I think that the fundamental value just gets even better during these kind of down markets because you, you have more people that are kind of like in this thing for the tech, right, and not in it just to speculate, hanging around, adding value. And they're just, the distraction of the bull market is kind of gone, at least temporarily, where they can focus on kind of like building rather than just staring at charts all day. And in saying that, I think that over time, even during, like, the bullish movements, you can still focus on things if you're in it for like, I guess the right reason.
00:21:32.560 - 00:22:14.412, Speaker A: So, you know, for me personally, I mean, the Daily Gwei was born in the bull market. I mean, I only started the Daily Gwei in, I think, July, the newsletter of 2020. And then about the end of 2020 was the YouTube video. The YouTube videos and the YouTube channel, I should say. And I've been doing that pretty much every weekday since, since I launched both of those things. And there's a lot of people doing this as well. And I actually put out another tweet the other day where I said that I have so much respect for the builders in this ecosystem who can look past the noise and the insane kind of speculation going on during, during these bull markets and keep building and keep putting out new products and keep sticking to their mission of delivering this stuff, because without them, really, the speculators have nothing to speculate on at the end of the day.
00:22:14.412 - 00:22:39.550, Speaker A: So I think that's a really important point. And for me at this point, I mean, I've been around for four and a half years now. Not four and a half years, just over four years now in this ecosystem. And the day to day movements of the ETH price, I don't really care about at all. I care about the long term movements, of course. And as the ETH price goes up, it's very positive for the ecosystem, as I discussed in yesterday's refuel. But generally, I'm not concerned with what ETH is doing on any given day.
00:22:39.550 - 00:23:43.114, Speaker A: I am concerned with what is being shipped, I'm concerned with the adoption rate, I'm concerned with educating at the end of the day. And, you know, seeing something like a L2 platform ship or something like even poly scan going live or whatever it is, is more exciting to me than seeing Eve go up like 10% like I could. And I think this just comes down to the fact that I actually mentally have already priced ETH much higher than what it is now because I truly believe it's going to that price. So whenever it happens, I'm just like, oh, yeah, I was expecting that, right? Whereas when something kind of, like, fundamentally comes out, I maybe have been expecting it to come out, but to actually see it delivered is a whole nother thing where you're like, holy crap, this is awesome. I can actually use this thing now and I'm getting value out of it. So, yeah, I'm sure a lot of you feel the same way in that the longer you spend this ecosystem, you just really stop caring about the price so much. And if you're a trader, I mean, obviously you have to care about the price, but I'm talking, I guess, like, about the people who may not be traders and are just like fundamentals based investors and are more in this full of tech and want to kind of like, usher in kind of this revolution and try to be a part of it.
00:23:43.114 - 00:24:16.034, Speaker A: And that's, I guess, exactly what I'm trying to do. But, yeah. So I wrote a little bit more about this in the newsletter today if you want to check that out. But I will move on to this next tweet from Brantley from, from ENS domains here. Now, I spoke about this, I don't know if I spoke about it on yesterday's refuel the day before, but you'll remember I was talking about how with your metamask wallet, with your Ethereum wallet. Now websites can enable this sign in with Ethereum feature. And I described how pretty much all the web3 and Defi enabled websites already do this, where you always log in with your Ethereum wallet, right, to access them.
00:24:16.034 - 00:24:54.184, Speaker A: Now, because an Ethereum wallet is basically just a public private key pair, you can use this for any service on the web. You can use this for Twitter, you can use this for Facebook, this can be your login for everything and a secure login at that, because you own the private key to it. And the only way that people can get in is if they sign with your private key. So, and in this thread from, from Brantley here, he goes through exactly what this means and what the implications of this are. It's a pretty long thread, it's pretty detailed. I'm not going to read through the whole thing, you can check it out in the YouTube description, but this, it's great to see that he put this out just a day after I think I spoke about it. Maybe he's a deli gwei refuel listener.
00:24:54.184 - 00:25:55.110, Speaker A: If you are Brantley, give me a shout dm me or something. I'd love to chat to you more about this, but essentially this is just something that I think has been slept on and that I think that people are going to wake up to as more and more websites enable web3. Because really at the end of the day, this is just called like signing with Ethereum is just very easy to do. All you have to do is enable web3 on your, on your kind of like site, enable web3 authentication through your site and you can have people signing in with Ethereum and authenticating with their Ethereum wallet instead of using like traditional username and passwords and you know, requiring emails and all that sort of stuff. And this is another big thing to this is it's, it's privacy preserving as well, where if you have a fresh new Ethereum wallet that you just use to sign into services, um, you can kind of like preserve your, your privacy in terms of uh, personally identiful, identifiable information. You don't have to give your email or age or address or whatever on some of these sorts of things. And I guess this speaks to um, decentralized identity as well, which is something that a lot of people are excited about.
00:25:55.110 - 00:26:37.334, Speaker A: And this is uniquely enabled by the fact that everyone now has a public private key, uh, or a kind of like, I guess a single sign on wallet because of having an ethereum wallet, which I think again is an overlooked, uh, feature of Ethereum and something that I'm going to, I suspect we're going to see play out a lot more in the future. So highly, highly recommend going and reading this thread from Brantley. It'll be in the YouTube description for you to check out. So Bantech from yearn put out an update today on the progress and I guess the performance that yearn has been having lately. So I'll just read out the tweet here. So yearn has earned $10.6 million in May, which is a 34% month on month growth, which translates to 123.12
00:26:37.334 - 00:26:56.278, Speaker A: million annualized revenue for the yearn. Kind of Dow here. Assets under management grew from 3.3 billion to 3.9 billion, which is 18% month on month growth now at all time high at 4.7 billion, earning 403,000 a day in revenue. The price of sales ratio sits comfortable comfortably at 11.8
00:26:56.278 - 00:27:39.588, Speaker A: x, which I would consider undervalued considering the growth trajectory of yearn and the growth prospects for yearn. Not investment advice, but, and I hold Wi Fi tokens, but still I would consider that to be undervalued there. And there's some nice charts showing this and showing the growth here. Um, but generally I think, you know, while everyone knows about yearn, I still think it's slept on by a lot of people. I still think a lot of people think that there's going to be projects that launched that kill off yearn and it really hasn't been the case. And the one thing that yearn did really well, I think, is that they introduced a partner program where you could essentially become like a partner to yearn, drive TVL to the yearn platform and share in the fees, which I thought was really, really cool. And it's basically like a big referral program.
00:27:39.588 - 00:28:23.504, Speaker A: And I think that's why yearn has been able to stay the number one yield aggregator by far because of this program and also because of the fact that they just build at a rapid pace and their strategies are very defensive because of this. So they just keep shipping like crazy. I mean, I love the yearn ecosystem and I know there's a bit of drama about their marketing the other day, but I think that just plays into exactly what, what yearn's always been about. It's like they embrace the weirdness and wackiness of Ethereum while also managing a billion dollar protocol, which I think is really, really cool. So yeah, if you're not using yearn, you have some stable coins or something, or even like ETH, they've got ETH vaults and stuff like that. Definitely go check them out. I'm sure a lot of you have obviously already heard of yearn and used it before, but if you haven't been on their site lately, definitely go check that out.
00:28:23.504 - 00:29:03.680, Speaker A: So Justin Larew here from grid put out this tweet highlighting that the ethereum subreddit now has 1 million subscribers, which is pretty big, I think. You know, Reddit was my jam in 2017, 2018. I spent a lot of time on Reddit, not much time on Twitter. I didn't really tweet in 2017 from memory, but I spent a lot of time on Reddit as a lurker, especially on ETH Trader and then ETH finance and now and at the Ethereum section as well. But it's good to see that it's still active, it's still growing. You know, 1 million people kind of, I guess, subscribing to this, obviously, like, you know, not all of them are going to be online all the time. You can see that 2.4k
00:29:03.680 - 00:29:58.626, Speaker A: were online at time of screenshot here, but it's still great to see that there's just more and more people being exposed to Ethereum and coming into the Ethereum ecosystem. So, and that's just like another signal to use, you know, to track the growth of the ecosystem outside of maybe on chain metrics and like TVL and, you know, market kind of movement and stuff like that. This is more on the social layer stuff here. So maybe I'll cover some of the stats around subreddits on the, on the data pump if I, if I feel it's appropriate, but still really, really cool to see this. And I guess congrats to the Ethereum community on Reddit for achieving 1 million subscribers. So I've been speaking about projects launching grants programs lately, and one that I missed was pool grants from pool together. So if again, you are interested in kind of building or like working for a DAO and kind of contributing value to it, the pull together is currently kind of has a request for proposals up here, which I'll link in the YouTube description.
00:29:58.626 - 00:30:30.622, Speaker A: And they want people to be, to build various different things and obviously be compensated in, I think, pool tokens here. So the first request for a product is a, is a pods builder and pods reference UI. The second is a winning odds and pull Apy calculator. And the third is pool, something called pool simple, which I think is building a strip down user interface to join pull together. So if you're a builder, I think this is more, these three are more geared towards developers. If you're kind of like a front end person or a back end person or whatever. And you think that you can, I guess, like get involved and build here.
00:30:30.622 - 00:31:06.984, Speaker A: Definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to go to. Go view it and obviously apply and get started with all this, all this stuff here. So finally I had this question from crypto redneck on, on Twitter that I wanted to answer. So they asked me to answer it on the, into the ether podcast, but I figured I may as well just answer it on the refuel. So he wanted to know, or he or she, I don't know, wanted to know if I could take them through the future for the ETH network, beyond the ETH, two mainnet and the merge and things like that. There's a lot, I think I wrote a newsletter about this recently about what comes after, but I'll give a quick kind of TLDR here.
00:31:06.984 - 00:31:39.246, Speaker A: So there's the, there's a, there's a bunch of fundamental research happening beyond the merge and fundamental development. So obviously we have sharding. So that's going to come after the merge. But there's a lot of other things that people may not know about. So one of the major things is something called the stateless Ethereum initiative, which aims to make Ethereum into a stateless system. Now what this means practically, is that the Ethereum blockchain would no longer hold state forever. It would essentially have some sort of state expiry, or it would require people to bring their own state in order to kind of like revive contracts and things like that.
00:31:39.246 - 00:32:09.082, Speaker A: Now what this does is it makes it so that the blockchain is smaller in size. It makes it easier to sync a node, and it means that we can scale the gas limit up a lot higher, which means we can scale layer one a lot higher. So that's big. There's also things like the VDF initiative, the verifiable delay function initiative, which is working to do to produce true randomness for blockchains, specifically Ethereum, but other ones as well. Um, there's a bunch of other stuff that Vitalik posted on his roadmap. I'm just. I'm just kind of trying to remember a lot of it now.
00:32:09.082 - 00:32:45.880, Speaker A: Um, there is, there was a, another kind of proof of stake mechanism called CBC. Correct by construction, which was originally proposed by Vlad Zamfia back in the day that was not ready and wasn't going to be ready for a very long time. So, um, I think they ended up going with the simplest solution which is still, you know, obviously very secure and very good, which is the Casper proof of stake implementation, the friendly finality gadget. But CBC is still an open research problem. I still think people are working on it. So there's that, and there's a bunch of other things, and I'm obviously forgetting now, but I think, I guess, like, sharding also has like two components to it. There's.
00:32:45.880 - 00:33:16.598, Speaker A: There's kind of like data sharding, which is the first rollout of sharding, where the shards will be used as data availability layers, and then there's also going to be execution sharding, where the shards can actually do transactions on them on layer one. So. And speaking of that, there's also all the stuff happening at L2. So there is obviously ZK roll ups and ZK Porter and optimistic roll ups and all this sort of stuff, but that's not going to stop there. There's more that we can do there. We can get more juice out of it. We can go beyond 100,000 transactions per second.
00:33:16.598 - 00:33:48.466, Speaker A: We can potentially go up to millions of transactions per second. So. And there's a bunch of other very technical things being worked on that I won't go through now, but I don't have it handy right now. But Vitalik's kind of roadmap went through a lot of his stuff, and I've written about it in the newsletter before, but there are heaps of. Of huge milestones for Ethereum after the merge, and there are things that haven't even been thought up yet. Maybe we come up with a new eIp that is, as, you know, groundbreaking as 1559 was, or is going to be. Maybe we come up with a new way to do things like scale the layer one blockchain.
00:33:48.466 - 00:34:27.226, Speaker A: You know, we have sharding, but maybe we come up with a new way to do that or a way to improve sharding, to get to a place where I think Vitalik once called it super quadratic sharding. And I don't know, I think he recently wrote about that not being kind of like something that was desirable and maybe not even being possible, but maybe one day we find out that it is possible and we scale Ethereum on layer one way, like more than we ever thought was possible. So there's all of that happening, too. But anyway, I hope that answers some of your question here. Crypto redneck. I think that generally, when kind of looking forward past the merge in terms of timelines, it's all up in the air. So don't expect any timelines to be out there.
00:34:27.226 - 00:35:07.292, Speaker A: I do still expect the first version of sharding to go live next year sometime, maybe towards the end of the year. It might take until early 2023. But again, as I mentioned yesterday on the refuel, maybe yesterday, or maybe I mentioned this on the into the ether podcast, actually, which was yesterday, I basically said that I think 100,000 transactions per second, or even 10,000 transactions per second today is overkill. I don't think we're going to need that much for a little while still. I think there's still a lot of work to be done on the user interface side, education side, before we have that kind of mass adoption. So while we get kind of like scaling today, and 10,000 transactions per second is amazing, and that's going to be very, very good. I think it's going to be good for a little while here.
00:35:07.292 - 00:35:40.772, Speaker A: I don't think it's going to. It's going to be something that we feel, uh, you know, too quickly, but remains to be seen. Maybe I underestimate just how quickly this adoption can happen, but, and I've had some pushback from people lately who say that if I think, you know, me thinking the adoption is going to take, you know, 510 years instead of happening much faster than that, I'm dreaming. Well, I mean, we'll see. I, as bullish as I am on this ecosystem, it's still humans at the end of the day, and humans take time to adopt new technologies. Humans take time to learn new technologies and trust them. And at the end of the day, this whole ecosystem is a marathon and not a sprint.
00:35:40.772 - 00:35:56.380, Speaker A: It is not a short term thing. So if you are in it for the long term, you'll do well, I think. But yeah, short term thinking is probably not going to be the best way to go. But anyway, I will leave it at that for now. And I think that's it for today's episode. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel.
00:35:56.380 - 00:36:16.344, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord channel and once you've joined the Discord channel, be sure to head to the AMA series channel in there and put your questions in there because the next AMA is happening this Saturday at 11:00 p.m. Australian eastern Standard Time. You can find all the details in the Discord channel for that. And I'll catch you all tomorrow, everyone. Thank you.
00:36:16.344 - 00:36:17.164, Speaker A: Bye.
