00:00:00.440 - 00:00:28.308, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Dailygui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 15 March 2021. Alright everyone, I hope you all had a great weekend. Let's dive right into all the news that happened. But before we do that, actually I just wanted to give a quick reminder here that the Gitcoin grants matching round is still going. So if you haven't donated yet to your favorite projects, I encourage you to do so. And I wanted to give a big thank you to, to everyone who's donated to the Dailygways grant.
00:00:28.308 - 00:00:57.172, Speaker A: I really, really appreciate it and if you'd like to donate, the link to that will be in the description below. But don't just donate to the Daily Gwey, definitely donate to everyone else as well that, you know, that you use. And there's a bunch of projects on here. I mean, you know, there's probably hundreds of hundreds at this stage. And as I've mentioned before, there's like collections you can look at as well. If I was to click here, you know, people have different collections where they, they kind of like curate, I guess a bunch of different grants. So if you don't know what to go for, you can definitely have a look in these, these collections.
00:00:57.172 - 00:01:38.870, Speaker A: I've got my own one called the sassle's cart of love. It's here somewhere. There it is on the left hand side here. But don't just look at mine, look at the rest of them and see what you like as well. So definitely go check that out if you haven't already. So the biggest news that came out, and I think this came out Friday after I put out the last refuel, was that binance is under investigation by the CFTC, which is the commodity Futures Trade Commission in the US over their trading activities. So basically they're under investigation because for the longest time binance allowed us citizens to trade on the platform when, you know, and they had to, they ended up barring them and kicking them off the platform and, and creating a new site called Binance Us where us citizens could trade.
00:01:38.870 - 00:02:20.694, Speaker A: Now the CFTC is investigating them because they think that Binance is still allowing us traders to, to trade on the platform, which, you know, is probably still happening because you can get around this with like VPN's and stuff. They have know, binance has controls in place to kind of control this or to like prevent against this sort of thing, but people can still get around it, right? So that's why they're under investigation here. You know, in terms of, like, where I see this going, I don't think it's going to be like anything major. Binance is a huge organization now. I mean, billions of dollars in kind of, like, trading revenue, billions of dollars in profits as well, you know, sorry, trading volume and profits, too. You know, I feel like this is just another one of those. They're gonna get a fine, right.
00:02:20.694 - 00:02:29.518, Speaker A: A slap on the wrist fine over it. They're gonna admit no wrongdoing. Right. And they're gonna go about their business. I think that sometimes these things can become too big to fail. Right. Which is a.
00:02:29.518 - 00:02:54.658, Speaker A: I really. I don't like that term. I hate that term because I think that it's just like a cop out. But, I mean, could you imagine if Binance went under, what kind of systemic systemic risks that, or at least systemic shocks that would kind of, like, present to the crypto market and, like, all the users on there? I mean, I'm pretty sure bit. Binance has millions of users at this stage being a centralized exchange, and they. They're the top centralized exchange still. So, yeah, that would not be great.
00:02:54.658 - 00:03:17.202, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think they'll just pay a fine. You know? You guys know, I'm not a huge fan of Binance, and obviously, all the stuff they're doing with, with BSc and things like that. But in general, I mean, I don't really root for. For more regulations or regulators to come into this space because, you know, even if they just go after the, you know, binance, you know, they're gonna. They'll go after everything. They're not just gonna stop at Binance. Right.
00:03:17.202 - 00:03:35.466, Speaker A: So we in general, like, I don't invite that many regulators into the space because we're seeing stuff like, you know, India banning crypto and things like that. I mean, I. That's. That's so much conflicting information around that. I don't think they're actually banning crypto. I think there's just news stories doing that for some reason. I mean, it's like China saying they're banning crypto.
00:03:35.466 - 00:03:49.802, Speaker A: And they've said that for. For years now. Like, I think almost eight years they've been saying, you know, China bans crypto, and they've done it multiple times. So I don't think this, this India. This thing in India is. Hasn't as much merit to it. I don't think India's going to ban crypto.
00:03:49.802 - 00:04:06.094, Speaker A: But again, you know, these headlines are attractive. People like to trade on them. You know, the market moves in whatever direction it wants. But it's all short term, long term, it's all good. But, yeah, I don't expect much. Kind of like, I guess, stuff to come out of this for finance. Pay a fine, admit no wrongdoing, and, you know, away you go.
00:04:06.094 - 00:04:53.430, Speaker A: So Hasu had an interesting tweet today where he said, many Ethereum killers of 2021 remind me of the bitcoin killers of 2015 and 2018. They still think winning is primarily about the tech, which is funny because, you know, actually, I should say that I wrote about this in the deli Gwei newsletter today. So if you want to go check it out, go read that. But I can give the doctor here, basically, for those who are around in kind of like, I guess, even like 20 1314 to like, 2018. There are a lot of forks of bitcoin, right? Like countless forks of bitcoin, you know, the most famous being litecoin, which changed a few variables, you know, faster block times, you know, change the supply and whatever changed the hashing algorithm and the way you go. But a lot of. I don't think Litecoin ever marketed itself as, like, something that was going to kill bitcoin or improve bitcoin.
00:04:53.430 - 00:05:20.494, Speaker A: I think it was just like a pet project for Charlie Lee that made him rich. But anyway, I think there are other projects that were always kind of like claiming all, we're better than bitcoin because we have better tech. You know, we're doing proof of stake, right? There was proof of stake coins all the way back, back then. And ethereum isn't the. Isn't the. The network that invented proof of stake? I actually think Peercoin did. And for those of you in, you know, watching that are ogs, you'll remember that, that name Peercoin, that was very popular.
00:05:20.494 - 00:05:43.274, Speaker A: It's a very popular bitcoin fork back in the early days, but there was countless others right out there and all claiming to be able to beat bitcoin. Now, obviously, that never panned out, and I think the last of them were. Was bitcoin sv, right? That came along. That obviously didn't work. Bitcoin cash didn't work either. Even though I don't know if bitcoin cash was 100% a bitcoin killer, more. It was like a splintering of the community.
00:05:43.274 - 00:06:21.838, Speaker A: But anyway, bitcoin killers are pretty much a thing of the past now. No one talks about them, really, in kind of like when they're talking about bitcoin, you know, it's generally accepted that bitcoin is number one, at what it does, which is being in digital goals, story value sort of thing, which is, which is fine. But obviously, we have a lot of Ethereum killers now as well, like, and a lot of them market themselves based on the tech. And as Hasu says here, the other people think that it's still about the tech. And, you know, if we just look at the two top networks, bitcoin and Ethereum by market cap, you know, bitcoin's worth a trillion dollars. Ethereum is worth over $200 billion. If we just look at that, right? They're, then they're one and two by far.
00:06:21.838 - 00:06:45.030, Speaker A: And they're the most unscalable chains, right? Bitcoin does five transactions per second. Ethereum does 15 transactions per second. And yet I actually think this counts more for Ethereum. And yet Ethereum does, you know, way more activity than any other chain. Most of the other chains are actually ghost chains where they have, like, basically no activity on them. But they claim to be able to do, you know, thousands of transactions per second. Right? They claim to have better tech.
00:06:45.030 - 00:07:23.602, Speaker A: They claim to have better, you know, developer tools and better programming languages and whatever, right? You may have seen the joke on, on Twitter about Haskell and how Cardano is using that and how that's going to solve everyone's problem problems. And I'm telling you right now, no, that's not going to happen. Like, Haskell is a good language, you know, a good programming language, but, like, hardly anyone uses it. So there's a few reasons for why Ethereum, bitcoin still number one and two. And I kind of, I spoke about this in the newsletter, but basically, the number one reason that I believe is community, right. Without a strong and lasting community that actually believes in stuff, you know, beyond just the price movement and the price action, your networks are just not going to do very well. Right? Right.
00:07:23.602 - 00:07:57.302, Speaker A: You're not going to have that ideological drive behind it. You're not going to have the builders behind it, right? The developers, the development tools, things like that, right. You're not going to have all of that on your quote unquote, better tech chain. If the community is just crap, that's the first thing. And obviously, bitcoin and Ethereum have extremely strong communities, and community begets community, where the more community members you have, the more people preaching your message out into the world, the more people you have joining. Right? And I actually think these networks resemble religions at the end of the day. But that's a, that's a discussion for another kind of another time.
00:07:57.302 - 00:08:30.852, Speaker A: So second to that is liquidity. So liquidity begets liquidity. And what do I mean by that? Well, it's the same as community begets community. The more liquidity how you have in a system, the more liquidity comes to the system, because you, you know, if you're, if you want to trade on a decentralized exchange, what are you going to trade on the most liquid one, aren't you? You're not going to trade on one that has, like, hardly any liquidity in it. So that there's that. But on top of that, with the in the liquidity kind of arena there, you also have, like, broad support for ETH and BTC. They're pretty much listed on every single centralized exchange and on ramp.
00:08:30.852 - 00:09:13.167, Speaker A: Every single one. That's not true for most of the other networks, right? Those are, they're basically the two defaults. And now for Ethereum in particular, a lot of ethereum based assets like ERC, 20 tokens, right, are listed on centralized exchanges and services, too. And the reason why centralized exchanges and services are important is because they are the on ramps for new users. New users get kind of like exposed to these things first. And then on top of all of this, you have, brand awareness is a big part as well, where, you know, pretty much, I would say most of the developed world at this stage has heard of bitcoin. A lot of people have heard of Ethereum, too, right? And that brand awareness kind of like builds, you know, begets brand awareness, right? It builds on itself and the network effects keep going.
00:09:13.167 - 00:09:57.502, Speaker A: And, you know, this all culminates in what people like to refer to as network effects, where all of this stuff comes together and basically strengthens each other, right? The kind of bounces off each other and forms like a, you know, a near impossible kind of like, moat for other networks to break. And that's why you have not seen any of the networks. The quote unquote Ethereum killers come anywhere close to Ethereum. I mean, I remember back in 2018, there was a huge narrative around EOS, right? And eos being the Ethereum killer, right? It's super scalable, you know, has better tech, whatever. And EOS is literally like, I mean, not even just the price, but like the network itself. The community is dead. Like, I go on the EOS subreddit sometimes, and it's absolutely dead, right? And this is because they didn't, they weren't able to kind of build a great community.
00:09:57.502 - 00:10:33.558, Speaker A: They weren't able to build a great community of, of believers, right, of, um, of builders especially. And the mission that they stood for and everything they stood for just did not resonate with people. Whereas with bitcoin and ethereum, it does. So that's just like, I guess, like a TLDR on why, because they're number one and two. And I don't think, I mean, I'm pretty vocal about this generally that I think that Ethereum can one day flip bitcoin. But I don't think something can flip a theory at this stage. I don't see any other networks out there that would be able to, you know, come at Ethereum and kill it, so to speak, or, or dethrone it from number number two, because it's number two right now.
00:10:33.558 - 00:10:49.518, Speaker A: Right? In terms of like. And. And I'm not talking about just like a brief thing. Like, I remember in 2017, XRP flipped aetherium, you know, for maybe a couple of days. I'm talking like a prolonged thing where a theorem was actually number three and something else was number two. Right. For a long period of time.
00:10:49.518 - 00:11:12.808, Speaker A: I'm talking months or at least weeks. I mean, you know, even weeks would probably suffice there. But yeah. And then in the newsletter, I also mentioned that, you know, a lot of these other Ethereum killers are acting like Ethereum is not upgrading itself, right, is not going to be better. Tech is not doing all the stuff we're doing, not only on ETH one with L2. Right, and ETH two as well. I mean, ETH two.
00:11:12.808 - 00:11:53.332, Speaker A: I've said before how I think ETH two's proof of state consensus mechanism is the best in the industry, bar none. Like, nothing even comes close to it in terms of how decentralized it is, how inclusive it is, and how secure it is for the network. And on top of that, I think the way Ethereum is approaching its scaling via sharding and L2 is a much more secure and decentralized way to do scaling, whereas a lot of the other networks are not approaching it in this way. That's not to say these other networks won't have their own kind of like communities and network effects and growth. Of course they will. I mean, I've been paying attention more to the terror ecosystem lately. There seems to be some genuine traction there, right? And that's based on Cosmos, I'm pretty sure.
00:11:53.332 - 00:12:35.342, Speaker A: And I haven't done too deep research into that yet, but I'm noticing the traction there. But I think that those handful of networks that actually get traction and deliver value, they're all additive to Ethereum, right? All value is going to pass through Ethereum. You know, everyone wants to come to Ethereum because that's where everything is, all the liquidity is, all the users are. So I think that is what drives Ethereum, actually, ironically, to basically flip bitcoin. I think bitcoin is going to be like just the modern day golden, basically. Right, where gold's market cap is, what, $10 trillion, right. If you're rebuilding the entire financial system and being the reserve asset of that financial system, well, I mean, I think ETH can be worth more one day, can be worth more than $10 trillion in market cap.
00:12:35.342 - 00:13:09.100, Speaker A: But for now, it's not, you know, future still uncertain, but my bet is definitely on that. And that's not to say that Ethereum is going to kill bitcoin, right. Because bitcoin will still exist. Bitcoin will still be fine. But I do think that Ethereum as a network and ETH as an asset is. Is very well positioned to capture a lot of the growth in the next few years as this technology in general enters, you know, more of the mainstream kind of consciousness here. So the technocratic one of the co founders of Alchemyx put out this really cool, kind of, like, explain, like, on five explanation from a community member on what Alchemyx actually is.
00:13:09.100 - 00:13:32.658, Speaker A: Now, I've had a few of you ask me about this and haven't been able to explain it in as kind of like, I guess, smoothly as this explanation is. So I'll read it out. So basically it reads, imagine a bank. You can deposit money, and the bank pays you ten to 15% interest. There's a credit card attached to the account with a credit line of 50% of the amount you have deposited. There's no interest on the card. There are no monthly payments to make.
00:13:32.658 - 00:14:06.052, Speaker A: Instead, the interest you earn on your balance pays off any debt that you have automatically. Okay, so that's a really great way of explaining it, but I can probably, you know, expand on this and give a monetary example here. So if you deposit, say, $10,000 into a bank, and they're paying you ten to 15% interest a year, that means that let's. Let's say they're paying you 10%. That means they're going to pay you $1,000 a year for having $10,000 in there. But now you've got a credit card attached to this account that you can borrow 50% of the amount you've deposited. So you can borrow $5,000 on this, so there's no interest on the card.
00:14:06.052 - 00:14:40.596, Speaker A: Right. There are no monthly payments to make, but the interest you earn on your balance. So that original 10% that you're earning on your balance pays off the debt that you have automatically. So what ends up happening is that your original $10,000 deposit is earning $1,000 a year in interest. You've borrowed $5,000, but that, that $1,000 that you're earning in interest a year is going to pay off that debt that you've accrued. So this is just, I mean, awesome, right? Like, automatically paying down your debt on money that you've already deposited as collateral into the system, and your collateral is earning the. The interest to pay off that debt.
00:14:40.596 - 00:15:11.938, Speaker A: That's awesome, right? I really like this, and I will preface this by saying I hold ALCX tokens here. I mean, generally, I tend to hold tokens of things that I feel like a really, you know, really innovative projects, and Alchemix is definitely one of these. I really, really like what they're doing here. But anyway, that's a quick explain that come five kind of overview of how Alchemyx works. This will be linked in the YouTube description as well. You can go check it out and kind of like, I think there's a bunch of discussions in the thread as well that expands on this. So overlay introduced themselves.
00:15:11.938 - 00:15:43.614, Speaker A: Overlay protocol introduced themselves recently. So what they basically are, is they call themselves a protocol for limitless markets. Now, is it basically, I mean, I wouldn't say it's like just a prediction market, right? But it's definitely in the same kind of, like, vein here. But basically what overlay protocol does is it basically allows you to trade, like, on nearly any kind of, like, set of data. So this data can come from anywhere. It can be defi token, you know, price data, sentiment analytics data, Seattle's crime rate, for example, NFT indexes, political and natural markets. The list goes on.
00:15:43.614 - 00:16:05.928, Speaker A: Basically, as I said, it's like a prediction market, but their goal is to let you trade on absolutely anything, right. That you can. That you can think of, which is, which is the goal of prediction markets as well. But I think this is just like another kind of, like, play at this. I mean, we have auger. We have, there's another one. The name escapes for me right now, but we have, we have a bunch of other ones out there that are kind of working on this.
00:16:05.928 - 00:16:34.864, Speaker A: But, yeah, this is, this is pretty cool. I mean, you can go read this. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. They're obviously gonna have a token OVL here that, but I'm guessing is gonna be like a governance token and also probably accrue some fees to it. And then they go over, like, how you can get involved and kind of like they're targeting May 2021 for their beta main net launch. So not too far away. The token isn't live yet, so don't go aping into anything called Ovl or uniswap unless you know what it is.
00:16:34.864 - 00:17:23.180, Speaker A: But yeah, I think they're going to have more details about, yeah, their investors token economics coming in the next few weeks as well. So, yeah, definitely go check this out if this is something that you're interested in. So an interesting tweet from Big sky here about the Defi pulse index. Now, again, I will preface this by saying that I am an advisor to set protocol, which is heavily involved with the index co op, which, you know, produces the DeFi pulse index. But anyway, what I wanted to kind of hit on here was that there's a chart here showing the different AUM in dollar amounts, or assets under management in dollar amounts for the different indices on Ethereum. Now, obviously, the DeFI pulse index is very far ahead here at $150 million of AUM, and there's a bunch of other smaller indexes below it. Now, the reason it's like this is because typically index products are a winner take almost everything market.
00:17:23.180 - 00:17:50.078, Speaker A: If you look at the traditional market in the US, there's only two major players and two major kind of indexes there. There's kind of like Blackrock and van Guar. They're the two major companies that have most of the assets under management. Because at the end of the day, an index is really kind of like simple to make, right? Anyone can make an index. It's not a hard thing. You put a bunch of tokens in, you weighed it some way, right? You stick a fee on it, you create a token of it on Ethereum, and away you go. But the real moat with indexes is not index itself.
00:17:50.078 - 00:18:26.600, Speaker A: It is in the distribution. So the DPI is very distributed, right? It's, it's, it's, it's, it's very liquid on uniswap, I know that the index cop is working very hard to get it basically onto centralized exchanges, right, to have it there. The brand awareness is, is obviously very important here. And as the Defi pulse index is backed by Defi Pulse, the brand awareness is there, right? The distribution channels are there. I mean, you can purchase DPI, um, through Uniswap, through token sets, which uses Uniswap. You can purchase it through different interfaces as well, and all kind of uses Uniswap under the hood, but it's still like different places for different people. Right.
00:18:26.600 - 00:19:10.580, Speaker A: And becoming the benchmark index as well is incredibly important. When people benchmark, I guess, you know, against DeFi, they tend to use DeFi pulse index, but they also use some other ones, but they're centralized exchange versions. This is, this is like on DeFi. So that's kind of why, I guess, you're seeing the DeFi pulse index work here. You know, as I said, at the end of the day, it is not about the index itself, even though the, you know, there are kind of like crappy indexes and better indexes, but it's really about the kind of distribution, the brand awareness, you know, the liquidity especially as well, that really makes it here. So, yeah, interesting tweet from Big sky here that I, that I thought I would expand on today. So a new term that I came across, I guess, over the weekend is metaverse preppers.
00:19:10.580 - 00:19:53.366, Speaker A: Now, this might be like, what you might be thinking, what? This is basically a term to describe people who are buying up nfts to be ready for when humanity resides in the quote unquote metaverse, aka shared virtual spaces like virtual reality and augmented reality. And I kind of finished this tweet by saying, you may think this is crazy, but I think we're closer than ever to this reality. And I didn't expand on this on Twitter, but I want to expand on here. The reason we are closer than ever to this reality is because in general, the pandemic has basically just accelerated our kind of, like, I guess, mission or I guess at least the path we were on to get to this fully virtual world. Now, obviously, virtual reality is still niche. It's not really mainstream. Augmented reality still has a ways to go.
00:19:53.366 - 00:20:42.186, Speaker A: But I do think when a big company like Apple releases, like the apple glasses and you have augmented reality here, that's going to accelerate it even more. But the thing is, is that most of us, right, or at least in this space, in the crypto space, we work remotely, right? We work in front of screens. We work in virtual, kind of the virtual world already, right? Yes. We still go outside and everything, and that's still going to exist. But as more and more of our lives becomes digital and becomes virtual, things like nfts, right? And like rare digital objects are actually going to become highly sought after, because you can imagine getting to the point where, you know, we've got, like, full augmented reality kind of everywhere. And, and you can, like, kind of imagine, like, just an example. You can have, like, everyone wearing augmented reality glasses, and then, you know, on your shoulder, you have just like, your pet, right? Or like your axie character from Axie Infinity, and you have it there.
00:20:42.186 - 00:21:03.378, Speaker A: And then they can see that you have it there because, you know, it's a shared kind of virtual space. And, you know, it's not just limited to that. You can have, like, trading cards. You can virtually trade with each other. I showed a kind of, like, video of that the other, on the other, the other day on the refuel. You know, there's so much of this stuff happening here that I think people are underestimating this. And I actually think a metaverse prepper is not crazy.
00:21:03.378 - 00:21:41.582, Speaker A: I actually think it's a pretty good strategy if you're wanting to invest in the NFT space or make a bet that everyone's going to kind of move into this VR ar world over the next few years, which I think they will, as I said, only takes one big company like Apple to release kind of like AR glasses. I mean, I purchased them day one. I mean, I used to think Google Glass from a few years ago was, it was awesome, but they were obviously too early. But now that we're at a point where technology pretty much is part of all of our lives as fitness trackers, there's, you know, different watches, right? The smart watches. You can get our mobile phone, of course, you know, all our screens, our laptops. I mean, we've always got technology around us. You know, all the home assistants, all these sort of things.
00:21:41.582 - 00:22:08.444, Speaker A: They're not, we're not going back from that. We're going to keep pushing forward here. So once these kind of AI glasses come out, I think that's going to change the game. VR is definitely really cool, but it's still kind of clunky, right? You have to put in this whole headset and everything. And, you know, a lot of it, um, to experience, like the, I guess, the really cool stuff, you have to have a powered kind of headset, um, or something like that. So, yeah, still very bit clunky. But technology progresses, and we're going to get to this point, I think.
00:22:08.444 - 00:23:02.256, Speaker A: And on that note, on about nfts, DC investor put out an interesting tweet here where he said on competitive moats and network effect, if you're a talented NFT artist, would you tokenize your work on a chain that no one uses, or would you do it on the chain which created and secures a $69 million beeple artwork, the world's most valuable NFT, among many others. Obviously, this is Ethereum, right. This is very important, I think, because if NFTs, and I believe they are, are a lot about status, right. You. Maybe it becomes a thing where your NFT on Ethereum is worth more just because it's on Ethereum, right? It exists in the same shared virtual space that the $69 million beeple exists on, right. You know that it's very secure on Ethereum. You know that a theorem has all these different things you can do with your NFTs and will be able to do, right, where one day you'll be able to use your NFT as collateral or you'll be able to do fancy things with them, use them in liquidity pools and stuff.
00:23:02.256 - 00:23:29.220, Speaker A: You can already do that with something like NFTx. So, yeah, very, very important. Kind of like tweet here from, from DC investor. And I think I added something here as well about, about nfts. And it's actually, I went on Reddit and I saw on the, our games section, and this is like a subreddit that I, that I tend to go on a lot, but there was a thread about nfts being discussed and I. It was not positive, right? As I said, yeah, it's not very positive. And you can see the kind of comments here.
00:23:29.220 - 00:24:04.170, Speaker A: You know, someone said NFTs might be the dumbest shit I've ever heard of in nearly 30 years of being alive, not to mention the resources wasted minting them. And then someone followed up by saying, I find all these coins and currencies and stuff to be just so stupid. In general, we got blockchain out of it, but instead of trying to use it for anything productive, it's all just money making schemes, scams, more money making schemes, and a dash of money laundering. Now, obviously, these are like the most surface level comments you can think of when it comes to crypto. I can tell you right now, neither of these people have done any sort of deep research on this stuff. So I just kind of dismissed these comments. I don't really kind of think of them as anything substantial.
00:24:04.170 - 00:24:46.178, Speaker A: And, you know, I followed up my tweet by saying, the comments in that thread remind me of r, but coin. So, but coin is actually a subreddit that makes fun of, you know, particularly bitcoin, but crypto in generally in general. But they've been wrong for years, so they've been existed for years and they've been wrong for years because BTC, has gone up in price every year, every year since the network. You know, the community has grown, you know, same with Ethereum. Right? So the fact that these people are saying this sort of, sort of stuff, and I know they've only got surface level knowledge of this and I know how valuable nfts are and why they're valuable, it just makes me really bullish. Right? Makes me really bullish on the whole NFT space. And I honestly, I kind of, like, even at these prices where it's like $40,000 crypto punks, I kind of want to buy more.
00:24:46.178 - 00:25:33.884, Speaker A: I mean, I can't really afford to, but I kind of want to. And I don't want to give up any of my precious ETH to. But, you know, if people are still kind of like this, where they're still calling this, this stuff dumb, I, based on surface level knowledge, I mean, I always think about it as if, like, how many people are actually in the NFT space right now, you know, how many people are actually buying crypto punks, are aware of crypto punks at this stage, probably maybe tens of thousands of people that are aware of it, right? And that see the value in it. What if that grows to millions of people? What if millions of people want crypto punks and there's only 10,000 punks? It's the same thing with, with tokens and coins, right? You always want to get in as early as possible. It's obviously the riskiest time to get in because you don't know if it's going to be successful or not. But if you're in really early on a project that, you know, you believe in, you think it's going to go far and it actually does grow. I mean, you're handsomely rewarded.
00:25:33.884 - 00:26:10.970, Speaker A: You can just look at every project that's, that's grown and gone far. You know, the obvious examples being a lot in DeFi, but even crypto punks, I mean, I know a few very kind of like very good NFT investors that bought crypto punks back in like 2019, 2018, even 2017, they held till now because they saw the value. They're like, okay, well, this is going to take off if Nfts take off sort of thing. So, yeah, just really bullish in general to see these comments. I'm sure we're going to keep seeing them for years to come. But that doesn't matter because it's free marketing. At the end of the day, there's a bunch of people that obviously will see this and kind of like investigate it further and kind of like see the value in nfts.
00:26:10.970 - 00:26:39.374, Speaker A: And not just nfts but everything in crypto, in defi. So definitely not something that is bearish, I think. So over the weekend we had another hack within, I mean, I wouldn't really call this within DeFi. This is in the social token space. Now for those who don't know, social tokens are basically guess personalized tokens. I mean there's a few people who have basically tokenized, I guess, themselves and they kind of like say their tokens are going to give them, give you kind of like exposure to their success. Right.
00:26:39.374 - 00:27:14.968, Speaker A: But anyway, outside of that, the hack and compromise happened on a popular platform called roll social token platform. And what ended up happening was that a ton of the social coins basically got dumped on uniswap because I think that the roles kind of account got compromised and they were holding a lot of the token, a lot of the liquidity, a lot of the token, sorry for these kind of social tokens. And they were providing liquidity and things like that. So they got dumped on market. The person that did this, you know, got away with millions of dollars worth of ETH and they watched it through tornado cash. Of course, this is a mess. There was a lot that went on here.
00:27:14.968 - 00:27:43.880, Speaker A: There's a great thread from my crypto here that I'll link in the YouTube description you can check out, but I go from the block. Also put out a pretty great thread here, you know, detailing what happened and kind of like what the affected tokens were, kind of what the flows were here. But yeah, this was not fun for the social token communities. There's one social token community that I, that I kind of follow loosely. I should, I should spend more time in it. But it's called friends with benefits. And I mean like disclaimer, I own some tokens.
00:27:43.880 - 00:28:13.904, Speaker A: But anyway, the reason why I talk about them is because they've got like a really strong community behind them. And one of my good friends is Kupa. You may know of him from, from Twitter and from a bunch of other places. He's part of like the friends with benefits kind of team and he kind of like handled all this and I think they handled it really well. I went on Discord and I kind of like browsed and kind of stole what was going on and the community just rallied together. This, this hack or this compromise didn't really. I mean even though the token price dumped like 99%, the community didn't really kind of like it wasn't toxic.
00:28:13.904 - 00:28:55.790, Speaker A: It was just like banding together, like, how do we fix this thing? How do we come back from this? And they're going to do a token swap and stuff. Now, you can just go into the discord if you're. If you want to see what's happening there. But I think, you know, going beyond this kind of exploit and everything, this is what makes this stuff so resilient, right? Just because your protocol gets exploited or hacked or whatever, if you have a community behind it, they're going to rally behind you and see how to fix it, right? Because everyone knows that, you know, a hacking or a compromise is not the death of a project most of the time. Sometimes it can be if it's like a massive thing where the project loses basically all the money they have and they can't rebuild. But the community, you know, is always there to rally behind the best projects. So, yeah, that's, that's just something to think about.
00:28:55.790 - 00:29:37.596, Speaker A: Something I was talking about before about how ethereum and bitcoin have the biggest communities and stuff like that and how they always rally around certain things and I think that's really important to consider as well. So, yeah, something to keep in mind. So Stani from Aave is teasing another feature coming to Aave called the AMM market. Now, I think what this is is that you can basically use your LP tokens as collateral on Aave. So LP tokens being, you know, balancer LP tokens or Uniswap LP tokens. LP stands for liquidity provider and they actually partnered up with Balancer recently in their v two. So they might be doing more than just liquidity providing for AMM LP tokens.
00:29:37.596 - 00:29:58.416, Speaker A: Sorry. They may be doing some stuff with balancer v two and maybe doing some pulled capital stuff as well. You know, if you want to read about that, you can just Google balance of V two. There's a bunch of details in that blog post about. I won't go through it now, but yeah, another teaser here. I mean, RB continues to be, you know, one of the strongest DeFi protocols. I mean, it's just crazy how strong they are and the following they have in the community that they have.
00:29:58.416 - 00:30:23.814, Speaker A: It's really, really cool to see them adding more features here. Obviously they move slower than other DeFi projects because they're, you know, the smaller defi projects I get because they're much, much bigger. And that's good. You know, that means the security is better and everything like that. They have to, you know, have a consideration for security more than the other ones, but still good to see them evolving and moving along here. So, okay, I'm going to finish the video with this because we're going over time here. But I thought this is very important.
00:30:23.814 - 00:31:13.236, Speaker A: So you may remember I mentioned that there was certain miners rallying together to do what was called a show of force on April 1, which was basically pulling their hashrate into the ether mine pool and trying to get basically the hashrate to 51% of the network in order to show, you know, the network could be attacked. And this was in retaliation to their, you know, the miners saying that their concerns had been ignored about EIP 1559 making the network insecure. Now, you know, some of them have pulled out of this. So red panda mining was one of the, I think, I guess, like leaders here of this effort, and they've pulled out of this. So I don't expect this to go ahead on April 1. And, you know, as I said on my tweet, unfortunately for them, the damage has already been done. You may have seen that the ETH one to ETH two merger has been sped up.
00:31:13.236 - 00:31:45.388, Speaker A: Now, because of this, it is, it is a top priority now. And I'll talk about that in the next tweet I have here from Justin Drake. I'll talk about that in a sec. But basically, the miners have also proposed a new EIP called EIP 3368. Now, what this says, it says bump the block reward up from two ETH to three ETH, but drop it by 0.25 every quarter till it gets to one ETH over two years. Now, the reason they've done this is because they're like, again, they're saying that they're concerned for the security of the network.
00:31:45.388 - 00:32:15.254, Speaker A: And, you know, the AIP 1559 is going to cut, like, some of the fee revenue, which is going to lead to less, less security, and there's potentially going to be an attack on the network. Now, I spoken about how I don't think that's going to happen before and actually bits be trippin. Another kind of, like, leader of this kind of charge here says that the quarter drops of the block rewards have been replaced with a slow decay every block. So to eat over 8 million blocks. Sorry. So minus two ETH, over 8 million blocks. Now, I also want to hit on the point here that over two years is just no.
00:32:15.254 - 00:32:48.584, Speaker A: Why I say no is because there's not going to be two more years worth of proof of work. In my mind, the merger, as I said, has been prioritized. Now, I won't be surprised to see the merger go in by end of this year, if not early next year. So that's a year max of proof of work. Right. And maybe there's some unforeseen things that come up, but I don't think so because I've seen, as I've explained before on the refuel, I'm pretty sure the merge is ready to go and they've already done it on test nets. They just have to kind of like wait and make sure and make sure it's done securely and safely to do it on, on main net.
00:32:48.584 - 00:33:30.602, Speaker A: So I don't think that's happening. But also I think that the fact that they, you know, miners are trying to increase the block reward to make up for this, you know, revenue loss is just like really bizarre to me because over the last two weeks, if you go look at the total fees earned by miners for, I guess, like up until recently, up until the last couple of days. But two weeks prior to that, the fees earned by miners went from, I think, $40 million every 24 hours to like $15 million. Right. It fell off a cliff. And this is because the market volatility calmed down and obviously the Ethereum network activity calmed down because of this. Now that's an over 50% drop in fee revenue to miners, right? I heard nothing about this, absolutely nothing from miners.
00:33:30.602 - 00:33:51.522, Speaker A: And they would feel this straight away, right. Because they can see that the income is coming down. So why are they talking about this? You know why? I'll tell you why. Because the miners are acutely aware that fee revenue is variable, right? It is volatile. It is not a constant. The constant is the two ETH block reward that always exists. Doesn't matter how much the network is being used or not used.
00:33:51.522 - 00:34:17.234, Speaker A: Every single block on Ethereum will pay to eat. And then you have uncle rewards on top of that that pay a certain amount, you know, for uncle blocks. Now, that being a constant means that the only thing that affects that is that is the fluctuation in ETH price. And that will affect the revenue of miners. But they know that they deal with that. Right? But the fee revenue is always a bonus. The fee revenue could be zero, but could be, you know, if it was very low back in the day.
00:34:17.234 - 00:34:50.360, Speaker A: But the thing that secures the network is the block reward. You know, that is the flaw for security. So when we talk about Ethereum's monetary policy, we call it minimum necessary issuance or minimum viable issuance. What this means is the minimum issuance required to secure the network. This doesn't include fees, right? Because ethereum's long term monetary policy and long term security policy does not rely on fee revenue. What it relies on is block rewards. That's why you see in ETH two, there is even in ETH one, no hard cap for ETH, you know, because if there was, we'd have to rely on fee revenue.
00:34:50.360 - 00:35:35.088, Speaker A: But we know that fee revenue is volatile. We know that fee revenue cannot be relied upon for security, so we secure it via the block award. This is something that I hope miners understand. And I'm not saying this is all miners, you know, just the ones that are kind of like fighting back against 1559 or rallying around this proposal, but in general, I just want to make that clear that the fee revenue is not the part of the security plan at all, right? Basically at all. And the benefits that ERP 1559 bring are immense. And there is, I mean, they're saying that, you know, because the revenue is going to drop 50% basically instantly, there's going to be an attack on the network and all the hash rates going to go to nice hash. Where is a place which is a website where you can, like, I guess, like rent out hash and attack a network.
00:35:35.088 - 00:36:16.020, Speaker A: Why didn't that happen when the fee revenue dropped 50%, you know, recently? Right. You know why that didn't happen? Because that's just not how it works. So I know I'm ranting here again because I feel very passionate and strongly about this, and I, and I get really annoyed because obviously the miners are acting in their best interests here. They're, you know, their whole kind of, like, thing is, is mining, right? They're invested in mining. They want to, you know, they want to kind of suck as much revenue as they can out of Ethereum while they can, you know, which is fine, right? I get that. That's their incentive, that's what they should be doing. But at the same time, they should act in kind of with rationality, not just in rational self interest, but also rational interest of the whole network as a whole, and not just in their own self interest.
00:36:16.020 - 00:36:50.954, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, I know I'm gonna get some dislikes on this video from that, from minors, because they're gonna hate me for it. But I don't feel like I'm saying anything that's kind of a lie or that's trying to bend the truth. All I'm saying is what existed for years on Ethereum, right? The minimum viable issuance policy, the block reward being the flaw for security, and the fact that the miners haven't said anything about the revenue dropping off a cliff. Right. And the fact that some of these same miners also were bringing up the same thing about prog power back in the day and how if we didn't kick ASICs off the network, it would lead to a 51% attack. This is just a cop out because that didn't happen. Right.
00:36:50.954 - 00:37:28.592, Speaker A: And also saying that something's going to lead to a 51% attack or the network's going to become insecure without any substantial research to back it up again is a cop out and not something that should be taken, you know, at face value. I would like to see a substantial research report with very deep analysis done on what miners are saying here before I even entertain the idea that this could lead to an attack, because I don't think it can. I think there's way more research on the other side of things saying that it can't lead to an attack than there is on the. On the pro side here. So anyway, I'll leave it at that for now. I did want to talk about the merger being sped up and the reason why it's been sped up is in part because of this. Right.
00:37:28.592 - 00:38:01.058, Speaker A: The miners have pissed off the rest of the network. People are really upset about this. They want proof of work removed ASAP. And Justin Drake said here, you know, because of that, the EF, the Ethereum foundation, ETH, two team agrees, do the merge before sharding, which means, as I said, we may see the merge by end of year, early next year, and then we, you know, sharding will come shortly after that. I think this is the right approach. I think we need to get off proof of work as soon as possible for multiple reasons, you know, one being the hostility from miners. You know, I don't think that they played their hand very well here.
00:38:01.058 - 00:38:39.130, Speaker A: And on top of that, I think that we want to, you know, we want to drop the issuance as well because issuance is very high right now. We want to get, you know, the Ethereum's monetary policy kind of cemented in there. And we also want to get off proof of work generally because of the energy usage. Right. I think a lot of people underestimate how much of the outside crypto space. Absolutely hates it us or hates crypto because of the fact that there's proof of work and it chews up a lot of energy. I'm not going to get into the arguments for and against here, but I do think that, you know, a lot of organizations, particularly governments and nation states, are going to take more notice of this and they're going to have different kind of like, I guess, approaches to it.
00:38:39.130 - 00:38:58.498, Speaker A: So I would like for Ethereum not to get crop, get caught in that crosshair there. I would like a theorem to be on proof of stake and get rid of proof of work. And then, you know, bitcoin and the other proof of work, networks can deal with the fallout from that. So, yeah, let's ship it, as Justin Drake says. And I'm looking forward to seeing this go live soon. All right, that's it for today's episode, everyone. I think that's the longest episode I've ever done.
00:38:58.498 - 00:39:08.554, Speaker A: A lot to talk about, of course. So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
