00:00:11.080 - 00:00:28.938, Speaker A: All right. All right. Hello. Hello everyone. GM, thank you for being here today, either in the community discord or from YouTube. Today we are going to be going over solvers in this frugal combo workshop. So we're going to be touching base on basically what is the backbone of solver.
00:00:28.938 - 00:02:00.364, Speaker A: So intents, what are intents? How do intents work? What intent centric systems are alive today? What's going to be next for intents in the industry? How is Fru combo involved in all of this? What are the benefits of furu combo doing this? Kind of getting involved in this kind of technology and then some information on solvers and then conclusion. So again, intents are the backbone of what a solver is. So we're going to start with that and then we're going to switch over to exactly what a solver is and how froo combo is doing this, so we can get right into it. So basically the question is, what are then intents? So an intent is essentially just a specific goal of a blockchain user. So a user, whether they're a trader or a protocol, they can submit their intent to a service, and then this intent is outsourced to a solver. So this basically simplifies the process for the user because there's so many different layer ones, L2s, layer threes, bridges, defi protocols, ways to facilitate the transaction. Intents can help to abstract all this away from the user and basically just give you the best route every time based on price, time, decentralization, things like that.
00:02:00.364 - 00:02:55.458, Speaker A: So it's based on economics in the sense that it's basically the same system as a proof of work where validators are fighting to get the, to confirm the block, you're fighting to confirm the user's transaction. And then if you are the cheapest price, most decentralized, whatever the intent is, if you win that transaction, then you will be rewarded. So that's basically how intents work. And this first became possible by account abstraction. So we'll just review again how intents work. So basically, most intent based protocols today start with something called intent discovery. So a user broadcasts the things that they want.
00:02:55.458 - 00:03:40.240, Speaker A: So I have USDC on Ethereum and I want to turn it into arbitrum token on arbitrum. So that would be an intent. So once this intent gets published, there's going to be a marketplace of solvers. And these solvers are watching for intents and looking to fulfill them if the price is right, and they can earn some fees for facilitating the transaction. So each solver is different in the sense that they're coded different, they have different integrations. So one solver may not be able to give the same price as another. There's different viability of economics behind each of the coding of each of the solvers.
00:03:40.240 - 00:04:18.890, Speaker A: So this creates a competitive system which is unique because it ensures that there's no centralized third party which is tasked with satisfying all the user's needs. So with solvers, there's going to be a bunch of them, not all. You know, there's not always going to be the same solver solving all the equations. It's going to be a pool, and based on the time, effort, integrations you've put into it, you'll be able to gather more of the market share. So here's just a brief example of how this looks. So a user wants 2500 dai and they're going to pay 1.5 e.
00:04:18.890 - 00:04:51.678, Speaker A: So this is basically a signed intent that goes to the solver network. So the solver then sends, or says, I found a route to swap you 1.5 eth for 2600 dai. I'll send you 2500 dai and I'll keep the extra 100 dai to cover my costs. So then the solver sends this EVM transaction with the signed intent, and the user will then transfer the 1.5 eth. They'll receive 2500 Dai because that's what the transaction that they wanted to see.
00:04:51.678 - 00:05:34.150, Speaker A: So no slippage there, they'll receive the price that they demanded. The solver will pocket all the extra or the positive slippage. So this way the user is very, very happy they received exactly what they wanted. And the solver is very, very happy because they've now earned themselves a revenue for facility facilitating this transaction. So this is what it looks like generally for like a defi swap solver network. So something akin to like cowswap. So what systems then are live? So we have a few intent centric systems coming live.
00:05:34.150 - 00:06:05.610, Speaker A: We just partnered recently with Contos. They're going to be building an intent system with solvers. And for combo, we'll be looking at launching a solver on their network once it's live. But right now we have a couple of main protocols. So the first one is Connext protocol, and this is a bridge network, so users can express the intent to transfer a token from one chain to another. And the network of Connext solvers will help to find the optimal root. So that's one example.
00:06:05.610 - 00:07:00.390, Speaker A: The other example is cowswap. So users can express the interest or the intent to buy a token and the network of solvers will find the optimal route, and they'll find it with mev protection. So they'll find it the best price by matching buyers and sellers, directly and private, so it's not available on the public mempool. As soon as you submit the transaction or the intent, this means that you'll have less risk of being front run, you'll have less risk of being sandwich attacked. So, generally these days, if you want to avoid mev attacks, you should use something like a privacy network or something like cowswap to give you that mev protection. So these are the two main intent centric systems that are live. There's other ones, there's up and coming ones, but this just gives you an example.
00:07:00.390 - 00:07:39.448, Speaker A: Swapping and bridging, basically. So here's a list of all the general purpose solutions that are intense centric at this point in time. Of course, this chart is not all inclusive, so flashbots was one of the first ones. We have calprotocol, matcha does something cool with their gas sponsorship as well as limit orders. We got Uniswap, I believe, Uniswap X. And then we have a lot of infrastructure being built on this. So Furcom was doing some intense stuff with protocol link.
00:07:39.448 - 00:08:06.870, Speaker A: We have gelato, for example, and then wallets who support this transaction, batching and gas sponsorship as well. So safe argent, things like that. So if you're interested, you can look more into this. Bye. Delving into each of these protocols and see what, what excites you about the space. And then that's a potential. You can try these protocols, you can invest.
00:08:06.870 - 00:08:51.430, Speaker A: This is going to be kind of an upcoming trend we're going to see as more intent centric protocols come available. So what's next then, for intent? So I believe we're going to see expanded functionality. So we're going to see things like conditional intents, which are allow any action when one or more conditions are met. So we see the basics of this today with limit orders, but it's going to get more intuitive and in depth. We're going to see things like continuous intents. So express a desire to take a repeated action. So this might be like intents that are automated when ETH hits a certain BTC ETH ratio, maybe purchase some tokens.
00:08:51.430 - 00:09:43.820, Speaker A: So any kind of dollar cost averaging would be a continuous intent. And then we'll see kind of multi step intents. So bundling intents together to perform kind of multiple actions. And this is kind of where fruit combo could get involved, is the bundling process, because we've been so good at creating, kind of bundling with our create mode. So then how is furu combo involved in this whole process? So furu combo right now is a solver for cowswap. So basically cowswap is a Dex aggregator and it relies on bonded third parties, or solvers to execute trades. So we have to bond up some tokens, I believe it's cow tokens, and then we can run our solver on the network, and then we can facilitate transactions for users.
00:09:43.820 - 00:10:50.840, Speaker A: Then if we say, for example, hey, we can solve this equation or solve this, or provide this price for the user, and it turns out we can't, then we'll be slash tokens. So that's where the bonding comes in. So there's an economic incentive to stay true to the kinds of actions that the solver says that it can do. So users intents get grouped into batches, and then the solver can execute the order at the best price to win the right to settle the batch. So solvers are compensated in cow tokens for settling batches. And it creates, again, an economic system that creates competition for solvers to find the best price to win the right to execute the user's intent. So again, this is where it comes into, okay, if I've had more dexs integrated, if I have more pathways integrated, if I have maybe faster calls, API calls to these dexs, things like that, then I'll be a better solver.
00:10:50.840 - 00:11:39.544, Speaker A: So fruit combo really needs to work every week at upgrading the code, upgrading the integrations to ensure that more and more users can use furu combo solver to facilitate their transactions. So what are the benefits then of the system for a user? So again, we'll find, or the solver will find, or cowswap will utilize helping to find optimal prices for trades in a batch. It's going to protect users from MeV by executing transactions on their behalf. And it provides abstraction that allows benefits like gasless trades, transaction bundles, and directly tapping into LP's. Additionally, it abstracts away some of the difficulty. So you don't need to be a pro, you can still get the best price. So that's the part that's really, really cool.
00:11:39.544 - 00:12:19.038, Speaker A: You're always based on the economic system as it continues to develop and gets more robust, gives you the ability to get the best price. And that's really what it boils down to, best price, privacy, decentralization. Okay, so what do the rewards then look like? Here, let me jump over. So here is the dune dashboard for Cal swap. So this includes all the different solvers that are performing these actions on behalf of cowswap. So here we can see the ranked active solvers. So here is the full list of solvers.
00:12:19.038 - 00:12:58.200, Speaker A: And here we see froo combo at number twelve. So this shows the number of batches, number of trades, swaps, volume settled, things like that, and solver rewards, and then solver batch shares. So we can see each week the kind of shares that Verucamo is getting on this list. So you can see here, we started on the first week was January 22, and we've continued to develop our product from there. So on January 22 we had a pretty good first week at 2.4% of the market share. So 2.4%
00:12:58.200 - 00:13:32.446, Speaker A: of all the daily transactions were being routed through fruit combo. I believe we had our best week here at 4.3% and that is actually the most recent week available. So that's really, really good. We can see that since we started, our solver has solved batches twice as much as when we first began. So we're going to continue to develop again our solver, continue to make it more efficient and then we'll see hopefully more trades being settled by fruit combo. So of course you can track all the information here.
00:13:32.446 - 00:14:20.030, Speaker A: So.com calprotocol backslash Solver Dash info and you can track and see how frugal combo is developing this technology and continuing to solve more of these batches. Great. So in conclusion then, basically solvers help to progress the economics of a system through less disincentives and through positive value generated from competition. So this is really, really important. The disincentives are the MEV attacks. So there's for example, bots or I guess kind of solvers who are looking to provide, not really provide, but to arbitrage the markets of swaps.
00:14:20.030 - 00:15:15.230, Speaker A: So if they believe they can front run someone, if they can believe they can sandwich attack someone, they can provide a higher priority fee, front run your transaction, you come in, you purchase tokens that aren't as much as you would have gotten if they weren't there. So this is kind of like a disincentive in the network. It helps to bring prices in parity, but it's generally a negative thing seen by people. And potentially if you're providing a lot of funds for a large swap, there's generally going to be an MEV attack on you. So this solver system helps to switch the disincentives from MEV attacks and helps to generate actually positive value through, through competition. So that's really, really cool. Actually, and it's going to help the economics of the system as a whole.
00:15:15.230 - 00:15:56.588, Speaker A: So I believe we're just at the beginning of intense centric dapps and many more systems are going to be built on this efficient and effective technology. And it's really nothing new. It just, again, it stems from the idea of the bitcoin, let's call it a solver system. Same thing. Solvers are looking for blocks to, you know, ensure blockchain security and that they can earn some fees for, again, securing the network. So the system's nothing new, we're just switching it now to other thought processes. So, yeah, this is how Furu combo is getting involved and we're creating the best systems we can to secure our part in building the future.
00:15:56.588 - 00:16:38.360, Speaker A: So we're super happy to be involved in this cutting edge technology and we're going to help to continue to expand and build out our solver, continue to support intent centric dapps in our protocol link system. So that's it for today. If you want to check any of their references, you can check here. These are really, really good reading articles. If you want to learn more about how these solvers work and potentially how you can get involved in creating your own solver, that's another thing as well. So thank you very much for being here, either on the discord or on YouTube, and we hope you enjoyed this workshop and we'll see you at the next one. Cheers, bye.
