00:00:00.410 - 00:00:38.770, Speaker A: Oh, welcome back, you spicy devils. Did you enjoy our hot silo Alpha tip last week? It played out pretty much as anticipated, and the team has now confirmed double CVX or CRV rewards. Now. Saucy. So what are we looking at this week? Well, the moon is too close, so we're reaching further into the solar system to, appropriately enough, the red planets, the fields of Mars. It's on terra, it's a money market and there's a red hot DFI opportunity we think you're going to like. Mere UST 67% APY coming up right after this future is the new frontier of crypto investment.
00:00:38.770 - 00:01:39.574, Speaker A: It's a DFI platform that creates crypto indices and automatically manages the assets so investors like you don't have to investing in crypto can be daunting and having to track multiple assets, timing the volatility, navigating gas costs can make it very difficult to make the right bets. But if you believe the wide crypto space or a specific sector will grow in five years time and don't want to place your money in just a few assets, future is the right investment for you. Future's first indices are launching in a few weeks and very soon you'll be able to invest directly through future or by using your favorite Dexes. Subscribe and be one of the first to access the future indices. In 2021, Ethereum traders lost over $200 million to malicious bots exploiting their trades. As DFI continues to gain popularity, this number is expected to rise. Eden Rocket RPC is a next generation private transaction service for Ethereum, providing traders with MEV protection by submitting transactions directly to miners and away from the prying eyes of harmful bots.
00:01:39.574 - 00:02:37.706, Speaker A: Using Eden network for ethereum transactions results in better and safer trades. While MEV protection doesn't require any stake, traders who do stake Eden and use the Eden RPC on Metamask receive transaction block priority, and now, with the release of staker extractable value, or SEV, they're paid for every trade they make on Ethereum. Eden Rocket RPC compiles some of Ethereum's fastest private transaction networks, resulting in a 90% plus effective hash rate. And this makes Eden Rocket RPC the fastest private transaction network available, protecting you from bots. On top of that, Eden rocket RPC users are paid to trade on Ethereum. Join the best and get started with Eden Network today to trade safer DFI protocol X Token has recently launched X Token Terminal, the capital markets platform for web3. Terminal aims to offer DFI and NFT projects seamless access to fundamental onchain primitives.
00:02:37.706 - 00:03:20.954, Speaker A: The first feature app on terminal mining is a permissionless and no code solution for deploying liquidity mining campaigns on uniswap v three. Rather than spending weeks of development time deploying and configuring contracts or building a custom interface, projects can use terminal to launch an LM program in a matter of minutes. Mining offers a robust UI and a flexible, configurable and feature rich contract architecture. Terminal also makes mining easy for liquidity providers with an intuitive end to end experience. Terminal will continue to roll out apps aimed at offering projects seamless, permissionless access to complex defi primitives. For more info, visit the terminal website and follow along on Twitter. So let's get into it.
00:03:20.954 - 00:03:59.694, Speaker A: This is a KN pepper, and this is Frank's red hot, extra hot sauce, our guest on the show. We'll come back to that later. So, Mars protocol it's a relative newcomer to the terra ecosystem, launching in early March. Think Ava, but on terra and you'd be in the right spot. It's a money market with lending, borrowing and earning opportunities. And the heart of it is the Red Bank, a fully automated lending protocol with the potential to accept any form of digital value for deposits and loans, at least in the future. For now, you'll have to be satisfied with lunar anchor or UST.
00:03:59.694 - 00:04:47.502, Speaker A: But that's okay. What we're interested in are the farms, or as they're known on Mars, the fields. Again, it's a limited selection for now, but here we have mirust, lunar UST and ANC UST options. So what makes them interesting? It's hot, but it's not crazy hot. So essentially these strategies represent a share in an astroport LP position. Astroport is now the number one Dex on terra, which is now the number two chain for DeFi. LP positions can be staked to earn the native astro token, as well as dual rewards like ANC tokens if you're supplying to the appropriate pool.
00:04:47.502 - 00:05:18.050, Speaker A: Now normally when supplying liquidity. It's really starting to bite now. Now normally when supplying liquidity, you're required to supply an equal value of tokens to both sides of the pool, but not here. This is single sided provision, but with a subtle difference. No, I can't do it. You supply a primary asset, like mere tokens, and you can then borrow up to 100% of the value in UST to make up the other side of the position. And this is effectively two x leverage.
00:05:18.050 - 00:05:54.206, Speaker A: The strategy will then automatically claim your rewards and restake them several times a day. So how are we going to do this? First, you'll need a terra wallet. I've been using the X DFI wallet and some funds on terra. Now, I'm starting with Luna, as you always need a little bit to pay for gas. Now, for this strategy, we need Mir, so I'll click the buy button, which will take me to astroport, then swap Luna to Mir, then click on farm. Now, on this page, we can decide what balance of the assets we want to supply. In this case, I'm supplying only Mir, so I will set the UST supply to zero.
00:05:54.206 - 00:06:23.666, Speaker A: That sets my leverage at two X, then click farm to confirm, then it's confirmed. You can then manage your position from the dashboard. To lower the leverage, we can choose to supply UST or to close a position, we would withdraw the primary asset, which is Mir. Now, since this is a leveraged position, you could be at risk of liquidation. But at two x only, this is. Well, it's reasonably remote, but of course not impossible. So keep an eye on your LTV or loan to value ratio.
00:06:23.666 - 00:06:50.750, Speaker A: This will be impacted by the price of Mir. Now, the liquidation threshold is 65%, which is equivalent to 2.85 x leverage. One other thing to note here is the credit line. This is the amount of UST available to borrow, and it's currently set at $2 million. Once it's gone, it's gone. But there is a proposal currently under review to increase the cap by another million dollars, and it looks fairly likely to be approved.
00:06:50.750 - 00:07:17.350, Speaker A: Finish it off. Yes. Shall I? Chin chin. So why is this hot? Oh, my God, I've got on my nose. So why is this hot? Firstly, the APY. It's good, but not excessive. Secondly, the credit line is limited, so it can't be swamped by whales hoovering up an unlimited pool of rewards.
00:07:17.350 - 00:07:48.462, Speaker A: Thirdly, if we look at the Mir token, it's currently trading a long way from its all time high, so the risk reward is skewed heavily in your favor. Lower risk of liquidation and the value of the rewards more likely to rise, so you're actually getting them cheap. But as always, nothing is without risk. So make sure to keep an eye on your collateral and keep some ust in reserve, just in case. That's it for today. As always, this wasn't financial advice, just the hottest defi opportunity in the world right now. Probably.
00:07:48.462 - 00:08:02.850, Speaker A: We'll be back with more hot stuff next week. If you enjoyed it, drop us a like. Consider subscribing for now. So as you'd expect. No, that wasn't very nice. See ya.
