00:00:00.440 - 00:00:35.078, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 30 June 2021. Alright everyone, last day of the month, so let's get right into it. So earlier today or yesterday, I guess for a lot of you, I did a new show with Bankless. So there's a new show called Top Signal on Bankless hosted by David Hoffman and Michael Wong from the Bankless Dao here. And I was joined by Kevin Owocki and Defiedad and we basically did like a crypto community comedy, sorry, variety show. And it was pretty fun actually.
00:00:35.078 - 00:00:56.222, Speaker A: Like it was the first episode that David and Michael were doing here. So we didn't exactly know how it was going to go, but we just went with it and it went really, really well. So they're obviously going to be having more episodes coming out of this series in the future. It won't always, it's going to feature different guests every time. It's not always going to feature, you know, me, Kevin and defy dad here. But if you haven't kind of checked this out, be sure to do so. I thought it was really good.
00:00:56.222 - 00:01:25.610, Speaker A: It was just, it was really just like us just having fun, right? Just, just having a laugh, talking about kind of things that, you know, I wouldn't call it like anything to do with like fundamental analysis or anything like that. It's not, you know, reviewing projects, it's not giving out Alpha or whatever, it's just having fun, right? It's just like, I guess you could say it's like Twitter shit. Posting as like a video series essentially, which I thought was, was pretty cool. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description. You guys can go check this out. I think it went for about an hour. So yeah, if you haven't seen it yet, I recommend giving it a shot.
00:01:25.610 - 00:02:02.286, Speaker A: I thought it was a pretty fun, fun series to do. So diversify announced that they're doing their new token sale for, sorry, their token sale for their new token DVf on the 7 July, the 8 July 2021. So the 7 August. I always get confused with these dates because like in Australia we do the dates differently. But yes, no, this is the 8 July, so they're actually doing it correctly. Whereas in the US this would be flipped, which always throws me off. But anyway, this, this kind of token is launching via the new diversify launch market product, which code name DLM, on Thursday the 8 July at 03:00 p.m..
00:02:02.286 - 00:02:44.174, Speaker A: UTC plus one. So basically this blog post is pretty long and it goes through exactly how you can participate in the DVF token sale. You know why doing it through their new DLM product is different, what the benefits are. So, I mean, I won't describe exactly what the DLM is on here. I think, you know, reading through this blog post will give you a really good idea, but essentially it's just a new way to kind of sell a token at the end of the day and to basically do a token sale, which I think is pretty cool. They explain like how the price discovery is going to work and basically I think it's similar to like a balancer liquidity liquidity pool sale as well. But essentially you come along, you bring your USD t so tether along to the sale and you put, you can purchase DVF tokens by doing this here.
00:02:44.174 - 00:03:16.638, Speaker A: Now, you guys know that I've spoken about diversify a lot on the refill before. They're a L2 based, kind of like Dex or centralized exchange, but they have got a bunch of other defi products that they're building out as well. So not just L2. Definitely a lot of stuff working there. So if you're interested in checking out this token sale, be sure to do so. This is not me saying that you should go buy this token or anything like that. I just wanted to put it on your radar because some people have discussed this with me before, because diversify actually had another token previously called Nectar, which they announced like a few weeks ago, a couple months ago.
00:03:16.638 - 00:04:14.128, Speaker A: Now that would kind of, I guess discontinuing that and going with this new DVF token and creating like a whole new distribution for it and doing liquidity mining and all this sort of stuff because the nectar token had actually been around for quite a while. And I think Bitfinex owned like a lot, a very large chunk of the supply because diversify was originally called, I'm pretty sure called Nectar exchange, something like that. It was, it was a dex that spun out of Bitfinex, the centralized exchange, and now they've just kind of like rebranded and are kind of targeting something much larger than just decentralized exchanges. They want to have a whole L2 ecosystem built on StarQuest technology for DeFi, sort of like what loop ring is doing. So yeah, if that it's interesting to you, then definitely check out the blog post here. I'll link it in the YouTube description. So Ryan Watkins from Masari put out an interesting tweet thread today where he said, in the coming weeks, it is very likely that USDT's or tether's share of the stable coin supply on Ethereum will fall below 50% for the first time.
00:04:14.128 - 00:04:52.724, Speaker A: USDC is quickly emerging as the dominant stable coin in Ethereum, in large part due to its growing role in DeFi. And he's attached a nice chart here comparing USDT, USDC and Dai. And as you can see, USDT or tether has been trending down over time with USDC and Dai gaining market share, which is exactly what we want to see. Right. I'm not, you know, I'm not like a tether truth or someone that, like, thinks tether is going to be like, the be all is going to, like, end crypto, okay, if it explodes or anything like that. But I, you know, I agree with, with a lot of people that say, you know, it's like a central point of failure, not just for, I guess, like Defi, but for like, stable coins in general. We obviously want the stable coin ecosystem to be very vibrant.
00:04:52.724 - 00:05:30.674, Speaker A: We don't want any one stable coin having massive dominance here. And I'm just really glad something like USDC exists to kind of offset the balance, because at the end of the day, it's much, much easier to scale and grow a centralized stable coin than it is to grow a decentralized one. So, as I've said, like many times on the refill before, if I had to pick between USDT and USDC, I mean, I'd go for us DC every single time. So I'm glad that it exists. And obviously, like, I prefer to use Dai whenever possible. But, you know, I do use USDC quite a lot during my kind of day to day transactions for various different things. You know, some exchanges that I use to cash out the fiat don't support Dai.
00:05:30.674 - 00:06:09.652, Speaker A: You know, Dai is. I think Dai is like just as liquid as USDC. But, you know, sometimes I'm doing payments and things like that, or maybe some, like, angel investments, and they usually only accept USDC and not other stable coins. So I'm glad that it exists for that reason alone. But I'm also glad to see that it's, it's kind of like the market share on Ethereum for tether is, is definitely going down because you can see here it peaked at like, what, over 80% back in, you know, just a year ago. And since then, it has now come down to almost 50% or below it, uh, with us DC gaining the majority market share, but Dai also growing, which is, which is awesome to see. Uh, and you know, this is also due to, I think, USDT flowing to Tron as well.
00:06:09.652 - 00:06:43.926, Speaker A: Funny enough, Tron has basically become a, I guess like platform for tether at the end of the day because um, it's obviously cheaper to use in a theory because it's like totally centralized. So they don't really care about decentralization. So they just got all the scale in the world. So, you know, and it's got cheaper fees and things like that because of that. So people have just moved across to Tron with the USDT and, you know, why not? Because USDT is a centralized, stable coin to begin with. So who cares if it's on a centralized network or a decentralized one? Obviously on ethereum you can do a lot more with your USDC. You know, it's supported by different defi apps and things like that.
00:06:43.926 - 00:07:05.862, Speaker A: But generally I think the fact that it was so dominant for so long was that was a kind of like a bad thing. And I'm really glad to see its dominance waning. And in the rest of the thread here from Ryan, he goes through a bunch of different metrics saying that over 50% of the USD supply is actually now sitting in smart contracts, which is equivalent to $12.5 billion. This is something that I didn't know. I hadn't actually seen this before. That's really cool.
00:07:05.862 - 00:07:34.430, Speaker A: That means that over 50% of USDC is actually being put to work in some way or another within, within DeFi. And you can see like another comparison chart here, like television. Tether is obviously not, you can see tethers in pink here. And it's not. A very large, large percent of it is in smart contracts or in Defi. I think maybe eyeing it here, just like under 20%, DAI is a lot higher, though. It's even higher than USDC with about 60% ish in smart contracts.
00:07:34.430 - 00:08:25.304, Speaker A: So I think USDT or tether is very popular with, I guess like market makers and arbitrage traders between centralized exchanges. And it's always been that way because I mean the USDT is backed by Bitfinex and obviously a large centralized exchange. And it's just used to r between different centralized exchanges and for market makers and for all that sort of stuff, it's not really used for much else. And that, you know, you can see that play out perfectly in this chart here that people within DeFi or within smart contracts much prefer to use Dai and USDC instead of tether, which, which I thought was a pretty cool stat to point out as well. And then, you know, Ryan talks about other stable coins that are kind of, I guess, making headways as well. He did another thread a little while ago on, you know, all the different stable coins out there. I mean, you can see here there's so many of them now and they're tackling like different problems, trying to solve for different things.
00:08:25.304 - 00:08:55.600, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, I suggest going and giving this thread a read from Ryan here. I think it's, it's a really great thread, and he's a great follower generally as well. He does a lot of good research at Masari, but yeah, good to see that USDT is becoming much less dominant in the ethereum ecosystem. And really, I expect this to keep falling. Ideally, you would like to see like maybe an equal distribution between USDC and Dai and all the other kind of like decentralized stable coins that have proven themselves. But it's not going to work like that. It will be a power law distribution, I think.
00:08:55.600 - 00:09:57.188, Speaker A: But it's good to see that USDC is kind of edging, edging out USDT over time and that Dai is actually keeping up too. I'd actually be more concerned if Dai had stayed flat while USDC grew. Um, and you know, even though USDT is going down, that just means we're like having, you know, he's the, he's the new boss, same as the old boss sort of thing. Like, as much as I like USDC and think it's like the best centralized stable coin, if I had to pick one, I still don't like the fact that the Ethereum ecosystem, or like that the ecosystem in general, is so dependent on the centralized stable coins, I would like them to be more dependent on the decentralized ones. And of course, you know, you might be thinking to yourself, well, Anthony, Dai is backed by 50% USDC right now. So is it really decentralized? And I've spoken about before that I actually don't think that it, when Dai is backed by that much USDC, I don't consider Dai to be decentralized because it's just, I mean, that USDC could get frozen by, by circle because they have admin key privilege over it. And that means that instantly 50% of the DAI being issued out there is not backed by anything.
00:09:57.188 - 00:10:38.258, Speaker A: And you know, that means, logically DAi would lose 50% of its value. Logically, it'd probably lose more than that because of all the panic that would ensue. So from that perspective, it's like, well, why not just like use USDC then? But over time I believe, you know, Maker has plans to at least the DAo itself and all the community and everything have plans to get off USDC and kind of like, obviously introduce more collateral over time so you have a more even spread there. But yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. Just really great to see tether losing dominance here. So nethermind is teasing that their girly node is sinking and getting closer to London, or EIP 1559. Now, as I've said before, the Ropston testnet is live with London.
00:10:38.258 - 00:11:08.906, Speaker A: That went live last week. And in another 12 hours from when I'm recording this, the girly testnet will fork over to London. So that'll be the second testnet. And then, of course, next week we'll have rinkeby. And then I think sometime in between this week and next, or maybe after it goes live on rinkeby, we're going to have a main net block. Given if everything goes well, that, you know, if something goes wrong on any of these test nets, then, you know, the core devs aren't going to give a main net fork date or a main net block block number because something will. Obviously, if something goes wrong, we have to fix something.
00:11:08.906 - 00:11:25.050, Speaker A: But yeah, this is really cool to see that. I mean, it's been running fine on Ropston. I've been, you know, I've been talking about on the refuel, it's been stress tested. There's been plenty of kind of, like, people looking at it. And now we get to do that on girly and then we get to do that on. On Rinkerbee next week as well. So I'm looking forward to this.
00:11:25.050 - 00:11:55.860, Speaker A: And there's a handy little countdown timer here that I'll link in the YouTube description that you can see. It's actually 13 hours and 16 minutes away. And this is in my standard time here. So this will be done at about noon australian time tomorrow from when I'm recording this. But you can go check out the countdown for yourself to see what time it's going to happen in your local time. But, you know, I'm going to tweet about it once it's live anyway, so you probably just have to pay attention to my tweets and a lot of other people's tweets, I imagine, as well. So Hermes network announced that their mobile wallet is now live for both iOS and Android.
00:11:55.860 - 00:12:22.252, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know what Hermes is, it's basically a ZK roll up solution focused on scaling payments. So I think I've spoken about them before, maybe a little while ago on the refuel. But basically you'll be able to download this wallet onto iOS or Android. And it looks beautiful. I mean, it's absolutely awesome. And this is just a really cool and easy way to move funds between different kind of like accounts on L2. And doing it just from your mobile, I guess, like mobile phone.
00:12:22.252 - 00:12:59.214, Speaker A: And for those of you who have used loopring before, I imagine this would be very similar because loop ring also has an app live. I think it's only live on iOS right now. I'm not sure if they have an Android version, but this is what we need for mass adoption of kind of like payments, I believe. Because at the end of the day, most people do their payments on mobile. Most people do most things on mobile these days. So if we have like a very nice L2 experience for these people on, on mobile to, to kind of like interact with the Ethereum network and move funds and pay people and do whatever they want, then I do believe that we're going to get a lot more adoption through that rather than through a web wallet or like a chrome extension or something like that. So, so really cool to see this.
00:12:59.214 - 00:13:28.866, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know what Hermes network is, as I said, they're ZK roll up kind of solution. Their blog is full of information about what they are, so you can go to their blog and learn more about it. Of course, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. They're pretty active as well. They've got a pretty active community on Discord and on Telegram and things as well, which you can find links to on the website, of course, and on their Twitter. But yeah, and you should go download this if you have. Obviously you have either an iPhone or Android phone, or maybe you're one of those mythical windows phone users.
00:13:28.866 - 00:14:23.148, Speaker A: Are they even a thing? I don't know, but yeah, yeah, if you have an iOS or Android phone, definitely go. Or iPhone or, sorry, an Android phone, definitely go download this, check it out, play around with it, and experience the power of Ethereum's L2 ecosystem for yourself. So Frank Chappereau from the block put out a tweet today referencing one of the pieces that the blog put out where Anthony Scaramucci plans to launch an Ethereum ETF, or at least I guess launch an Ethereum fund. First a private Ethereum fund, and then file for an ETF for Ethereum. Now for those who don't know, Anthony is the founder of Skybridge, which is a alternative investment firm. They've been kind of like, I guess, talking about bitcoin and Ethereum and digital assets for and crypto assets for quite a while now. So, yeah, this is just another player getting into, I guess, like the private Ethereum fund game, but also getting into the ETF for Ethereum game.
00:14:23.148 - 00:15:17.044, Speaker A: Now. You know what I find really funny? The fact that the SEC has left it so long to approve a bitcoin ETF, that I actually think that there's a decent chance that when the time comes, they're going to approve an ETF for both bitcoin and ETH at the same time. Because a lot of the, I guess, organizations and institutions, businesses that are, I guess, like, applying for a bitcoin ETF are also just dual applying for an Ethereum ETF at the same time or an ether ETF at the same time. And I think that's being done strategically, obviously, because they, you know, they all have, are in competition with each other. They want to be the first one that's approved. But I've spoken about it before how basically the SEC, by waiting so long, have, you know, tied themselves up here because they can't just approve, like, two or three of these ETF's. They have to approve all of them at once, because approving two or three basically makes them a king maker and get, and it will give preference to any one company over another.
00:15:17.044 - 00:16:00.762, Speaker A: So I believe they're going to have to approve all the bitcoin ETF's at once if they want to keep things fair, if they actually want to do what they're mandated to do. Um, and, you know, and, and maybe they approve the ETH ETF's at the same time. If not, I reckon it'll come very shortly after that, because once you do the bitcoin one, you know, the ETH one's very easy to do, and there's, you know, you've basically already kind of, I guess, opened the open, the kind of, um, can of worms there. So, yeah, I think it's, it's going to be really cool to see that play out. But I guess, good to have people, more people that are in the traditional finance system pushing this, because that's what we need for things like the ETF's. But I mean, generally, like, you know, you guys know, my opinion on traditional finance, I think it's slow, clunky, old. I don't really care much too much for it, but an ETF will give people an easy way to get into it with their.
00:16:00.762 - 00:16:31.882, Speaker A: To get into ETH or bitcoin I guess with their retirement accounts. And this is a big deal. And this is why people make a big deal out of ETF's is because you can't actually buy any products with your retirement account right now that are good products. You can buy the ETH E or the GBTC products from grayscale with your retirement funds or your 401K in the US or whatever, but they are very different products to an ETF. Those products suffer from premiums and discounts. I'm sure you've all seen the discount that was on GBTC for a while. I don't know what it's at now, but I think it went to like 20% discount.
00:16:31.882 - 00:17:07.678, Speaker A: So you were underwater and then the premiums, you might end up buying it, you know, buying bitcoin or ETH like a massive premium to what it is on the spot markets. So an ETF doesn't have that problem because an ETF has to trade@its.net asset value and it gets arbitraged away. So if an ETF's price gets ahead of its underlying, then it just gets arbitraged away by whoever wants to kind of like cover that and it stays at like a similar value to what the spot value is of it. And that makes it a much better product to own. And by earning it in a retirement account or a 401k or whatever, you get the tax benefits too. And that's why a lot of people love owning these assets in, in that thing.
00:17:07.678 - 00:17:47.559, Speaker A: So um, yeah, I guess, like I think it's essentially tax free by owning like an ETF instead of like having to manage it yourself. Like if you do a self managed kind of retirement fund and buy kind of like eat spot, I'm pretty sure you have to pay like some sort of taxes on that. Whereas in a proper like retirement account it's, it's, it's usually tax free. I'm not exactly sure how the US system works, but in Australia I think like you can still do a self managed fund and kind of like buy any asset you want with it, but I think, and then it's tax free. Or at least like minimize tax. But I think with like a 401k in the US or something like that, maybe someone can correct me in the comments. An ETF is just much better than any other, other products out there.
00:17:47.559 - 00:18:23.558, Speaker A: And if you buy spot with it, you don't get those tax benefits like spot ETH, for example. So yeah, cool to see this push coming out of, as I said, traditional finance people. And we'll keep an eye on this and see how it goes. So loopring is nearing $2 billion traded on their L2 decentralized exchanges here, which is awesome to see. I mean, I've spoken about looping plenty of times in the refill before. I've said to you guys to not sleep on L2 exchanges like loop ring because they're going to, you know, be, they're going to, their trading volumes are going to keep growing as time goes on, as more and more and more and more users get priced out of layer one, of course. And it's just like the onboarding gets easier for these sorts of things.
00:18:23.558 - 00:19:30.388, Speaker A: So this is lifetime volume, I believe, are not like 24 hours volume or anything like that. But I think that even their 24 hours volume has been steadily increasing over time. And, you know, I think that over, you know, the next coming months, when more people get kind of like, I guess, ETH peeled on the L2 ecosystem, they're going to be going to things like loop ring as well, because there are the EVM compatible, generalized, I guess, L2s out there like that are going live that I've spoken about plenty of times, like arbitrary and optimism and ZK sync and starkware and all that sort of stuff, or maybe not stockware. They're doing a different, slightly different thing. But loop ring and you know, I mentioned diversify earlier, they're building out their own, like, you know, I guess like siloed ecosystem where they control the user experience and they're able to give people just like this one app, whether it be loopring or, or diversify, where the, or even like DyDX for example too, where users can go there, they know what they're getting. And then the loopring team, for example, can focus just on their products instead of having to, I guess, like focus on everything else that's, that's sharing the same infrastructure as them, which I think there are benefits and drawbacks to. But, um, you know, for loop ring, it seems to be working.
00:19:30.388 - 00:20:14.984, Speaker A: They, they, you know, as I said, they've been doing $2 billion traded so far. I know this might not sound a lot compared to something like uniswap on layer one that's doing, I think, still doing a billion dollars of 20th of trading volume every 24 hours, or at least around that, which is, which is insane. But I just think that a lot of people haven't moved to L2 yet still, it just hasn't been, there hasn't been like a massive push about it yet. I think people don't realize that L2 is here. They're just waiting for those generalized solutions to go live. And then I think the narrative will definitely shift around that. So Brantley here put out a tweet where basically saying that him and his team are looking for a skilled person to lead an effort to standardize the sign in with Ethereum kind of initiative here, and they can pay a grant for the work.
00:20:14.984 - 00:20:59.106, Speaker A: So basically what needs to happen is they need to survey the current practices, write a spec, best practices, et cetera, make an Oauth implementation. If this is something that you are interested in doing, you can dm Brantley. His profile will be linked in the YouTube description. But I did want to kind of explain what this sign in with Ethereum thing is and why it's very important and why it's potentially a game changer for Ethereum. Basically, Brantley did a thread on it that was very, very popular that you can go find, it'll be linked in the YouTube description about exactly what sign in with Ethereum is, and you know why it's so powerful. But I'm going to give you the TLdr. Essentially what this is is that, you know, when you go to different websites and they've got like a option to sign in with Google or sign in with Facebook, or sign in with X and Y and Z or whatever, this would be another option on their website.
00:20:59.106 - 00:22:01.868, Speaker A: But you were signing in with your Ethereum wallet. So say you have your metamask. When you log into web3 apps, what do you like? Sorry, let me, let me take a step back for a bit. When you interact with web3 apps, and you know, this includes pretty much every defi app, you click sign in with, and then you click metamask or Ledger wallet or, you know, wallet connect or some other wallet out there, and then you sign in with that wallet, and then, you know, it's not asking you for username or password or anything, it just asks you to sign a message. Now, what's actually happening when you sign that message is that you're using your private key to sign a message to prove that you are the owner of that public address, and then you basically get to sign in. Now, if you expand that out to not just like Defi and crypto native apps, but to everything, it basically means that you have a way to authenticate yourself with all these different services without having to store any data or having to store any usernames or passwords or sensitive data on their servers right on their centralized servers of this kind of service. So you can essentially control all your data, control your credentials and everything and revoke it at any time as well with signing with Ethereum.
00:22:01.868 - 00:23:13.248, Speaker A: So that's what this initiative is all about. We basically want to make this ubiquitous across, like, the web generally, not just within crypto, because this can literally apply to every website out there already. All the website has to do, once this is built out, is implement it into their kind of like, stack and allow people to sign in with their Ethereum account rather than signing in with something else as an authentication tool here, which I think is going to be more and more accepted as time goes on. I think there's a lot of companies definitely out there who don't want to have to store user credentials because we've seen all the data leaks that's happened over, you know, over, over, like the, I guess, like last few years, especially, where storing all these data in, like, one giant centralized database is a very, very tasty thing for hackers to, to go after and for people that are just kind of like, trying to exploit different systems to gain access to this data. So what if we just had everyone own their own data and then they can choose who they want to, who they want to give it to, and then if they're compromised, well, it's only their data that's, that's, I guess, like, lost. It's not everyone's, um, and, you know, as I said, like, these services don't have to hold this treasure trove of, of user data for hackers to get access to. So this would actually fundamentally solve a fundamentally huge problem with the web, but not just within crypto, with, like, basically the whole web.
00:23:13.248 - 00:23:38.584, Speaker A: And I'm really hoping to see this happen. So if you're interested, DM Brantley and you can kind of, like, get started on this with him, he works at Ens domains. He's the director of operations at Ens. So, yeah, definitely a very smart cookie. And, you know, I'm really looking forward to seeing this deployed more broadly. All right, so the final thing I wanted to talk about was this, a map of the bankless nation that the future is down. Twitter posted.
00:23:38.584 - 00:24:17.010, Speaker A: So, you know, for those of you listening to the podcast, you won't be able to see this, but you can go to the YouTube description and check this out. But this is basically an image of, you know, basically the ethereum kind of like ecosystem or the crypto ecosystem. Not, not just ethereum. There's a bunch of other stuff going on here, and I just love it. I mean, it's so creative. Like, look at, look at even the thing, like the little details like the top left where they have the Ethereum logo on the compass there, or like the bottom right where you have KyC being this giant kind of like squid that's going to attack you. And then they've got like the centralized crypto banks basically walled off from the rest of, I guess, like the bankless nation because they're like the, you know, we don't want to, we don't want to go near them.
00:24:17.010 - 00:24:45.198, Speaker A: It's like centralization harbor. We need, you know, we need them, but we don't like them sort of thing. And then, you know, you have all these other stuff like the kingdom of ETH and Mount Doge and the chasm of lost private keys, which I thought was pretty funny. I just. The more you look at this image and the more you kind of, like, view it, the more like these little Easter eggs and little kind of like things that you find like the charts being the mountains in the background and, you know, hard cap hills and, I mean, ruins of Mt. Gox there. It's just really, really funny.
00:24:45.198 - 00:25:20.774, Speaker A: But aside from that, I did want to kind of like, I guess, touch on what I think I've touched on the refill before about how, I mean, Ethereum in particular, or I guess like crypto and generally, right. It's like a new nation at the end of the day. Like, we're all citizens of this new nation that's being formed totally digital. It has its own sets of rules and laws. If you consider the protocol rules to be laws, which, I mean, they're not laws, but in a legal sense. But they're the laws that the protocol follows right there. There are certain things that the protocol can't do and can do, and it follows that if all the full nodes exist, they're in sync with each other, and everyone agrees that that's the current state of the chain.
00:25:20.774 - 00:25:43.642, Speaker A: And then there's everything built on top of it. All the apps are like all the different companies built on top of it. And you can go and interact with these different companies. You can use basically the reserve currency of Ethereum, which is ETH, for example. And then, you know, you can use different kind of tokens on there, which are like equity in different companies, or at least they act like equity in some. Some ways. And, yeah, generally.
00:25:43.642 - 00:26:03.746, Speaker A: And we have, like our own memes and things like that. We have our own kind of like law. We have our own history. So really, the crypto ecosystem as a whole is definitely its own kind of nation, digitally native Internet born and bred and basically doesn't really exist in the real world. Right. There are conferences and things like that. But that's like, I guess, an extension of what's happening in the digital world.
00:26:03.746 - 00:26:31.086, Speaker A: It's digital first. Like, majority of things happen in the digital world. And I just think it's really, really cool that, that, you know, this, this image was put together. I just, it's awesome. I would actually get this framed if it was, if this was available. So I guess the future is dow, if you're listening, you should definitely, I guess, like either NFT this or put this up for some, for people to be able to print this out and get a print of it, like a poster or something, because that's something that I would definitely be interested in purchasing because I just think it's really, really cool. But anyway, I'll stop fawning over this for now.
00:26:31.086 - 00:26:43.302, Speaker A: I think that's it for today. Yeah. I've got nothing left. No more tabs left here. So thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:26:43.302 - 00:26:44.934, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Bye.
