00:00:05.290 - 00:00:53.510, Speaker A: All right, gents, looks like we have a decent crowd coming in. We'll jump into it and people can join in mid conversation. So welcome everyone to the latest episode of Chainlinked by Chainlink Labs. For those new to the show, this is a Twitter spaces series where you can learn all about the latest developments in Chainlink and the wider smart contract ecosystem. Given recent events, today we're diving into why proof of reserve is important for the wider web3 ecosystem. On stage, I'm joined by Michael from Truefi, Clayton from Aramino, and Ernesto from BGD Labs. And then on the chain link lab side, we are joined by our very own proof of reserve go to market league Max alongside Sharag, head of product marketing.
00:00:53.510 - 00:01:06.180, Speaker A: Welcome everyone to the show. I'm excited to have you all on the Twitter space for this important topic. I'll now pass the mic over to Sharag, who will be leading the panel discussion. Sharag, take it away man.
00:01:06.870 - 00:01:51.200, Speaker B: Thank you. Hi everyone. So the incidents of the last few days have reminded us that there's an urgent need to fix the black box. Just trust us model of how financial institutions around us are operating. And Chainlink proof of reserve is the critical piece in fixing the issues we have in the ecosystem of providing more transparency to both off chain and on chain reserves. Without waiting any further, I'd like to welcome all our guests and have the first question for Max. Max, from a Chainlinks perspective, can you tell us a little bit about the history of proof of reserve? What is proof of reserve? How it started?
00:01:55.030 - 00:02:45.874, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. Thanks, Shirag. So, proof of reserve, I think you can think back to accounting, the principle that assets should always exceed liabilities. And so this concept of checking for solvency has existed long before blockchain, but blockchain opened up a lot of avenues for issuers and custodians to participate in this ecosystem. And with proof of reserve specifically relating to crypto, I think you can look back to 2014 2015, post Mount Gox, Greg Maxwell, who was looking to see if this same method of computing liabilities against assets could be done cryptographically. And so that was really the first time we saw the need for proof of reserve and even an implementation of it. But it has evolved since then.
00:02:45.874 - 00:03:35.400, Speaker C: And so a lot of the things that Chainlink is doing with proof of reserve right now are kind of pushing what we can do in real time and on chain in a decentralized fashion. So things like working with DeFi protocols and asset issuers to essentially bring that same transparency like you would have in traditional accounting, but increasing it and putting it into near real time formats with a decentralized oracle network. And so Chainlink has been working on proof reserve since 2020 was the first time we launched a feed and it's been a continued focus for us. It's personally something I'm very passionate about and we're seeing more and more adoption events like these are unfortunate, but they do bring the light, the need for this. Yeah.
00:03:38.410 - 00:04:11.550, Speaker B: Thank you, Max. My next question is for Michael from Truefi. Truefi has been partnering with chain link to bring the tosd proof of reserve feed. I believe the first feed went live in 2020. So it was about three years back. Could you give us a little bit of context on what is true Phi Archblock and tell us a little bit about the motivations for bringing and using proof of reserve for ToD?
00:04:12.310 - 00:05:00.030, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. Happy to. The sort of TUSD journey started back in 2017, 2018. The company, then named Trust Token, now named Archblock, was looking at the market for DFI and sort of tokenized assets and sort of real world lending. And we had this thesis that the undergirdering technology necessary to make real world lending happen, or real world assets on chain was going to require some really strong, transparent and trusted stablecoin assets. That's sort of what the primary movements of money relied on, the US dollar. Still, that being said, we started TUSD as one of the second ever stablecoins to go to the market.
00:05:00.030 - 00:05:50.538, Speaker D: Raptor Tether and the commitment from day one was trust, transparency, accountability. In those early days, we were doing about sort of monthly attestations, working with our partners at Armanino. Loved that relationship since then, and we've escalated it since. The second stage of sort of transparency for us was doing live attestations. And so in working with Arminino and then chain link, pretty early on, that first version of proof of reserve, or sort of a proof of reserve like function, basically saw on chain attestations being published every 30 seconds. It was then, and continues to be today, one of the most transparent reportings of assets held in reserve for any stablecoin. Now we're really excited to be partnered with you guys even deeper.
00:05:50.538 - 00:07:13.446, Speaker D: And the sort of escalated proof of reserve design actually prevents any need to USD from being minted unless the on chain attestations prove out that the money has hit the actual escrow bank accounts. So if you want to talk about the journey that we've taken since then, the entire motive has always been trust and transparency to create the best possible, most stable, most trustworthy reserve asset in defi in form of this stablecoin with very much live and on chain attestations. And that's really because we believe this is a necessity for building the future of defi. You really can't build Defi and take on this sort of multi trillion dollar tradfi market, which is sort of, I think, why many of us are here in the first place, unless you have underlying assets you can depend on. And so that's what Tuc has always tried to be. And in terms of the relation between archblock and Trufi, Trufi is an independent infrastructure for global lending. It is run by a Dow and really spun out and independent archblock, which again is formerly trust token, really handles a lot of the institutional as well as the more sort of legal compliance matters for some of the products like Truefi and like TUSD.
00:07:13.446 - 00:07:34.180, Speaker D: So you can think of Archblock as sort of the centralized anchor in the real world for us to do a lot of the things know, touching real world rails and Truefi is lending infrastructure that sort of runs independently and is sort of dow managed. So for today, I'm pretty much representing Archblock and all the work that we're doing there on our stablecoins and institutional services.
00:07:36.310 - 00:08:15.200, Speaker B: Thank you Michael. Lots to unpack there. I think you hit on a lot of critical points that I'd love to talk about a little bit more for our audience and explain it for them, starting with you mentioned your partnership with Armanino and attestations there. My next question is for Armanino Clayton from Armanino. Clayton, could you tell our audience a little bit about what is Armanino, what is the role you play and then a little bit more about your trust explorer product that has been on the market for a while.
00:08:17.330 - 00:08:56.186, Speaker E: Yeah, sure. I'm Clayton Lowry, I'm a senior product manager at Arminino. We are a top 20 US based accounting and consulting firm and one of the oldest working in the crypto space. We got involved back in 2014, so we've seen quite the up and down in this industry. And at the time we were just working on a couple clients back then. And then we formally launched a dedicated business practice to this in 2018. And around that time we worked with our partners that we love so much over at true USD to bring more transparency to the stablecoin system.
00:08:56.186 - 00:10:01.790, Speaker E: It was really just tether back then and a lot of these new ones were coming out and so we started doing real time transparency dashboards over their stablecoins, showing the public reserves that each of the tokens was backed by dollars in a trust account. And we continued to innovate on top of that, layering on the audit reports and doing those in real time and automating those every 30 seconds, and then ended up partnering with all of you at Chainlink, too, to get that on chain and now for use in the minting function of the smart contracts. Trust Explorer really was born out of our mission, which, when we founded, was to increase trust and transparency in this ecosystem. That's always what we've been focused on are these gaps that are all around, like the one we've seen this week. And so, unfortunately, it took a few years, but now I think everyone's kind of awake to how important this really is. And so even though it's a rough time right now, I'm excited that I think we're going to finally make some big changes in this industry.
00:10:05.350 - 00:10:17.480, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you for that. And, Clayton, while I have you, could you also tell our audience a little bit about what is attestation mean and explain that for us?
00:10:19.530 - 00:11:11.202, Speaker E: Yeah, sure. Attest is a form of assurance, and it follows AICPA standards, which is the governing body that governs all us based accounting firms. It is a lower grade of assurance versus the term audit. And in crypto, everyone likes to use the word audit kind of everywhere. Probably born out of, we call smart contract audits audits, but in the accounting terminology has a very specific meaning, and an audit is a higher level of assurance. There's usually history and standards wrapped around that, and typically it takes on the form of doing a full financial statement on it of a company where a firm puts their name behind it and issues an opinion. And attest is still, like I said, a form of assurance, but it comes to findings and results on, like, a specified procedures.
00:11:11.202 - 00:11:36.270, Speaker E: So it's a little more, you can customize it some more, and it's sort of a lower standard. There's less work that has to be done on the back end that no one really sees in the end product really around controls and it and stuff. But it is still a form of assurance and is still pretty powerful, even though we see a lot of disputes about all that in the industry on the different terminology.
00:11:38.290 - 00:12:08.680, Speaker B: Got it. Thank you, Clayton. I'll come back to you on some follow ups there. Moving to Ernesto from BGD. Ernesto, your team has been working with Aave, as well as Chainlink proof of reserve to bring some new innovations there. Could you tell us a little bit about your role there, what is BGD? And explain to us a little bit more about how you're leveraging chainlink. Proof of.
00:12:13.130 - 00:13:47.930, Speaker F: BGD comes from board goals developing and we are mainly an initiative formed by Abicor developers that were part of the Avogenesis team that created the abbey protocol and all its versions. And right now we are engaged with the Abidao in a centralized way, like to basically do core development, security analysis of everything around the protocol, helping integrators, and basically everything related with technical aspects around Abe. Yeah, about how is our relation with the proof of reserve ployed? At some point we realized that we are in contact with the Chainlink team since a long time ago, trying to understand how proof of reserve could be applied around the abbey protocol. But lately, with the expansion of bridging technology and having in multiple networks, we are finding more and more necessary to introduce a bit more of verifiability. I will call it on how the funds are stored and if there is equivalent reserves on breached assets, mainly. So, yeah, right now we are working in a solution to give a bit more assurance in terms of reserves for breached assets on the other protocol.
00:13:50.620 - 00:14:26.240, Speaker B: Got it. Thank you, Ernesto. So many of the folks here touched upon talking about how proof of reserve capability not just provides transparency, it provides it in an automated fashion. What Michael mentioned was every 30 seconds the information is available on the reserves. My next question is for Max. Max, can you take us a little bit deeper into how all of this is possible? Talking about the automated capabilities of chain link proof of reserve?
00:14:28.420 - 00:15:13.100, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. So I think when we think about proof of reserve, we really think about it in two fashions. On the issuance side, you have off chain proof of reserve and you have cross chain proof of reserve. So off chain proof of know, similar to what Michael's talking about with TUSD, you have reserve assets which know us dollars are going to be cash equivalents in the case of a stablecoin in a custodial, bank accounts or multiple, and the chainlink nodes in the network are pulling that data. In the case of TUSD, we have a top 20 US accounting firm, which is Arminino. The node operators pull from there, come to consensus cryptographically, sign their observations and deliver that on chain. On the cross chain side, we have node operators who are running clients, blockchain clients for multiple networks.
00:15:13.100 - 00:16:15.568, Speaker C: And what they do is if it's a multi Sig bridge, EOA, for example, they'll look at the balance of that bridge against what the synthetic derivative is on the destination chain. So if you think about something like WBTC for bitco, they have amount of bitcoin locked up on the bitcoin blockchain. And they've created a derivative asset called WBTC on ethereum. The chainlink node operators can pull directly from the bitcoin blockchain, see the amount that's custody, come to consensus, and write that on chain, and anybody can use it. So that means bitco can use it when they're issuing tokens. They can include this as a secure mint in their minting function to reference that they can only increase the supply against what this independent set of validators say they have, but it can also be used on the DeFi side, and that's what we have been working with BGD and Ave on. Which is to say that, hey, if these assets ever become under collateralized, either prevent deposits or decrease the LTV rebate show, but give security to the actual data that's being brought on chain.
00:16:15.568 - 00:16:48.560, Speaker C: So those are just a few of the ways we look at it and how it operates. The real benefit we see is that no one party is making the decision. You're getting the chain link dawn to sign their observations and write that on chain. And then it can be automated to the degree of hourly, by every five minutes, every 30 seconds, as Clayton was saying. And so we think this is a superior format to putting any type of reserve data on chain. And we see the security as being one of the strong components of the value it provides to deFi.
00:16:51.060 - 00:16:51.568, Speaker F: Perfect.
00:16:51.654 - 00:17:25.470, Speaker B: Thank you, Max, for that explanation. And I wanted to now touch on a similar topic and have Clayton tell us from Armanino's perspective, you are a public accounting firm that works with a host of financial institutions, Defi players, et cetera. Could you tell us a little bit about the key differences and the motivations for bringing the proof of reserve data on chain and leveraging that web3 aspect of it?
00:17:28.160 - 00:18:27.176, Speaker E: Yeah, I think if it's like a token, as Max was mentioning, if it's a tokenized real world asset, it's a no brainer at this point. I think that's how every real world asset that's coming on chain that's going to be tokenized should be, because it's directly into that smart contract. It makes perfect sense. If it's a centralized financial entity, like an exchange or a custodian or a crypto lender type company, it can still be valuable. I think the history on chain, if you're posting that, is important. I was actually talking to a startup insurance project a couple of weeks ago, and it was pretty cool. They were using all of our two years of our true USD history to kind of make assessments on the premiums for T H two, insurance on a stable coin, which I thought was really cool because we have two years basically, of on chain history that's not going anywhere.
00:18:27.176 - 00:19:00.456, Speaker E: Showing that true USD has been backed every day the entire two years. And maybe one day we'll figure out how to implement like kind of how we have on the real world assets side and a control mechanism into a centralized database. But just the transparency aspect of that is so important as well. Also, proof reserves, when you have a database, are tough to do. Internally it's possible, but there are trade offs. Some of them are like privacy on addresses. Some exchanges don't want it.
00:19:00.456 - 00:19:36.324, Speaker E: You have to expose your addresses to everybody and that can leave you open to some security issues. And the verification of the customer liability data set, like what the deposits are, what the exchange would owe back to their customers, is tough to do and tough to prove that it's accurate if you're doing it yourself as an exchange. So bringing a third party is great to do those and third parties, especially if they're regulated firms within the US, have standards that we have to follow. And so that gives it a little bit more bump of an assurance up.
00:19:36.362 - 00:19:36.950, Speaker G: As.
00:19:38.920 - 00:20:41.556, Speaker B: You know, the way I think about it, know this is undifferentiated heavy lifting. Like why would every institution or exchange build this capability themselves when they can leverage the partners and the technology that's available out there to do this in a very efficient and great way? So I do agree with you there. Now this is kind of an open question for Michael. Touched upon this, you have touched upon this. It's no more a unique differentiation of using proof of reserve with the events that have been unfolding. My belief is that proof of reserve should have been implemented yesterday with every asset issuer out there. So it's no more something that folks can say, hey, this is a unique capability of how I want to differentiate my product.
00:20:41.556 - 00:20:53.390, Speaker B: This is something that should become a standard. What are your thoughts there? What are you seeing in the market around this? So, Michael Clayton, I'd love to start from you.
00:20:53.760 - 00:22:31.150, Speaker D: Yeah, sure, let's do. You know, it was a funny time. I work sort of the head of marketing at Archblock and my first mandate was to try to grow the pie for, you know, doing a sort of assessment of the market when I first came in. It's a funny thought, but when you compare stablecoins against each other, differentiation is a hard angle to find, right? In principle, the primary thing you're looking at is on ramps and then liquidity and using proof of reserve was a real big differentiator for us, because there was many institutions, especially on the more tradfi side, as well as larger funds, that really came to Tod because they felt that they could trust it above all else, because they trusted the attestations, because they trusted that be a core building block of really trustworthy protocols. So when I think of what is differentiation, and I think of sort of two, maybe even three things, there's a degree, first, of trustworthiness in the asset, such that an institution or individual that might otherwise be a little skittish about playing in the world of crypto can feel a lot more safe and a lot more grounded that the assets that they're holding are beyond reproach. So to me, that that is an opportunity for on ramping users and liquidity that otherwise would be untapped by the market. Not to besmirch any of our competitors on the stablecoin side, but it's not every coin that has that kind of security there.
00:22:31.150 - 00:23:25.010, Speaker D: The second thing that I find really important is because the stablecoin proof reserve reports everything on chain, it makes the coin itself a little bit more composable. You heard a little bit from Clayton about some of the ways that folks are building on top of TUSD and its proof reserve data, right? When you have some of this data on chain, it really creates opportunities for further more innovative products to be built on top of it and beyond just deFi, we're talking everything from reporting to insurance, to lending protocols. Some of the innovation in Defi really is staggering. And the better the data and the more trustworthy assets, the more interesting and complicated things you can build. So we're really proud of the kind of rooting we have there, and sort of building the most trustworthy asset. And I think at the end of the day, the last one is peace of mind. That's probably the biggest differentiator of them all.
00:23:25.010 - 00:24:28.180, Speaker D: Unfortunately, in the last year or two, we've seen stablecoin DPEGs, we've seen assets that we thought were beyond reproach, not perform in the market. We've seen that unfortunately affect people's livelihoods. And what recourse do you have, firstly, in preparation for making smart investments, what can you do to check on the health of a token or health of a protocol? Health of a stablecoin, really, on average, there is not that much you can do. A lot of this stuff is sort of ultimately built on hope. And to know that there's something backing the asset that you're using as maybe your safe reserve or maybe your sort of nest egg. It's a hell of peace of mind. And so I hold a fair amount of my assets in stablecoins personally, and I feel comfortable to do that because there is a level of trust that is beyond reproach when you know that these are backed well, they're run by really professional institutions, they report their holdings.
00:24:28.180 - 00:24:36.150, Speaker D: So those three things, I think are major differentiators. And frankly, we wouldn't be able to offer that to our customers without it reserve here.
00:24:39.020 - 00:25:20.644, Speaker E: Michael, I think over the next six to nine months, it's going to be a regulatory trend on this, and it's going to start becoming required in different jurisdictions to do this regularly, at minimum on a manual basis, at some interval like quarterly. So then I think the differentiator will shift to what we have all built here, like automating it, bringing it more in real time, and then bringing it on chain for use in applications or their own smart contracts. So it'll probably be a while till that kind of stuff is required regulatory, I think. But I think that's going to be where the differentiation shifts to.
00:25:20.842 - 00:26:56.304, Speaker D: And when you think about how some of these regulations are created, I think it is two things. First, it is reactive, and we are in a point right now where the reaction I expect will be pretty strong. And second thing is, it is informed by the industry leaders. Right? And so Trupi and Tristak are both tried as much as possible to be sort of on the cutting edge of doing things the right way, whether it's decentralizing the protocol on the lending side, or providing attestations well above and beyond the industry norm and on chain? The thing that we expect is a regulator, hopefully educated by incredible crypto lobbyists and what have you looks to the market realizes that they need to protect consumers. They look to the people who are industry leaders in the transparency and trust of the assets on the blockchain, and they go typically to the sort of industry leader in that space and norm that as the baseline. So the way we've always thought about it is, if we know that's coming around the corner, if we know permissionless lending might move slowly more towards permission lending, if we know transparency might go from a nice to have to a need to have in order to exist and serve the US market, for example, then how can we be on the forefront of that? How can we be the reference point for regulators and reference point for consumers who are wanting to have something that's really trustworthy such that when any regulatory wave hits or any scrutiny hits the market, we're in such a position as we can actually help, probably even inform the way the regulation precipitates versus have to react to it. Right.
00:26:56.304 - 00:27:10.810, Speaker D: So I think I agree with you. This is stuff that should have been done years ago, frankly, but better late than never. And we're just really proud and very lucky to be working with you guys on what I think is hopefully going to become an industry standard.
00:27:13.340 - 00:28:08.376, Speaker B: Yeah. Thank you both. Michael and Clayton, on your thoughts there, you hit on a lot of key points around peace of mind. It does come back to that peace of mind where the technology is available, the web, three primitives are there that allow you to have that transparency that provides that peace of mind. And I will come back to you both about you all are innovating. You are kind of spearheading and are ahead from the perspective of not only you're bringing and making results transparent, you're one step ahead with the composability aspect, with the programmability aspect of the feeds and the data on chain and all the capabilities you are enabling there with USD. So I'll come back to that point.
00:28:08.376 - 00:28:39.008, Speaker B: I wanted to now talk to our friends at BGD Labs about from a DeFi perspective, how are they implementing proof of reserve? And really what are the differences with cross chain aspects of tokenization and the need for proof of reserve from a cross chain perspective? So Ernesto, if you're listening, yeah, I'd.
00:28:39.024 - 00:28:56.010, Speaker F: Love to get your, I mean like following a bit on what Clayton and Michael commented, the case of on chain usage of proof of reserve on a protocol like Ave is slightly different.
00:28:57.740 - 00:28:58.008, Speaker D: To.
00:28:58.014 - 00:29:53.900, Speaker F: The case of showing the reserves of stable coins. So of course it's quite useful for even protocols like Ave. And we are also planning to introduce these checks on stablecoins themselves. But this becomes incredibly important when we are talking about cross chain. To give a bit more of context, Ave is deploying in multiple networks, even if it started on Ethereum. And what happens usually in the big majority of these networks is that the issuance of the assets of the tokens doesn't happen digitally on the network. But what happens is that users, generally from Ethereum or lately also from the bitcoin networks, they deposit their assets, they lock their assets on this origin chain through Ethereum or bitcoin.
00:29:53.900 - 00:30:42.136, Speaker F: And then there is a mechanism that actually issues the equivalent amount of assets on the recipient chain. So during this process, obviously there is some procedures that are submitted to more or less security. And for us at the end, for the IB protocol. Yeah, the I protocol understands that the balance of assets is always correct. It enforces that the relation between all the participants on the liquidity pool is also correct. But it's not so simple to on chain understand how is right now the backing of those assets in the origin chain. So then is where proof of reserve becomes really useful for us because we can really understand that.
00:30:42.136 - 00:31:45.760, Speaker F: Let's say for example, if was breached from Ethereum to avalanche, we can really understand from the protocol in avalanche using proof of reserve. If there is at any moment enough ETH locked on the Ethereum side, which will mean basically that the protocol can assume that the value of the ETH in avalanche is exactly the same as the value of the ETH on Ethereum. Basically, this is quite game changing also because the security of breaches, as we all know during this last year or so, is still, let's say, not as solid as there can be issuance of stable coins from reserves in the bank. So for protocols like avid that we want to be always with top security, we think that it's quite high priority to even give more assurances to the users.
00:31:48.020 - 00:31:54.816, Speaker B: Fantastic. And I wanted to let our audience know that Emilio also has joined us. Welcome, Emilio. Hey guys.
00:31:54.918 - 00:32:33.452, Speaker G: Hey guys. Amazing discussion. I just wanted to add to other Ernesto pretty much covered everything. For me, it's important to highlight that this work with chain link about this particular technology started quite a while ago. We started the discussion. We added also many features to ave V three, the latest iteration of the protocol. In perspective of integrating this technology in the future, there are many feature that will facilitate the integration.
00:32:33.452 - 00:34:46.570, Speaker G: I can think of the supply caps, I can think of the capability of granularly segregated borrowing power from the liquidation margin so that we can essentially automatically drop the borrowing power of an asset to zero without actually impacting or liquidating existing users. I can think of the price Oracle Sentinel, which is another feature that allows to selectively disable some operations, whether or not certain conditions are satisfied. So I think it's been a very productive relationship for both us and Chainlink, because by essentially discussing periodically and brainstorming together, we came up with something that can make the DeFi technologies around liquidity protocols much stronger, and especially when we factor in multi chain bridges like assets with centralized control, as you guys mentioned before, USD or rapid BTC, for example, that if something goes wrong on the security side, in that case the protocol, essentially the whole liquidity within the protocol is at risk. But the same concept applies to bridges where if a bridge gets hacked, and unfortunately, we have seen many occurrences of this in the past, especially in certain situations, not only the network is at risk, but also the apps and the protocols running on top of that can essentially face insolvency. So I think what we developed on Avev three, plus what proof of reserve allows, will really, I think, increase the safety of Defi liquidity protocols one step further compared to what we have today.
00:34:50.060 - 00:36:07.200, Speaker B: Thank you, Emilio, thank you for your thoughts there. Yeah, and I completely agree with you plus one there, that we all have been working together for a while and wanted to appreciate the leadership, the innovation that your team has shown to work on this important initiative. The funny thing is the world is waking up to thinking proof of reserve is this capability this week. But just wanted to thank all the panelists here and all the guests for being thought leaders in this area for realizing this very early and starting to work on this. I do have a few more questions related to the composability, the amazing work that can happen with now, the data, the feed being available on chain in terms of programmability, circuit breakers, et cetera. But before I go there, I do want to bring the question back to Max and would welcome other folks thoughts too. So we spoke about proof of reserves use cases being cross chain bridges with having stable coins with the peace of mind there for any digital tokens.
00:36:07.200 - 00:36:23.530, Speaker B: But I wanted to also touch upon digital asset exchanges, which has been a key topic in the last week or so. Max, can you tell us a little bit about the value that proof of reserve can bring to digital asset exchanges in particular?
00:36:25.900 - 00:37:34.588, Speaker C: Yeah, I've said this before too, but I think it's a complex issue we've seen recently is the need for more transparency. But if you're looking at an exchange, what you really want to know is their user funds, are they safe? And the best way to do that is find out what the user deposits are, which is already a bit of a complex ask, and then compare them to the assets that that exchange has. And again, ideally the assets should be greater in value than what the liabilities are. But it's not an easy issue because you have things like other liabilities that may not be accounted for. And I think that's where the value of someone like Arminino comes in, is you do have that extra degree of auditability that they provide with their institutional background in auditing. Top 20, I think us accounting firm, but there is still a lot of risk around this. One of the benefits I think, with Chainlink and exchanges is that you get the speed on chain and there's a history of, you know, if we're pulling this data from Arminino and the exchange says hey, on this date it was this much, you have a record.
00:37:34.588 - 00:38:02.010, Speaker C: It's not done in an API where one day their liabilities were X and the next day they were significantly lower or higher. You get this trail and record that's immutable and brought to you in a decentralized fashion. But I also still think it is a very complex issue and its solutions to completely continue to minimize trust are problems that I think industry leaders are working on to figure out right now.
00:38:03.740 - 00:38:46.260, Speaker E: A lot of this is on us as a community too. When an exchange does a merkalized proof of reserves and creates a merkle tree of the customer data set, we all need to go verify it, wherever that is, if it's on our website or if it's an internal exchange one, the more people that go check that they were included that Merkel tree, the more potential exclusions of a liability we could find. And so we just need to care about it more. And as a community, really focus on going to these exchanges and verifying when we have balances out there and they perform approve reserves, verifying them, showing that we care and strengthening that Merkel tree. And the proof.
00:38:49.340 - 00:40:12.080, Speaker F: Yeah, I would say if I can add something, is that in general, and it seems pretty clear, like even the recent events, is that this concept of centralized exchanges not being transparent at all about the user funds or how they are called, how they are moved and so on, is something that more and more, I probably predict, that we are seeing to get reduced over time, because you cannot really compare that kind of level of transparency with the level of transparency that you can have in decentralized exchanges or liquidity venues of other type. Like can it be Abe, at the end of the day, I think that there needs to be a broad effort of the industry for this transparency and just basically adopt the new technologies that are appearing and are evolving. If for example, not being optimal in terms of cost is one of the big barriers of centralized exchanges to move things on chain, well, we right now have roll ups of multiple types. We have connection with other networks. Of those roll ups, it's not an excuse anymore, most probably, and it will not be in a matter of like one year or two years to not be transparent.
00:40:16.600 - 00:41:02.690, Speaker B: Makes sense. Thanks everyone. I wanted to now talk a little bit about the composability aspect of how once the proof of reserve feed is available on chain, what can be done with it. And I know TUSD at Smartcon announced their mint locking capability, which provides an additional layer of automation and circuit breaker capability. Michael, do you want to talk a little bit about that? And I would love to then get thoughts from BGD team as well as Max on how are different projects utilizing that capability to program on top of it.
00:41:03.060 - 00:41:46.050, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. Happy to. Even before the feature that we're about to discuss here was already reporting a bunch of data about the assets being held, the amounts relative to the outstanding tokens, the tokens cross chain. We're about four or five chains now natively, and so the data was always there. But the data was effectively something that would happen after minting. It would be reported after centered business with receiving of wires and the issuance of tokens. The mint locking feature is really a first of its kind.
00:41:46.050 - 00:42:46.644, Speaker D: What it does is it effectively forces us, our escrow partners, the whole minting process, to effectively rely on the data to issue new tokens. Whereas before a wire would hit, tokens would be issued and the data will be updated. The workflow is now reversed. A wire comes in, it hits our escrow partners all around the world, that new money is reflected in the data, and it is only at that point, when it is transparently reflected in our reporting, that the TUSD is minted. The really credible thing is it hasn't really slowed anything down. We're using very instant mini partners, as well as more retail friendly partners for onboarding. And despite the thought that this might slow the course of business, it's only made us more transparent without degrading customer experience at all.
00:42:46.644 - 00:43:32.210, Speaker D: So there's no other stablecoin that I know of that puts itself at such high scrutiny, and that effectively has hard coded transparency in the asset issuance itself. But it's a heck of a feature and really relies on high quality data reporting. Really strong partnerships with both reporting and Oracle partners like yourselves, as well as with our escrow partners all around the world. And it was a long labor of love to get this thing up. But I would say it's probably now the new HP standard, no. To use to get minted without the underlying reserves being received and fully tested before the tokens are issued. First thing of its kind.
00:43:37.800 - 00:44:05.230, Speaker B: Indeed. I think that's a really innovative capability. Michael. Max, did you want to add anything to what Michael was discussing about the programmability of the feeds? Are there any other use cases? You're working with a lot of partners. Can you talk about any other aspects of what are the different possibilities here?
00:44:06.640 - 00:44:59.736, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. And I think to zoom out a little bit too, I keep hearing this phrase going around like, oh, web3 is going through and then some comparison to a failure in traditional finance. But I think it's important to realize a lot of the value proposition for people entering this space was to avoid those failures from traditional finance. And recently we've seen is with some of these centralized institutions being the problem. To be clear, I think centralized institutions provide a ton of value, like something like a tusd. Issuing a coin on chain provides a ton of value, but sort of moving everything to a Dex as maybe Amelia was suggesting, I think bringing this data on chain and putting it into your smart contract, you think about a CDP where the collateral is on chain and you're know a stable coin against it. I think this know getting as close as you can to something like that without all the collateral being on chain.
00:44:59.736 - 00:45:52.300, Speaker C: So I think it is the highest degree of security you can provide for these real world assets that are coming on chain. I think some ways every time you mint a new stablecoin or we've seen it's a self attestation. So the way we see this being used is you're attesting every time you increase the supply and mint, but also you have this third party independent set of validators that are providing attestation on chain. At the same time, in other ways this can be used. BGD mentioned this, but potentially lowering the LTV ratio, dropping it down to zero potentially, if the asset's not fully backed, don't allow people to take out the same amount of collateral against it. I think that's a really important consumer use case to highlight that this doesn't need to be just for issuers in their minting function. And the example I'll give is this.
00:45:52.300 - 00:46:08.380, Speaker C: Let's say that you're issuing a real world asset token for gold and you, for whatever reason, take a bunch of gold out of the vault and you still have, let's say you had 100 gold on chain, 100 gold in the vault, but you take up 50 grams of gold out of the vault.
00:46:08.540 - 00:46:09.636, Speaker F: Well yes, you won't be able to.
00:46:09.658 - 00:46:28.680, Speaker C: Mint anything, but you still have an under collateralized asset, so it shouldn't be treated as the normal value of gold. If you're a DFI protocol with multi pools, you don't want to continue accepting that asset to be borrowed against when it's not worth the value you think it is. And I think that consumer use case is really practical to DeFi.
00:46:30.460 - 00:47:46.752, Speaker F: I think also like to add on that is that especially like for base protocols like nib, which is I would say maybe like the most used source of liquidity if we consider crosschain. It's completely fundamental that the way that Abe itself, the smart contracts value an asset are rock solid. Because apart from the usage of that value within like there is a lot of applications built on top of ave or connected with ave somehow that rely on that value. That rely that that value is correct. So precisely what it says, max, is the key. You can know, for example, in our case using chain link prices, how is the value of an asset the value of, let's say if, but if it's a breach asset, maybe the value that the market is dictating instantaneously right now is not really the value because maybe there was an exploit on the backing of that ETH in the ethereum chain that is actually indeed really important. Composability aspect is like the trust of decentralized protocols into other decentralized protocols like.
00:47:46.806 - 00:47:47.410, Speaker C: Al.
00:47:56.360 - 00:48:53.240, Speaker B: And I would love to get your, we are coming up on time. I would love to get closing thoughts from all of you. And I wanted to kind of tee that have we have the technology with Chainlink proof of reserve, we have third party partners who can audit and attest to the data with Armanino and we have innovative use cases with TUSD and BGD with all the great work you are. So I don't see a reason why every digital asset issuer, every digital exchange folks who are building new kinds of applications on the blockchain, they should all be thinking of leveraging proof of reserve. I would love to get your closing thoughts from each of you on this really critical topic.
00:48:56.750 - 00:50:11.780, Speaker F: Yeah, I can go on first. Yeah, it seems quite clear, right, that if there is some feature like some product like proof of reserve, that adds more security to any type of protocol system, stablecoin, whatever, is net positive. At the end of the day, the main obstacle, if we can call it that way, is that this is quite edge technology. Because at the same time that blockchain technology and decentralized protocols and stablecoin issuance is evolving, we are trying to, or at least the majority of the actors, we are trying to do it in a safe way. So it just takes time to implement and to integrate these kind of products like proof of reserve. But for me, it's quite obvious that in the future, in the real near future, all protocols, they will need these kind of integrations because there will be some kind of a standard. Especially I think as Michael mentioned, because leaders of the space.
00:50:11.780 - 00:50:15.090, Speaker F: Like Ave, we have the responsibility.
00:50:16.790 - 00:50:17.106, Speaker D: To.
00:50:17.128 - 00:50:26.760, Speaker F: Kind of assume and try to integrate everything that gives more solid ground to the users of the protocol. So everybody else will probably just follow the lead.
00:50:34.050 - 00:50:39.200, Speaker B: Thank you for that. Ernesto. Yeah, Clayton. I saw you were going to say something.
00:50:40.210 - 00:51:25.494, Speaker E: Yeah, I think we just keep doing what we're doing, keep building for reserves and getting it as close to real time and automated and transparent as possible. This was a big trend after Mount Gox back in 2014. So I hope we don't forget this lesson. And when prices all start going up again, everyone stops caring. I hope as a community we continue to put pressure on issuers and exchanges to do this kind of stuff. And we vote essentially with our funds. And if someone stops doing it or refuses to do it, we take our assets elsewhere, or we go to a stable coin that's doing on chain por instead of one that's not doing anything off chain or on chain.
00:51:25.494 - 00:51:42.260, Speaker E: That's my hope for the future. And then we continue to drive this forward, and that's what we're all about. The reason we all got into this in the first way was focusing on transparency, and that's what this technology can provide, and I hope we keep that theme going forward.
00:51:44.950 - 00:52:26.794, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm with Clay on this one. There's a classic saying in earlier days of crypto, where we thought crypto would have to move more towards institutions and in some ways maybe shroud some of the business operations so as to let institutions do things more the traditional way and be not exposed too much to their books. We're really seeing the opposite movement. Trust. But verify is kind of the new norm. And it seems to me like institutions, exchanges, anyone centralized is going to be held to the same standard as decentralized protocols, of needing to report their fund holdings, of needing to show the assets held in reserve. That is a good thing for our industry.
00:52:26.794 - 00:53:42.650, Speaker D: I think it'll make us a lot healthier, both from a retail perspective and user perspective, but also from a regulatory perspective. I think we're now in real soul searching moment now of how we're going to build the future of DeFi, and it's a good kick in the butt, because I think it'll raise the stakes on what quality of products we're able to offer, from stablecoins, to Dexes to centralized exchanges. Proof of reserve, to me, feels like one of these core pieces of infrastructure that makes our industry as a whole more trustworthy, that opens it up to more users, both institutions and retail. And I think it charts the path forward we've said this earlier, but we're so focused on sort of the industry leaders in terms of transparency and trust and relying on partners like yourselves to make that happen. I think this is just the beginning of that trend. And I do think regulators and users will be crying out for this level of transparency across more assets, across more exchanges. And it's a hell of a thing to be able to be sort of on the front edge of this, the sort of very bleeding edge of what I think will eventually be something that is sort of the norm.
00:53:42.650 - 00:53:50.220, Speaker D: So definitely much agree with you both on the need for transparency. And soon I think will become the standard.
00:53:52.350 - 00:54:35.260, Speaker C: Just to build on that, I think you go to some of these conferences and you see these panels and what is the next feature that will bring on the next 100 million users to blockchain and defi? But you know, what feature I think is probably most important is fundamental security. People not losing money from these systems is really what's going to bring on and allow for the growth of the next ten hundred million users in this space. So I think, like Clayton was saying, if this is important to you, participate in it. If you have an exchange to improve reserve, verify your hash against the Merkel road, use protocols and stablecoins which insist on this level of transparency and be vocal about it.
00:54:39.950 - 00:55:04.370, Speaker B: Well, thank you everyone. This brings us to the end of this conversation. And I know many of you will be going back and reflecting and thinking about this really important topic. So I wanted to appreciate all our speakers and the opportunity to share these thoughts with the audience.
00:55:09.260 - 00:55:14.990, Speaker A: Yes, amazing, amazing to hear all the speakers and thank you to all the listeners for tuning in.
00:55:16.800 - 00:55:17.244, Speaker D: I guess.
00:55:17.282 - 00:55:22.350, Speaker A: Max, where can people learn as well about proof of reserve? Is there a website that they can go to?
00:55:23.040 - 00:55:57.156, Speaker C: Yeah, absolutely. If you go to chain link, we have proof of reserve there, you can contact us. And, yeah, it's a privilege to be on stage with all these people who've committed. And I just want to say that, know, from Trustoken to Arminino, it's really a privilege. And they got started all by either contacting chainlink or we reached out. So excited. Really honored to work with these guys and looking forward to working with more people on this, us as well.
00:55:57.178 - 00:55:58.100, Speaker E: Thanks, Max.
00:55:58.600 - 00:55:59.380, Speaker F: Yeah, thanks.
00:55:59.450 - 00:56:01.388, Speaker D: Same. Thank you. Appreciate you guys.
00:56:01.554 - 00:56:02.590, Speaker A: See you guys.
00:56:03.760 - 00:56:05.640, Speaker B: Thank you. Bye.
