00:00:00.240 - 00:00:24.478, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 13 June 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think we've got a lot to talk about today, that's for sure. When I last came at you on Friday's refuel, the price of ETH was what? 1800 ish dollars. Today it is. Well time of recording it is 1230.
00:00:24.478 - 00:01:08.358, Speaker A: $4 reached a low of 1175 there just before. It has been a brutal weekend. Now, I think at least from my reading, the reason for such a big sell off was that the inflation numbers that came out of the US really caught people off guard. People thought that inflation had peaked, that it was going to come down, and when in reality it actually went up. Now everyone's kind of like scrambling and wondering what's going to happen from here. Is the Fed going to aggressively raise rates? Is the developed world going into a recession? How long is this going to last? Blah, blah, blah, all that stuff, right? So generally everyone is pretty much risk off, right? And because of that, because crypto basically is at the bottom of the barrel when it comes to risk on assets. It sells off really, really hard.
00:01:08.358 - 00:01:52.078, Speaker A: Now, obviously, ETH isn't alone here. A lot of other assets have sold off just as hard, if not harder. So what I want to do for maybe 1015 minutes here is give kind of like my perspective on everything, really. I think I've given bits and pieces here before, but I want to give my perspective on everything going on inside and outside of crypto right now to maybe help you contextualize it yourselves. Again, though, I'm not a macro expert at all, I don't have any real insightful things to say about the macro environment. But I think there are some things that I can say that hold true that you may not have thought of before, you may not have realized before, and may kind of like help you going forward. So first thing I want to start with is what I just mentioned, those inflation numbers.
00:01:52.078 - 00:02:17.502, Speaker A: Now, the inflation rate is the highest it's been in, what, 40 years in the US. I think the seventies was the last time it was this high. And back then, the way they tackled it, there were two ways from, from, from my reading. One, they went really aggressive on rates. They jacked them up really, really, really high really quickly. And two, there was also an oil crisis back then that kind of like ended and obviously kind of, you know, there's there's. There's kind of like two inflation here.
00:02:17.502 - 00:02:59.610, Speaker A: There's kind of like the monetary inflation that comes from the money printing, and then there's kind of like the inflation of things that come from, like, shortages. So, for example, with the war, with kind of like Ukraine right now, there's a lot of sanctions and things like that going on with kind of like oil, and that affects energy prices and petrol prices and just all that sorts of stuff, right? So that's kind of like how it was tackled in the seventies. So right now, people are wondering, okay, well, you know, what's the fed gonna do? They're gonna aggressively raise rates from here. But if they do that, it's kind of, like really bad because there's much more debt now. I think there's like 400% more debt at the moment than there was in the seventies. So if they start aggressively raising rates, well, that puts more pressure on people with debt. People have even less income to kind of, like, do things with.
00:02:59.610 - 00:03:35.978, Speaker A: Such as? Such as survive. They have to kind of pay down debts first. Like, debts always come first. Obviously, a mortgage is pretty much like the first thing that people have to kind of, like, account for mortgage and rent before kind of like putting together the rest of their budget and the rest of their expenses. So it kind of, like, just shrinks the pool of money that people have to invest in things. Now, inflation has already done a good job of shrinking that. It's called demand destruction is another kind of, like, way to tackle inflation, where by kind of like raising rates, by getting people to sell risk off things, by kind of like maybe forcing the economy into a recession, you kind of, like, stop demand for kind of like things.
00:03:35.978 - 00:04:07.362, Speaker A: And, you know, the demand destruction leads to obviously less demand for things, and inflation can go down from there. But as I said, like, not a macroeconomic expert, kind of like just learning this stuff as I go. So that's playing a lot into it. And the reason why I bring up all of that is because, as I said, crypto is, like, at the bottom of the barrel for risk on assets. So crypto is not going anywhere until the top of that barrel turns back on to kind of like risk on or bottoms out. And the top of that barrel could probably be considered things like, you know, I guess, like the highest of quality equities. Right? I mean.
00:04:07.362 - 00:04:28.206, Speaker A: I mean, there's. There's probably things higher than that that are lower risk. But in terms of kind of like, investable assets lower, like super kind of like safe index funds. Right. For example, like relatively safe to the rest of the market until those things bottom out and kind of like stop going down. Only there's no way crypto is going to be able to catch a bid. There's no way crypto is going to be able to sustain any kind of like upward movement.
00:04:28.206 - 00:04:56.570, Speaker A: Maybe we can range for a bit. Maybe we bottom before the stock market does and we just sit sideways. But at the end of the day, no one is kind of like throwing money at crypto right now. Besides, maybe the people that are already in it and kind of like averaging down, wanting to add to their position, but retail is gone. They don't, they can't even be in the, even if they wanted to, most of them can't even be in the ecosystem anymore because they have other things to worry about. They don't have as much discretionary income as they did during all the money printing. So that's playing a huge factor in all of it.
00:04:56.570 - 00:05:17.942, Speaker A: At the end of the day. Now, you know, I know people kind of like, look at Ethan, like, wow, ETH has come down so much. I didn't expect it to go down this much. And I'll be honest, I didn't expect it to come down as much as it has. And it could be going down further from here. I don't know. But I think what maybe clouded my judgment there was that obviously, you guys know I'm a perma bull on ETH, but like, I look at ETH in the context of ethereum, in the context of crypto more broadly.
00:05:17.942 - 00:05:56.664, Speaker A: More broadly, I wasn't really paying too much attention to the macro environment until maybe the last, maybe six months, I guess. I guess it was just because I never really paid attention to it. I think crypto existed in a very positive macro environment for such a long time, especially my whole adult life, basically, that I never paid attention to the macro environment because I didn't need to. I didn't need to look there because to me, it was just, ah, whatever, that's just kind of like that thing over there. Crypto is where I'm kind of like focusing my attention. But since the last six months, I've learned a lot more about the macro environment, how it affects things. I learned a lot more about how, like, how the Fed and other central banks react to things, how the economy reacts to things, and how there's different types of inflation and all these sorts of stuff.
00:05:56.664 - 00:06:20.850, Speaker A: And, you know, it's been a really good learning experience for me, to be honest. But at the same time, you know, I kind of like really didn't. I really underestimated the impact that that would have on the crypto markets, and I think a lot of people did. A lot of people underestimated just how bad things had gotten, because maybe in crypto, we were in a little bubble where things were going really, really well. Right. We're all making money because the assets were just going up. Only you could throw money at anything and it would just come, come raining down on you.
00:06:20.850 - 00:06:39.676, Speaker A: So I think from that perspective, we got a reality check. We got kind of, like, hit in the face with all of this, and we just have to kind of, like, survive it, basically. I've always said that the number one thing you need to do in crypto is just survive. Doesn't matter how bad it gets. Just don't blow yourself up. I've always warned against leverage. I've always warned against some of these platforms and not using them.
00:06:39.676 - 00:07:20.894, Speaker A: I'm going to talk about Celsius in a bit and what's happened there, and that's simply because at the end of the day, guys, like, life is all about risk. Like, what risks you take, what risks you don't take, and just the. The general kind of, like, risks that you surround yourself with. And it's not just limited to investments as well. I may be getting a bit kind of, like off, maybe off crypto topic here, but it also relates to just everything you do in life, right? Like, if you're sitting in your house, kind of like just on your computer doing nothing, your risk of, say, I don't know, dying is really, really low, right? Like, maybe something falls from the sky on you and kills you, or maybe your ceiling collapses in on yourself. As I said, I'm getting off topic here, but just, I'm getting to my point. But, like, as soon as you say you drive your car somewhere, your risk of death goes up.
00:07:20.894 - 00:07:36.090, Speaker A: Right. Because driving adds to that. Right. Driving a car is risky. I mean, we. We kind of, like, put that out of mind. But there's always, like, a much higher risk of dying driving a car than there is even like, catching a bus or catching a train, even flying an aircraft, and obviously much higher than just sitting at home.
00:07:36.090 - 00:08:04.266, Speaker A: So the same is true for investable assets. Like your risk of getting wrecked goes up exponentially depending on how far down the risk curve you go. Buying BTC and ETH, as quote, unquote, the blue chips. Right. Is safer than buying the kind of, like, super riskiest, I guess, altcoins, they call them, or tokens, whatever, like that, right? And then buying an index fund of the stock market is even less risky than Ethan BTC. So there's this whole risk curve that you go down, and it's kind of. It's not really a linear thing.
00:08:04.266 - 00:08:31.646, Speaker A: It's more of an exponential thing, where it's like the kind of, like, further down you go, the. Just the exponential risk kind of, I guess, like, compounds itself there and then add on things like leverage, adding things like. Kind of like the, you know, the emotions that you kind of feel in the markets and things like that, and it just. Your risk kind of, like, goes up a lot, right? So you. $10,000 sitting in a bank account is relatively safe, right? Um, maybe. Maybe not in some countries, but in. In the US, you're in much of Europe and Australia, where I am.
00:08:31.646 - 00:08:47.640, Speaker A: It's relatively safe to keep that in a bank account, right? As soon as you put that money into investment, the risk goes up. As soon as you put that into investment, like. Like not Ethel bitcoin, other crypto asset, the risk goes up a lot. Soon as you start leverage trading, the risk goes up even more. Yes. The reward also goes up. Right.
00:08:47.640 - 00:09:04.960, Speaker A: Like, it's. The same is true for driving your car somewhere. I mean, you driving your car to get somewhere. Like, maybe it's work. So you go to work, you get the reward of getting paid to go to work, right? Whereas with investing in kind of, like, assets, you get the reward or potential reward of, um. Of kind of like making money and making a return on your investment. Right.
00:09:04.960 - 00:09:32.640, Speaker A: So that's kind of like how I view just life in general. It's just a game of risk at the end of the day, and you take more risk potentially for more reward, and that's it. You take less risk, and you're happy with not having as much reward. That's why you see a lot of people, especially as they get older and as they have more wealth, they turn into wealth preservation mode, where they're like, well, I'm not gonna go and buy these random things and. And kind of, like, gamble on these investments that are really high risk, because I want to preserve what I already have. It's worth it to preserve what you have, rather than try and gamble it into more. Like, if.
00:09:32.640 - 00:09:51.320, Speaker A: Especially if you don't need more, if you don't feel like you need more. I think that's a position that a lot of people find themselves in. It's a position that I found myself in, and I haven't bought any of kind of, like, super speculative stuff in a long time. I just basically buy ethan the public markets. Right. That's still pretty risky, as you, as you guys have seen. I mean, 8th is down 70% from all time high.
00:09:51.320 - 00:10:10.082, Speaker A: Now, as I said, it could still fall further from here. I don't know. I don't know where the bottom is. I honestly thought that we wouldn't get this, this low. I didn't think we would go below the previous all time high. But I also thought that. But because I underestimated how, I guess, much effect the macro environment is going to have on kind of like these markets, which I shouldn't have.
00:10:10.082 - 00:10:27.266, Speaker A: And I've learned my lesson there. I don't trade these sorts of things or anything like that. And again, this is why I warn against doing things like leverage. Because if you had a leverage position and you thought to yourself, yeah, nah, the, the, it's not going below its old all time high. I'm, you know, I'm fine, everything's good. And then it did. And then you got liquidated.
00:10:27.266 - 00:10:58.790, Speaker A: Well, you know, you, the market has a way of kind of like humbling everyone, I think. So that's why I always warn against it. And then, and then Celsius thing as well. Maybe I'll touch on that while I'm on this topic. So it's here. So Celsius sent out an email to their customers today that basically said that they are pausing transfers or withdrawals, swap and transfers between accounts. So essentially, there's been rumors, I guess, for the last few weeks that Celsius is insolvent or doesn't have the liquidity in order to kind of like pay all their depositors and all their customers.
00:10:58.790 - 00:11:25.608, Speaker A: So because of this, they've kind of like paused withdrawals here. And a lot of this is related to like the Ste thing that I talked about the other day. But this is, this is pretty bad. I mean, why, why it's bad is because I think there's like a pretty extreme overlap. And I had a tweet about this. I think I said, oh, no, I don't have it here. But basically what I said is that there's a pretty big overlap between the people who were invested in terror and in the terror ecosystem such as Luna and UST, and those using Celsius.
00:11:25.608 - 00:12:30.326, Speaker A: Because Celsius, the reason why you would use it is because you got outsized yield. And the yield, I mean, if you don't know where the yield was coming from, the yield is basically coming from Celsius. Putting your funds into DeFi, doing leveraged farming with it, doing risky things with it basically, potentially, like, I'm not, I don't know this for sure, but potentially running kind of like on a fractional reserve system here, sort of basically like what a bank does, right? So that's how they were offered, able to offer those outsized yields. So there was just this kind of like regular users who were using Celsius because they didn't want to have to deal with all the Defi stuff themselves, but they still had exposure to, to those yields. So that, you know, there are people that there's a strong overlap between those and the ones who are in UST, and they're just getting wrecked. So not only does, as I was saying before, not only does retail in general and retail investors in general not have much money to put into the markets anymore due to everything that in there, in the outside of the markets getting more expensive, they've also gotten absolutely wrecked on so much of this ecosystem because they not only were in terror and Celsius, they were also in a lot of the riskier assets because, you guys know, new retail investors, they find BTC and ETH really boring. They don't want to buy BTC and ETH.
00:12:30.326 - 00:12:47.846, Speaker A: I want to buy the things that seem to be going up, like really quickly and the things that have memes attached to them, like the dog coins and obviously dogecoin and things like that. And they got wrecked on all of them. All those things are down like 90 plus percent, right. And then there's no way they sold them. Most of them didn't sell. Most of them hold it because they have no experience there. They're kind of like first time people encrypt.
00:12:47.846 - 00:13:02.864, Speaker A: They don't know about the cycles. They don't know about the, about how bad it can get. They never experienced this before. So naturally, they're just gonna hold on to these things and they're gonna get wrecked. They're gonna lose their money, and they're not gonna stick around. They never came for the tech, they came for the money. So as soon as the money dries up, they're gone.
00:13:02.864 - 00:13:34.094, Speaker A: That's why the markets and the cycles play out exactly the same every single time, because humans do not change. We are the same. And the ones who stick around normally are the ones who actually care about the tech. There's a small percentage of people that stick around in these kind of like, brutal bear markets that are only in it for the money. And they're usually people who can kind of, like, still make money during these times, maybe exchange operators and kind of like market makers and things like that. But generally the community aspect of it is people that are in it for the tech. And that's I guess, like a positive to the, to, to the bear markets.
00:13:34.094 - 00:14:02.888, Speaker A: But at the same time, guys like, this is why it takes so long. This is why bear markets can last a long time, because you just destroy all these people and they need to forget that pain if they want to kind of enter the markets again. So when the markets like going back up, by that point, the people that were destroyed the first time, they need to forget the pain. And it also needs to be attractive enough to kind of like bring in even newer people. But that's on the market side of things. I really hope that by the next time maybe the markets heat up again. We actually have like a much better on chain ecosystem than we do today.
00:14:02.888 - 00:14:30.314, Speaker A: We will have, hopefully have much better scaling solutions in place. Users will be able to use that like much better applications and use cases and stuff like that due to the scaling. Hopefully that happens. But yeah, I mean, that all that, it kind of like is a storm in a teacup there, guys. Like, there's just so much to kind of like consider and think about. I can't cover it all in the 15 minutes that I gave myself here, but that's basically what I wanted to cover there. And I also kind of like put out a tweet where I said, I always believe that from crisis comes opportunity.
00:14:30.314 - 00:14:44.154, Speaker A: The world is in a rough place. As I discussed, high inflation, the war, political instability, as well as another thing I didn't touch on. I don't think I'm going to touch on that. It's too touchy of a subject. But it won't always be this way. When the dust settles, there will be survivors. You just need to ensure that you're one of them again.
00:14:44.154 - 00:15:02.466, Speaker A: You just need to survive. Guys like, it's simple as that. And not just in crypto, but like in your real life as well. Don't over leverage, don't, you know, put yourself in too much debt. Don't kind of like overspend. Don't invest money that you can't afford to lose. Make sure that your rent or your mortgage payments or your bills or anything else are covered before you start putting money into the markets again.
00:15:02.466 - 00:15:35.414, Speaker A: Like the money that we put into the market should be seen as. As kind of like income or money that you just like have written off completely. As soon as you put it into the markets, it should be worth zero on your kind of like net worth until basically you sell it or until kind of, like, at some point in the future, it's probably gone up to some point, right? But at the same time, I tend to not count my, like, what I've got until I sell it. Like, I don't look@my.net. Worth number on Zappa and kind of think to myself, wow, I have so much money. It's like, because I don't, right. I have a potential to have that money, but I don't because I haven't sold any of it yet.
00:15:35.414 - 00:16:05.320, Speaker A: And when I sell it, that's when I lock in those kind of, like, gains there. And then obviously at the end, this paradigm selling into kind of like fiat, you're like, oh, crap, now what am I supposed to do? I'm going to get eaten away by inflation. So you buy things, right? Like, for me, my rule has always been I only sell really sold when I wanted to kind of, like, buy things. But I I sold a bit extra this time around to kind of, like, act as a buffer because I kind of, like, felt like the markets were getting really, really hot and I didn't know how long, like, a bear market would last. So there's that to it as well. But that's not investment advice. That's kind of, like, just what, what I've done there.
00:16:05.320 - 00:16:38.934, Speaker A: But as I said, crisis. From crisis comes opportunity, and opportunity can come in many different ways. Whether that's buying some assets that you're bullish on, maybe getting a job in crypto, there's plenty of those still. I mean, the teams are very well capitalized at this point in time, or whether that's just doing something in your personal life, like in the last bear market in 2018 and 2019, I got into shape, lost a lot of weight, fixed my mental health as well, made sure kind of like I was on a steady kind of, like, track there. Maybe that's something that you want to do as well. I don't know. Obviously, I don't know your personal situation, but that might be something you want to do as well there.
00:16:38.934 - 00:17:08.594, Speaker A: And I think that covers everything. I wanted, the bulk of things I wanted to cover there about the markets and just general kind of, like, stuff going on right now. And then I also kind of, like, put out another tweet here where I said my prevailing thesis since 2017 is that Ethereum will be an extremely positive force for the world over the coming decades. This thesis doesn't change whether ETH is at $10,000 or $0. And then I had to follow up the tweet by saying, people take the. Take the zero dollar figure too literally. I was obviously being hyperbolic to make a point, though.
00:17:08.594 - 00:17:34.480, Speaker A: I believe Ethereum is more than the network. Ethereum is a set of ideals, beliefs and principles that can be applied beyond the network itself. So you can't kill that, right? You can always kind of like, attempt to kill Ethereum or the network, or attempt to kind of like, attack it or anything like that, or even succeed at that. But you can't kill the idea. You can't kill the beliefs, the principles of the community, they'll always come back stronger in my. In my mind. So, for me, my thesis hasn't changed at all.
00:17:34.480 - 00:17:48.248, Speaker A: Like, my thesis, as I said, has remained the same since 2017. It's going to remain the same for a very long time, until I start, until I. If. If I'm not. Until I. If I feel like the. The Ethereum is not going to be a positive force for the world going forward.
00:17:48.248 - 00:18:13.592, Speaker A: That's where my thesis changes. But I'm not seeing any signs of that at all. All I'm seeing is that the markets are doing what the markets are doing. Ethereum is still chugging along, and there's no reason to be bearish on Ethereum itself. Like, you can be bearish on the prices, short term, long term, whatever you want to do that's, I think, different and orthogonal to the kind of like, point I'm trying to make about the network itself and the people behind the network. Because at the end of the day, the network is just one part of it. The people, I think, is the more important part of it.
00:18:13.592 - 00:18:43.412, Speaker A: And that's kind of like why I put this tweet out here. Okay. And then, yeah, I had another tweet where I warned about not playing with leverage. Number one rule investing is to survive. I just discussed that before, so I won't rehash it here. And just on the leverage topic as well, you can see here that there's this massive maker position where someone market sold 65,000 ETH to pay down their maker position, which was pretty close to liquidation. So they sold it on Dexs, and it ended up kind of like making the price of ETH on Uniswap go to like $950 or something like that.
00:18:43.412 - 00:19:26.660, Speaker A: And they still have over $50 million of Dai debt left as well. And on top of that, this person that owns this CDP was a Ethereum ICO investor. They received 560,000 ethanol from the ICO, which makes them one of the top ten holders as well. So this is an OG. OG but I think what happened with the market sale of this 65,000 ETH is that it was automatically triggered because I think Oasis, the app, has a built in service that allows you to protect your position if it gets too close to liquidation. So it would have just automatically sold the 65,000 ETH on the open market to pay down the debt in order to lower the liquidation price, which is sitting at $874 right now. So this vault could still be liquidated if that price, if it went to that price.
00:19:26.660 - 00:19:54.672, Speaker A: But I don't know how much money this person has. Do they have more money to cover this debt? All that sorts of stuff there. But it's funny because we saw similar things in 2018 where people were kind of like scrambling to pay down the debts on then it was then called CDP's, which were leverage positions. And people tried to pay it down all the way to dollar 80. And some people didn't make it. Some people kind of, I guess not only didn't make it, but they kind of like got liquidated because of that. And some people just made it.
00:19:54.672 - 00:20:26.016, Speaker A: Right. Like, I mean, if you had opened a leverage position at a $1000 ETH and then ETH went to $80 and you didn't have the capital to pay it off or the, the spare capital to kind of pay down your debt and you only had 8th to keep adding to it as collateral and you didn't want to sell your e because, I mean, yeah, it kind of like, it becomes a messy situation there. But anyway, I'm gonna end it there. I've got ten minutes left. I want to cover the updates over the weekend. I think the biggest update was it all the, all core devs call. This was the one that I think everyone was waiting for since the Ropston merge went through the, I guess, TLDR.
00:20:26.016 - 00:20:42.352, Speaker A: It's a long thread from Tim Bicar, as usual. You should definitely go give it a read. The TLDR is that they decided that they will be delaying the difficulty bomb to August. I believe so. That's going to happen relatively soon, I think. Oh, no, no. I think they think they did say they will be delaying it.
00:20:42.352 - 00:21:05.694, Speaker A: There was kind of like a won't where they delay it or will they delay it? But I think they did say that they will be delaying it. Yes, that's correct. I got a bit confused there for a sec and people are saying, oh, this is going to delete the delay of the merge. As I've been saying, guys, I don't think it's going to lead to a quote unquote, delay of the merge. I do still think the merge could happen in September. That's kind of like my best guess right now. We're going to see how the next test nets go with the merge.
00:21:05.694 - 00:21:54.104, Speaker A: The polyam girl in all that and the shadow Fawkes and things like that. I think there's an argument to be made as well. There was a bit of discussion going on about kind of like I think I discussed this last week about how the only issues that existed on the Ropsten merge were pretty much with minority clients and the bulk of it was configuration issues. So should we hold up the merge? Should we push back the merge by a month, two months or whatever it is from the current? I mean, there's not really a target date, but from the current. Kind of like thinking around it just to get those clients up to scratch? I don't, I don't think so. Like, obviously we want better client diversity for the execution layer and we want those clients to be ready and kind of like working once the merge goes through. But at the same time, like, I mean, I think 95% worked fine if you, if you kind of like take away the configuration issues there.
00:21:54.104 - 00:22:36.852, Speaker A: So the 5% in my mind shouldn't hold up the 95%. Now look, that's not, that's not a side or an insult to the client teams or anything like that. They're doing really amazing work and they're obviously contributing to client diversity by working on minority clients. But I think the merge is so critical at this point, not just from a environmental standpoint, which a lot of people believe in, but just from, we need to ship this thing, get it out of the way so we can work on the other upgrades thing. I just think it needs to be done ASAP at this point. Like do the testing, that's fine. But if the testing reveals that five and even maybe 10% of the, of the network is still having issues, but it's part of the minority clients, I'm sorry, but like let's just merge and those, those kind of like issues can be fixed post merge.
00:22:36.852 - 00:22:56.540, Speaker A: They're not deal breakers. They're not game breakers. They're not anything that's going to lead to any kind of like catastrophic losses or catastrophic events through the merge. They're just things that need to be kind of like ironed out. So that's my opinion on it. But for now, I'm going to remain with my September kind of, I guess estimation. We're going to have to see how the other test nets go and see how fast they happen as well.
00:22:56.540 - 00:23:28.266, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, I think at this point in time, I've not heard anyone really clamoring for the merge anymore because the price went down, people will come hammering for it because they're like, oh, my God, like, I need 8th to go up. I want 8th to go up. Like, I need the triple harvesting. I need the ethyl introduction. But, guys, like, I've always said to you that it doesn't matter how bullish the merge is, and I still truly believe it to be extremely bullish. Faith, the macro environment doesn't give a shit. Like, if the macro environment is weak, if it's the worst that's been in 40 years, then the 8th merge ain't doing anything right in the short term.
00:23:28.266 - 00:23:54.570, Speaker A: Like, the merge will happen and we'll go through and it'll be awesome. The long term, of course, like, as risk, mark, as risk gets kind of like, back on, as people kind of like, things recover, because they will recover. It's not the end of the world. As things recover in the macro environment, as people get kind of, like, more confident in the markets again, and as people come back into crypto, I think then, you know, ETH will have those kind of, like, outsized returns. ETH will outperform. ETH will do very well. But that could be two years from now.
00:23:54.570 - 00:24:12.996, Speaker A: I don't know, guys. Like, at the end of day, I've always said to you, I'm a long term investor. I always speak about the markets with the long term in mind. And the long term for me is decades. Like, I'm not talking two years. I'm talking decades. My time horizon for ETH going to, you know, I've given $100,000 price targets before was decades.
00:24:12.996 - 00:24:39.928, Speaker A: Right. The $10,000 target I could see happening sooner than that, definitely. But again, it depends on the macro environment. Depends, you know, if we can get ourselves out of this bind, if we can get inflation down, because that's really the number one issue right now, is getting that inflation number down to two to 3% or something like that. If it, if it stays at 8.5% or 9%, even if it goes up from here for, you know, for, for a couple of years, well, that's just gonna destroy everything. And, and I don't think it's gonna do that, but we're gonna have to see.
00:24:39.928 - 00:25:06.454, Speaker A: Right. So just kind of, like, wanted to make that comment about the merge there. All right. So there was a really great comment here that was shared on Twitter by user punk 4156. But basically this comment comes from Hacker News and I'll just read it out to you guys. I really, really like this. It says, I agree that anything that can be done with a blockchain can technically be done with a database, but the practical challenges come down to coordination problems.
00:25:06.454 - 00:25:47.582, Speaker A: With blockchains, you get credible neutrality out of the box different developers are comfortable building inside a shared execution environment. If western union built a smart contract execution system, you'd have a much, much harder time convincing developers to build inside of it than you would on Ethereum. It would be much less likely that Ethereum would shut off, change the rules, ban you from the platform, etcetera. The advantage that gives blockchains is composability. Thousands of different applications can instantly talk to one another using standardized calls inside atomic transactions. Databases, by contrast, are siloed, so they work really well if you stay within the application that the database was built for, but really poorly once you try to cross applications, and hence databases. Imagine how hard it would be and how many hoops you would have to jump through to be able to use Venmo to buy Nasdaq listed stocks.
00:25:47.582 - 00:26:23.628, Speaker A: In contrast, USDC and Uniswap work together seamlessly because they're both built on the same common credible neutral layer, Ethereum. I've talked about all of this before on the refuel. This will not be news to any of you, but I think this was just put very, very elegantly here. And why doesn't matter if you don't care about decentralization, but why? Credible neutrality matters, especially to developers. Developers in tech have actually, for the last 20 years, have been gotten the short end of this stick every single time. Anytime they've built on one of these big platforms, they get cut off. Like, I'm sure people have heard of what happened with Facebook apps and Twitter apps and all these kind of like things.
00:26:23.628 - 00:27:12.470, Speaker A: They get cut off instantly because they take value away from the platform itself, right? Because then, you know, the, the kind of like features that get put in and then kind of like things that get built on top aren't adding value to, I guess, like the company that it's being built on, whereas something with Ethereum is doing it differently, right? Ethereum is credibly neutral. You can build whatever you want on it. Ethereum is not opinionated about what's get what gets built on it. But Ethereum is still charging for everything that gets built in it, right? It's still charging in transaction fees. It is still kind of like saying to people. Well, you can build on this, but you have to pay the kind of like fee to do so. Whereas if you were to build on these kind of like, I guess like single databases and stuff like that, you're siloed and you're probably also paying rent to this centralized company that is kind of like taking all this money and kind of like restricting what you can do with it.
00:27:12.470 - 00:27:54.864, Speaker A: Whereas on Ethereum you're not really restricted with what you can do socially. Like technically you are because of the fact that like Ethereum is built in such a way and you can't do everything on Ethereum. But then we have the L2 environments where they also want to go towards credible neutrality and they want to enable kind of like developers to do new things while inheriting Ethereum's properties of security and composability and decentralization and all that good stuff there. So I think this is just like an underrated point a lot of the time. The credible neutrality aspect, and that's what makes me most bullish on Ethereum, to be honest, is that it has proven credible neutrality, but also that lending itself to composability. Composability is extremely important and definitely something that more people should talk about. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like read that out there.
00:27:54.864 - 00:28:30.140, Speaker A: Alright, so as I mentioned last week, the hacker seems to have returned most of the kind of like op to winter mute. So they've returned, I think, 17 million of the 20 million op with $1 million 1 million op sent to Vitalik. And I think they sold 1 million and kept 1 million as a bounty or something like that for. Yeah, I think that's kind of like the way it broke down there. So I mean, great to, I guess like great, great that this happened. Right. The optimism foundation apparently is going to be reimbursing the remaining 2 million op, which was kept as kind of like a bounty and things like that as well.
00:28:30.140 - 00:29:24.582, Speaker A: So I mean, just great to see that this kind of like resolved itself in the end, as I explained last week. I mean, at this point, like it just makes more sense to take the bounty than it did to keep the funds because at the end of the day you most likely were going to get caught and now you're probably not going to get caught, right? If Wintermute lives up to what they said about not pursuing them once the funds are returned, then this person gets away with kind of like that, that kind of like bounty and they can just keep that and that's it. Right. So it's basically a bug bounty. I think, you know, going forward, more people are going to be, I guess, doing this as a kind of like, white hat thing because, I mean, it's funny because ultimism, I believe, has a $2 million bug bounty program for critical bugs. But would this have been considered a critical bug because it was kind of like a technically funny thing, right. Whether it wasn't exactly a bug, it was more a mistake on Ultima's and wintermute size that they didn't kind of, like, double check that the funds were sent on L2 through the Nosis safe there.
00:29:24.582 - 00:29:44.184, Speaker A: So I don't know if they would have rewarded that $2 million bug bounty for critical bugs because it technically wasn't but a bug. Right. So I don't know. Maybe. I don't know. But just generally, I think that on the white hat side, white hat side of things, it's just kind of like, much easier to do, more profitable to do, and it just means that you're not going to go to jail right at the end of the day. So good to see this from optimism here.
00:29:44.184 - 00:29:59.556, Speaker A: All right, last couple of things. So there's now 400,000 active validators on the beacon chain staking 12.8 million ETH. You can see that here on the Beacon chain website. This 101,437. No pending validators right now. I guess like the.
00:29:59.556 - 00:30:40.210, Speaker A: I guess, how should I say it, the hunger to stake ETH has kind of died down, obviously, because the markets died down. But still, that's a lot of ETH being staked, guys. And honestly, I do think post merge, when the yields kind of like bump up again, people will be more kind of like, hungry to stake again. And I think just market heating up generally will kind of cause people to want to stake more as well. So not too worried about that. I am curious to see how many people unstake at time of the time of withdrawals that will happen next year and what the price of ETH will be. Because when people started kind of putting money, any money, into the deposit contract or Ethan's to deposit contract, I think ETH was $400 back then, and then it went up to dollar 600 around the beacon chain launch.
00:30:40.210 - 00:31:09.924, Speaker A: So, you know, what happens if we're back at that kind of, like, price? Sorry. Back at those prices when. When withdrawals are enabled. I'm not saying we are going to be, but it'd be funny if we do kind of like a round trip that I'm not sure people would want to kind of, I guess, like remove their Ethan there's a lot of ether came in and staked when ETH was much higher as well. So that would be kind of like weird to consider too, like what the dynamics would be there. But I do think that when withdrawals are enabled, we're going to see that great reshuffling, as I've spoken about before. So we're going to have to see how that all plays out there.
00:31:09.924 - 00:31:34.844, Speaker A: But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like mention that we hit that milestone. And finally here, just a reminder that gitcoin grants round 14 is still ongoing. There's over 12,000 contributions being made. Sorry, contributors so far, with $483,000 contributed in the first four days alone. Very, very cool to see this. Hopefully you guys have contributed. Thank you again to everyone who donated to the donated to the deli Gwei, but then a third, but don't forget to donate to everything else as well.
00:31:34.844 - 00:31:49.604, Speaker A: Definitely go do that. You have a little while still and I'll obviously keep reminding you, but I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
