00:00:00.720 - 00:00:42.134, Speaker A: It's my pleasure to introduce Zvenin. He's going to speak about rigidity for the space time positive mass theorem. Thanks very much for the introduction, and thanks very much for the organizers for giving me this opportunity to speak here. And let's start with the startup. So today we're going to look at asymptotic t flat complete manifolds. And in material relativity, they're used to model isolated gravitational systems, such as stars, black holes, or galaxies. And let me draw you here some picture of one example.
00:00:42.134 - 00:02:09.574, Speaker A: For instance, here I have maybe like a star, and here black hole. And then to each of these initial data sets, we can associate an energy density mu, which is given by one half times the scalar curvature plus trace k squared minus norm k squared. And we can also associate a momentum density, which I call j, which is just the divergence of k minus trace k times g. And then, moreover, at infinity, where we are like as observer, we can also measure the energy and momentum, which are given by equal one over 16 PI integral of s infinity, which is basically just taking the limit of spheres of radius r, going to infinity of components of g I j I derivative minus gi derivative times the normal mu j similar. We have the momentum, which is a vector. Again, the integral of the sphere is at infinity kj minus trace k gaj. And then we have the famous positive mass theorem.
00:02:09.574 - 00:03:13.384, Speaker A: It says that if mu is greater equal to norm j, where they define as over here, then you have that e squared equal num p. And there are several proofs of this result. The first one is by Schein Yau and Witten. Schei now use the Zhang equation, and Witten used spinners and the Liechner rules formula for them. And then there's also proof using mods, which are like space time versions of minimal surfaces by Eichmeyer, Huang, Lien Shang. And then finally, the rigidity, which I'm going to talk in a second, has been done by bacon crystal. And that was a beautiful paper by Huang and die.
00:03:13.384 - 00:04:39.884, Speaker A: All right, so we have another positive mass theorem. Let's talk about some new results to get some more quantitative result, which is from a joint work with Dimitri Kazaris and Marcus Currier, and from another paper, which is joined with, uh, Zheng and Davi show the following. So again, suppose we have mu grid equal to j, which is also known as the dominant energy condition. And then there exists a function u, which satisfies or solves laplace u equal to minus trace k norm gradient u, and such that the following formula holds. Namely, we have e minus num p is greater equal to the integral over the squadrotic term hash naugh u plus k non gradient u, divide by non gradient u. And then we get two terms involving mu and j. We get two mu non gradient u plus two scalar product of j and gradient u.
00:04:39.884 - 00:05:41.080, Speaker A: And note that this term is quadratic, so it's always non negative. Moreover, if the dominant energy condition holds, then this term over here is also non negative. So in particular, we get this great equal to zero, and it implies the positive mass theorem. Moreover, if e is equal to p, then e equal to p equal to zero, and MGK arises a subset of Minkowski space. And I would also like to highlight that we are basically first result where no additional technical assumption, like some decay assumptions, et cetera, is needed. So I don't need to assume anything else besides what's here. All right, so now with the theorem, let me talk about the proof.
00:05:41.080 - 00:06:28.014, Speaker A: And due to the time limitations, let me focus on the rigidity statement, which is the second part. Yes, good question. Thank you. So, on the time symmetric case, Pengsy gave a nice list before of the proofs. There you have proofs by Shane Yao, Husk Ulman Uli Breaker, Zaras Curry and Stern, Augustiani, Zeri Oruncio and Peng Zimyao. And the rigidity case is well known in this case. All right, so let's talk about the proof.
00:06:28.014 - 00:07:29.014, Speaker A: And as I just mentioned, I have to focus on the rigidity. And basically that proceeds in five steps. So the first step is to observe, if you want to show that we are in Minkowski space, is observed that by the fundamental theorem of hypersurfaces, or the Lorentz inversion of this, it suffices to verify the Gaussian Godazzi equations. And now let's have a look at the formula we have over here. Namely, if e is equal to num p, then this term over here is zero. And because this integral is a negative, or the integral is a negative, that means that integrand in fact has to be zero. So we know that both this term is zero and this term is zero.
00:07:29.014 - 00:08:13.404, Speaker A: So let's call this equation star. Then we obtain that star implies that a hessian of u equal to k or minus k, non gradient u, and that the energy density mu is just j nu, the new component of j, where nu is the unit normal to the level sets of, uh. And now we have basically here these identities. And this is a lot. And with this machinery, it's actually for almost all of the Kodazi equations. Pretty straightforward to verify them. There's just one term which is more tricky.
00:08:13.404 - 00:08:54.976, Speaker A: Let me write down this one over here. So it remains to show that gradient nu k alpha beta minus gradient alpha k nu beta is equal to zero. And for future reference, let's call this term alpha beta. Also, please let me know if you're in the back end. My writing is smaller. I can always try to write a little bit larger. Okay.
00:08:54.976 - 00:10:07.724, Speaker A: And here, alpha and beta are tangential to the level sets. They are normal to vector nu. And now we come to the key observation, namely this tensor a alpha beta is actually the hessian of a function. So we have that a alpha beta is equal to gradient u squared and then times dehesion with respect to sigma, where sigma is a level set of some function f. And now basically, we just have to study f and show that the hessian of f is zero. Because if the hessian of f is zero, all of the girls and Kodazi equations are satisfied. And we indeed embedding to Minkowski space, which would finish the proof.
00:10:07.724 - 00:11:24.844, Speaker A: And now the next step is to observe that f actually satisfies a nice differential equation, namely, on each level set sigma, you have that the laplace of sigma of f is actually just gradient u inverse times the moment times the energy density mu. But if you call mu's assumed to be great, equal norm J. So in particular, this is greater equal to zero. And we see that f is subharmonic. So now suddenly we have all the PDE tools at our disposal and can use them to study f. So in particular, we then get the fluvals theorem. This tells us in then that f is linear on each level set, which implies that the Hessian is zero, and which does implies that af or beta is zero, which then finishes the proof.
00:11:24.844 - 00:12:24.744, Speaker A: Are there any questions at this point? Yes, is there a dimensional restrictions? For fun, I should have said in the beginning, all my manifolds are three dimensional, all my initial datasets. Where does it answer? So basically, I skipped over the proof of this inequality. But basically this relies on applying ghost Bonille's theorem to the level sets. So basically, um, for instance, if you're like here in Minkowski space, and say we have some initial data set here, in this case, the function u would be just given by something, by a quantum function like x plus t. So basically, you slice your manifold by these null surfaces, and then all the surfaces are two dimensional and each, every single surface one has to apply Gauss beneath theorem. And therefore this all works in dimension three. Any more questions? At this point.
00:12:24.744 - 00:13:37.646, Speaker A: There's like one more interesting aspect I wanted to mention, regard regarding f or the application of Leo's theorem. So basically you need that at infinity, the function f doesn't grow too quickly, basically like you have like a maximum principle and you need some boundary value control. And basically, you know that the Hessian of f is just given by this AFL beta, which is given by this. So you basically need your manifold still to be asymptotically flat at infinity. And in fact, there are some counter examples in high dimension constructed by Dan and Lyon by SMPp ways which show that if you don't have this decay conditions of k or patterns, given that, then in fact the rigidity statement is incorrect, but it's unclear what happens in the dimensions in between. All right, so I gave you a quick overview now how these functions you, which satisfy this PDE, which are called space time harmonic functions, can be used to establish the rigidity of the space time positive mass theorem. So that raises the question, okay, we have this.
00:13:37.646 - 00:15:55.136, Speaker A: So what's next? And there are two directions I wanted to highlight, and the first direction are like applications to remain in geometry, which is from our joint work with again, Dmitri, Marcus and Iwa, and appeared on archive around last week ago. And basically, in this case, the main idea is you want to use the tools from relativity, but we don't have any initial dataset. So basically we artificially construct it, namely define k equal to f times v for some suitable chosen f, suitably chosen function f, and then do like the same machinery. And the second part I wanted to mention are monotonicity formulas for, so, for double null foliations. And basically what I've already drawn here, we have here our initial dataset, MGk, and basically those levels, that's the model, like a null affiliation, you have your initial data set and slice it by those null planes. And so what can we do if we just do it with two of these optical functions at the same time? And in fact, this even allows you to generalize the monotonicity formula of the Hawking mass under inverse mean curvature flow to space times. So here I was drawing before a picture already.
00:15:55.136 - 00:17:36.914, Speaker A: So basically the model we have, if we have an initial data set in Minkowski space, then our model functions are not going to be x plus t as over here, but they're going to be r t and r t. And then where these past and future null counts in the second initial data sets, that's going to be then basically like our level sets, that's like the U level set and then we have similar here, the B level set. And interestingly, you also get a monotonicity formula, which in particular implies this one over here, but it also implies the one for the hawking mass under inversely curvature flow and also demolition formula for harmonic and p harmonic functions, which has been studied in this beautiful paper by Agostiniani, Mazzeri, Mantegazza and Oronzio. So I meant to write down, because it's a little bit lengthy before the lecture, but I only went halfway through it. So basically the equation we now have to study is this one. So basically, given some parameter a in zero to one, which basically corresponds to the pmonicity between being between one and two, you can consider solutions to the system of PDE's given over here. Are you looking at a hyper service image or any general initial dataset? Yeah, or basically MGK, some initial dataset, or can also be, just, can also be compact, automatically flat.
00:17:36.914 - 00:18:21.084, Speaker A: So basically, yes, basically it's sort of like a fake double null foliation. Similar, like this is like a fake null foliation over here. Or basically you pretend to be in a space time and pretend basically to slice it with these null planes. But in general, it's just from the three dimensional point of view, you don't hit a four dimensional space time. Yes. So it's all like three dimensional. I'm not sure yet.
00:18:21.084 - 00:19:37.842, Speaker A: Okay, so we have here basically this equation, which is, it's like a system, but a coupling is actually pretty mild. And then, and then basic. And then basically what you get is that you get basically like a monotonicity formula for this kind of system, which is like a double null foliation monotonicity. So under, so given this PDE, then it's basically just a pointless computation. So basically using, it's basically just the product and the chain rule you're using. And then what you get is that the divergence of some vector field y, which I'm going to write down a second is here, h squared plus, which I'm also going to find a second of u s squared minus a squared h squared u nu nu squared divided by non gradient. Um, and then a similar term involving via, okay, sorry, that should be here.
00:19:37.842 - 00:20:30.110, Speaker A: Eta, eta. The iter is like an interpolated normal vector. And then you also get some terms involving the dominant energy condition. So I get plus two mu of non gradient u plus non gradient v, and then plus two scale product gradient u minus gradient v, and then all the Gauss curvature terms, which then disappear from by Gauss Bornet's theorem after integration. That's a vector field depending on second derivatives of u and v. Basically, if you integrate it by parts, it gives you something like the Hawking mass. Yeah, I think I'm running out of time, and because it's a bit lengthy to write down both of these terms, I just leave it here.
00:20:30.110 - 00:20:32.054, Speaker A: And thanks very much for your attention.
