00:00:00.240 - 00:00:47.310, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise Asano, and today, 17 April 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So an update on the KZG ceremony. You guys remember the KZG ceremony? I was talking about it quite frequently when it was going on about a month ago now, I believe. But basically it's the ceremony to set up the KZG commitment for why, I guess I should say sorry, it's the the trusted setup ceremony for AIP 4844. You can learn all about it by going to the website and everything, but the reason it's back in the I guess refuel today is because Carl Beak, one of the people behind the KZG ceremony, put a tweet thread out today announcing that the ceremony will be opening up for public contributions again soon.
00:00:47.310 - 00:01:20.208, Speaker A: But things are a little different this time. So he continues by saying, due to the lobby getting crazily large, we are trying something new. We're starting with really high nonce requirements and we're going to keep reducing them. So for now, you'll need to have sent at least 128 transactions before the 13 January 2023. When the lobby looks like it is getting empty, we'll reduce the requirements so new people can participate. This is all coming back off the back of some very interesting special contributions which you can check out in trends thread here. But I think this is a really great way to prevent cyber attacks on the KZG ceremony.
00:01:20.208 - 00:02:24.008, Speaker A: The airdrop farmers, people just coming in, you know, too many people coming in and overloading the system. I think this is a pretty good way of doing it because this is basically a snapshot on the 13 January saying, hey, you had to have 128 transactions before that date to be eligible to contribute. And then obviously as time goes on and the queue, you know, the queue is small, or maybe there's not even a queue at all, the requirements will drop down, so maybe it becomes like 64 transactions by that day instead of 128, and then it halves again, like 32 and so on and so forth. Just basically as a queuing system to allow people to come in, get their, their commitments done and no need to foam over it, no need to make sure to fomo over, not getting it done in time and any of that stuff there, and no need to leave your computer on for days on end hoping that you get into, you know, you're able to commit here. And I think this is a really great solution to that. So just a heads up that, yeah, the public contribution phase of the KZG ceremony will be opening up again soon. And if you have addresses or an address with at least 128 transactions before that date, you'll be able to contribute as part of the first round.
00:02:24.008 - 00:03:17.664, Speaker A: But then, as I said, as the time, as time goes on, that requirement will be lowered to something, you know, whatever, whatever they lower it to, but it will be lowered over time and eventually you'll be able to get in. So I think this is just a really great way to do a queuing system with the KZG ceremony here. All right, so it's been a few days since withdrawals was activated on the Ethereum main net. Now, we've seen a ton of analysis of this over the weekend, and two of the best threads that I've come across come from Hill Dobby and Martin Lee. Now, Hill Dobby, you guys know, works at dragonfly now, but does a lot of do not elix dashboard and does a lot of things around on chain data. So who better to put a tweet thread out about the Shanghai withdrawals and also explaining everything got to do with staking withdrawals? Like all the differences between partial and full withdrawals. The, the differences between the zero x zero zero address format and zero x zero one address format.
00:03:17.664 - 00:03:45.360, Speaker A: The, the queues, the withdrawal queue, the entry queue, all that good stuff there. If you're confused about any of it. I mean, you've heard me talk a lot about it, but a lot of the times I won't give an explanation of it. I'll just assume that people know what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, I remember saying this early on in the refuel, I can't explain the same thing over and over again because then it just becomes really repetitive. But that's why I linked to threads like what Hill Dobby has here, so you guys can get an explanation of these things. So as I said, Hill Dobby has a thread, but so does Martin Lee.
00:03:45.360 - 00:04:44.355, Speaker A: And Martin Lee, as a data journalist at Nansen here, and he also has a pretty long thread, actually. I think it's over 30 tweets along here explaining withdrawals as well, with a bunch of data analyzing withdrawal since they went live. So, yeah, I think it's a great, great idea to go check out both of these threads to get a full understanding of the differences between the things I just mentioned. And I think from what I've noticed over the last few days on, especially on Twitter Reddit discord, what people seem to be most confused about and people seem to be getting like getting a lot of things wrong about is the difference between full and partial withdrawals, because a lot of the dashboards haven't actually split these things out, so they've just basically commingled them. So people will say, oh, there's a million ETH that's, that's going to be withdrawn. And they would think that that's got, that, that million ETH is coming from full withdrawals, when in reality that's coming from partial withdrawals and the partial withdrawals are done automatically. So even if the person didn't want to withdraw their ETH or didn't want to do anything with that ETH, they just wanted to sit on it.
00:04:44.355 - 00:05:44.610, Speaker A: It would still automatically withdraw as long as they had changed their withdrawal credentials to zero x zero one. And of course, a lot of people who had rewards and who were staking for a while now may be able to compound those rewards and spin up another solo validator. Or maybe they just want to go spin up a mini pool with rocker pool, or maybe they want to stake with another LSD, right? That's what they're going to do. They're going to basically compound their rewards so they're not necessarily going to sell it. And there's a lot of nuance here, and I've talked about it endlessly on the refuel, so I'm not going to repeat myself there, but I think that's the source of confusion for a lot of people. And then, of course, there's even more confusion around the differences between a zero x zero zero address and a zero x zero one. We saw the other day that a bunch of addresses, I think like over 40% of the network, changed from zero x zero zero to zero x zero one post Shanghai, which means that the partial withdrawals automation went through again and started withdrawing massive amounts of ETH from the consensus layer rewards to these addresses that weren't eligible before.
00:05:44.610 - 00:06:18.646, Speaker A: So that I saw people on Twitter saying, look at this, look at this massive unlock, now everyone's unstaking, it's gonna lead to a massive dump. When that wasn't correct at all, it was literally just the rewards being paid out. So. But as I said, hill, Dobby and Martin Lee's threads explain this quite well and I highly recommend checking them both out. I'll link them in the YouTube description below. And also, the other major source of confusion is around the exit queue on Ethereum, and it's got nothing to do with Ethereum's transactions or how many transactions they can process the exit and entry queue was designed in, in the way it was designed for security purposes. It had nothing to do with Ethereum scalability.
00:06:18.646 - 00:06:49.592, Speaker A: It's not, it's not being done to, to limit the amount of ETH that can come out for price related reasons or anything like that. It was done for the security of the network. And on top of that, there is a minimum 27 hours exit queue. So even if there is no queue, even if you're the only person exiting a full withdrawal, if it would still take a minimum of 27 hours, because that is also designed in protocol that way. So essentially the queue starts after 27 hours. So the first person will withdraw and they'll withdraw within 27 hours. And then it just gets longer and longer from there.
00:06:49.592 - 00:07:28.718, Speaker A: I believe the withdrawal queue right now is almost 20 days or something like that for it to clear. So, and as more validators get out to the network, it can clear faster and faster at certain points, it has to reach certain checkpoints. And I think either Martin or Hill Dobby's thread explains this as well. So yeah, as I said, you can check out these threads. I'll leave my comments there, but I'll link both of them in the YouTube description below. All right, just another thing about staking comes from super fierce here, and I think he has actually two things I want to talk about. So yeah, there's, there's one tweet here where he said, based on the uptick in solo staking questions I'm seeing on, on the eats taker channels, I'd say we're getting a big increase in solo stakers from home.
00:07:28.718 - 00:08:06.332, Speaker A: This is so beneficial for the long term success of our network. Thank you everyone for this effort. So this is one of my things that I wanted to see pro shanghai. I wanted to see more people solo staking because one, it's gotten a lot easier, even though it's still not easy, right? It's not like plug and play a lot of the time, unless you go with a solution like dap node. But even that isn't totally, you know, plug in and play, right? There are still certain things you have to do. And as I've explained in the past, I don't think solo staking is ever going to get to a point where it's literally click one or two buttons and you're good to go. Because just depositing the ETH to begin with and to get started staking is a few clicks in of itself.
00:08:06.332 - 00:08:38.156, Speaker A: So you're already past that one to two click, one to two click requirement there. So solo staking is never going to be the easiest way to stake, but it has gotten a lot better, I think, since Genesis. And on top of that, it's been de risked a lot, right? On top of that, ETH as an asset has just been transformed. Right? It's just become such a different asset. And so many more people bullish on eat. The ecosystem has grown so much, and now that withdrawals are enabled, it's. It makes a lot more sense to solo stake because you get your rewards and then you can, you can do whatever you want with your rewards.
00:08:38.156 - 00:09:11.234, Speaker A: Right. Straight away and all that good stuff there. So, yeah, I mean, I'm not surprised to see an uptick here in people wanting to solo stake. So just a great, a bit of anecdotal evidence from super fizz and, I mean, who, who would know better than someone who monitors and participates in the Eats taker channels, where generally people are going to go when they have issues with setting up a solo staking rig or maybe setting up something like rocket pool. Right? But yeah, just great to see that there. And the second tweet from Super Fears was also related to staking, where he said there's a real explosion of new staking services and protocols out there. This is wonderful, but more than I can keep up with.
00:09:11.234 - 00:09:45.468, Speaker A: So look for these features. And he has a checklist here, a non exhaustive checklist. Obviously, this isn't going to cover everything, but this is just a basic checklist that you should use when staking your ETH with a staking provider. So the first thing, full smart, smart contract from end to end. So basically you don't want any centralized middleman, so to speak, right? You don't want any kind of like controlling party where essentially someone says, hey, give me your ETH, you know, and they, they take custody of your ETH and they go stake it on your behalf. No, you want a full smart contract from end to end staking experience. Something like a rocket pool, right? Open source.
00:09:45.468 - 00:10:29.994, Speaker A: I mean, that's a given. Like, you don't want to be interacting with any smart contracts that aren't open source. That's a rule of thumb, I think, for everything in crypto and ethereum, not just for staking, but it's really important with staking. Definitely decentralized. This is going to be harder for the newer ones, the newer staking services to adhere to because they're new, right? A lot of times when things are new, they don't want to decentralize because of the risk of bugs or they still have major upgrades they want to do to their smart contracts or any, you know, or for security reasons, there are any number of reasons for them, for them not to be decentralized. So I think this one, as I said, it's going to be difficult for newer services to, to hit on. And even Rocketpool, as much as I love them, there are still centralizing forces in rocker pool right now.
00:10:29.994 - 00:11:04.490, Speaker A: The odour being the most obvious one right now. And, I mean, you guys know, I'm an ODA member as well, but I think it's worth being honest here, not sugar coating it. The Odell is definitely a centralizing force in rocker pool, but it's not like rocket pool is centralized. Because of that, like, I think Rockerpool is obviously the most decentralized thinking pool we have today, and it's only becoming more so over time. And the odour is a temporary solution, but it's still good to be honest here. So I don't think any of these services today meet the decentralized criteria here. Obviously, solo staking does, but solar staking isn't a staking service or protocol.
00:11:04.490 - 00:11:29.870, Speaker A: Right. Solar staking is. Is literally, you're at the, you're literally at the bare metals and you're not using anything built on top. So I think that third point, while very important, shouldn't stop you from staking with a service. I just think that you need to see how centralized it is or what their plan is towards decentralization. Right. To do they have a credible path towards it? Is it actually possible for that protocol to ever decentralize? Like, are they saying, oh, yeah, we'll decentralize, you know, at some point in the future.
00:11:29.870 - 00:11:49.342, Speaker A: But then you do your research and think to yourself, well, wait, this, this actually doesn't make sense, right? This protocol can't decentralize because of this, this and this. So that's something to keep in mind as well. The fourth point, there should be permissionless node operation. So essentially anyone should be able to create a node. Again, rocket pool allows you to do this. Anyone is able to create a mini pool. There is no permission to do that.
00:11:49.342 - 00:12:10.110, Speaker A: With stakewise v three, there is going to be no permission for anyone to create their own vault as well. So that's what I mean. That's what is meant here by permissionless node operation. You shouldn't have to ask someone for permission to spin up a validator or spin up a node. You should just be able to do it. And then the last point here, give more than they take. There's a few interpretations of what this could mean.
00:12:10.110 - 00:12:50.320, Speaker A: Basically, you want the staking service and protocol to be a good steward of the network. And there are, I mean, this is a very subjective thing because you could debate people about which service is actually beneficial to the network, which one is not beneficial to the network, which one is a leech, which one is. Has symbiotic relationship, which one has a community that actually cares about Ethereum, which one has a community of just profit maximalists. So, as I said, it's a subjective thing that can be debated. But generally you want to be staking with services and protocols that, that are ethereum aligned. Right. Especially if you want a long term security and long term, I guess, safety, I guess you could say, of your funds in these protocols.
00:12:50.320 - 00:13:30.268, Speaker A: And then there was some comments here as well. Someone mentioned multiple audits. That's always, I think, a given as well for any smart contract. Honestly, like the last time I interacted with a smart contract that wasn't audited was Defi Summer. And I regret doing it back then because I look back on it now and be like, wow, I could have lost a lot of money if I was rugged by one of these contracts. So for me, going forward, I don't, I don't, or at least I try not to interact with any smart contracts that have not been audited. And I think this is especially important when it comes to staking protocols, because not only are you interacting with it once or twice or on a temporary or short term basis, you could be staking with these protocols for long periods of time, like potentially years.
00:13:30.268 - 00:14:19.262, Speaker A: So you definitely want to make sure that they have had audits and especially multiple audits. So I think that's also a very important point there. But I like this checklist from super fizz. You can go bookmark, bookmark this tweet if you want to keep this handy. But definitely something to keep in mind when choosing which staking protocol or service to stake with. All right, Peter from the Geth team has shared his slides from ETH Tokyo about 4844 transaction pooling. So this is one of the things that has been under heavy, our research and developments regarding 4844 and something that I think is not holding up 48, 44 or anything like that, but something of a very important consideration, because if they get it wrong, it could lead to potential DOS attacks on the network.
00:14:19.262 - 00:15:15.902, Speaker A: It could lead to potential things where essentially there's a, if there's a reorg on the network and then one of these 4844 blob transactions gets reorged, then what happens on the, on the L2. Like there are all these considerations here and Peter's, Peter's slides do a really great job of explaining it. Now obviously you're missing the context of Peter actually talking to the slides, so hopefully there's a video on his talk on this, but I don't know if there is just yet. I haven't seen one. But the slides themselves gives you enough context I think. So I highly recommend checking out the slides for more information on 4844 and the considerations that are being, that are being thought about and talked about in order to make sure that we ship 4844 to the network in a safe state so it doesn't actually cause any instability on the network, doesn't cause any, anyone to lose money or anyone to, to kind of any of the l two s to get messed up by it or anything like that because they're going to be the main users here. So definitely go check that out.
00:15:15.902 - 00:15:32.912, Speaker A: And there's also a bit of art here that was generated by mid journey that I thought was really cool. Just like ETH logo with Mount Fuji here and a bunch of japanese architecture as well. I thought that was actually really cool. It's a pretty cool image that mid journey created. I saved this as well. I don't know what I'm going to do with it. Maybe it'll come my phone wallpaper for a bit.
00:15:32.912 - 00:15:56.226, Speaker A: But yeah, you can check that out as well. I'll link these in the YouTube description below. All right, so speaking of rocket pool in, I guess like not even 48 hours now. Jasper put this tweet out yesterday. So basically 24 hours from now, or even less than that, the rocker pool Atlas upgrade is going live. Eight ETH minipools will become available. So you no longer need 16 ETH and a bunch of RPL to stake.
00:15:56.226 - 00:16:22.192, Speaker A: You only need eight ETH and 2.4 ETH worth of RPL to spin up mini pools with rocker pool. So that might be something that you're interested in. And as I said before, you don't need powerful hardware to do it. You can run a smart node stack, that's the software that rocker pool uses on a raspberry PI on a rock five b board. Really the only thing you have to worry about is if you have at least two terabytes worth of SSD storage. And that's really it.
00:16:22.192 - 00:16:56.568, Speaker A: 16 gig ram should be enough, 32 for future proof, but 16 should definitely be enough and even less than that. And you can, and you can run hundreds of mini pools and hundreds of validators on these things. Staking is not hardware intensive. I think that's a point worth reiterating constantly. It is way more capital intensive than it is hardware intensive. Even with eight ETH pools, I mean, that's still pretty capital intensive, right? That's what, 16 grand worth of Ethan and the RPI requirement to. But, you know, if you've got that and you want to stake, you don't have to go and splurge thousands and thousands of dollars on hardware.
00:16:56.568 - 00:17:12.968, Speaker A: You can do it for $500. Right. I'm talking us dollars here, of course. And then. Yeah, so that might be something that you want to check out, but that's going live. Rewards will be able to be withdrawn when the Atlas upgraded girl lives. And this is the consensus layer, rewards and the deposit pool will have room to mint Reth again.
00:17:12.968 - 00:17:33.183, Speaker A: So hopefully there isn't that premium there so that people buy areth on the secondary market. And so it opens up rocket pool staking to more people here. So, yeah, as I said, this is going live in less than 24 hours. The Odell actually voted on this before I wrote it on earlier in the day. It passed the vote. So, yeah, it's all good. It's all going live here.
00:17:33.183 - 00:17:57.644, Speaker A: And this has been a long time coming for rocker pool. Right? And this is, as I said, as I've said plenty of times, it's a major upgrade for the protocol here, and it should lead to a bunch of growth. And it's come at the right time, obviously, post Shanghai, he's the. Well, just a few days after Shanghai is the perfect time to do it. But I'm curious to see what. What this does for rocket pool growth now that people can change from other services. Unfortunately, people can't change from Lido just yet.
00:17:57.644 - 00:18:14.924, Speaker A: Unless they sell their Steth and. And sell it for reth. Maybe. Or maybe they sell their steth and then go spin up a smart node stack and spin up some mini pools. They can do that. But not. No one can actually withdraw ETH from the lido operators directly yet, because lido withdrawals aren't live yet.
00:18:14.924 - 00:18:28.256, Speaker A: But. But, you know, Coinbase is live. We've got kraken refugees. They probably looking around and seeing where to stake next. We have people with rewards. Maybe they're solo stakers and they think, okay, you know, I have enough solo validators. Let's spin up some rocker pool ones.
00:18:28.256 - 00:18:59.550, Speaker A: Maybe they're coming from other exchanges like Coinbase and Binance. There's plenty of places they can be coming from. I do think that Rockerpool stands a nice chance of capturing a lot of the kraken refugees because of this lower requirement. Maybe that a lot of them don't have 32 ETH to solo stake. And I do think that, that Lido stakers as well may consider selling their steth and going into reth for potentially better yield. Maybe because they want a more decentralized, they want an actually decentralized kind of service, staking their ETH for them or being, being exposed to that. Or maybe they want to spin up mini pools as well.
00:18:59.550 - 00:19:29.960, Speaker A: So, as I said, perfect timing for Atlas here. Great to see it going live. And I can't wait to convert all of my mini pools to eight ETH mini pools and then spin up more. I've been waiting until Atlas went live to spin up more. I want to spin up at least two more to get to ten, which is actually going to be 20 because it's, it's halving the, the requirement here. So I'll be getting to 20 mini pools, but ten and the, the old requirements. But the reason I'm not spinning up more is because I've actually been spinning up a lot of solo validators with any ETH that I've, that I've accrued my.
00:19:29.960 - 00:20:04.726, Speaker A: And I'm going to be doing that with my, my rewards as well. So. Yeah, but as I said, like rocket pool is great if you've got less than 32 ETH. If you run, you know, if you've got eight ETH here and you got the RPL, you can stake it and, and you can spin up your mini pools on low powered hardware. All right. L two beat announced over the weekend that the combined TVL, or total value locked of all L2 solutions, has passed $10 billion, experiencing a noteworthy increase in the last week. Now, you guys know that I'm not a huge fan of TVL as a metric.
00:20:04.726 - 00:20:26.882, Speaker A: Like, I'll give you one guess as to why it increased so much in the last week. I mean, you probably know, right, the prices of everything went up. I mean, ETH is at 2100. The ArB token went up. Right. The op token went up and a bunch of other tokens went up. So that's why I've never been a huge fan of TVL, because it's very sensitive to price movements and it's also very sensitive to liquidity movements.
00:20:26.882 - 00:21:04.470, Speaker A: In saying that, it's still good to see it growing, because I think that the meme and the narrative of TVL being something important is more powerful than the actual fundamentals behind it. And I think it gets more attention on l two s. It gets more people talking about altos and saying, oh, wow, look at the l two s. They're growing. You know, I should go use them. What's on there that so many people are putting their capital on there, and it just benefits the whole ethereum ecosystem, even if the actual metric isn't that much signal in saying that, I did showcase the other day how the l two s are generating a lot of fear revenue right now, which I still believe. And you guys know it's my favorite metric for tracking activity on various networks.
00:21:04.470 - 00:21:30.770, Speaker A: And that's still maintaining today. I think if I go to crypto fees dot in fo right now and bring it up for you guys to see what I'm seeing, you can see that arbitram one still did $225,000 worth of fair revenue over the last 24 hours. Over the last day, I should say. And optimism did about 143,000 here. So they're still up there. They're still doing record numbers, basically, which is awesome. And albatross almost at half of bitcoin, I think it's.
00:21:30.770 - 00:22:09.144, Speaker A: Yeah, it's pretty much like at half of bitcoin's daily fear of new, which is, which is pretty crazy when you think about it, right? So the l two s are growing. No matter which metric you look at here, there's more of them going online, obviously, we have the ZKVM's go online. They're growing. There is still more to come, like scroll and Tyco and Stocknet's growing and having a lot of great stuff going on there, which I should talk about in a sec. Actually, I'm going to talk about this in a sec. But, yeah, I mean, there's no denying that the l two ecosystem is growing. And I've said, I don't know if I've said this on the refuel before, but I have kind of like this thesis right now that we're going to experience something similar to what we experienced with Defi Summer, but we're going to have, like a proper l two summer.
00:22:09.144 - 00:22:35.344, Speaker A: And I believe it's going to be led by base. So I don't know exactly when base Mainnet is going to go live. I assume it's going to go live sometime this year, maybe around 48, 44. So maybe later in the year. I don't know, maybe it goes live earlier than that in a mainnet capacity. But think about this for a sec. So let's say the bull market comes back in, what, 2024? Right? Let's say we get a massive influx of new users in 2024.
00:22:35.344 - 00:23:20.392, Speaker A: And let's say Coinbase is obviously going to capture a lot of those new users and they start promoting base. Well, people are going to go to base to do on chain stuff, right? And then from base they're going to think, what other l two s are there? And then they're going to go explore the arbitrage, the optimisms, the zkvms, right? And then that's going to lead to a massive influx of new money and liquidity into these things. And it's going to look like what Defi Summer look like, where there was just so much money being injected into this new ecosystem and all the tokens were going nuts. There was so much money being made by everyone. And then potentially we come crashing down in a big way, like Defi did. I don't know exactly what it's going to look like, but I can potentially see this huge narrative forming, especially for newer people who will be able to actually afford this. Now, obviously we had the l one narrative in 2021.
00:23:20.392 - 00:23:47.432, Speaker A: I think a big reason for that was because of the l one's taking an advantage of Ethereum's weakness, where the l two s weren't live yet and the Ethereum l one phase are really high, and there was nowhere else for people to go except these other l one s. And there were also token intent, incentives, of course. But now with the l two s, we get a double whammy. We get people still in the ethereum ecosystem. We get cheap fees. Well, this is a triple whammy, actually. We get the cheap fees, obviously, and especially post 4844.
00:23:47.432 - 00:24:06.082, Speaker A: And we also get the l two s doing their own token incentives, which should drive growth too. And we get a new influx of users, which should bring in a lot of new money and all that good stuff there. So that's my running thesis right now. Not sure on the timing here. It could be the end of this year, it could be sometime next year. I would say within the next 18 months. I expect this to happen.
00:24:06.082 - 00:24:37.864, Speaker A: I expect some huge growth for l two s to happen. It just logically makes sense to me, at least with base leading the charge, because Coinbase is able to funnel a lot of new users into base, and then they're not just going to stop at base, right? You don't just stop at one. Once you're on chain, you explore everything, especially if you can just easily change the network in Metamask, which you can when you're exploring all the Altus. And then you can bridge between them. I really do feel like the main benefactor of the next influx of new users is going to be Ethereum. Ethereum and Altoos. And I'm super excited for that, obviously.
00:24:37.864 - 00:25:09.772, Speaker A: But that's my thesis. We'll see if I'm right. As I said, I'm giving myself a timeframe within the next 18 months. So pretty much to the end of next year, I guess, for this to play out. And we'll see how that goes there. All right, so I spoke about Starkware before and how there's an update I wanted to talk about, well, influence, a MMO that I've talked about before, a crypto game that I've talked about on the refill a bunch of times before. Announced, I think it was a week ago now, and I missed this, but they announced that they have gotten a strategic investment from Starkware into their game.
00:25:09.772 - 00:25:46.680, Speaker A: Now, influence is really cool. As I said, I've spoken about before, I've showed you guys, I think showed you it on the, on the refill before, or at least highlighted on the refill before. But this is trying to be a fully on chain Eve online like game that is powered by stark net. Now this is really ambitious, and this is something I think that Starknet uniquely enables as well. Um, and it's something that I think is also very suited to having an on chain economy. Uh, because it's, as I said, trying to be, or at least, um, it's. It's being built in the spirit of something like Eve Online, where an Eve online, if anyone, for anyone who's played it, has a massive economy.
00:25:46.680 - 00:26:17.672, Speaker A: It's not a crypto economy, it's a. It's a. Basically based on a fiat and in game economy. But imagine you had a crypto economy that overlapped with the in game economy. And then you could trade these items, whether they be in game items or in game currencies, using all the crypto native tools that we're used to on a L2 solution where transactions are essentially, I mean, nothing. And then you can do transaction batching and then you could do basically free transactions. It's gonna be awesome, right? So I just wanted to highlight this and say congrats to the team on investment from Starkware here.
00:26:17.672 - 00:26:44.966, Speaker A: If you wanna learn more about influence, you can go check out this post here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And there's tons of info for you to dig through if you're into this sort of stuff. All right, we have the eleven ETH global Tokyo finalists that have been announced here. So you can check out this tweet thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I wanted to talk about one or two projects that caught my eye. So the first one is called where is it? It's called ZK voice key.
00:26:44.966 - 00:27:18.152, Speaker A: So what ZK voice key does is that it allows users to recover their private keys with their voice using fuzzy commit and zero knowledge proofs. Authentication happens through a fuzzy match of voice without storing voice on the blockchain. This is really cool. This is a really cool application of ZK technology here, which I thought was very novel and I don't think I've seen anyone do before. So you can check this project out and check out their ETH global page here. And they've also got their source code available on GitHub, I believe, here for you to check out as well. But that was a cool project that I came across.
00:27:18.152 - 00:28:07.644, Speaker A: And another one, I believe if I just scroll down here was which one was it? There was one more I remember looking at and thinking, well, I think it might have been this one here, miner or mina, which is a browser wallet for japanese residents that lets them use their government issued id called a my number card, as a hardware wallet. This is really cool as well, because as I've said before, I'm really bullish on real world authentication and id mechanisms being bridged into the on chain crypto id ecosystem and using those ids in a privacy preserving way and using them to create, you know, within wallets and things like that. And that's exactly what I think it's called. Minor. I think that's what the project is called because I think it's a play on my number card here. So yeah, you can go check out this project as well. But those were the two that caught my eye.
00:28:07.644 - 00:28:28.250, Speaker A: Now, I don't think the winner has been announced yet for the ETH Global Tokyo hackathon here. Let me see if a winner has been announced. No, it's just the finalists so far. Is it just the finalists so far? I'm just scrolling through here. Sorry. Yeah, I guess the winner will be announced later on. But yeah, you can go check out the thread for all of the finalists here.
00:28:28.250 - 00:28:46.634, Speaker A: Check out the projects, check out new novel ways that people are using the technologies that we have within crypto. But anyway, on that note, that is going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
