00:00:00.160 - 00:00:27.070, Speaker A: So nfts as a phenomenon, like, they haven't, like, died out at all. It's just that we've gone down and the hype cycle and in terms of, you know, how do things come back? I think ultimately in crypto, you know, this is a cyclical market. It's like, very obviously a cyclical market. There have been so many, you know, bull and bear runs and every bull run. It's hard to ever predict, like, what's the thing that's going to set it off. Web three offers a brand new petri dish. Our job is to buy great tech at great prices.
00:00:27.070 - 00:00:35.150, Speaker A: AI is also libertarian right enable use case that people haven't been able to do today. Hundreds of millions of players, and they will come to the market through mobile.
00:00:35.222 - 00:01:11.246, Speaker B: My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is. All right. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to the Blockcrunch podcast, where we give you an insider's take of the most important companies and protocols in the crypto space. I'm your host, Jason Choi, an angel investor based in Asia. Now, many of you may remember your favorite celebrities and athletes rocking NFT profile pictures just not too long ago on Twitter or currently known as X. So it might come as a surprise to some of you to learn that last month was actually the worst performing month in NFTs for the last two years.
00:01:11.246 - 00:01:54.518, Speaker B: In fact, the entire NFT space traded about $37 million a week, or less than 1% of what bitcoin trades a day. But as NFT volumes continues to dwindle, a few companies are still continuing to build really exciting products, including the NFT exchange. Blur, which has dethroned Opensea last year as the largest NFT exchange in the world by volume and continues to dominate on volume. So in today's episode, we're going to discuss where nfts are headed, what needs to happen for nfts to come back, if at all, and the current state of NFT exchanges and more. And to discuss all of this, as well as how sustainable Blur's growth actually is, I'm really, really excited to have the founder of Blur himself, who goes by Pacman Online on the show. So welcome to the show, man.
00:01:54.646 - 00:01:56.198, Speaker A: Jim. Jim, thanks for having me.
00:01:56.286 - 00:02:13.860, Speaker B: So, a lot of people may not know this, but I know Blur is actually not your first rodeo in crypto. You've sold a company before after dropping out of MIT, and so you have a legend in crypto that I think is very, very interesting. So I'm curious, what led you to blur as your latest venture after your previous exit.
00:02:13.932 - 00:02:37.958, Speaker A: Yeah, happy to do so. I originally got my start around nine years ago in Silicon Valley. Started off as a software engineer at a company called Teespring. Basically I was working there for a year, and then after a year I actually left and started my first company, which went through YC in their winter 16 batch. I think a bit of an alternative path. So I actually dropped out of high school to go and work at Teespring and then do the YC startup. And after doing that for a year, I really wanted to go to college.
00:02:37.958 - 00:03:16.002, Speaker A: I ended up going to MIT immediately after YC, and I studied at MIT for two years. Met Gallagher, my co founder, and he ended up graduating a year early. But I received the Teal fellowship to drop out. And the Teal fellowship is this thing by Peter Thiel where he basically, like, pays college students to drop out of school. You know, Vitalik did it as well through the fellowship, no strings tied, he just gives you one hundred k to drop out effectively. So it gives you enough to be able to go and justify leaving college. And basically with that money left and started our first business, which was name base, and that was a blockchain domain registrar, so very niche business in the crypto space.
00:03:16.002 - 00:03:45.334, Speaker A: And we ended up building that for three years. And we sold it at the end of 2021 to namecheap. And basically immediately after selling it, we started working on blur. And the reason why is because in 2021, I personally got really into nfts. I really fell in love with the trading side of it, specifically. And as I was trading nfts, I found the infrastructure was just very frustrating. So all the top marketplaces, including Opensea, were all just very slow and retail oriented at the time.
00:03:45.334 - 00:03:52.382, Speaker A: I really wanted something that was more akin to a binance for nfts. So effectively, we set out to start and build that ourselves.
00:03:52.558 - 00:03:57.246, Speaker B: Were you always into crypto? Even before name base, how did you discover crypto in the beginning?
00:03:57.390 - 00:04:45.586, Speaker A: Name base was definitely the first venture into crypto. I'd always been adjacent to it. So it was back in like 2014, 2015 when I was doing the YC company. So there's actually this house that a lot of, like, I knew a lot of the teal fellows who were in San Francisco at the time, and there's this house that most of them lived out of, and many of them had like, interacted with crypto just because it would be like, Vitalik would crash at this house and, like, you crash on people's couches, and he would offer people like, ethereum, as like, payment. And people were like, nah, like, we don't want your ethereum. And then now everyone, like, regrets that, of course, because it would have been like millions of dollars of ethereum for just letting someone crash on your couch. But, you know, so, like, Vitalik had been around and people, uh, you know, it was like, crypto adjacent, but it was never something that I dived into personally.
00:04:45.586 - 00:05:29.382, Speaker A: Um, I was more in b two b, like, SaaS at the time. And effectively, it wasn't until, uh, 2018 that person gotten into it, because handshake was the blockchain that we built on for name base, and it was basically a decentralized domain name blockchain. And so for me, as, like, an engineer, it was a very elegant solution to a technical problem of, uh, like, DNS, which is, uh, I don't want to get into the rabbit hole, but it's basically this, like, very elegant solution that actually, like, was, you know, from a theoretical perspective, made sense to have, like, the blockchain, like, solve these issues. And then we ended up building name base that effectively commercialize that technology. So that was the first time that I really got into it. And then, of course, being in crypto, then I got more exposed to Ethereum and all the other chains and then eventually got into nfts through that.
00:05:29.478 - 00:06:01.898, Speaker B: So a lot of people knew about nfts before they took off, but not many people bet the careers on it. I remember whether it was 2017 or 2018, I bought my girlfriend a cryptokitty at the time, and it was the only NFT that was really around and at least somewhat relevant in mainstream circles. So I'm curious, like, what are the signs that you saw that most people missed that convinced you that nfts are going to take off? And what was it that convinced you that this is the nickname wave in crypto that's worth betting your entire career on and betting your next venture on? And are you seeing any of those signs today still?
00:06:02.066 - 00:06:25.210, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So name base as a business was actually effectively like an NFT business. So it was a decentralized domain name business. And as part of building that business, we had two components of it. One was actually a token exchange. So, you know, handshake was such a niche blockchain that pretty much no one was building infrastructure for it. So we had to build our own fiat on ramp.
00:06:25.210 - 00:06:53.824, Speaker A: We built our own hns BTC exchange. So we were a centralized exchange as well. We had market makers, had an orbook and everything. And then we effectively also on top of that, we had to build a domain registrar and a domain marketplace. So we built basically a coinbase plus opensea for this niche blockchain altogether. But the assets that were being bought and sold were these, you know, digital domains, which are effectively the same like they are nfTs. It's just like on a niche blockchain.
00:06:53.824 - 00:07:51.430, Speaker A: So because I had already been in the NFT business, so to speak, I was looking at what was happening over at Ethereum and there was like ens, which was like a direct handshake counterpart. But on Ethereum, you know, and then from there, looking at like the other NFTs is like, oh, you know, finding the NFT market was basically like, there's this other market where, you know, you have these like domain name assets, like ens, but then you also have these other types of digital assets as well. And, you know, the, the trading volumes were crazy. Like, there's like, you know, like 100 x more people in it. So it's very obvious to me, going from name based to, you know, you know, the broader, like Ethereum nfts, that this was just like a step up in terms of like the market size, the activity, the energy. Uh, there's just like so much energy in the market that it was just like very clear that this was like the, the right place to be. So in terms of like, you know, figuring out like whether nfts were a thing, I think it was just kind of like a luck aspect because I was already, in a way, in the NFT business and then encountering ethereum.
00:07:51.430 - 00:07:54.398, Speaker A: Nfts was just like a much larger segment of that market.
00:07:54.566 - 00:08:25.056, Speaker B: So maybe there was an element of luck. But I think in terms of timing, you guys timed it almost perfectly because we actually had an episode done with OpenSea way back in 2018. And back then, I remember being quite skeptical of nfts and nobody was really trading nfts to the scale that they were even today, and nobody even knew what nfts were. They were just called collectibles. I was extremely skeptical at that point, and I doubted that collectibles would go anywhere back in 2018. But then obviously when you guys launched, I was already well into the hype cycle of nfts. So im curious.
00:08:25.056 - 00:08:50.438, Speaker B: Obviously, a lot has changed since then and volumes have counted down quite a bit alongside all of crypto volumes. But what do you think are some of the things that need to happen to bring NFT markets back? Do we need new projects, new types of ways to financialize nfts, to speculate on them? Just new nfts, new assets you know, what are those things that you're looking for to signify that, hey, we might be in the next growth phase for the NFT market?
00:08:50.606 - 00:09:17.006, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. So I think the first thing is, one is just like, everything is relative. The numbers in crypto, in bull markets just get so mind bogglingly high that when we go into more bear markets and we look at the numbers there, it's like, it feels very depressing. But then when you look at from an absolute perspective, so I'm just like, looking at yesterday. Yesterday Opensea did two and a half million in volume. Blur did seven than 0.2 million in volume.
00:09:17.006 - 00:09:43.784, Speaker A: So if you look at that market. So it's like around like 10 million in trading volume for NFTs. If you just, like, tell someone that, like, outside of crypto, outside of, like, the markets, and you're like, hey, people are trading these digital collectibles, like, you know, $10 million worth of them per day, they'd be like, what? Like, that's insane. Like, that's such a high number. But in crypto, we're like, oh, 10 million, that's like, that's nothing. That feels like it's, like, down, only it's, like, so low. Uh, but 10 million is actually, like, a lot.
00:09:43.784 - 00:10:12.104, Speaker A: It's, like, actually a crazy amount. And it's really interesting because, you know, being in the crypto space since 2018, you know, the 2018 to 2020 bear market, that was, like, actually the most, like, depression phase bear market I've experienced. Just because, like, I remember every person in crypto that you would talk to that was building in crypto. Like, no one ever used any of the stuff that they're building. Like, none of the VC's were using any crypto apps. Like, no, none of the people, none of the DJ's. There's not really anything to do.
00:10:12.104 - 00:10:32.408, Speaker A: It's just, like, all theoretical. And it was pretty, like, theoretical for like, two years. You know, I don't like, compound hadn't launched. Like, uniswap hadn't launched. So that was an actually, like, scary bear market versus now it's like, okay, yes, like, volumes are down a lot, but these NFT communities, they still persist. You know, people are still rocking their PFps. They're very emotionally attached to them.
00:10:32.408 - 00:11:08.876, Speaker A: So nfts as a phenomenon, like, they haven't, like, died out at all. It's just that we've gone down and the hype cycle and in terms of how do things come back, I think ultimately in crypto, this is a cyclical market. It's very obviously a cyclical market. There's been so many bull and bear runs and every bull run, it's hard to ever predict what's the thing that's going to set it off. No one really saw uniswap coming. I remember talking with Hayden back in 2018, and he was building this decentralized exchange, and he would be pitching it before he launched it. And, you know, he would be telling everyone he was, like, building this thing.
00:11:08.876 - 00:11:31.364, Speaker A: And I was like, oh, yeah, like, nice. Like, sure that's going to work because they're, you know, they're, like, very well funded competitors at the time. I feel like I forget the name of them. Maybe it was like, bank. Yeah, there's ether Delta, but that one, I think that one had already gotten shut down by 2018. Like, there's this one that had, like 100 million in funding or something like that. Like, there are some crazy, you know, well funded, like, very high profile competitors.
00:11:31.364 - 00:12:15.988, Speaker A: And here is this, like, single dev that, like, wasn't even a dev, was actually like, a chemical engineer. Like, you know, just had learned how to code, was just like, learning about this stuff, and was like, building this thing. You're like, okay, like, that's like, definitely not going to go anywhere would be the initial assumption. And then, you know, eventually it ends up becoming this, like, critical infrastructure for the entire space. But, you know, effectively, I think it's very hard to predict what is the thing that, you know, like, kicks off the next bull run. But in crypto, it's effectively like, you never know what creativity is going to happen when it comes to a base standard, whether it's an ERC 20 or ERC 721, these standards are basically infinitely flexible. You don't know what's going to be, like, how they're going to be used.
00:12:15.988 - 00:12:48.658, Speaker A: Now in crypto, many years in, we're starting to see real world assets starting to take play. We have stable coins. People are looking at putting other rwas on chain. These are distinctly different than the ERC twenty s of the past. And you can even see that happening for ERC 1721 for non fungible assets. I'm not necessarily saying that's what brings the market back, so to speak, but basically these standards are just very generic baseline standards, and you really don't know what's going to be built on them. So it's really hard to predict what's going to happen.
00:12:48.658 - 00:13:02.396, Speaker A: But we do know in crypto, the market just does follow cycles. So while we're in more of a bear cycle right now, in a bull market, the bull market does inevitably come back and you start seeing a lot more activity in that time period.
00:13:02.580 - 00:13:23.656, Speaker B: And when you compare the user behaviors of blur users today between a bull market and currently in more of a bear market, are people still trading relatively the same collections just in lower volumes, or are they trading different things now? Are you seeing pockets of activity and things that weren't around in a bull market?
00:13:23.780 - 00:14:15.076, Speaker A: Yeah, it's hard to say because I would say that for most of Blur's existence, I would say we've really, we launched more in a bear market than in a bull market. I would say, like, 2020, 2021 was really like the peak bull market. So I can really only talk about the current market cycle activity in terms of what happens in the next bull. It's hard to predict. Our main focus is really, can we just build the best NFT market overall? Can we build the best infrastructure, the best protocol? Can we make sure that no matter what happens, that this is so just great infrastructure that can support the market? Ultimately, that's the only thing that we can do. But that's actually the most important thing, because something that happens in bull markets is typically all the infrastructure breaks, and usually that holds back each market cycle. It's like back in 2017, it was Coinbase.
00:14:15.076 - 00:14:51.906, Speaker A: No one could ever, you know, you like refreshing Coinbase all the time, like, and that was, it was never working. Buying, like, didn't work, like, withdrawing didn't work. It was just like breaking all the time. And then they kept on building. And then by the time the next bull market came, like, the infrastructure was so much more solid and it could support a lot more institutional grid activity. You know, similarly for nfts, you know, in the 2020 bull market, it was like the infrastructure was breaking, right? Like, Opensea was going down all the time. And that was one of the reasons why we started blur, was because we want to build effectively this, like, institutional grade platform that could support a much higher level of activity, um, not just in the product and the protocol, but in just in the general, you know, platform overall.
00:14:51.906 - 00:15:14.812, Speaker A: So, you know, similarly here, it's really just, we know that in a bull market, the activity just like 100 x's, you know, maybe like 1000 x's in that scenario, is what we've built able to scale to that level. Um, that's really what we, we focus on rather than trying to, like, predict specific pockets of activity, because it is very, very difficult to predict in technology. You basically never know what's going to work and what's not going to work.
00:15:14.908 - 00:16:21.314, Speaker B: So I like that you guys are pretty much agnostic to whatever types of nfts take off. So if the next cycle is driven by say, art nfts that tend to trade on platforms like super rare or real world asset DeFi, nfts that are basically tokenized representations of, say, like invoices or treasury bonds, regardless of what it is, you guys still have the infrastructure to support it technically. But I love to kind of look back a little bit and look at what are the factors that led to blur success so far. So we've seen a lot of attempts in other verticals in crypto where we have projects and upstarts come in and dethrone, an attempt to dethrone the incumbents. So, for instance, in Defi we had a sushiswap, which was a uniswap fork at that time, trying to dethrone them by launching a vampire attack, effectively paying users and liquidity providers on the platform free tokens in exchange for their services and liquidity and usage in order to steal or take usage from Uniswap. But most of these campaigns have not really worked out sustainably, did not lead to sustainable growth over time. And a lot of the incumbents are still in place yet for you guys, you were able to dethrone opensea in terms of absolute volumes.
00:16:21.314 - 00:16:27.854, Speaker B: So I'm curious, you know, what are the key drivers of success for you guys and what are some lessons learned maybe from studying other verticals?
00:16:28.154 - 00:17:25.510, Speaker A: Blur's success was, it was a very specific opportunity. So I can't go and analyze every single previous sushi swap versus, there's been many other types of vampire attack or new market entrant attacks or just attempts across the board. And I think spending a lot of time analyzing them would take a long time. But for Blur specifically, it was just, there was a very large gap in the market. So the thing is, when it comes to network effects, network effects are incredibly difficult to overcome or deal with if you look at other businesses and web two with network effects. So if you look at like Craigslist, for example, you know, even though there have been many businesses that have taken off chunks of Craigslist's business, like Airbnb with, with housing, and you have like stock x with like shoes, Craigslist is still a business that does like half a billion in revenue every year. And that's like a, you know, 20 year old business that like hasn't.
00:17:25.510 - 00:18:14.130, Speaker A: I don't think they've updated their interface in like 20 years. I don't even know what their operations look like, but it's definitely like not super intensive and it still does so much business because it has the general network effects. So when it comes to network effects, it's pretty much always impossible to ever like, deal with them or have like a new entrant take over them. The only cases in which it happens, uh, when it comes to trading is typically when there's a gap for the pro traders. So if you think about like token exchanges, you had like Coinbase, which is like very dominant in retail, but then you had like Binance come in and binance, you know, they didn't have any fiat on ramps. They targeted crypto natives and they were much more oriented towards like the pro traders. And then they became, you know, the number one token exchange, you know, similarly for, because there was a gap for that, for that market for nfts.
00:18:14.130 - 00:18:49.518, Speaker A: Similarly, Opensea was a very, very strong retail marketplace. But for pro traders and people who are like actively trading nfts, there is a very big need, uh, for a new marketplace. And basically no one was focusing on that. And if you think about any sort of financialized market in history, they all follow a similar progression. Over time, they become more professionalized. Whether you're looking at, uh, like Airbnb hosts, right? Initially they start off as like people just like renting their spare rooms. Now you have, you know, professional Airbnb hosts that like buy entire properties to convert them into Airbnbs and they're, you know, renting them out.
00:18:49.518 - 00:19:26.790, Speaker A: You know, basically the, the user base professionalizes over time, especially in financialized markets, right? So if you look at the stock exchange, where is all the volume coming from? It's coming from like five market makers. You know, it's like Citadel do the hedge funds, right? It's just like none of, none of the volume. Like the vast majority of volume is really coming from like a very small handful of players. It's a huge power law. If you look at token trading, it's similar. Initially it was much more retail oriented, and then over time it's professionalized. Where now even on like Uniswap, for example, like 30% of Uniswap's volume just like comes from like Wintermute, you know, and then another like 20% comes from the next biggest market maker.
00:19:26.790 - 00:20:00.526, Speaker A: The vast majority of volume is coming from these professionalized players and NFts. This trend was also happening. It's just the nature of financialized markets. But no one was building for that trend. And then now that we have effectively established dominant network effects in the pro trader segment, blur is fortunately in a very strong position, which is a great thing to see. But it was only possible because there is this huge market gap for that segment. And that's a segment that we know through history is a very needed segment.
00:20:00.526 - 00:20:21.628, Speaker A: So it's funny because a lot of people sometimes ask me, oh, blur, vampire attack opensea. Can someone just attack blur? And it's like, man, I wish it was that easy, that we could just spin up a token and vampire attack an existing network effect. It doesn't work that way. The only reason why it worked for Blur was because there was this huge unmet need amongst this network of pro traders effectively.
00:20:21.796 - 00:20:48.006, Speaker B: I like to double click on the idea of incentives as well because I know a lot of people look at blur and attribute a lot of the liquidity provided by market makers and volume to the fact that you guys give out tokens for market makers effectively as an incentive to create a very, very liquid exchange. So how much of blur success is actually attributable to organic growth that's sustainable over time and how much is just kind of artificial, incentivized growth from this token reward?
00:20:48.180 - 00:21:27.194, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. So we started Blur in January of 2022, and at this point we've been working on blur for 592 days. So it's almost going towards the 18 month, 19 month mark. But in the first 180 days or so we basically did not have any sort of token aspect at all. So basically for a five month period we're in private beta where we had no token whatsoever. We were effectively just an aggregator on top of the existing marketplaces. We already at that point were getting a ton of adoption from pro traders.
00:21:27.194 - 00:22:15.482, Speaker A: If you scroll back and see our tweets, we retweet people who tried out the private beta and we had rave reviews. So in that entire period, thats when we initially got a lot of hype because theres just a much better trading tool on the market. And also in that private beta period, thats when we found that our retention was extremely high. So our 30 day transaction retention, which is basically if someone made a transaction like whether they bought something or listed something on blur 30 days later, would they do it again at some point within those 30 days? And our 30 day transaction retention was around 40% to 50%. And our 30 day visitor retention, which is if someone visited blur 30 to 40, 30 days later, would they be visiting blur again? That was 50% to 70%. So our, this was before the token. So there was no token whatsoever.
00:22:15.482 - 00:23:02.768, Speaker A: It was just a product in private beta, we had thousands of traders using it and the retention was, was extremely, extremely high. So that's why we knew when we launched a token. Like, of course the token can be extremely explosive from a growth perspective, but it doesn't really matter if you don't have something that people are actually going to use. Everyone will try something once, but it's like, well, they actually keep coming back every day. It's incredibly hard to build something where people are coming back every single day, or maybe not just every single day in the first week, but every single day, you know, 30 days later, 60 days later, 90 days later. So, uh, for, for blur, we knew that would happen just because we knew there was a huge unmet need in the product and we already had tested that out in our private beta. So yeah, the token definitely was helpful from like a growth campaign.
00:23:02.768 - 00:23:16.436, Speaker A: Um, but you kind of think of it as the equivalent of spending millions of dollars on Facebook ads. Like, anyone can spend millions of dollars on Facebook ads, but ultimately if you don't have a product that people want to use, that's solving a need for them. They're not going to stick around and that's just going to be money down the drain.
00:23:16.580 - 00:24:09.364, Speaker B: So I like to dive deeper into using token rewards, especially for the founders out there who are thinking of creating their own incentive campaigns with their own tokens to incentivize usage. Because if you look at other competitors for blur, so for instance, looksrare, another NFT exchange, they also had an aggressive token campaign in order to incentivize usage. But recently there was a report put out that I believe cited that it cost about $16,000 per users in incentives for looksrare in order to incentivize their usage. But they were making about $860 off of each user in terms of lifetime value. So the campaign itself was basically just a money bleed for them. Didn't really achieve much except maybe some social media clout. So I'm curious, are token rewards even a sustainable way to build any type of mode long term, or is it really just kind of a short term boost? And if so, how do you know when you should be launching these short term incentive campaigns?
00:24:09.484 - 00:25:01.920, Speaker A: Yeah, it's really the only purpose of it for Blur was just this initial launch campaign, the goal of the token rewards. Chris Dixon has a great article on this, where basically initially if you have a marketplace or some network effect based business or protocol, the initial users of it don't have a strong network effect to reward them. And if you give them token rewards, then, then it can offset that. But then over time, once the network effect has been established, the token rewards are no longer necessary. So for blur, similarly, we now have established dominant network effects in nfts, and we know empirically that you don't actually need token rewards to sustain people. So like Opensea had dominant network effects for nfts for the longest time. And they had looks rare came after them.
00:25:01.920 - 00:25:26.978, Speaker A: Xy two came after them. There was dozens of marketplaces that you haven't even heard of that tried to go after OpenSea. Ultimately they all fail because they didn't target the right market. They were going after Opensea bread and butter, which was like retail. And that was something that you just cannot be a better retail marketplace than at that time. You cannot be a better retail marketplace than Opensea starting from zero. And so they all failed.
00:25:26.978 - 00:26:09.558, Speaker A: The network effects the same without having any sort of tokens. And every sort of marketplace in web two works this way where you can actually have a network effect, sustain without these ongoing rewards. So similarly for Blur, the network effect was really, the token reward was really only to bring in the initial network effect. And it was not targeting the area that Opensea was very strong in, which was retail. It was targeting the unmet need, which was pro traders. And then now that we've established a dominant network effect there and then also a lot of even retail uses blur now because there's liquidity there and the products quite good. But now that that's there, the token rewards are not something that's really necessary to sustain effectively from here on out.
00:26:09.646 - 00:26:41.202, Speaker B: I remember around then there were quite a few NFT exchange. There was, looks rare. There's x two, y two, and also Coinbase's own NFT exchange. But the only ones that targeted pro traders and offered more of a sophisticated way to trade nfts or aggregate or batch your orders are you guys. And also these aggregators such as Genie and Gem, which aggregate orders across different exchanges. And in fact, I think Genie was acquired by uniswap Labs as well. So in any point of time, did you guys consider those to be potential competitive threats and how did you guys assess those?
00:26:41.378 - 00:27:12.540, Speaker A: So actually Genie was eventually acquired by the Uniswap team and Gem was actually bought by Opensea. Opensea, that's right. Yeah. The thing with acquisitions is m and A is very difficult to manage. Like most, most m and a usually results in like failed transactions. Like, you know, we, we sometimes hear about the crazy extremely successful m and a, right? So it's like Zuck buying Instagram for like a billion dollars ended up being like one of the best investments of all time, probably. And then, you know, Google buying YouTube, right.
00:27:12.540 - 00:27:50.898, Speaker A: These were extremely successful examples of M and A, but most examples of M and A are actually failures. It's like very, very difficult to manage an acquisition. So I think for, for those, like, Gem was basically like the next iteration of Genie. And Gem was definitely quite popular for traders, but they were acquired. And I think that there's just a lot of execution challenges in managing an M and a transaction. So that gave us a window of opportunity to go and build and launch blur. I think there's a world where jam could have done what Blur did, but ultimately, if you're in the middle of handling an M and a transaction, that's just very distracting and difficult.
00:27:50.898 - 00:27:55.818, Speaker A: And basically it gave us the window of opportunity to do what we did.
00:27:55.946 - 00:28:33.082, Speaker B: So amidst all of this competition, how do you cut through the noise? And as a founder, what are the key KPI's that really matter for you guys? And what do you tune out? Because depending on how you measure blur ranks versus how you measure blur ranks versus other exchanges, that could change quite a bit. So, for instance, the total volume for blur has almost always been larger than openSea. But if you measured another way, if you look at the number of unique traders, actually opensea still dominates blur in sometimes. So what is actually the thing that matters most for an exchange for you guys? Is it organic volumes? Is this total volumes? Is it unique number of trades, unique number of traders?
00:28:33.178 - 00:29:06.756, Speaker A: What truly matters ultimately the most important thing is really the retention. Like I mentioned, the transaction retention, that is really key. The thing that we really focus on is retention. And then, uh, volume, of course. And in terms of, like, user count, that is a KPI that is definitely something to watch. But it's ultimately not the most important thing, because when you look at any financialized market, the trend over time is that the volume is going to become more and more concentrated over time. So what I would actually expect is, um, and again, like, you know, like, the user numbers, like, might increase and, uh, that's fine.
00:29:06.756 - 00:29:46.864, Speaker A: Like, that's nice. Like, from a, like a high level perspective, like, that's something that, that feels quite good. But when you actually look at how will the volume trend towards time, it's going to go the same way as the token markets went, as the stock market goes, as Airbnb goes, all of these markets where basically you have a few large players typically being on the other side of almost all of the transactions. So I would expect actually the volume to, as this market grows, I would expect the volume to concentrate over time. It's actually like, you know, Blur's volume can ten x. But it might be the case that that volume is actually only driven by, you know, like 1.2 x the number of.
00:29:46.864 - 00:29:49.944, Speaker A: Of users. You know, just because that's just the nature of it.
00:29:50.024 - 00:30:43.222, Speaker B: As you mentioned, I think the rise of these market makers in nfts is definitely something to watch because just 24 months ago, I don't think there were any major market makers focused primarily on nfts. But the space has gotten so intricate and so unique that you kind of require that specific expertise to market make nfts. For people who are market making bitcoin perpetuals, it's very hard for them to just come over and market make an NFT at the same time. So it's quite interesting for us, even on the investment front, we've seen quite a few NFT market makers raise money over the past 24 months or so. But even amongst that community of professional or sophisticated traders, it's quite interesting when you talk to them because you get a pretty divided view on blur. On one side, you have people who think that blur has incentivized all these inorganic activity and nfts propped up some prices, maybe incentivize some wash trading. On the other hand, you think that you have people who think that blur made nfts a lot more liquid and a lot more accessible.
00:30:43.222 - 00:30:53.542, Speaker B: So do you think there is an element of, you know, wash trading on blur because of the whole token rewards thing? And how do you tell what type of activities are organic on blur or not?
00:30:53.718 - 00:31:26.672, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question. So with blur, the focus on the incentives was always around liquidity and never volume. And we benefited from hindsight, where we got to see not only in DeFi but also in NFT specifically. There weren't many examples because there was very few marketplaces that kind of combined a token defi element and the marketplace protocol together. But if you looked at looks rare, for example, or x two, y two, these were marketplaces that explicitly incentivize trading. So every time you place a trade, you actually received a reward. So the more volume you did, the more rewards you got.
00:31:26.672 - 00:32:11.556, Speaker A: And this basically just one to one incentivizes watch trading. So this is why if you looked at the charts, it was like, oh, looks fair, was doing like billions and billions of volume. But actually it was just like one person trading like a me bit for like 50 e back and forth 50 times and that was all fake volume. But when you look at what blur did, you basically are never rewarded for being on the other side of a trade. On blur, what you're rewarded for is basically putting liquidity on the order book. It's a very similar mechanism to curve, where curve incentivizes liquidity around a stable coin. And then when someone takes that trade, they're not taking a trade because they're getting a reward, and curve, they're taking a trade because they're taking advantage of the better liquidity that comes via the incentivized liquidity.
00:32:11.556 - 00:33:03.800, Speaker A: So to the extent that volume on curve is not wash trading, it's similar on blur, where it's not wash trading because the only reason why someone ever trades on blur is because theres a better price that they can trade at than anywhere else. And that comes from the tighter spread, effectively comes from the liquidity incentives. This is why curve works and its why blur works as well. Its not quite wash trading, but it is very understandable for, I think, when it comes to tokenomics and when it comes to market dynamics, ultimately theres very few people in the world who are well versed in it. And typically the people who are well versed are, they're either like in tradfi or they're like phds, or they're just like very like technical oriented people. A lot of times these people are not the type of people that are in nfts, right. So it's very hard to, I think, look at this from a surface level and actually like understand the dynamics that are going on.
00:33:03.800 - 00:33:28.254, Speaker A: I think that's also one of the reasons why there is, there can be this divided perspective on blur, because people who are actively trading in the market typically have at least an intuitive sense of what's going on. But people who are less frequently active in the market, maybe you trade once or twice, maybe you're more retail oriented. You don't really come from a technical background. It can typically be a little bit harder to fully intuit what's happening.
00:33:28.414 - 00:34:05.974, Speaker B: So I think it's probably easy to critique blur. And we've seen so many critiques on social media, and I suspect a lot of the complaints are from people who provide bit side liquidity on the exchange as prices for nfts are collapsing. So they ended up forcing themselves to buy a lot of the nfts that they really didn't want to hold in the first place. And then price keeps collapsing and kind of reinforces that loop. So we've heard a few stories from market makers who are not market making the way that maybe they should and getting wrecked. And I think maybe that is a problem that we see in this space, but I don't think that is a problem of the blur platform itself. But some people might disagree with me.
00:34:06.274 - 00:34:53.602, Speaker A: Yeah. A good example of that was uh, would be again just like think about like curve. If, if a stable coin, that curve is being incentivized, uh, to provide liquidity for um. If a stable coin de pegs, everyone who is providing liquidity for that stable coin ends up uh, losing value, right? In terms of uh, like let's say they're, they're measuring their value based in terms of the USCC, right? Because they're measuring their value based on the uh, the token that they're market making for. Uh, then, then they're probably going up. But they measure against USCC and the, the silver coin d pegs, then they probably lost value in terms of USCC. And basically when you market make for curve, when you provide liquidity for curve, it only works as long as the token for the most part maintains its peg.
00:34:53.602 - 00:35:38.234, Speaker A: Similarly for blur or any sort of pool, right? Whether it's uniswap for tokens or anything else, if your market making and your market making on the wrong side of it, then you effectively will lose money, right? So if the NFT prices go up, then when your bid gets hit, you're going to be able to sell that for a higher price and you're going to make a profit. But if NFT prices are going down and you're providing liquidity of price that's off market, then if you're on the other side of that trade, then you will lose money. And that's basically the nature of what market making is. It's the nature of providing liquidity. Um, so it's not surprising to me as we've gone into a bear market. You know, I think ultimately in order to do well in a bear market, you need to have a good sense of where the prices are going, right. There are a few collections that will pump.
00:35:38.234 - 00:36:16.420, Speaker A: There are a few collections that'll go up, some will go down. Do you have a sense of which ones are going to go up, which ones are going to go down? Maybe one of them is actually, you know, saying sell for a little bit and then it's easier to provide a tighter, tighter spread, uh, for that specific, you know, NFT for a period of time. Uh, but you need, really need to have like a good sense of the market and then you can not only provide liquidity and earn blur for it, but you can also earn a profit for it. You can earn quite a good profit if you do it well. But then if you're not doing it well, or if you don't have a good sense of where the market is, or if you're just wrong, then ultimately you will lose money if you're providing liquidity at the wrong prices.
00:36:16.612 - 00:37:00.724, Speaker B: And speaking of making more money, I'd love to focus on the creators a little bit, the creators behind the NFT collections, because it's pretty insane that the creators were making a ton of money from just royalties, from basically secondary trading of the NFTs they created. And if you make an analogy to the art world, this is as if every time an art piece swaps hands, the original creator of the art pockets a spread, pockets a fee from that transaction. So a lot of NFT projects were relying on this to make hundreds of millions of dollars. And recently coinbase NFTs, or Opensea, I think they did away with mandatory creator royalties, and that was what I think led to quite a bit of backlash. So I'm curious for you guys, where do you stand on enforcing royalties for creators? Is it something that you should enforce on an exchange level, or.
00:37:01.304 - 00:37:44.586, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question. So, on royalties, we try to be, especially as like a, you know, from a marketplace perspective, when we think about policies, we try to be as neutral as we can be. You know, ultimately, if the market, if the market wants royalties, the market doesn't want royalties. It's like, okay, don't try to take a perspective on it and just provide what the market wants. From an economic perspective, though, the market always moves in one direction, it always moves towards efficiency. So when you think about royalties as a concept, in the bull market, it was like five to 10%, but in the bull market, it was wildly, wildly inefficient. And over time, the market was just, it was obviously going to become more efficient.
00:37:44.586 - 00:38:32.490, Speaker A: And you can look at Blur's existence as an example of the market becoming more efficient. And if you look at what's happened with royalties and the compression that's happened there, that's basically in line with the trend of the market marching towards efficiency. So when it comes to enforcement, if there is a way of enforcing the royalties that is consistent and that doesn't really have loopholes, then of course Blur will also support it. But from a technological perspective, there basically isn't a way. It's like having, if you try to have some sort of royalty on a token, we've tried that in Defi, and you've seen people try a lot of different mechanisms. You've seen people try to make tokens that can't go down, can only go up only. And it's like, you know, ultimately when you try to, when you try to manipulate these things, it doesn't work.
00:38:32.490 - 00:38:55.312, Speaker A: The market will go to where it wants to go. Similarly for NFTs, there isn't really an on chain enforcement mechanism that can't be circumvented. So when you take that technological limitation and you add in the market's general march towards efficiency, it becomes quite a difficult environment to get consistent, perpetual enforcement. Hopefully that answers your question.
00:38:55.458 - 00:39:28.316, Speaker B: When you look at the gross number of dollars, gross amount of dollars that were made from royalties during the NFT bull market, it was pretty eye watering. But maybe there is no other way to really monetize for artists as quickly as royalties besides primary sales and royalties. But I'm curious, from your perspective as an exchange operator, when you look at the creators for nfts out there and they hear stories of NFT artists making so much money and they want to enforce their own royalties, is that always the best way for them to monetize or other more sustainable avenues that you think creators should be looking at?
00:39:28.460 - 00:40:08.184, Speaker A: You know, one is from a marketplace perspective, we try not to like, tell people what to spend, spend their time on. And I think, like, the market kind of does its creativity on its own. But it's interesting because when you look at one is, you know, for the types of nfts that are trading on blur, blur is really well suited for nfts that people are actively trading. Right? So if you're, if you're like doing a one on one art sale and you're selling your, your art on foundation, you're, you're still going to get royalties on that. And like that, that avenue has never gone away. It's primarily for pfps where there's, and you know, that that segment of the market, it doesn't do a lot of volume. Right? By design, if it's like a one to one, it's, you know, we got to do almost zero volume on average.
00:40:08.184 - 00:40:56.848, Speaker A: Just once in a while there will be a sale that's a different market than pfps and these other collections where, you know, they're, you know, there's like 10 00, 20 00, 50 00 items in that collection or more, and that collection is going to trade, you know, very frequently that's a different market. If you look at pfps and how they've made money. Yuga is a great example. You can look at them as like, oh yeah, it's like they're, you know, I think it's like been like mid eight figures for the like yuga royalties. So it's like, yes, that's a large sum from yuga royalties, but if you look at what you guys made from primary sales, it dwarfs the royalties. So they've made like hundreds of millions off the primary sales. And if you actually look at what they did with the ape token, it's like, oh, they went from hundreds of millions and then they had billions of value accrual through their token launch.
00:40:56.848 - 00:41:34.308, Speaker A: So it's really interesting because there's a lot of talk and focus around royalties. And for the one of one artists, it's never, I don't think it's ever really been an issue. It's like these one of one platforms, they have them. It's basically a different market for pfps. If you look at the largest collections and how they've made money, they haven't actually made the majority of their money from royalties. They made the majority of money from primary sales and launching the token. So even in the existing like, history and like existing empirical data, if you look at it, there are many different ways of getting revenue outside of just royalties.
00:41:34.308 - 00:42:23.240, Speaker A: But a lot of the focus of the conversation is on royalties. I think the reason why is because from a talking point, royalties were very frequent talking point when talking about bringing people into the space. So it is, it of course makes sense that if people came into a space hearing that this is like the primary selling point of the medium, then as that royalty mechanism basically gets compressed over time by the market, it's going to feel very upsetting. But from my perspective, the beauty of an NFT is you're able to create this digital object that is, in the best cases, permissionless. Anyone can hold it, you can't take it away from someone. You can transfer it to anyone around the world. There's a worldwide, global market available for it.
00:42:23.240 - 00:42:56.858, Speaker A: You can sell it to anyone anywhere and send it to anyone anywhere. That as a primitive, that's the thing that is really the magic of the space, right? That's the magic of ERC twenty s. And with ERC 721s, it's the same, but just for non fungible digital items. So the space of possibility for what you can do with that is immensely large. We've only seen some initial limited experiments around it. I'm really excited to see what people do beyond that. But I think there's a lot that you can do outside of just focusing on the royalty component.
00:42:56.858 - 00:42:57.970, Speaker A: Yes, absolutely.
00:42:58.042 - 00:43:24.002, Speaker B: And I think for the last four or five minutes that we have, I'd like to look into the future in terms of what blur has in store for the NFT space because recently you guys launched blend, which allows people to borrow using their nfts. So I'm curious, is this financialization of nfts to create more tools for people to use their nfts, to borrow against their nfts, to speculate on these nfts? Is that the next step to expand the market? And I'd love for you to share.
00:43:24.138 - 00:43:57.634, Speaker A: Some thoughts on that. You know, one thing is just for, for everything that we've ever, like, launched up, Laura, we've stayed, you know, as contributors. We've stayed pretty private until, you know, the point of launching it. So I will be a little bit conservative in terms of what I, what I share. But I think the general direction is if you look at how the market is progressing, you know, towards professionalization, towards financialization, you can look at the token exchanges as a great example. It's like, okay, yes, you started initially with like Mount Gox or Coinbase, right? Very basic buy and sell functionality. Then you started seeing spot exchanges come about.
00:43:57.634 - 00:44:43.610, Speaker A: Then you started seeing options, derivatives, all sorts of financialized instruments. And that basically just ten x is liquidity and the volume, or actually it grows liquidity and volume much, much higher than just that. But now if you look at binance and you look at all the products that they offer around trading, effectively ERC 20s, it's immense. And if you look at blur today, it's like, oh yes, we have some of that. You have a spot marketplace, bids and ads, masks, and then you have blend, which gives you lending, but there's still a huge space of products on top of that that just don't exist today. So that's the general direction. I really think that if you want to get a sense of like, where we're going, if you look at like, what Binance did for tokens, that's really where blur is going to be going for nfts.
00:44:43.610 - 00:45:07.110, Speaker A: And of course that also includes building a wider suite of products, right? So like Binance, they also have their, their retail products, right. They're very known, I think, for their crypto native products, but they also have a wide retail selection, you know, similarly for blur, you know, it's just marching towards building more products against the trend of professional professionalization and financialization of nfts, but then also expanding the offering so that you can go down market as well.
00:45:07.222 - 00:45:14.566, Speaker B: I'm very excited to see just what that looks like. And for people who want to maybe check out Blur or follow you or what you're working on, what are the best channels for them to do this?
00:45:14.670 - 00:45:31.050, Speaker A: Yeah, so, of course, blur that IO is where you can, you know, access the blur front end. Uh, the blur IO Twitter handles where we post all of our announcements. And then, uh, my personal Twitter is, uh, pac man blur, all one word. Uh, I don't post there frequently, but, uh, yeah, sometimes I'll. I'll post there as well.
00:45:31.162 - 00:45:34.498, Speaker B: All right. Well, I look forward to your posts, and thank you so much for coming on the show, man.
00:45:34.586 - 00:45:35.642, Speaker A: Thanks for having me.
00:45:35.778 - 00:46:00.142, Speaker B: Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot. Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel on YouTube as well. To not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well. And I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there.
00:46:00.142 - 00:46:13.394, Speaker B: Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about or tweet at merjacenchoi or heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting, and I'll see you in the next episode.
