00:00:00.120 - 00:00:10.070, Speaker A: And I think to the extent that this really continues, you're just going to have ETH being used as money in all sorts of different ways across the crypto ecosystem. And I think that is really kind of the bold case here.
00:00:10.102 - 00:00:12.638, Speaker B: Web three offers a brand new petri dish.
00:00:12.686 - 00:00:14.470, Speaker A: Our job is to buy great tech at great prices.
00:00:14.542 - 00:00:18.870, Speaker C: AI is also libertarian right enable use case that people haven't been able to do today.
00:00:18.942 - 00:00:22.550, Speaker A: The next hundreds of millions of players, they will come to the market through mobile.
00:00:22.622 - 00:00:58.920, Speaker C: My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast Roundtable series, where we discuss the most timely topics from the perspective as investors in crypto and web3. I'm your host, Jason Choi. And I'm the co founder of Tangent, an angel investing fund. And I'm joined by my co host Sanad, who is a junior partner at Dragonfly Capital, which is one of the largest venture funds in crypto today. And we're also joined by a third very, very special special guest, co host Yuan. So a lot of you probably heard from Yuan before.
00:00:58.920 - 00:01:39.934, Speaker C: If you're following him on Twitter or you follow the show for a while, you've seen Yuan come on the show for a few times. He's a principal at Blockchain Capital, and they've invested in projects like Celestia and Eigen, L2 of the most talked about infrastructure projects that promise to reshape how rollups work. So we're going to dive into all of that. So for the context and the setting for today's episode, we wanted to discuss Ethereum's disaggregation. So in order to give a little bit more context about where I'm coming from. So basically, a few days ago, I tweeted out about the potential disaggregation of value in ethereum. What I mean by this is unlike last cycle, where everybody who's bullish on web3 invested in Ethereum.
00:01:39.934 - 00:02:25.492, Speaker C: In this cycle, you have to think about l two s, you have to think about the DA layer, you have to think about Ethereum stack as different layers and different protocols. And there's five or six different assets already, and there will be more for you to invest in in order to express a view on Ethereum. So what does that actually mean? What does that imply about Ethereum? Value accrual? Where will value actually accrue? I think these are some of the most important questions for investors in crypto this cycle and beyond. So I'm very excited to have two very smart people here on the show today to discuss this. And before we dive into that as a disclaimer, nothing we discuss on the show is financial advice. None of our opinions are reflective of our respective companies and their personal views. And we may be holding or trading assets that we discuss, but nothing should be construed as an endorsement before we even break it down.
00:02:25.492 - 00:02:44.988, Speaker C: Just curious, like, is this a discussion that you've guys had before with your colleagues or peers in terms of thinking about what ETH actually means in this cycle? In terms of if you're bullish on Ethereum, can you afford to just be looking at Ethereum? Do you need to look at different layers of the stack as investors? What are your rough thoughts there?
00:02:45.076 - 00:03:25.552, Speaker B: We've definitely thought about it. We invest in roll ups and infrastructure that lives around Ethereum, and you often try and figure out how much value these things can capture and how much value leaks to Ethereum. I think more generally, thoughts that I've been having are that it does feel like Ethereum is being very strongly out competed on its roll up centric roadmap by other layers of the stack. And I'm largely of the opinion now that Ethereum's future is a technical platform. Looks a little bleak. I'm also of the opinion that this may not matter at all. Ethereum can sell security.
00:03:25.552 - 00:03:38.096, Speaker B: Ethereum is a very high quality reserve asset. It still has amazing amounts of money ness. And so this is not me being bearish heath. But yeah, this is definitely stuff that we've been thinking about.
00:03:38.240 - 00:03:42.552, Speaker A: I echo a lot of your views. We've talked a lot about this internally.
00:03:42.608 - 00:03:42.944, Speaker C: Right.
00:03:43.024 - 00:04:38.230, Speaker A: I think, like Jason has mentioned, over the last few years we've invested in a number of different projects and teams and companies working in kind of this whole disaggregation of blockchains in general. Right. I think the term people typically use these days is like modular blockchains. We've invested in different execution layers or like roll ups, l two s, things like CK sync, invest in things like the availability layers like Plestia and Eigen layer. So we've done a lot of thinking about, okay, in this new world we're moving to where it seems like a lot of things are being disaggregated, not just blockchains. Right? Because I think something else we should probably hit on is like the transaction supply chain itself as well, that's also getting disaggregated. This aggregation of all these things means it's much more complicated to think about who's actually going to make most of the money.
00:04:38.230 - 00:05:30.200, Speaker A: Right. But somehow I think having done a lot of thinking about this and also seeing how research and thinking and how different builders are thinking about all these things over the last few years has just kept me going back to, okay, don't try and think too hard about this. Honestly, ETH might just be the best way to invest in all of this. If you still believe ETH is going to be a major ecosystem where a lot of value settles, I think it will still end up being very valuable because of the money they're saying. I think also, you mentioned security, right? Like, I think that's also gonna be very important. I think to actually orchestrate this very complicated world, money is gonna be very important. Just like in Tradfi, right? Like whenever people make transactions and collateral, a lot of times that ends up being very high quality pieces of collateral, like treasuries, right, which is basically dollars, but it's like a different form of dollars, right.
00:05:30.200 - 00:06:14.474, Speaker A: I think ETH kind of plays that role in this future, too, whether it's in transaction, supply chain, or kind of across different layers. ETH is being used as gas on all these L2 s. It's also right now the most used DA layer. That might change in the future, but with Eigen DA, they're also going to be using ETH. Even though everything's getting very complicated, it also seems like everything's pointing back to ETH, and ETH's muddiness is only going to continue increasing. And the fact that it's the most high quality, pristine collateral in this programmable world of blockchains also means that I think a lot of times, the value is ultimately still going to flow back to ETH in some way.
00:06:15.014 - 00:06:59.570, Speaker C: I feel like this is also another example of the same debate that people in crypto have been having for many years. Initially, people were discussing whether value would accrue to app layers as a fund or as an angel investors or as traders. Should we only invest and buy tokens related to apps, to games, to defi protocols? Because these apps will own all the users. They're the top of funnel, and we should ignore the bottom layer. And then I think Joel Mongrel from, I think he was from USV back then, Union Square Ventures, he wrote the whole thesis about fat protocols, which is actually, this is going to flip the web two model on its head. Everything's going to accrue to the protocol layer. And that actually is probably the most successful investment thesis of all time in terms of, like, dollars generated.
00:06:59.570 - 00:07:34.534, Speaker C: If you think about how much money people have made from investing in seed round for l one. So I think this is just a continuation of the debate. Okay, now we've kind of established that most of the value is probably captured by the layer one, but what does it actually mean to be a layer one? Especially now that we can separate things into execution layers. So we have the l two s with the settlement layer, so the ethereum itself. And we even have, like, the DA layer, which is like Celestia and Eigen layer. And it seems like the market has kind of spoken, at least for now. Like, I think Celestia is valued at a $20 billion protocol out the gate, which we can get to later.
00:07:34.534 - 00:08:32.670, Speaker C: But I like to go down the stack layer by layer, just so we can all understand what our views are here, starting with the top layer. So the execution layer first, to give some context here, I was looking at the amount of fees that these execution layers or these roll ups, L2s are making, I think in the past 180 days. For those of you watching this on video, I think arbitrum made like $31 million in fees. Optimism that the main roll up made like $19 million in fees, and then Ethereum made like $1.1 billion in fees. I guess the question to you guys is this the end state? Is it likely for the fees to actually flip such that the l two s eventually make even more fees than l one s? Or do you think this dynamic is likely to persist where most of the fees still made on l one s, but then all these l two s just make maybe combine a fraction of the fees that is generated in l one s?
00:08:32.862 - 00:09:59.172, Speaker A: I can start. I mean, I think this is a really tricky question, right? I think in terms of fees, we're ultimately probably going to end up seeing l two s make more fees and l one s, I guess, especially in the context of the modular thesis. Right. But I also really think it depends on the way you think the topology in terms of volume and users looks in the future. I think if you end up in a situation where you have a bunch of really small l two s, let's say a lot of people in the modular roll up space think, hey, we could have a million roll ups in the future, and they all use one or two or maybe three DA layers, right? But each of these roll ups represent one application that's maybe not super dominant or anything like that. Then you actually end up with this world where you have a bunch of tiny roll ups that don't have a lot of economic leverage over the DA layer there, and the DA layer might be able to exert much more economic leverage and because of that actually end up capturing a lot more than fees. But as we're kind of seeing right now, and I think my default personal assumptions also, that the topology here is going to look a little bit more like having kind of a power law relationship.
00:09:59.172 - 00:10:50.074, Speaker A: You might have a few roll ups having most of activity, most of the users, most of the volume, and in that world it might look a little different where these roll ups actually end up having a lot more leverage over the DLA. People like Multicoin have said, hey, if a roll up ever gets big enough, why don't you just become an eloquent? I think that kind of misses a point a little. But I think it is true that when you are a roll up and you end up having a lot of users and a lot of activity on you, you can say, hey, I'm not going to use this dealer anymore, they're trying to rent. See this too much. Of course, I think there are other things that might end up keeping little up there. You could have very strong network effects across roll ups, which I think plays into something else that I think would be good to hit on there. Just like cross roll up, interoperability and mev and stuff like that.
00:10:50.074 - 00:11:12.682, Speaker A: But putting that aside, the roll up could just up and leave and because of that, end up taking most of the fees away. But I think there's just an interplay here in terms of the stickiness a dealer can actually exert on the roll ups that post data to it. I think that kind of is the ultimate question, right?
00:11:12.738 - 00:11:30.170, Speaker C: Doesn't that logic extend to apps as well? Like if I build an app and I control enough users, I can also just up and out and I get, instead of optimism, I go to like arbitrum or go to like metis or altooist. So does that mean actually the higher in the stack you are, maybe the more leverage you have in terms of like commanding fees?
00:11:30.242 - 00:12:33.198, Speaker A: I actually don't think that apps can do that as easily as like a whole roll up. Right. Because if you are an app, I guess it also depends on, again, what kind of app you are, right? It feels like if you're a game and people are using your app just to play your game and they're not actually doing anything else on your chain or like even if you are an app on say one chain with many other things, if all your users just use your app and none of them really interact with the rest of the ecosystem, I think you can up and leave because you entirely own the user relationship, whereas I think the world looks today is like, okay, you go to Ethereum or arbitrum and use a particular defi app. You're not really a user of that Defi app, you're a user of that chain. There's many other things that Defi app depends on that you probably also use. Then it's much harder for, say, GMX and say, hey, we're going to go away and do our own thing and you're going to come with us. I think in that sense, you're definitely going to get a lot of churn in terms of when you do that, in terms of users who actually follow.
00:12:33.198 - 00:12:55.382, Speaker A: But I think for certain applications that don't actually feel the stickiness of the rest of the ecosystem is much easier to up. And so I think that's a very good analogy here for rollups, too. It's like, okay, you are a roll up. You live in this ecosystem, but what is the stickiness that ecosystem exerts upon you? If it's very high, then it's going to be much harder for you to leave, whereas if it's very low, you can very easily up and move.
00:12:55.558 - 00:13:11.078, Speaker C: And Nasana, I know you've looked into in terms of the fees comparison between l two s and l one s. I remember you wrote something about the cost to post data onto l one s from l two s. So what are some insights from that? Did anything change in terms of what your findings were?
00:13:11.166 - 00:14:11.906, Speaker B: One thing I would say is that we don't have a lot of data here, primarily because the way roll ups are currently charging fees is that they're figuring out what they should pay ethereum for data availability and charging some kind of fixed margin on top of it. And so no roll up is actually exerting market power in any meaningful sense. I think that's kind of a big shift that I'm curious to see happen. Maybe we'll see it happen with more consumer applications where there's kind of a consumer application roll up that kind of charges fees on not just transactions, but like IMX had this interesting model at some point where they only charged NFT marketplace fees and subsidized gas fees. And so I think one thing that I'm curious to see is just some sort of experimentation in the fee market, because right now there's just not a whole lot of signal in this because all arbitram is saying is, oh, I have to pay ethereum this, I'll charge you a little more. And no one has actually tried to, like, expand their margin or really push their leverage. And so I'm very curious to see how that plays out.
00:14:12.050 - 00:14:15.482, Speaker A: Do you think with 4844 we might sort of see a little bit of this?
00:14:15.578 - 00:14:49.534, Speaker B: I think it's interesting. I would love to see some of it. I think crypto pricing in general, and this is a broader opinion, is a little silly and sticky. And so it feels like, it's like, it does feel like rollups aren't thinking about what their users are really willing to pay right now. We may see some. I think there are also some concerns around, like, the largest roll ups have some regulatory risks that they're facing. And I think once they start moving, moving the levers on sequence of fees too much, they might appear less decentralized.
00:14:49.534 - 00:15:33.150, Speaker B: A lot of this is kind of hand wavy, but I've heard that being a concern. I would love to see some more fee experimentation, but I actually, my best bet is that we see fee experimentation from consumer roll ups, because they have kind of, they may charge fees on things that aren't just simple transactions, and consumer roll ups may want a very different user experience from the ones that kind of traditional roll ups are used to. One thing. The second observation I have on the execution layer is mostly that it. The thing I want to point out is Ethereum feels like it's kind of given up on innovating on its execution layer at all. And so we're seeing a whole lot of movement in cosmos with new vms. There's kind of people trying to build new virtual environments.
00:15:33.150 - 00:16:09.884, Speaker B: We've seen things like Sui and Aptos, we've seen a renaissance and Solana. But broadly, I think one concern for Ethereum, like, there's still tons of activity, it's still the hub for Defi. But I'm curious how you guys think about the fact that it just feels like Ethereum's execution layer feels extremely ossified at this point. And I think if you kind of look at the process to start a new AIP or innovate on it or even cater to builders, it just feels like, at least my sense is that's just not happening anymore. And that's kind of one data point I think is pretty relevant if you kind of are forecasting 510 years into the future of where software developers will actually want to be developing their applications.
00:16:10.004 - 00:17:08.102, Speaker C: I think it goes back to the argument that both of you made earlier, which is like, ETH is seen as a money. And I think that the defining standard or the defining trade of money is it needs to be stable, it needs to be predictable. You don't want to have your monetary policy, or you don't want massive technical updates to the entire infrastructure like every month. So it simply cannot move at the speed that some of these startups, and even though they don't seem like startups by the valuation like optimism, arbitrum are very much startups, right? So these guys can definitely execute a lot faster. I don't think Ethereum is supposed to innovate that much on the execution layer. And if anything, the fact that it doesn't innovate as fast as the l two execution layers probably helps the value accrual because people can view it as a stable and reliable collateral in infrastructure, in a layer of the stack that doesn't have a lot of constant change. So if the argument is that innovation will drive usage and usage drives value, then obviously that's not good for Ethereum from a value perspective.
00:17:08.102 - 00:17:30.846, Speaker C: But if the argument is that all ETH has to do is be stable and be safe as a collateral and not change too much as a platform, and basically just outsource all of the innovation, I think that's a totally fine approach for the settlement layer. But I'm curious if you guys have different thoughts there. I guess. Yuan, do you agree with the statement that ETH isn't doing much on the execution side in terms of innovating?
00:17:30.990 - 00:18:00.778, Speaker A: I think I definitely agree with that. I think right now that definitely seems to be the case. It's really hard to push new ips. There are a few things that seems like we desperately need full on native account abstraction being I think one clear example of that. But it's just very hard to push any of these things through. The client teams have super high workloads already. It really seems like what they're trying to do is make it easier for rollups and other people to do a lot of the innovation here.
00:18:00.778 - 00:18:40.230, Speaker A: Maybe there's a world down the line where they decide to actually push the execution layer a little further. People have spoken back shine roll ups and stuff like that in the past, but I honestly think none of that really matters. Again, I think ETH is seen as money, and I think there's so many clear trends that that's only going to continue increasing. Like I think, you know, ideal air. One of the things they do is da, right? The other thing they do is allow people to leverage ETH ETH economic security to bootstrap security for their own chains, right? And what that kind of does is bring a bunch of new streams of yield to kind of ethereum. Right. To either the asset.
00:18:40.230 - 00:19:30.592, Speaker A: And I think partially why that's interesting is now you're creating this kind of a new yield market that hasn't really existed in crypto yet, all built around ETH, fundamental, I guess, staking yield. And if the staking yield is kind of like the most secure stream of yield you can get on ETH, a bunch of these, you know, restaking your ETH for a bunch of these avss are maybe yields you can get, which are slightly more risky, that deserve kind of a premium over what you get over, just like normal staking. Right. And I think so, like, if you, if you just kind of see this, right, it's turning ETH into this collateral asset that is being used throughout crypto. We've already seen it being used in defi. Right. Like ETH is what everyone pairs everything against, which is the case in the roll ups as well.
00:19:30.592 - 00:20:02.056, Speaker A: Pretty much every single roll up thus far. L two on ETH. Right. You pay gas fees on ETH. I don't think that's going to change. So you have stuff like Eigen layer, which brings new yield flows to ETH, and I think in the future. And some of the stuff you're seeing across unbundling of the transaction supply chain as well, with people working on intense and order flow options and all these things, is a lot of the mechanism design around these protocols require people to put up economic stake as well, essentially to make all this work.
00:20:02.056 - 00:20:41.418, Speaker A: You have people making promises, and your promise shouldn't be empty because we're in crypto, you should be trustless. So if it's not going to be an empty promise, you need to basically accept that, hey, if I lie here, I misbehave, I will get punished. So you put up some stake, and almost always, pretty much everyone I've spoken to is, ETH has some role to play in that. Again, it's the most secure piece of, like, you know, crypto network out there. It's kind of the default reserve asset that's programmable. Right. And I think to the extent that this really continues, you're just going to have ETH being used as money in all sorts of different ways across the crypto ecosystem.
00:20:41.418 - 00:21:01.706, Speaker A: And I think that is really kind of the bull case here. And even if, you know, fees don't really actually just end up accruing to ethereum, the fact that you have to use either the asset to collect those fees that actually go somewhere else means that in some indirect way ETH is still used as a way to. ETH still has access to some of those features. Right.
00:21:01.890 - 00:21:50.660, Speaker C: There's an interesting conclusion that basically means even if most of the activity happens on l two s in, like, 510 years time, and you build a DCF like a trapfire analyst, and you can back out some amazing valuation for these l two s, it doesn't mean it's taking away from the l one asset, because the l one asset can still function independently of activity in l two s as a collateral asset. In fact, it can be used as a collateral asset on l two s as well. So I think that's a really interesting way to look at it. And I think this is a good segue to talk about the a layer as well, because this is really not a thing like one two years ago, at least in the public consciousness. And I know when Sanand and I were back at our previous fund, we invested in Celestia before it was called Celestia. But I can tell you now that we did not have, like, this thesis about Celestia. It was very much a team driven bet.
00:21:50.660 - 00:22:30.098, Speaker C: We saw that the founder hacked the CIA when he was, like, 16. We're like, okay, this is the type of maverick founders we want to back. And then that was obviously, we had no premonition that this will be valued by the market as a fundamental piece of infrastructure. If you look at the valuation now, like 20 billion fdv, obviously this number can change. Markets are volatile, but the fact that the market is willing to price it here means that enough people think that the DA layer is not just some optional side piece. It's a core part of the infrastructure. And just to put this in context as well, it's valid more than optimism, which is 15 billion right now.
00:22:30.098 - 00:23:07.908, Speaker C: Arbitrum is 21 billion. So Celestia is already around there. And then the interesting thing to me as well is someone was pointing out that the fees made by Celestia, given that it's still relatively new project, it didn't launch that long ago, they were making maybe dollar 70 a day in fees. People are really pricing in the future value of this thing when they kind of look at Celestia. So all of that is just to say I'm curious. Like, when you invested in Celestia Yuan, you invested much later when there was, I think probably you probably had a much smarter thesis then I did. When we first looked at this.
00:23:07.908 - 00:23:17.912, Speaker C: I'm curious, like, when you invested, did you have the conviction that, hey, this could be a core piece of infrastructure, and kind of what was driving the decision behind that.
00:23:18.108 - 00:24:10.872, Speaker A: Yeah, I think when we made the decision, a lot of the things that have played out in terms of the transaction supply chain had not really played out yet. And I think my views since then have slightly changed. But I think fundamentally, at the time when we made the investment, the thinking was very much so. Roll ups are going to be the future of execution. And if you look at pretty much every single technological stack in the future, you've always had unbundling and modularization. Even when we didn't have technology and it was just humans, we got massive increases in terms of economic output just by specializing. You have groups of people specializing on one thing, other groups of people specializing on another thing.
00:24:10.872 - 00:24:40.334, Speaker A: And, yes, you add a coordination cost overhead, but I think the gains you get from specializing far outweigh coordination costs across these different groups of people specialize from the earliest agricultural societies. We've kind of seen this. I think it was pretty clear that what Celestia was doing was this. And I think, yeah, Celestia is kind of, you know, has the most mind share right now in the ecosystem in terms of. They've been the ones pushing this modular narrative. They've been some of the pioneers in the thinking behind this. Right.
00:24:40.334 - 00:25:05.886, Speaker A: And I think Ethereum kind of pivoted over a little bit to Celestia's vision later on. Right. But it was always very clear that Celestia and their vision for how blockchain should be built was really ahead of its time and was going to be the future. Right. And I think. I still believe that. I think Celestia very much so represents part of that vision.
00:25:05.886 - 00:25:33.330, Speaker A: But I also think the way Celestia, say, ethereum sees the world is slightly different. Celestial is obviously trying to be much more minimal. Thus far, the social consensus around Celestia has not tried to make tia a monetary asset like ETH is. Right. And I think that is interesting, because I do think a lot of what I was saying earlier around ETH value, ultimately coming back to it having monetary premium. And you can't really use the argument with Tier anymore. Right.
00:25:33.330 - 00:26:03.670, Speaker A: Celestia doesn't have an enshrined bridge to any l two, so the only thing you can really use tier for is to pay for block space. Blob space. Sorry. Right. And I think that doesn't mean it won't be viable again. I think it depends on way the topology of the blockchain world looks in the future. But I do think as a DA layer, basically, you're the ultimate arbiter of ordering in some versions of the world.
00:26:03.670 - 00:27:04.332, Speaker A: And if those versions will play out, you could have a lot of market power to exert over the rest of the supply chain in terms of actually capturing fees. But I think it's still a little too early to say about this part of the stack, and I think this is very speculative. There are versions of the world where Celestia could be incredibly valuable. I also think if we end up having lots and lots and lots of roll ups and lots and lots of, lots of blockchains and lots and lots of the world, and the economy ends up living and selling onto a blockchain, we're probably going to need a lot more data availability than we think. And it's very much so right now, we don't have enough data availability. And Celestial is the only alternate database layer with crypto economic security. I think it's also very important for applications that want that to experiment and try it out, because I think we can talk all we want about valuable right now.
00:27:04.332 - 00:27:39.464, Speaker A: But I think something else that I know we've all discussed privately has been around applications. What are the applications that are going to onboard users? I think the fact of the matter is the users currently encrypted today are willing to pay high fees. There's a lot of users out there who are not. Just look at Tron's kind of adoption. I think that's one of the drivers behind their kind of traction. We need ways to reduce fees, and I think that's going to lead to induced demand. And I think Celestia is very much so, providing a very good solution to that if you want to build your blockchain in a very future proof way.
00:27:39.544 - 00:28:27.462, Speaker C: And I think you were probably one of the few people in our circles that was the earliest to developing a very high conviction in modularity, because I remember the fad was like monolithic chains. Everybody was looking at Solana and thinking, hey, this is the way to go. And it seemed like the roll up thesis, or the thesis that there will be thousands of roll ups, at least thousands of roll ups, at least to me it was not very, very clear, and I think it was through conversations with you that kind of convinced me, hey, this is actually a potential way that the future for crypto could play out. But I'm curious, even if you had that assumption that, hey, we're going to get thousands and thousands of roll ups, how did that lead to your decision? Or how did that lead to the thesis that, yes, we should invest in DA layers instead of like a roll up as a service SaaS platform or like, just invest in more roll ups.
00:28:27.638 - 00:29:15.844, Speaker A: The ultimate conclusion ended up being, let's invest across the whole stack, right? Because it was a little. It was very hard to really form a concrete opinion. But I think it was very, also very clear that there was a version in the world where the DA layer could end up being the most valuable. Again, I think dealers benefit from tremendous amounts of economies of scale, and that could result in you making a lot of money, even if you might not make the most money and accrue the most amount of fees of every layer in the stack. Let's say we're in this world where most of the economy around the world does sell on the blockchain. You could still end up with an incredibly profitable, incredibly value accruing business, even if you might not be the. The player within the transaction supply chain and the blockchain stack that ends up occurring in this fees.
00:29:15.844 - 00:29:37.748, Speaker A: And so it was very clear, all right, we believe that this is the best way blockchain should be built, and this is the most future proof way to build blockchains. And the rest of the ecosystem is going to kind of pivot to this view. Then investing in one of the foundational pieces of infrastructure for that world, I think, at an attractive enough price, does end up looking like a very, very good investment.
00:29:37.916 - 00:29:50.428, Speaker C: Celestia is obviously not the only one doing DA layers. I think there's probably a lot of other companies and projects. Sana, I'm sure you've seen a lot of others as well through your work. What are some other projects working in this space? That's interesting?
00:29:50.476 - 00:29:50.740, Speaker A: Sana.
00:29:50.772 - 00:30:36.520, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, on the DA side, I think Celestia, avail and Eigen DA are like the three most credible competitors we've come across. It's interesting. This also ties in with multiple players. And we have spent a lot of time internally trying to figure out what it takes to win this market and whether there are meaningful network effects or whether this is truly just a brand effects game. I'll add a little more there, which is that something that you have and you have hinted at is that I don't think you can really value these things on fees. Like, at the end of the day, there's monetary moneyness and revenues that accrue value to a crypto asset. The challenge for all of these dealers is that they're making DS super, super, super cheap.
00:30:36.520 - 00:31:44.334, Speaker B: But if you make DS super, super, super cheap, you don't make a lot of money, obviously. And so we've tried to think a lot around. Like, I think on two fronts, like what does money ness for DA tokens look like? And I will actually say Celestia seems to be doing a decent job at it in as much as Celestia feels like it's playing this atom role where you stake it, and a whole bunch of things in the modular ecosystem will give you airdrops, which is kind of one way in which Atom did a pretty good job accruing moneyness. It's a weird way to accrue moneyness, but in fact, the number of users who own Celestia and are staking it is kind of surprising to me because there was like a world in which only rollups knew that the other token existed and used it to pay for DA. And no users ever thought about TIA. Somehow or the other, they've memed it into a thing that users are using and are excited to receive air, which is cool. I think the other thing that yuan touched on a little bit earlier is where network effects play out in the roll up stack.
00:31:44.334 - 00:32:36.706, Speaker B: And so interoperability is like one kind of place where you could kind of see, why would I choose a certain DLA? Maybe because it's enables easier interoperability with other roll ups on that DLA. I'm very curious to see how this plays out because currently there's many competing visions for interoperability. We get pitches from sequencers that say, yeah, don't worry, shared sequences are where interoperability will happen. We will give soft confirmations that can kind of happen across roll ups. There are some that say it all needs to accrue to the same DL layer, and that's when it gets simple. There are some people who still believe that, look, bridges are kind of the things we'll be using. There are new visions from a couple of teams of kind of building essentially proof settlement layers where every roll up gives a proof of what's happening on that roll up.
00:32:36.706 - 00:33:10.918, Speaker B: You kind of aggregate all of this into one proof, and there's essentially a proof settlement layer. So I think generally one struggle and thing we're hoping to figure out is whether DL's really have network effects. I don't know. I'm curious what you guys think about this. I think there is some degree of lock in as well. I think people aren't going to change their dlrs super easily, but I've always kind of worried a little bit about whether they can capture money ness and whether they have network effects. Seems really key because I don't think there's a fee story to be told here.
00:33:11.046 - 00:33:24.404, Speaker C: Do you guys think it's a race to the bottom thing where whoever can offer the cheapest DHS wins the whole market? Or is it a little bit like an l? One thing, just because it's cheaper to build on avalanche doesn't mean solidity. Guys going to go right over.
00:33:24.824 - 00:33:56.198, Speaker B: I guess my very quick response would be the female is just so far off. It's like, if you want this thing to be worth $10 billion, there's just. Even if the fees are so, so low that it's not even about a race to the bottom. It's like either you charge Ethereum level fees, but the fee differentiation between the three big dealers, as. As I can tell right now, is so marginal relative to any amount of revenue they would have to earn to actually do some kind of DCF. I just think there's no DCF ing this out.
00:33:56.366 - 00:34:01.870, Speaker C: The three big ones you mentioned are Eigen, Da, Celestia, and Avail. Is the polygon spin out?
00:34:01.942 - 00:34:17.994, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. Avail was built internally at Polygon, and they decided they would prefer being a separate organization, so they spun out in March of last year. I think they're actually doing an incentivized testnet right now, building up their suite of integrations as well. And I think they should go live sometime this year soon.
00:34:18.114 - 00:35:15.968, Speaker C: And I think one point that you mentioned, Sana, which is this point about cross domain transactions as well, like cross roll up, whether that's another important piece of the infrastructure. So this might be pretty controversial, but I'm pretty bearish on bridges. I am pretty bearish on shared sequencers as a way to express bullish cross domain kind of transactions as well, because I just don't think there will be a lot of cross domain transactions. I feel like for rollups, at least in my intuition as a user, I don't see a lot of examples where I'm hopping between rollups. I would prefer that all of the defi stuff that needs to be interoperable with some run roll up, and then that stuff doesn't really touch the games that I want to play. So to me, the examples of moving transactions between rollups, there's not too many of them, at least compared to, like, the domain specific transactions. The transactions that happen on one roll up is like, it's such a tiny fraction that I don't even want to pay attention to bridges.
00:35:15.968 - 00:35:33.792, Speaker C: I don't want to invest in bridges. And if the thesis for shared sequencers is that it allows for cross domain transactions easier, I feel like that's also insufficient as like addressable market for myself. But I'm curious what you guys think, because I know you've thought a lot about cross domain transactions and mev thereof, and hopefully all that stuff you want.
00:35:33.808 - 00:35:50.696, Speaker B: To give a serious answer. My quick take on shared sequencers is that maybe the value, maybe the actual pitch for shared sequencers is that running a sequencer is a regulatory risk, and handing over your sequencer keys to someone else and claiming it's their problem to decentralize it might actually save you from getting sued.
00:35:50.840 - 00:36:21.124, Speaker A: I think that's going to be a big part of it. Jason, I think I also agree with you. I don't see us living in this world ten years down the road, or however many years where crypto gets mass adoption and we still have to hop around to multiple applications. I think very much so. There are things that will try and own the whole user experience. Maybe some consumer apps will really try and do this, and there's no real reason for you to leave the consumer app. I think there's also probably other bundling approaches.
00:36:21.124 - 00:37:15.870, Speaker A: Just like today, if you actually use something like Robin Hood or you go to your broker and you buy a stock or you trade options or you do whatever, the broker is actually aggregating a bunch of things underneath that's actually providing those services to you. Right, where you buy options and futures, and it's totally different from where you actually buy stocks. Same thing with bonds, same thing if you want to get a loan. That might come from their balance sheet, that might come from someone else's balance sheet, but your broker is the front end that actually you interact with. I think in the very much in the future, a lot of this stuff can get abstracted away. The user is not going to think, hey, I want to do x on Arbitrum, but if I actually want to borrow against it, the best borrow rate with the most liquidity lives on optimism. I think that's unlikely.
00:37:15.870 - 00:37:55.872, Speaker A: But for the sake of the argument, let's just say that's the way the world looks. I think in that case, the user is not going to have to bridge over and figure all this out for themselves. I think what's more likely is they're going to get a very passive experience from some kind of a front end, whether it's a wallet or a different kind of a front end that actually does all this for them. And I think a lot of people have realized this, too, and have discussed this intent centric view of the world in crypto. I think it's very nebulous how this works. I think no one really has made very meaningful progress in terms of building anything out yet. But it does seem like this is to me like the best view of the future in terms of a UX perspective from the user.
00:37:55.872 - 00:39:03.432, Speaker A: But I think what this also means is a lot of the interoperability stuff between message passing bridges, things like shared sequences, all kind of live behind the scenes and work within this big transaction supply chain that the user never has to worry about. The user only figures out what they want to do, and the whole rest of transaction supply chain figures out how to deliver that to the user. And so within that, you might have should sequencers, you might have block builders, you might have bridges, you might have message passing bridges, you have all these different things, but you might have proof selling bridges, like slant mentioned, I think all of these actors will likely play a role. You also have these things called what people are called calling solvers. But I think what's also very clear is every single one of these participants in this very complicated supply chain is making a bunch of promises to each other about things they're going to do. Just like in traditional finance, right? You have a bunch of these intermediaries who are making promises to each other. And how do they actually enforce those promises are kept? Well, they sign legal contracts, and if they break them, they go to court and argue over, and the judge decides who is right, who is wrong, damages.
00:39:03.432 - 00:39:30.358, Speaker A: You pay all this stuff, right? Well, in crypto, you don't need to have that. In crypto, you make these promises to each other. You can use a bunch of different tools for doing that. You can use cryptography, which proves that you did the correct thing. You could also use economic promises, which seems much more likely in the near term and perhaps even the long term. But if you're making an economic promise, what you're saying is, hey, if I'm wrong, take my, I'm going to put up some collateral. If I'm wrong, you're going to take some of it.
00:39:30.358 - 00:40:16.054, Speaker A: And which is why I think I keep going back to ETH being very valuable, is because if this whole supply chain of actors who's actually fulfilling your transaction and enabling all this interoperability between rollups and applications, they will probably all need to put up some kind of asset as collateral when they talk to each other and make promises to each other, right. And right now, it also seems like everyone is coalesced around eating the asset, which I think is also very interesting. It makes sense. You have a bunch of different teams competing for this, you have a bunch of different teams they're trying to sell to, and they all now have to use some new brand new token. It's much harder for them to all accept this new kind of paradigm, whereas they're all just using ETH. Everyone's used to using ETH. Yeah, sure.
00:40:16.054 - 00:40:49.060, Speaker A: We can use different forms of ETH to do this. That seems like a much more likely, you know, asset for the ecosystem to coalesce around than anything else. So I think very much so. It's going to be the case that ETH is going to be the main asset, uses collateral, and it's very complicated transaction, supply chain, and that's just going to increase its money ness as well, even if ETH doesn't necessarily give you access to the fees. If you want to make money in this transaction supply chain, as a market maker, as someone like Citadel or something, you need to take a bunch of ETH and put it up as collateral. Right.
00:40:49.222 - 00:41:38.290, Speaker B: Actually, I want to ask one thing, riffing off of that, maybe on a, at a somewhat abstract level, you pointed out that there's kind of two ways that we have of. There's two major ways that right now in crypto we have of kind of enforcing commitments. One is using some sort of economic security where you have collateral, and the other is cryptography, which is proofs largely. One very abstract thought I've had is that like, there's a whole lot of things in crypto for which we use kind of the latter method with collateral, like staking, restaking, getting people to put up money. Like all Ethereum security is based on this. And it feels like there is a version of the world where a lot of this is useless because you can just give a proof saying this is correct. I'm curious whether you think this is something we should be thinking about.
00:41:38.290 - 00:42:16.176, Speaker B: Should this make you bearish on this entire notion of crypto economics security? Like we've built up all this infrastructure, and it actually does feel like even the simplest thing, which is Ethereum staking, where you're kind of trying to enforce that validators follow a certain set of rules. There's a world where you could replace that with validators giving a ZK proof, and you just don't need staking, you don't need 32 ETH. All of this stuff is kind of unnecessary. Is that a world? Is that like an investment thesis that can be underwritten? Are there things we should be doing as investors to, to think around that? I don't know. When I start thinking of the things that proofs can do. It starts getting a little crazy sometimes. So I'm curious how you guys think about this.
00:42:16.320 - 00:42:25.096, Speaker C: You're saying all of the cryptographic or economic security can be taken off chain and represented as proofs. Instead, I can prove to you that.
00:42:25.120 - 00:42:45.166, Speaker B: I did something the way you wanted me to. I no longer really need to put up collateral, and putting up collateral is, like, a large part of how crypto economics, like systems, work. Right now, this is a little futuristic, for sure. I don't think this is, like, happening next year, but it's definitely a thought I've had, and I'm curious whether you guys have thought about this.
00:42:45.270 - 00:43:18.010, Speaker A: Well, for one, I don't think proof solves a symbol resistance problem, right. So I think that is one area where you definitely still need to put up collateral at the stake. That's a much better way to solve the Sybil resistance problem than just dkps. Right? But I think you're partially onto something here. I also think that it's wrong to be that bullish on CKP's where it can replace everything. I think. I think the fact of the matter is, especially within things of the transaction supply chain, where, like, the late.
00:43:18.010 - 00:44:18.994, Speaker A: Where things are super latency sensitive, it's just very difficult for me to imagine, like, everything can be done at a sub second level, which you really need. Right. Whereas with crypto economics and with collateral, you can do things at any latency, because it's not complicated, it doesn't require much computation. So to me, it feels like there are a bunch of especially things that are very latency sensitive, which it seems like in this transaction supply chain is very much still going to be the case. Just look at the MEV space today, right? Like, I don't think we can ever get to a world where all of that's replaced by zkps. I think for things where you can accept a bit more latency, that is really where zkps can actually really penetrate, I think. But I think, yeah, you always have this trade off, right, between kind of latency and cost and a few other things, right.
00:44:18.994 - 00:44:30.094, Speaker A: I think there's just. It's impossible to say that ZKP and the trade offs it comes with is going to be the right set of trade offs for the entire stack in the crypto space. Right.
00:44:30.554 - 00:45:41.914, Speaker C: I think from a user's perspective, I think it makes sense to bring things off chain for improved user experience, right? So, like, you see a generation of perp dexs that bring order matching off chain. I think that makes sense in terms of like bringing security off chain. I think, yeah, I'm not smart enough to reason whether that's possible, but from what yuan is saying, it seems like if latency is involved, it's going to be very hard for you to generate sub second proofs constantly, just to make sure that you're not doing anything weird there. But I do think that proofs probably make the most sense if you're trying to bring off chain data on chain. And that could be real world assets, which funnily enough, I'm also kind of bearish on, but that's for another episode. Well, gentlemen, I think we've discussed a lot about the different layers of the stack, so I'd like to wrap this up if we must. If we're forced to, say rank these layers of the stack, let's say like in five years time, if we add together all of the l two s that have actual users and all of the DA layers, and then compare that to ETH, how would you rank, like stack rank the value of these things so I can go first.
00:45:41.914 - 00:46:13.050, Speaker C: Despite my focus on apps, I still feel like fat protocol is pretty much the kind of principle that people go after. So you still have ETH as the most valuable, and then one layer above that, maybe the DA layer, and then the least valuable is actually the l two execution layer. So the lower in the stack you go, the more valuable or the more value the market will ascribe to you, regardless of how much fees you're generating. At least that's my kind of cynical view. But I'm curious what you guys think here.
00:46:13.122 - 00:47:19.654, Speaker B: I can very quick, I can summarize very quickly. I think this is a kind of, this isn't a direct answer, but I think if you think of demand drivers for Ethereum, as yuan hinted at, I'm just much more excited by economic collateral reserve asset long term, staking some notion of unit of account than I am by like transaction fee burns or like l two fee burns. And I think that's kind of how to underwrite Ethereum at this point. And so if this is an ethereum thing, I think Ethereum continues to be hugely valuable. And in fact, like, one thing to note here is that as Ethereum continues to gain moneyness, it does make it harder and harder for other assets to gain money. You think about like, just comparing what? Like, if you think of validation, validators are willing to accept significantly lower yields in ethereum than they are in like shitcoin of the day. And that's like a virtuous cycle for Ethereum and like a vicious cycle for the shit coin.
00:47:19.654 - 00:47:25.114, Speaker B: And so I think, like this is also, in my view, where Ethereum should focus. Basically.
00:47:25.194 - 00:48:00.154, Speaker A: Completely agree with Sanaa here, right? I think I'm much more excited by the moneyness thesis. I think he raises a great point here. You know, you can look at the yields across the space. People are willing to accept the lowest yield on ETH, right, relative to everything else. I think if you look at other reserve assets throughout history, you've always had one global reserve asset, right, in the 16 hundreds, you had like spanish pieces of eight, right. Then that moved, you know, to the Brits with the pound right after they kind of came to power. The victorian era, in the interwar period, and then post World War two, it's gradually moved to the US dollar.
00:48:00.154 - 00:48:45.818, Speaker A: And just like today, if you look at the bond markets, the fact that us treasuries are held by everyone gives the US tremendous amounts of power and leverage across the rest of the world. And there's no room for another reserve asset. There's one, and it's the US dollar and US Treasurys, the whole ecosystem built around that. I think it's a similar thing in crypto. Like Smash has a virtuous cycle for ETH, vicious cycle for everyone else. And this is really where the Ethereum ecosystem, I think should really focus, is turning ETH into the reserve asset of this new digital crypt blockchain based economy. But putting that aside, to answer your question, in terms of all right, we throw out moneyness as a determining factor.
00:48:45.818 - 00:49:37.860, Speaker A: In terms of raw capability to earn fees, where would you invest? I think then I probably return to the question of all right, I guess this does depend on how I think the topology of this world looks. I think it's very clear that DA layers will have immense economies of scale. There's gonna be very few of them, and there's probably gonna be lots and lots of execution layers. But to the extent, you know, to what extent does it really follow a power law, right. Maybe, you know, it's not quite like two or three roll ups representing 80% of fees, it might look more like ten, right. To the. To the extent that it looks less like, you know, parallel and you have multiple winners here beyond just one or two, it's not a true, like oligopoly, then I think DA layers have tremendous amounts of leverage, right? And I think, you know, the amount of economies of scale they benefit from could end up being very profitable.
00:49:37.860 - 00:50:02.818, Speaker A: Just look at AWS, right? I think it's a kind of similar kind of view as the way how AWS makes money. They benefit from tremendous amounts of content scale and actually the things that live on it don't look like a power law, right? So I think in that world, the DA layer actually ends up being the most value accruing, most revenue generating layer. But I think we're very far away from that future today.
00:50:02.946 - 00:50:40.480, Speaker C: That's a great way to wrap this up. And I think everything you guys said kind of is making me change my mind on my ETH is pretty much fucked thesis in terms of like, ETH having that money ness. And I think that the funny thing is, I put out that tweet on the exact day that ETH and bitcoin bottomed as well. So as you can tell, I am not very good at in terms of like trading the lower timeframe stuff. But all of the discussion we had, I think pertains to like a five year at least type of view. And I think that's where I think a lot of this, a lot of this stuff will take time to play out. And I'm really excited to do this to kind of witness it playing out for people who want to follow you guys.
00:50:40.480 - 00:50:52.312, Speaker C: Well, sana, I think we've plucked your Twitter many times, but we'll still put it in the, in the show notes below for Johan. I don't think we've plucked your Twitter yet. So what? Is Twitter a good way to follow you for people or X?
00:50:52.368 - 00:50:58.376, Speaker A: Now, I refuse to call it X, but I think, yeah, Twitter is probably the best way to follow me as well.
00:50:58.400 - 00:51:09.096, Speaker C: I will put it in the show notes below. So for those of you listening to this on an app or, you know, on YouTube, just scroll down, follow us on Twitter. We're excited to share more of our thoughts with you. And thank you so much for doing this, guys.
00:51:09.160 - 00:51:10.480, Speaker A: Thank you so much for having me on.
00:51:10.552 - 00:51:32.984, Speaker C: Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot. Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel on YouTube as well. To not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well. And I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me.
00:51:32.984 - 00:51:48.104, Speaker C: So feel free to leave a comment there. Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about or tweet at merjasonchoy or heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting, and I'll see you in the next episode.
