00:00:03.440 - 00:00:54.898, Speaker A: Hello, everybody again, welcome to the second hour. So, as I promised, I'll first finish the proof of this easy theorem of kirby that class S is compact in the space of analytic functions nd. And for this we'll use mantel. So, we just saw that for each function f, we can find two points which are emitted by the image, and one of them should be on the unicircle. Second one should be on the circle of radius two. Let us consider this standard transform, which would map an to zero and bn to one. Then this an composed with fn would indeed map d two, c minus zero, one infinity.
00:00:54.898 - 00:01:34.394, Speaker A: So the family n of n is normal pymantel. And we can select the convergence subsequence. Nk converges with f and k by passing to even further subsequences. As usual, we can make sure that a and k converges to a and b and k converges to b. And a and b are different numbers, because a lies on the unit circle, b lies on the circle of register. And now a and k converges to the corresponding a. So z minus a divided by b minus a.
00:01:34.394 - 00:02:21.276, Speaker A: And so, from a and k composed with f and k converging to a composed with f, it can take a inverse to see that f and k converges. Five and we are done. So, from every sequence, you can select convergence of sequence. So, in a moment, we'll have a much, much stronger theorem. But I just wanted to show you that it can be done by relatively easy methods, with no computations, no extreme lengths, and so on. Just compactness of class s, which implies that all the gain functionals on s abound. And this.
00:02:21.276 - 00:03:08.044, Speaker A: So the next theorem shouldn't be. The next theorems should not be too surprising. Okay, so the next thing that I want to do, and here I'll start going a bit slower. This is very classical, but much harder theory of Kobe and Biber Bach. So these two people, great mathematicians, not so great people that. Well, the authors of this beautiful theory. Again, I assume that some of you have seen it before, but I, since this is a less standard material, I will go a bit slower.
00:03:08.044 - 00:03:59.814, Speaker A: So, Kobe, Biberbach's area, the first step, well, it can be done differently. I will stick with very classical approach using what is called Gronwald area theorem. I couldn't find a good picture of Gronwald, an english mathematician. If you have it, I would be grateful if you can send it to me. Okay, so suppose that you have a function from class sigma. Then you have this precise inequality sum of n, b minus n squared is less or equal than one. And in a moment, you'll see why this is called area theorem.
00:03:59.814 - 00:04:45.674, Speaker A: So, basically, because equality is reached when area of complement of the image of the outside of the unit disk under the MaPF is equal to zero. Okay, but let's go through this slowly. So, let r be a number which is bigger equals than one. We live outside of the image disk. Remember, omega would be what is not in the image of f of RD. So it's a close set. And gamma r would be its boundary, which is definitely well defined for r bigger than one.
00:04:45.674 - 00:05:40.064, Speaker A: Sometimes this we will see it is defined for r equal to one. But we don't need it by the standard green formulas. Area of omega is, well, just this integral w dw. And then you, you can rewrite it in coordinate form. So remember that this f of array of sigma, this is df dec of ra sigma. And remember this, decompositions at infinity, plug them in. And remember that the integral of.
00:05:40.064 - 00:06:22.844, Speaker A: Okay, so here, print again. Sometimes one node would forget what I write and randomly delete stuff. Sorry about that. But anyway, bipartisan theorem integral f g bar f g is equal to sum of PI, sum of nbn coefficients. So, area of omega. We just again use this formula. This is pr squared minus some and b minus n squared divided by r two to the n.
00:06:22.844 - 00:07:28.804, Speaker A: So, just a green formula plus parcel identity. And now we let r go to zero to see that area of omega one is equal to PI times one minus some nb minus n squared, which would exactly give us this exciting inequality. And equality is achieved when, of course, a of r goes to zero, when area of omega one is equal to zero, as we discussed. Okay, so this is the first precise inequality that we would need. Equality is reached here for many functions, for all functions which map to a complement of something which has zero area, in particular for Zhukovsky function. So, the main thing we'll need from this groundwell theorem is very simple. Estimate b minus one.
00:07:28.804 - 00:08:29.444, Speaker A: The coefficient in front of one over z should be bounded by one, and it's equal to one if and only if f is just shift or rotation of Zhukovsky function z plus one over z. And this is valid. Again, equality should be reached only when all the higher coefficients I equal to zero. And indeed, then what is left is just shift and then rotation of Zhukovsky function. So it is extreme for this case. And let me now state the first distortion theorem, which doesn't seem to be that important, but which would lead to all other distortion theorems, that the second coefficient in the expansion of a function from plus s is bounded by two. Famous theorem of wider Bach.
00:08:29.444 - 00:09:14.364, Speaker A: And as I mentioned many times in this course, already in 1994, the branch finally proved, and I should have a picture of the branch here. So, he finally proved that n is bounded by n. So Kirby function is indeed extreme for them. Okay, so this is the theorem. And as I mentioned, there are many ways to see it. We'll use, since we just proved groundwall, let's use groundwall. More than that, we'll just use this corollary of problem that b inverse is less or equal than one.
00:09:14.364 - 00:10:02.364, Speaker A: And so, let g of z be symmetrization of our function f. So, just a trip, we just see that this is one plus a two over two, z squared plus et cetera, as we know is an s. And now let's take corresponding function from sigma. So, this is the heart of this trick. You don't want to take a function from sigma, which is one over f of one over z. You want to first take symmetrization, then take this. And then easy calculation shows that b minus one coefficient here is a two over two.
00:10:02.364 - 00:10:48.804, Speaker A: Since we know that this has b minus one, which is bounded by one, we immediately get that a two is bounded by two. And again, we know what the extremal functions are, which are. These are one over which. These are the functions which would produce shifts and rotations of Dzhokowski functions. This is just rotations of cubic function. So, we just proved Biber Wach's theorem again using Groenval. That was not difficult.
00:10:48.804 - 00:11:37.334, Speaker A: Let's move on. So, the next is valve. Again, very classical, very well known, but still very important theorem that if f is a function of class s, then quota disk disk of radius one quarter is contained in the image of d. So, all the functions of class s, they cover list of disk of radius one quarter. And this is again exact. And extremal function is again curvy function here, because curvy function, remember, it maps unit disk to the complement of this line from minus one four to minus infinity. The proof is easy.
00:11:37.334 - 00:12:30.474, Speaker A: Take w in f of d. Consider this exciting function, sorry, w naught in fft, of course. So take w, not an f of. Then let us consider this exciting function again. Since w is not enough of d, this thing is never zero. So you start expanding it. It's z plus a two plus one over w squared plus extra terms.
00:12:30.474 - 00:13:59.594, Speaker A: And now, what do you know? You know that this is bounded by two. You know that this is bounded by two both by Biberbach's theorem. So now you derive from this that one over epsilon follow of w is bounded by four. So, which means that w is at least one quarter. That's it. Okay, so again, what we are doing here, we are showing that just by using bibber box area, we were able to show precise bound for this maximum disk, which would be bound, which would be covered by the image of the unit disk. Okay, so now, first corollary of this is that if your map is conformal, then, as I promised you, distance from f of z to d omega would be between one four times f prime of z one minus z squared, and one times this always.
00:13:59.594 - 00:14:55.114, Speaker A: So, this bound we have already established and left hand side. So this bound, take z zero and d. Define this function f of z plus z zero divided by one plus z plus z zero minus f z naught. It's a function in s, of course. So this is just application of this transformation tau transform to this. And so, if w is not in point in f of d, then w minus f of z naught divided by this. So this is bigger than one quarter, right, because g is a function in s.
00:14:55.114 - 00:15:36.384, Speaker A: So, not that I forgot, just again erased it. Of course, to get back the function from s, you need to divide by this, otherwise you are not in s. But now, again, if w is not enough, then you have exactly the same quality. Just plug it in here. The w minus f of z not divided. This should be bigger than one quarter. That's it.
00:15:36.384 - 00:16:38.922, Speaker A: And here we're just. Sorry. Okay, so this is actually a more useful form of curvy theorem. Well, let's curb it together with Schwarz that precisely, distance from the boundary is bounded below by this bounded path by this. And so, another corollary of the corollary. Well, that if phi is now conformal map between two domains, then distance to the boundary divided by phi prime distance from the one to d omega one is between one quarter and four. And so you do, you obtain this by going through the unit disk.
00:16:38.922 - 00:17:54.774, Speaker A: And so you pick up factors one quarter and four here from the previous inequality. So now, using this, we can define quasi hyperbolic metric. Let me rearrange it a little bit so it's easier to see. So, this is another very important object, quasi hyperbolic metric. And so, what we do here, we do the same thing as in hyperbolic metric, but we integrate one over distance to the boundary. And what corollary of curb Ethereum tells us that hyperbolic distance up to a factor of four is equal to quasi hyperbolic distance. And again, quasi hyperbolic distance is much, much easier to understand geometrically.
00:17:54.774 - 00:18:53.534, Speaker A: And this is a remark for those of you who know what Whitney squares are. This says that Whitney squares are kind of almost invariant. So that's what this. Okay, now let us try to move further. And I promise you that there will be universal precise bounds on distortion on the rate of growth of everything. And it starts with the following inequality of Bieber, Bach, that if you have a function now class s and you have z with absolute value, then this construct is not much different than two r squared or one minus r squared. So the difference is bounded by four r of one minus r squared.
00:18:53.534 - 00:19:40.744, Speaker A: And this is very exact. Again, curb a function is your extremal example, and the only extreme example in this business. Okay, so the proof is very easy. You just take this transform tau of xi xi plus z divided by one plus z bar xi, and then look at f tau of xi. Remember, this is a function from s. And then it's very easy to compute what a two is. That's exactly this guy.
00:19:40.744 - 00:21:21.190, Speaker A: So this is one minus absolute value of z squared, f two prime of z over f prime of z minus two z bar. You multiply this inequality by two absolute value of z divided by one minus z squared, and you get exactly this estimate. So again, you just use f tau trick to obtain the nice estimate. Okay, now let's look at what it gives us, what we get here. So let me move it here. So now, why is this useful? Let's observe that the real part of z g prime of z divided by epsilon value of z. This is just the real part of j with respect to r and imaginary part of the same thing.
00:21:21.190 - 00:22:01.206, Speaker A: It's derivative of imaginary part. Okay, no concern here. F two prime over f prime is the derivative log f prime. This actually would be very important in a moment. So, derivative of log f prime over the over the r. So, uh, yes. Okay, so, so this is derivative of the real part.
00:22:01.206 - 00:22:40.294, Speaker A: It's real part of this zero log of prime over z. And so we get that derivative of log. Ah, okay, sorry. There is no, it is not new because I wrote log of absolute value of f prime. So it's real number already. So DDR of log f prime is between this and this. Now what we do, we integrate it from zero to, to get the following precise theorem.
00:22:40.294 - 00:23:40.484, Speaker A: And this is distortion theorem. Also, Pabiber Bach, that derivative at the point z where z is like here, is bounded between one minus r over one plus r cubed and one plus r over one minus r cubed. So we just integrate. Okay. So if we just use, on the other hand, imaginary part, we get this estimate on the derivative of the argument, because imaginary part of the logarithm is argument of, right. So we have this estimates on the imaginary part of the logarithm, and we get this rotation theorem, which is very bad. It's extremely, extremely imprecise.
00:23:40.484 - 00:24:40.870, Speaker A: So this was the first instance of Kobe Biberbach theory not working at all. So the correct precise impression is this argument of f prime is bounded by four arcsine of r when r is less than one quarter, and PI plus log of r squared over one minus r squared when r is bigger than one over square root of two. And the proof actually uses lavender chains. So the proof is much more complicated. Let me quickly just for a moment dwell on why this didn't work, so why we got such an imprecise estimate here. Well, compare this, and this difference is huge. The reason is the following.
00:24:40.870 - 00:25:06.360, Speaker A: It's because kybi function is no longer extreme. It cannot be extreme. Essentially, it does nothing to the argument. All it does, well, it nicely maps real line to real line. It doesn't rotate anything. The extremo here obtained on spirals, actually on maps to the spirals. So that's why you need another theory to do this.
00:25:06.360 - 00:26:23.104, Speaker A: And we'll briefly touch on this area when we talk about Levner maps. Okay, so now let's integrate these inequalities one more time to get what is now a precise theorem growth theorem, that absolute value of f of z is bounded by r over one minus r squared from above, r of one plus r squared from below, to get an estimate from above. Well, you don't do anything. You just integrate our precise bound on the derivative. So let me make it slightly more correct. And you get this bound. And again, this is precise because of the kerb function, but low bound, which is again achieved on the same curvy function.
00:26:23.104 - 00:27:01.964, Speaker A: You need to be a bit more careful. So, let us pick point z zero on the circle of radius r with the smallest value of absolute value of f of the naught. So this is the closest point to the zero. Let us look at the segment from zero to z zero f of z naught. It's subset of f of rd. So now let's take gamma, which is pre image of this segment from zero to f of the. Note, it lies inside of rd.
00:27:01.964 - 00:27:51.754, Speaker A: Let me be very precise here. Again, it's f of z itself. Of course, it lies on rt. So this joins zero to z zero, and so f of z naught it's just integral over f of gamma dw. Now this is integral over gamma f prime of z dz. And this is bounded by this from below, right? So we have to integrate over this gamma. So this is f prime of z is bounded by one minus z over one plus z cubed.
00:27:51.754 - 00:30:09.954, Speaker A: And now we simply. Okay, so here, what I meant to write is from zero to r, right? Because gamma joins somehow zero to z naught. So this is bigger than the same integral from zero to r, and this is exactly r over one plus r squared. Okay, so just this technical trick, because otherwise, if you try to integrate over the line from zero to zero over straight line, you might not get the, you would not get the lower bound on f present, okay? And so yet another theorem which would be very useful to us is that ratio of f prime and f is bounded again precisely by one minus r over r, one plus r below and one plus r over r and one minus r from above. The proof is very similar, but you need to use a tau trick. So, you consider this particular thing which map zero to zero, and then consider ftoxy plugging. C is equal to minus z naught to get z, to get that z f prime of z over f of z is exactly equal to r of one minus r squared f tau minus z.
00:30:09.954 - 00:31:29.014, Speaker A: And then we can use gross theorem to get this bound. Okay, so this is just, again, I wanted to show you this proof to see that sometimes and some of the distortion estimates you need. Okay, so, next sort of distortion theorem will be concerned with the Bloch space. So, this is Andrea Bloch, a french mathematician of very interesting fate. So, all his theorems were proven, and all the incredible spaces that we'll see in a moment were introduced while he was in mental asylum after killing his family. And so, mathematics sometimes will propagate interesting ways. So, this is a very important definition of block norm.
00:31:29.014 - 00:32:39.914, Speaker A: Again, another object, which we'll use a lot. So, for an analytic function b, this is supreme, not of the derivative. So we don't assume the derivative is finite, but the derivative in multiplied by element of quasi hyper hyperbolic metric, one minus z squared b prime of z. So, technically speaking, this is a seminar, because constants have zero norm, but you can add, I don't know, b of zero to make it a norm. And intuitively, block functions with finite block norms. Ellipse maps from hyperbolic metric to euclidean metric. So again, because b is not bounded, but if you multiply it by element of hyperbolic metric, it is bound.
00:32:39.914 - 00:33:50.610, Speaker A: And it's very easy to see that this norm is invariant under automorphisms the unit disk. So this is an easy computation, just because now the morphisms preserve hyperbolic method. And now very important theorem, which would be easy by now, which is due to block, is that if you are in size, then block norm of log f prime is bounded by six. And six is precise, as I like to say. My life would be so, so much easier if instead of six, there would be one. Here, lots of conjectures I work on. My whole life actually would be trivial if it would be one.
00:33:50.610 - 00:34:30.234, Speaker A: But it is six. The proof is easy. So we just use Bieber Bach serum. So we return to first inequality for growth. This inequality, let's apply it here. We simply have that this r f two prime over f prime is bounded by six r over one minus r squared. And again, this is two r squared plus four r.
00:34:30.234 - 00:36:01.634, Speaker A: The rate is generous with replacement always six r. But it turns out, again, to be precise, and why I mentioned that my life would be easier, because there is a univalence criterion, which we wouldn't prove. Now that if you have an analytic function with non zero derivative and block norm of derivative bounded by one, then f itself is unimaginable. So there is this factor of six, right? So it's necessary to be, for your block norm to be bounded by six for the log derivative, it's sufficient to be bounded by one. And just a restatement of this theorem, very important is that f prime of z one over f prime of z two, it's bounded by hyperbolic distance between the one and the two for any map in Afd, which is conformal. And again, here, this is actually not needed, because, of course, shifts of f, let me actually erase it. Shift of shifts of f don't affect.
00:36:01.634 - 00:37:07.124, Speaker A: So how do I know this again? Because. Because you can integrate this bound over the interval from z one to z two. And, sorry, over hyperbolic jedi, from z one to z two. On one hand you get hyperbolic distance, on the other hand you get difference of log f prime. You take exponent and you get this. Okay, any questions here? So, again, the main takeaways from this part are the following. That we have precise distortion bounds on the functions from class s, and some distortion bounds on functions of class sigma.
00:37:07.124 - 00:38:06.184, Speaker A: And that there is this very important Bloch norm, which essentially Bloch theorem, or tells us that on each hyperbolic disc radius derivative, cannot change much multiplicatively. So you can jump up or down only by a fixed factor. Okay, so now let us move on to another very classical subject. And this is Carassa Doric convergence. So we'll talk about geometric characterization of convergence on s. And surprisingly, there was a relatively recent development here to this classical thing. I will mention it.
00:38:06.184 - 00:40:06.184, Speaker A: Okay, so let omega n be a sequence of simply connected domains, all of them containing some reference point w zero. The kernel of this sequence with respect to w naught is what? It's the point w naught itself together with union of all w's such that you can find domain which is subset of all omega for light chain, and which contain both w naught and w. So essentially kernel consists of point w naught itself and all the points of view which you can join to w naught by open subsets which are in all the domains. So it's very easy to, well, so if there are no such w's, of course, kernels, just point w naught. Otherwise, it's very easy to see that this kernel is a domain which contains w naught, and we denote this domain bar omega. Now, the first definition of crossed convergence looks totally, totally contrative. And so this is kernel convergence.
00:40:06.184 - 00:41:14.244, Speaker A: We say that this sequence omega n w naught converges in kernel sense to omega w naught if for every subsequence, kernel of the subsequence is still omega. So kernel of subsequence, of course, is large because you have to be subset of less domains. But you converge on kernel sense if by taking the subsequence you cannot make the limit larger. So this is definition of kernel conversions. And so one of the important examples is the following situation. Suppose that you have monotone sequence, monotone increasing, decreasing as a sequence, and omega is a component of the interior containing w naught. So you take interior of the intersection.
00:41:14.244 - 00:42:41.344, Speaker A: Then I claim that omega and kernel converges to omega if omega is not empty, and if omega is empty, then omega kernel converges to just w naught. Okay, so this what kernel convergence is. So first, let us observe that by montanicity, this thing that I discussed, that kernel of subsequence could be bigger than kernel of sequence. That's not relevant here, because kernel of subsequence is again the same as kernel of the whole sequence. Because by monotonicity, if you contain in all the members of the subsequence, you contain it and all the members of sequence. So we need to show that this guy is a kernel of our sequence. First of all, it's very easy to see that omega is subset of the kernel because you can always take h this h.
00:42:41.344 - 00:43:26.014, Speaker A: Remember to be just omega. It's good at subset of everything. On the other hand, if your guy is in kernel, then you can find h which is subset of all omega. Here again, if you subset of one omega, you subset of all small ends by monotonicity. So h is subset of intersection of omega, h is open double. You notice in h it means that h is subset of omega, so w belongs to omega. If w is in the kernel, then since any side h is subset of omega, we are done.
00:43:26.014 - 00:44:41.714, Speaker A: Okay, so let me just show two examples here. So let me start with this very classical thing. So we look at this domain home again, which is completely explained minus this lines to minus one over n and from one over n to infinity. Then what happens is the following ohm again with respect to I, it converges to the upper half plane. Think about it. The points which are you cannot join I by an open set. Do anything below because eventually any open set would be squeezed by these two intervals.
00:44:41.714 - 00:45:49.994, Speaker A: But you can obviously join to anything above. Or you can just use our discussion by these guys form again with respect to minus I, they would converge to the lower half plane again by our discussion, because the component of the intersection would be lower half plane. Okay, now let us look at this picture, which is very similar. Ohm, again with w one would converge to this disk centered on w one or this component. Ohm, again with respect to w two would converge to this disk centered with w two. So reference point is very important. That's the point of these two examples.
00:45:49.994 - 00:46:35.378, Speaker A: Again you take the interest. So, just to explain, so these two domains, they were decreasing and we were just decreasing the size of this bridge, the width of the bridge. So at the end step is 100. Okay, so this is kernel convergence. Now the next definition, in my opinion, is much easier to swallow. So, and this is the following. So suppose that omega and kernel converges to omega and you have a point as usual.
00:46:35.378 - 00:47:31.834, Speaker A: So it's all respect to this point w naught. Then this happens if and only if the following two conditions are satisfied. First, for every compact k in omega, k is subset of omega, n for every n bigger than n. So every compact k would be eventually swallowed by omega. And second, for every point of the boundary, the exist point, you can find the sequence of points from the boundaries of omega such that cn converts to c. So two can be of course restated as distance from c to boundary of one, gain tends to zero for every c in the boundary of omega. Okay, so let us at least start proving equivalency.
00:47:31.834 - 00:49:10.514, Speaker A: So let us first prove that kernel convergence implies conditions one and two. So suppose that omega n kernel converts to k to omega and k is compact subset of omega. So what does it mean? It means that for every x and k there exists hk domain such that x belongs to hk and hk, remember, joins this, sorry, no, it's hk and w node belongs to hx. Now hx bound k, so k is compact, so we can select finitely many of them, and the subset omega for large enough omega, which means that k is indeed enormous n, so k subset of omega, k subset of omega n for Latin Africa. Now so we don't. So this implies condition one. Now condition two that for every c in the boundary we have a sequence.
00:49:10.514 - 00:50:12.830, Speaker A: Assume that there is no such sequence. So then there exists subsequence and k and some epsilon that b of c epsilon doesn't intersect the boundary of omega and k. Now take any w which is in this disk, intersect with omega. Omega is kernel, so w is subset of h, subset of omega n for large n. But it means that h union with b of c epsilon is connected open set, so it's subset of omega and k for large k. So c belongs to kernel of omega n k, but it means that kernel of omega nk is not the same as kernel of omega n, which was omega. Because C did not belong to kernel omega n, it was in fact the boundary.
00:50:12.830 - 00:50:24.284, Speaker A: So we get a contradiction and we'll prove the other direction after we return from break. So we'll recommend at noon Toronto time. Thank you.
