00:00:04.890 - 00:00:39.954, Speaker A: What up? Coordination. How you doing? This is an episode I've been planning for months now. It is an episode about solar punk and Lunar punk, and I am joined by my friend Manu Alzuru, who is the founder at doing Good, a community driven art marketplace representing the solar punk perspective of the Ethereum community. The other guest on this episode is Rachel Rose O'Leary, who is a coder at Darkfi and was the lead tech writer for Coindesk in 2017 and 2018, covering privacy tech and Ethereum. She has a background in digital art and philosophy. It's been writing about crypto since 2015. She is representing Lunar punk.
00:00:39.954 - 00:01:32.034, Speaker A: What are solar and lunar punk? Solar punk is an art movement that imagines a world in which we've solved our contemporary problems with sustainability. It's kind of a high future, high utopian type of art movement. And basically, how can we use web3 to build more public goods and build systems that are good for the world? Lunar punk is. Well, you'll have to hear it from Rachel, since I think Rachel Rose, who I think is much more articulate in saying it than me, but a more privacy centric bent on coordination. So when the moon comes up and the lights go down on solar punk, the lunar punks come out. And there was a big stir that happened in the crypto community about two or three months ago in which Darkfi released this video about lunar punk and the dark side of the cycle. It kind of went viral and provoked people into talking about, how do we build public good systems that are more privacy preserving.
00:01:32.034 - 00:02:09.746, Speaker A: So this was a debate that kind of blew up over the summer on Twitter, solarpunk and Lunar punk. And that's why I wanted to do an episode on it. I wanted to see where could we synthesize solarpunk and lunar punk, and how is the two communities building in the same direction versus in different directions? And are they directionally the same? When you zoom out and you look at the fiat industrial system, do solar and lunar punks really have that much in common or that much apart? And I was hoping to tease that out in this episode. I think that trying to reduce these movements into two or three people. Rachel Rosaleri, representing the solar punks. Manu representing the solar punk. Solar punks, sorry.
00:02:09.746 - 00:03:01.446, Speaker A: Rachel Rosaleri, representing the lunar punks, and Manu, representing the solar punks, that's reductionist. These are just one or two people in each of these movements. But I do think that it's a good debate that we had in this episode, and it's kind of one of my favorite ones that we've done because Mano and Rachel Rose are just really articulate and they're both very earnest in approaching this conversation with each other. So really good green pill episode this entire week we're going to be doing episodes on solar punk, lunar punk, cypherpunk, terrapunk, and so I've got a special three week episode coming at you this week in which we're going to talk about how web3 is all those different types of punks. And what does that even mean to say that web3 is solar punk or web3 is solar punk? Aren't these things all just mirrors in which we can reflect our own values? We can now program our values into our money. So what kind of monetary systems will we build? And so this is a really fun streak of episodes I got planned for you this week. I hope that you enjoy it.
00:03:01.446 - 00:03:07.286, Speaker A: Coordination without further ado, I'll give you Manu and Rachel Rose. Peace working in web3 is awesome.
00:03:07.388 - 00:03:45.298, Speaker B: It's freeing, powerful and so much fun. But working outside of the typical w two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best, their work while managing the back end for them. There is a lot of nation state overhead when working in web3, and Opolis takes care of all of the back end stuff, freeing you up to do what you do best. Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. So do what you love and maintain your financial security. With Opolis, you must be authorized to work in the United States to receive Opolis benefits.
00:03:45.298 - 00:04:41.558, Speaker B: But Opelis is expanding its services to Canada starting on January 1, 2023. So book a 30 minutes consultation with the Opolis experts and join Opolis by December 31 of 2022 and get 1000 work tokens and 1000 bank tokens when you sign up. So go to connect Opolis co bankless to get started Goldfinch is a decentralized credit protocol with a mission to connect the world's capital to the world's growth. Goldfinch focuses on real yields from real companies, so start lending your USDC to real businesses, driving growth worldwide. Goldfinch's borrowers are proven fintechs and credit funds in emerging markets who need access to Goldfinch's capital to drive economic growth in regions faced with barriers to financial access. In just under two years, Goldfinch has loaned over 100 million USDC, reaching over a million people and businesses across 28 countries. Goldfinch is doing what DFI was always meant to do, expanding financial access to those who have historically been shut out of the tradfi system.
00:04:41.558 - 00:05:00.874, Speaker B: So become a Goldfinch member to put your USDT to work empowering real businesses growth. Join Goldfinch's new member vaults to be an active investor and take part in supporting Goldfinch's security and expansion. Receive yield enhancements generated by protocol revenue plus access, exclusive communication channels and more. So go to Goldfinch finance to get.
00:05:01.072 - 00:05:01.674, Speaker A: All right.
00:05:01.712 - 00:05:01.779, Speaker C: Hey.
00:05:01.779 - 00:05:28.680, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. Really excited for this episode. This episode is going to be about lunar punk and solar punk. Two different visual art styles and value systems that describe where Ethereum and web3 and blockchain distributed systems could go in the future. And I would love to start with an intro of you, Manu, and the work that you do. Let's maybe stick for like 30 seconds or less intros, and then we'll really get into it.
00:05:29.050 - 00:05:29.750, Speaker D: Sure.
00:05:29.900 - 00:05:30.754, Speaker C: I'm Manu.
00:05:30.802 - 00:05:48.998, Speaker D: I'm originally from Venezuela, even though I don't believe in imaginary lines. And I'm an engineer by studies, and I've been working in the tech industry for the last, I don't know, 19 years, 20 years, more or less. And I'm also one of the founders of doing good and been participating in multiple dows.
00:05:49.174 - 00:05:51.680, Speaker A: Amazing. Rose, do you want to go next?
00:05:52.530 - 00:06:26.870, Speaker E: Sure. So I'm Rose, also known as Rachel Rose. I'm a programmer and I work on an anonymous layer one for programmable anonymous smart contracts called Darkfi. And I've been in crypto for a number of years. Before then I was in art and philosophy, and I think I try to synthesize these paths in the thinking that I've been doing around lunar punk.
00:06:27.530 - 00:06:40.700, Speaker A: Amazing. So great to have you both here. I would love to talk next about Solarpunk and how we define Solarpunk. And then I would love to get into lunar punk from there. Manny, you want to tee us off?
00:06:41.170 - 00:07:17.270, Speaker D: Yeah, for sure. Solarpunk is a movement that combines sustainability, energy, technology, and the organic. It's really focused in the collectivism, also focusing social justice. And it has aesthetic and political movement that imagines how the future can be using, let's say, green energies, and also imagining a world that is collaborating in different social ideas and excess.
00:07:20.510 - 00:07:21.194, Speaker C: Because of.
00:07:21.232 - 00:07:52.660, Speaker D: What we're currently living with, late stage capitalism. And yeah, the solar punk movement believes that humanity and nature can thrive together and we can coexist and basically create environments that includes everyone. The solar punk movement also offers positive and kind of like an optimistic view of the world. And yeah, that's basically the summary of what Solarpunk means to me.
00:07:53.590 - 00:08:15.820, Speaker A: Amazing. Rose, you've published, or I think people that are associated with Darkfi have published, a video about lunar punk and the dark side of the cycle, which I think defines lunar punk as aesthetic movement and an ideology. And also, I guess, has some criticisms of Solarpunk. And I'm wondering if you can unpack those for us here.
00:08:18.670 - 00:09:28.610, Speaker E: Definitely. So on Solarpunk, I just want to briefly comment. There's a reason why we as Darkfi, have started to kind of tap into the punk meme plex. And it's because that I think there's something very valuable happening in the emergence of the solar punk meme within Ethereum and Web three, which is, I see it as an effort of the Ethereum community to define a vision for where they're going and where they want to go within their software. So I think that's a really positive thing. It's a bottom up emergent ideology or set of practices that is motivating Ethereum and providing it with a direction which I think is really valuable. So where lunar punk comes in is basically something that I've been thinking about for a number of years, because in 2018, I was going to a lot of Ethereum conferences, I was the lead Ethereum writer for Coindesk.
00:09:28.610 - 00:10:50.682, Speaker E: And I became increasingly disturbed by the emphasis on transparency, which is seen as a solar punk principle that underpins a lot of the design choices, meaning there's an emphasis and an effort to make transparent systems within the Solarpunk design paradigm. So I saw a lot of this at the ETH conferences, but I found that it became very difficult to distinguish between things that are transparent for reasons like, let's coordinate around social goods in a way that can hold people accountable. And another kinds of transparency, which is very prevalent in big tech, which is surveillance. So these two kind of tendencies of technology, the tendency of transparency and the surveillance tendency, were combining themselves in Ethereum. And it's not just Ethereum. Bitcoin also made a very big mistake in its early days by turning away from privacy and anonymity and putting the emphasis on scaling. It's a common mistake, but Ethereum made it as well.
00:10:50.682 - 00:11:55.230, Speaker E: And it's had these huge ramifications on the kind of tools that are used on Ethereum. And it also means that even if Ethereum is solar punk and it has these ideological tendencies, and it has goodwill, and it wants to do something positive for society, even if it has those intentions. The fact, the reality of the software it's making is creating an environment that is leaving its users vulnerable to exploitation by big tech and surveillance, the surveillance state and system. So that's something that really bothered me very early on in my interaction with Ethereum. So people were defining themselves as soda punk. I said that Lunar punk is a much better framework, and so that's kind of where we're coming from. And it was then in the last year or so, that I started to write these ideas, but lunar punk isn't existing.
00:11:55.230 - 00:12:23.980, Speaker E: Sorry, I'll let Manu talk. But Lunar Punk has existed before this article. I didn't arrive at it by myself, although I did arrive at it independently of the other kind of sides to lunar punk. So I would say my version of Lunar Punk is quite singular and it's quite specific. But we can talk a little bit about what is that version versus the other versions. But I'll let Manu chime in.
00:12:26.710 - 00:13:03.390, Speaker D: Yeah, I just wanted to say that the idea that Solarpunk is only focusing transparency, and I think it's just a narrative that is being used to create this separation between these two groups. I personally haven't seen anywhere that it says that solar punks are not, let's say, a group of people that care about privacy. I myself have been calling myself a solar punk based on the optimism side and not based on if something is private or not private.
00:13:04.210 - 00:13:06.254, Speaker C: And I'm saying, as a Venezuelan that.
00:13:06.292 - 00:13:34.860, Speaker D: Used to fight the government back in Venezuela, and I had to have myself, because the world government was spying on WhatsApp and spying on all the different social media apps. So, yeah, I think it's currently more a narrative than the reality of what solar punks are, I think. But maybe I'm calling myself solar punk without knowing the whole definition of the solar punk, then.
00:13:37.390 - 00:14:26.460, Speaker A: I would say that I think that it's very reductionist to try to collapse a lot of these memes down into one words, and maybe they mean or one word each, and maybe they mean different things to different people. But I do think that Ethereum and bitcoin, having transparency at the base layer, and zk technology sort of being developed on top of these things, but only in an opt in basis, has maybe been what's been the real driving wedge of the differences between the, you know. Rachel Rose, I'm wondering if we could go into your work at Darkfi, and it seems like you're building a layer, one that has privacy baked in at the base layer. Hopefully I didn't misstate that. But I'm curious if you think that's the wedge and tell us about what you're building with.
00:14:29.070 - 00:16:03.800, Speaker E: And, you know, I just want to remark also that I'm happy that Manny brought up his experience in Venezuela as being something which made him conscious of the importance of privacy. Because I do think that this is an aspect, and don't see this as an attack against solarpunk necessarily, but perhaps it is an attack on Ethereum, where I do think that there's a lot of people in Ethereum who forget the privacy aspect, deprioritize it. And it's because they haven't had those life experiences in conflict scenarios or at war with the government that have led them to realize that the privacy is actually something that's essential to safety and survival. It's something very key. But in terms of, you know, you made this remark, Kevin, which I think is good, about the basis of the solar punk systems such as Ethereum and bitcoin as being a transparent layer and then having opt in ZK infrastructure on top of that. And so what I would say the lunar punk design choice is to have anonymity and privacy at the base layer and then having transparency as an optional thing that can be configured in extreme cases where transparency is considered necessary, but it's not the default. It's like an extreme case.
00:16:03.800 - 00:17:24.386, Speaker E: So I think that's a really important distinction. I see it as a correction of the current paradigm, because it used to be believed that this paradigm of transparent base layer zk kind of sub layers or L2s, et cetera, that this would work. But since tornado cache, we've seen that if you have anonymous systems. Oh, no, if you have anonymous systems tacked on top of transparent systems, it's a recipe for censorship issues. So on Ethereum, you can censor those contracts on a L2. Currently, they're all using centralized sequencers, which means that any activity on the L2, if it's anonymous, can be easily censored by the sequencer or in the same way as they censor tornado cash by censoring the contract. So that's why darkfight is taking the approach of anonymous base layer optional privacy in the extreme case, I just want to say also, the flag I really wanted to show you guys is common naman, the women's association, which fought in the irish independence movement back in the 20s.
00:17:24.386 - 00:17:25.620, Speaker E: But yeah, go on.
00:17:26.390 - 00:17:44.940, Speaker A: Beautiful. I'm wondering if we could actually talk about some object level examples of where privacy is important. I think that might be important to ground the listener in something relatable. And I think that you each have your own version of that. So maybe manu start with you.
00:17:45.790 - 00:18:51.200, Speaker D: Yeah, sure. Something private is something that you don't want to make it public to the whole world, and it doesn't mean that it's secret. Secret means that you don't want anyone to know of it. Something private will be, for example, the communication that I was having with my friends when we were, let's say, creating some protests against the government back in Venezuela. We will communicate in a private manner. Some of my friends, they had radios for airplanes, so we would use those radios for airplanes in different frequencies to communicate between us in town, because we knew where the police was coming and where, let's say, the National Guard was coming and attacking us. At the very beginning, when we started protesting, it was, let's say, very peaceful, only with writings claiming what we wanted.
00:18:51.200 - 00:19:31.690, Speaker D: But then it started to become more and more dangerous. Like, the first time, it was peaceful. The second time, the police or the National Guard came and started shooting rubber bullets at us. The third time, you're kind of, like, already prepared. The fourth time, you are already communicating between the people that you consider, let's say, align with your values. So in that specific scenario, we were using privacy and not secrecy. We were using a privacy in order to protect ourselves against the government and against, let's say, force.
00:19:31.690 - 00:21:48.998, Speaker D: So, yeah, that was, let's say, an example of how we use, let's say, private networks to communicate between us in order to coordinate and in order to protect ourselves as well. And when I say to coordinate, I will say in order to, let's say, decide where we were going to be protesting at what time and how we were going to be dressed, what signals we were going to be having on top of us in order to show to the same side of our team that we were part of them. So, yeah, I think privacy can be used in order to protect, but also in order to strategize against those that are, let's say, using force, using force to impose their views and impose their laws, let's say, in the digital space, we were also trying to use private channels to communicate, but most of it was related to communication and not related to transactions, because at the time, there was no blockchains, there was nothing like that. But, yeah, there's more things that I'm starting to identify why privacy is also important at the transaction layer. And we can see it with what happened with, let's say, with tornado cash, for example. There's a lot of people that are using tornado cash for good reasons, in order to protect themselves, in order to protect also their families, and in order to, let's say, transact without having someone spying on them. But also there is the other side, which is most of the, let's say, narrative that is being used, that is being used for laundering money and so on.
00:21:48.998 - 00:22:11.630, Speaker D: But then the people that are saying these type of things, they forget what are the currencies that are being used for doing that. Us dollar is the currency that is being used the most for transacting with drugs, for human trafficking, and for all of these other things that goes against humanity. So, yeah, that's my perspective.
00:22:12.290 - 00:22:22.978, Speaker A: Thanks so much, Manu Rose. Would love to hear examples of where you think privacy is important. It may be obvious, but would love to just get them out there so that the audience can relate to them.
00:22:23.144 - 00:23:44.330, Speaker E: Before I go into the concrete example, I just want to talk a little bit about how privacy is framed by these communities. And I think, especially from the cypherpunk community, it's often framed in a negative sense, as that it protects you. It's a freedom from coercion or violence from the state. So privacy enables that, I would say, see privacy in a positive, affirmative sense, that privacy is what enables people to define their own destinies. So it labels political self determination. So, to illustrate that point, in 2019, I spent some time in Syria, in the north of Syria, the kurdish region, where is the Rojava revolution, which is an experiment in building a society without any kind of nation state. And it was inspired by the writings of Abdullah, that is a writer who's heavily influenced lunar punk in various capacities.
00:23:44.330 - 00:24:34.890, Speaker E: So Rojaba was an interesting example, because it's a place where there's very poor privacy. So the communication systems go through enemy territories, so there's unencrypted data cables that pass through various enemy territories that can be easily intercepted. So from a communication standpoint, the privacy is very weak. From a financial standpoint, the privacy is not too bad. It's an agricultural region, historically very subjugated. They don't have any banks. What they do have is a system of trust based credit called the Bahala network that you can use to send cash around pretty anonymously.
00:24:34.890 - 00:26:11.260, Speaker E: So it's interesting because while I was there, we were discussing with people to bring cryptocurrency to that region, because philosophically, ideologically, there's a lot of alignment. But we were faced with the fact that in cryptocurrency today, the use of those systems would actually reduce the overall financial privacy of the people. So all that to say that I think that privacy is essential because of the fact that it enables a big degree, it enables sovereignty and autonomy. I actually believe that sovereignty is impossible in a state of surveillance, because surveillance is what it removes, our capacity to implement our own moral and political destinies, which is to say, our ability to determine our own politics. So privacy is a necessary precondition for that. But in our current kind of blockchain paradigm, we haven't built that in. So the systems that we do have, they expose their participants, and they mean that anyone who's using those systems is vulnerable to surveillance, and therefore, massively the space of activity that they can take.
00:26:11.260 - 00:27:11.050, Speaker E: Earlier this year, we raised 50 million as part of the Assange Dow. And the mission of the Dow was to free Assange by all means necessary and available. That was our core mission statement. However, we raised all this money, and because of the fact that we are on Ethereum and all of the actions of the Dow is known, and all of the people on the Dow is known, everyone who donated is known. The multisig holders are pretty much known, or could be because of all these factors, we were very limited in terms of how we could deploy that capital. So this is something which darkfire has been working on a lot. We have created a prototype now for anonymous dows because we believe that privacy is really what's going to enable crypto to take up its political destiny and become a true force of power against the surveillance.
00:27:12.610 - 00:28:01.102, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Rose. Yeah, and I'll just share an object level example from my experience being involved in Gitcoin, which is that there was a Ukraine round on Gitcoin grants in which people could support causes related to the war effort in Ukraine, non military causes, and I think know creating a blockchain based mission of supporting Ukraine could harm you if you were ever going to Russia one day, or anyone who's an adversary of Ukraine. And so I've been really a big fan of Oren McMillan and the Macy and CLR fund teams because they built a quadratic funding tool that has privacy baked into it. So shout out to CLR fund and to Barry Whitehat of the Macy team. I think they're doing really good work on that.
00:28:01.236 - 00:28:49.254, Speaker B: The world has woken up to Refi, and Celo is here for it. Celo is the layer one for the regenerative finance movement. It's fast, planet positive, and built for the real world. Celo has committed to producing a sustainable future from day one and has built its technology around one of the lowest carbon impact consensus mechanisms and is the world's first carbon negative EVM compatible layer. One blockchain, Celo is a movement to create the conditions of prosperity for everyone, whether it's tokenizing carbon credits with toucan, providing capital to underserved communities with unicorn, or building for millions of users around the globe, Cello was created to transform crypto enthusiasts into a movement of change makers. Follow along on twitter@cello.org to learn more about how Celo is accelerating Refi for a positive, lasting impact on people, communities and the planet.
00:28:49.254 - 00:29:47.550, Speaker B: And if you're a builder interested in Refi, be sure to join the build with sello Hackathon Live now with a prize pool of over $100,000, Coinshift is a leading treasury management and infrastructure platform for dows and crypto businesses that need to manage their treasury operations. Every Crypto.org needs to manage its treasury, and Coinshift offers a simple, flexible and efficient multi chain treasury management platform built on top of the highly secure gnosis safe. With Coinshift, your organization can go from primitive single chain treasury management to expressive, flexible and multi chain treasury features such as global user management, global contacts, proposal management, and many other features that can be shared across an entire organization, allowing users to save time and reduce operational burdens and gas costs. Coinshift even has data tools like account reporting across the seven chains on which it operates. Used by industry powerhouses such as uniswap grants, balancer consensus, and Masari, coinshift is speeding up the coordination and efficiency of the organizations that use it. You have to keep up with the frontier, and coinshift makes that easy.
00:29:47.550 - 00:29:50.730, Speaker B: So sign up at coinshift, XYZ slash bankless.
00:29:50.810 - 00:30:10.120, Speaker A: I guess I'd like to know from both of you, do you think that someone can be both solar punk and lunar punk? Is it a different of art aesthetics? Is it a difference of defaults? Can someone be solar punk or solar punk and lunar punk at the same time? Manu, I guess I'll go to you first.
00:30:11.370 - 00:31:27.280, Speaker C: Well, if we define solar punk as, let's say, as people that want transparency, and if we define lunar punk as people that want privacy, I believe that Jess. I believe that I'm both, because I do care about privacy, but I do also care about having public infrastructure, transparent infrastructure when it comes to, let's say, things that should be public, which is like government making decisions, government spending funds, government also receiving money as well, who is actually coordinating and making the decisions on how that money needs to be distributed. I think that needs to be transparent. But I also believe we need to have a lot of tools that can enable us to preserve our privacy so we can, let's say, communicate our ideas and also create new forms that might not be necessarily allowed by, let's say, governments. So, yeah, I believe that. Yes, that's the answer for me.
00:31:27.890 - 00:31:29.860, Speaker A: Rose, same question to you.
00:31:30.630 - 00:32:46.426, Speaker E: Yeah, definitely. So I mentioned before that I think there's a lot of definitions going on here, and there's various branches of solar punk, as there are branches of lunar punk. And I happen to represent a branch of lunar punk, which I believe is the true branch. But obviously, it's easy to say that. But the branch of solar, of lunar punk that I am on and that my community is on has a very clear kind of definition, which is that it's a kind of revolutionary science fiction. So, in the same way that solar punk is about using tactics such as speculation to imagine a future, which is a very clear critique of what we call state based society. So it has a definition of what the state is, and it tries to define a way forward outside the state.
00:32:46.426 - 00:33:53.342, Speaker E: So the state, as understood by lunar punks, it's largely influenced by Ochlan, and this is a prototype of civilization thousand years ago. It's a civilizational form that has lived for 5000 years. At various points, it's kind of become the dominant civilizational paradigm, and other kinds of civilization, democratic civilization, have been repressed. So at the moment of time that we're in, we have state based civilization at its most extreme, and it's kind of combined with technology, and it's combined with capitalism to become immensely powerful. And essentially, we define the state as a system of hierarchy in which the value that's created by society is taken away from them and used to fuel the state. So it's a process of extracting the value created by society and storing it away in the state. So that's a definition of the state that lunar punks have.
00:33:53.342 - 00:34:56.590, Speaker E: And lunar punks are also very interested in what we call moral, political society, which is the kind of societies that we can create outside the state, which is what lunar punks refer to as the external orientation of lunar punk. So, lunar punks, our symbol is the moon. This is something outside our frame of reference. It has, like, an external celestial quality. And so this is very core to the lunar punk framework, because it's about how do we use speculation and tactics like speculation to navigate our way towards an outside, beyond the restrictive framework placed on us by state based civilization. So that's why we have science fiction. That's why we have these kind of alien inhabitants, because the alien is a symbol of trying to bypass that cultural impasse.
00:34:56.590 - 00:36:05.222, Speaker E: Whereas with solar punk, I think that the core issue that I have with Solarpunk is that it doesn't share the same analysis that we have as lunar punks of the state. So it risks replicating state based society and state based behaviors inside of its systems. So one evidence of that would be like, let's make everything transparent, for example, but also more deeply, the emphasis on the sun. The sun historically has always been a symbol of domination, of monopoly. Just like, for example, think of the coincidence between polytheism and decentralized environments like forests, oceans, mountains. There's a kind of a confluence between geography and spirituality, where we see more polytheist societies emerging in these landscapes with diverse terrains. Whereas monotheism is something that emerges in a desert landscape.
00:36:05.222 - 00:36:32.222, Speaker E: So it's this kind of combination of collision of the desert and God and man and submission to God. I see that. For me, there's an evidence that solarpunk hasn't fully share our analysis, and it doesn't share our critique of the state. And the evidence of this is in its relationship to the sun that it upholds as a central symbol.
00:36:32.366 - 00:37:19.682, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that a lot of people don't know what a state means because they haven't experienced it themselves. And it's because lack of knowledge, rather than they want the state. But it's more lack of knowledge in my perspective. Also, in my humble opinion, I think that the sun is not necessarily just a symbol of totalitarianism. As you mentioned, polytheism. Within the Aztecs and the Mayans, they actually used the sun as a form of God, but they had also multiple forms of God. So I think that we cannot completely say that one thing is blight or white completely.
00:37:19.682 - 00:37:26.770, Speaker C: It's just a spectrum, and we just need to find ourselves within the spectrum. But that's, again, my personal opinion.
00:37:27.430 - 00:38:17.326, Speaker E: Yeah, I agree. And I think that someone made the point in one of the discussions that solar and lunar punk are like two aspects of the one mind. And I do think that there's something very essential and integral about dualism. If you look at ancient egyptian myth, often gods, they have counterparts. So if you got one God, you always have a counterpart to kind of balance it out. So this, like, balance and harmony was considered, like, the important thing. Also in psychology, this has a big resonance, because one definition of madness is when the mind goes too far down one extreme and it loses its counterbalance.
00:38:17.326 - 00:39:28.986, Speaker E: And so the other side of the mind, which has been forgotten, takes over, and the mind descends into madness. And I do see that the lunar punk insurrection inside of Ethereum now as, like, a form of psychosis that's overwhelming the kind of meme plex, because of the fact that the solar punks have gone too far in one direction, and they've lost touch with this counterbalance in the form of privacy. But not just privacy, but the lunar punk disposition, which, in general, which is more kind of attuned to the reality of conflict, it's more inherently revolutionary, I would say it's more willing to. But again, to say, I say revolutionary. The Ludapunks define the kind of revolutionary activity as restoring the moral and political fabric of society. So restoring the social fabric and the social nature. That's what I'll say about that.
00:39:29.168 - 00:39:30.214, Speaker A: Go ahead, Manny.
00:39:30.342 - 00:40:36.030, Speaker C: I think that that's probably the difference between, let's say, what I consider lunar punk and solar punk and why is because there is, like, this conflict between these two ideas. But as you said in the lunar punk, you see yourself as more as a revolutionary, and I personally see myself as a more as an evolutionary type of person, because I believe that revolution means conflict, means fight, means war, means all of that. And I don't want to live in a world like that, because I have already experienced that, and it's really nasty. It doesn't put first humans. It puts first ideas against humans. So, yeah, to me, let's say the solar punk type of experience is more evolutionary, more guided to evolve and not necessarily create conflict.
00:40:36.530 - 00:41:20.762, Speaker E: I just wanted to say that I totally agree that war is abhorrent and is a terrible thing, and there's very little good about war. But the distinction I would make is, I would say that we are already in war. We are already at war, and society at large is under siege. And unfortunately, this is the issue that I have with a lot of crypto is that we're very sheltered from this in the west. And I think a lot of the people who interact with crypto are very sheltered from this. But actually, the world is in a state of war. It's in a state of cris and a state of conflict.
00:41:20.762 - 00:41:57.930, Speaker E: So, for me, it's not enough to simply will it to improve. So it's not enough to will it to improve. We have to consciously engage with this, but also evolution, I just wanted to remark, is a violent process. Evolution is not a gradual continuum, but something that happens and fits and bursts, punctuated equilibria. So even evolution itself is in a state of conflict.
00:41:59.390 - 00:43:08.438, Speaker C: I agree that we are in a state of, let's say, war in a world right now. But what I wanted to say, or what I was saying before, is that I don't want to live my daily life in a state of mind of war. Why? Because I have already lived that, and it's not healthy, at least for myself. And I'm not saying that the people shouldn't be doing it or people shouldn't be thinking about it. But for my own, let's say, well being, I cannot be in a state of mind where I'm only focusing my attention in war. I want to focus my attention in other aspects, like love, like compassion. And we have seen, let's say, different, let's say, activists in the world that have used conflict and that have used, let's say, peace as a form of protest.
00:43:08.438 - 00:43:44.570, Speaker C: And we have seen that it's possible to also resolve our problems using love and using, let's say, peace and actually elevating people to a higher consciousness level. That's my personal opinion, and I personally have seen that it can work, but it requires a lot of work and a lot of, let's say, willingness.
00:43:46.610 - 00:43:47.070, Speaker A: To.
00:43:47.140 - 00:43:55.600, Speaker C: Not, let's say, the forces basically make you what you are trying to fight against.
00:43:58.130 - 00:44:36.354, Speaker E: So there's something I definitely agree with you on there, which is about. I described the current situation as society as being in a state of war. And you said, I don't want to live mentally in a state of war. And I think that's a good point, because I've also lived in warlike scenarios. When I was in Rojava, we were waiting. The reason why I went over was because Erdogan said he was going to invade. And this was different to, at the time, Kurds had been at war with ISIS, and Verjava had been gaining a lot of territory.
00:44:36.354 - 00:45:31.226, Speaker E: It had been mostly winning the war against ISIS. Very different kind of war, though, between asymmetric warfare with a guerrilla army like ISIS and the kind of war that you would have against a nation state like Turkey. So Erdogan was saying he's going to come in, he's going to fill the sky with drones. Turkey has the most advanced drone warfare in the planet, in my view. So he was going to fill this guy with drones because we felt that Rojava was a place that was worth protecting because of the fact that it was trying to use a lot of these principles, like we have in crypto, decentralization of freedom and self determination, and put those ideas into practice. In a political way, in a political system. So we said, that's worth protecting.
00:45:31.226 - 00:46:14.540, Speaker E: We went over, and the whole time that I was there, the invasion did not happen. But every day there was something new in the news, like, the tanks are lining up on the borders, like, oh, there was an airstrike or there was a car bomb, or just like, something always sneaking in at the periphery. This constant pressure. And this is a form of psychological warfare. And the impact that this constant pressure has on people's minds is, like, basically twofold. It puts them in a state of reactive thinking where basically everything is short term. It has to be done now.
00:46:14.540 - 00:47:01.450, Speaker E: And there's a difficulty of creating long term plans and putting them into practice over years, huge periods of time, which we actually see that a lot now with the Iran situation is a lot of people saying, we got to do something, we got to do something now. It's terrible what's happening. Let's go. Let's go. But you have to have a long term perspective, and you have to have the patience and the kind of clarity of mind to work on these problems for years and not be in this reactive state of, like, let's just go, go. This is why the kind of trap invasion is used as a war tactic. So I agree with you that we have to have a mindset which is not in a state of war.
00:47:01.450 - 00:48:45.242, Speaker E: So our minds should not be in a state of war, even though we're in a state of war. And I also agree with you that you were saying about finding nonviolent means to improve society. And again, drawing from the Rojava revolution, we're big advocates of creating educational infrastructure like academy systems in order to raise the people up, to have them engaging in, for example, technology and philosophy and trying to create more enlightened people. And that being the major revolutionary activity is actually liberating the people kind of from the bottom up and not through some kind of violence activity. So I would say in those respects, there's a lot of parallels in what we're talking about. But I guess the lunar punk would be maybe more somewhat realist, perhaps, or at least trying to be when it comes to the situation that we're in and then just trying to be thinking clearly about ways ahead and maybe having more of a preference for pragmatic methods like education over more, you know, over things which are purely, you know, just pure kind of art. Art and stuff.
00:48:45.296 - 00:48:45.514, Speaker C: Not.
00:48:45.552 - 00:49:33.130, Speaker E: Not like, just art. I find so much of it is just rich westerners trying to free up their guilty conscience. I would hope that Luderpunks try to be a little bit more socially conscious and engaged with the actual world at large and its realities and not getting trapped in a lot of the culture of ethereum is very much like parties and kind of art exhibitions. And I see as like, what do you call. Ted Kaczynski has a great word for it. Surrogate activities which are detracting from the overall mission.
00:49:33.550 - 00:50:08.680, Speaker C: I don't know. I think that we need to create a culture here. And I think that both are important also. I believe that celebration is important because it unites people and bring people together. So I definitely think that we cannot say art and let's say parties and so on are distracting us. They are also part of growing as a human species. They are also part of our, let's say, evolution itself, and also bring us together.
00:50:08.680 - 00:51:12.138, Speaker C: And we need to find those places where we can share not only our worries, but also share the things that we cherish and the things that we love. So I think that both are necessary. I think that it cannot be completely, like, white or black. We need to find a middle ground for everything. And also, another thing that is important to mention is that actually art has been used as a form of expression, and art itself has been used, let's say, through history, as a way to express the feelings of people that might not necessarily know how to express it in writing or in voice, but they might represent it in a visual way, or in audio or in any other form of art, let's say, of creation. And by the way, I think that even what you guys are doing is a form of art.
00:51:12.304 - 00:52:17.790, Speaker E: Thank you for that. And definitely there can be good art. But I just find, like, if you go to any contemporary art exhibition, and I say this, having literally studied art and worked as a contemporary artist, but I just see it as evidence of western decadence and cultural degradation. And I see it as very insular and disconnected from the world. Like, do you know the Hunger Games, for example, the top hierarchical world where they're all wearing these white wigs and plastic skirts? And that's how the west seems at times. So also parties and yes, celebration, festival. It's integral to human activity and something that humans have done since they were humans, as far as we know, even pre humans, like, had ceremonies.
00:52:17.790 - 00:53:23.830, Speaker E: However, when you go to. Again, I've been to parties. Parties that I've seen are not expressions of communality or social connection, but they're just like nihilist, depressing, destructive environments where people with no meaning in their lives go to shake off some of that meaninglessness, which I'm not going to say each to their own or whatever, but at least from lunar punks. We want to create a culture that is moving away from those kind of surrogate activities and trying to give people a place where they can focus on using their skills and their intelligence, their creativity, to create tools that can really drive society forward, rather than getting mired in all the kind of decadence and downward spiraling of western society.
00:53:24.650 - 00:53:48.926, Speaker C: Yeah, I just wanted to say that I personally recognize art and science fiction not just as an entertainment, but as a form of activism, as a form of expressing ourselves. And I think every human being is an artist. I think every human being has something to give and something to contribute to society. And that's a form of art.
00:53:49.108 - 00:55:15.650, Speaker E: Yeah, if you're willing to loosen your definition. I guess my definition of art is stricter in the sense that I'm trying to remark on a specific cultural phenomena, which is literally, it's not even modernism. I feel like art has gotten progressively worse over the last few centuries, and that at the moment now, the art world itself, not art with the capital a, but the art world as it looks. As a westerner going into art exhibitions again, I just see it as evidence of cultural decline and narcissism and individualism. I think there's an episode of Adam Curtis where he talks about how Patty Smith, living in New York, in the whole scene that they're part of, they stop engaging politically with what's happening, and they start just seeing it in purely aesthetic terms, like, oh, look at this shithole environment. Isn't there like a weird beauty to it? And they just start hanging out and doing parties. And the political side to art making at that point was lost, and that became the status quo.
00:55:15.650 - 00:56:04.098, Speaker E: So I do think it's a way of manufacturing controlled opposition. And actually this kind of connects back to what we were saying about conflict and something I forgot to say, which was that the lunar prone emphasis on self defense. So again, this is coming from Achillan, but what Achillan basically says is you have this state, and the state extracts the value from society, and it separates society from its power. And it does that in two ways. First is it colonizes society's mindset. So it comes in and it starts to dictate how society should be and how it should organize its values. So society loses its ability to articulate its own values.
00:56:04.098 - 00:57:02.634, Speaker E: That's a big part of how the state kind of enslaves society. The second part is by taking away its weapons, so its means to defend itself from the state. So this is how the state basically transforms society into, like, a herd of animals that it can just pull around and manipulate. So a big part of what Ludaprogs are trying to do is, in a way, reweaponize society, not because it loves war, because war is something abhorrent, like, definitely not promoting war, but because self defense is like an essential capability. And without that, in the same way as without privacy, we cannot live our own moral political destinies. And actually, privacy is a kind of self defense. It can be a weapon in a set of tools that we can use.
00:57:02.634 - 00:57:44.470, Speaker E: In this way, I think that there's room for societies to make ours when the society is healthy and has the ability to have a moral and a political destiny. But at the moment, the society is enslaved, the society is at war. So personally, I put my own art practice aside. I decided some years ago that it's not the time for art, that maybe there was a time for art and there will be a time for art, but it's not this time. So I put aside the art, and that's where I started getting focusing on programming, because that's where I can see myself delivering value to society.
00:57:44.970 - 00:58:14.274, Speaker C: And again, to me, that's a form of art. It's a form of expressing yourself. It just might not be the visual way, but you're expressing yourself in a new way, which to me is art on its own. And you're basically putting out there to the world the way that you see it. And to me, that's a form of art for sure. So coders are artists to me as well.
00:58:14.472 - 00:59:17.830, Speaker A: So really enjoying the exchange here. In the interest of limited time, I would love to get us to a place that we're sort of converging towards an end of this episode. And I guess the question that I've been wanting to ask as I've been listening to this back and forth, is that when I was doing my research on this episode, someone pointed out to me that they think that solar punk, cypherpunk, lunar punk, terrapunk, they're all moral entrepreneurship in which we're saying that I value X. And I think that society is currently undervaluing X, and through my efforts, it can be corrected. So I'm wondering if we can kind of stick the landing on some of these debates, and I'd love to hear what. Well, a, if you agree with that frame, which maybe you don't, what is X? What kind of world are you trying to create? Take us forward ten years in the web3 revolution, where do you think that we're headed now, and where would you like to turn the ecosystem? And I feel like, manu, I've gone to you a lot, so maybe, Rose, I'll start with you and go back to Manu.
00:59:18.410 - 01:00:34.906, Speaker E: Yeah, sure. So, good question. I applaud the effort to create a definition that is flexible enough to describe all of the punks, and I think it does do that quite nicely. So if we're going to follow along with this definition and say that this one thing that lunar punk thinks society is missing, it definitely is anonymity. And again, for reasons that I've stated, this is seen as in the positive sense of anonymity being a means for communities to define new moral, political destinies. And that might sound a bit abstract, but again, to make it concrete and practical, I really think anonymous dows are going to be the frontier of this moral, political expansion of society. So society beginning to carve out new zones that are outside the influence and oppression by state structures, and that can live their own value systems.
01:00:34.906 - 01:02:07.980, Speaker E: So that's what I'm really excited about and what we're trying to engineer now inside of Darkfi and this world, this vision that we're trying to compose of a pluriverse, if you will, of a plurality of different worlds in which communities can define their own moral political destinies. We call that world the dark forest, and that's a spin on an existing concept that comes from the tree body problem Sci-Fi series and also gets talked about a lot in Ethereum. But it's usually used in Ethereum as a critique against the transparency of the mempool, where essentially the mempool is transparent, which means that you can do MeV and you can harvest users for their revenue, that in a way, you're this parasitic, you're extracting the value created by the user base. So that's what's become known as dark forest in ETH, how we call it in darkfi repurposed this term. And we said that actually forest environment is something we want to create. Forests historically, have often been a place of sanctuary, which protects inhabitants. And a big example of this that draws on my own background is in Ireland, where the forests were.
01:02:07.980 - 01:02:50.086, Speaker E: The island used to be covered in forest until fairly recently, and the forests were a large part of what allowed Ireland to resist colonization and to uphold the previous Gaelic civilization that had existed there. And the forests were integral to society. They shaped the language. The written Alphabet was named after trees. They shaped the spirituality which was pagan religion with lots of forest deities. And so they had this big impact. And they also were a place where you can coordinate and plot rebellions against the invading forces.
01:02:50.086 - 01:03:24.980, Speaker E: And so that was why the forests were targeted. By colonizing Britain, they were systematically cleared for a large. One of the things was because it was profitable to do so. But another reason was because they didn't want irish people being able to anonymously coordinate inside of the forests, so they cleared them again. I really see anonymous dows and the kind of anonymized landscape and new kinds of Mario and political societies to take root and form.
01:03:25.590 - 01:03:27.480, Speaker A: Menu. Same question to you.
01:03:28.490 - 01:04:28.314, Speaker C: Yeah. From my side, I see short term that more governments are going to try to oppress so they can keep the power that they have. But also I am super optimistic. I see that we're going to come together as a human species. We have for the first time, the tools to communicate and to create value and exchange value globally for the first time. And, yeah, I think that we're going to, let's say, evolve and achieve a collective consciousness that will enable us to understand that nation states that are basically imposed on us are not the way to go, but there has to be a new form that we create our own and that we, let's say, opt in and also have the possibility of.
01:04:28.352 - 01:04:29.820, Speaker D: Opt out as well.
01:04:30.190 - 01:05:24.090, Speaker C: And that's kind of like the future that I'm seeing. And I believe that every single human being is a creator. I believe that every single human being is an artist. And they will, and we will understand it and we will see it when we understand that we have the power to create and also the power to destroy it. And we're going to have the, let's say, capability of deciding what is it that we want to do if it's creating or destroying. And I also think that each of us is building pieces of the puzzle, and now it's time that we bring all of those pieces of the puzzle together. Because what Rose was saying, I also agree, we need that.
01:05:24.090 - 01:05:52.306, Speaker C: We also need privacy preserving tools. And, yeah, it's just a matter of bringing all of those forces together and creating systems that, as I said before, allow us to opt in or opt out whenever we want. But, yeah, that's how I envision it. I'm very optimistic. I think the war is going to become better than what we currently have because I believe in the power of good.
01:05:52.488 - 01:06:05.880, Speaker A: All right, well, we're just about out of time. We're half hour over. We're 29 minutes over, and we got a break before the next half hour, I'm wondering if I could get a final statement or any last thoughts from both. You, Manu, why don't you go first?
01:06:06.990 - 01:07:30.050, Speaker C: Yeah. First of all, thanks for bringing me here and also for having this super insightful conversation. I have to say that many of the principles and the ideas that Rose expressed, I also share those ideas, and I personally believe that we need to create more narratives that actually unite us, rather than narratives that separate us and that try to point fingers, like, oh, you did this, you did that. But rather finding the things that we're doing bad in the whole space and pointing them out, but not just to call them out and point fingers, but rather to co create and build together. I really want to invite anyone who sees themselves as a lunar punk to reach out and express your opinions and the things that you dislike about the current infrastructure that we have in the space. So, like that we can build better systems and systems that are more inclusive as well. I also want to reiterate that everyone has something to give, everyone has something to contribute.
01:07:30.050 - 01:07:46.774, Speaker C: As I said before, everyone is building their piece of the puzles on their own, and now it's time to bring them together and build together and. Yeah, that's it. Thank you again, Kevin and Rose, for this amazing chat.
01:07:46.902 - 01:08:53.950, Speaker E: Yeah. So when bitcoin and also Ethereum were first created, but most like bitcoin were anyway, when they were first created, a lot of this tooling around privacy and anonymity didn't exist. So it's only very recently that we've had the capabilities to actually have, for example, fully anonymous smart contracts. But the time is now. This tooling has finally become accessible to developers, and therefore it will soon be accessible to users. So I would just encourage everyone, especially Solarpunks, to think about the reliance that their engineering has on transparency and the risks that that poses to its user base. Given the situation that we're in of regulatory conflict, I would just encourage them to do that process of internal reflection.
01:08:53.950 - 01:10:12.262, Speaker E: And because of the fact that Ethereum, early on, and also bitcoin, they made this trade off. And it was probably correct at the time, given the technical restraints, but they said, let's prioritize scaling and let's deprioritize the privacy aspect. But because of this choice, we have had a design space that's developed on ETH that is completely biased towards full information, is always available at all times. So we have a lot of engineering that is dependent on, for example, strong concepts of identity, but not just identity, which is a big part of the solar punk engineering space, but also, more simply, just transparent data in general. So, like known variables. The classic example of the Amm is the amm, which cannot be done privately without some major changes to the design. Because the way that the amm is, the mechanism of the amm, requires you to know the entire state of the program.
01:10:12.262 - 01:11:36.530, Speaker E: So that means you need to know all the money coming in, all the money going out, all the money that's there at all times, in order to calculate the price along the curve, which is essentially what the amm primitive is trying to do. It's a price discovery mechanism in a decentralized way, and it's very interesting primitive, and it's revolutionary in its own right, but it cannot be done privately without significant trade offs. So in order to enter the next phase of crypto's advancement, where it can actually truly define its own political destiny, we need to master what we call anonymous engineering, which is engineering in a context where you don't have all the information and where you can't choose to, for example, dox a person in order to have a strong concept of identity within your program. So we need to change our mindset when it comes to engineering these programs towards a new anonymous paradigm. So it's a really exciting moment, and I think Ethereum has got a great community, so many smart people, but they need to step up to the reality that we're in and start engaging in anonymous engineering, because that's where things are headed.
01:11:38.630 - 01:12:03.030, Speaker A: Amazing. I've just really appreciated the discussion, and this podcast has been like two or three months in the planning, and I just want to thank you both for not only being so thoughtful, but also approaching this from good faith. It seems to me like there's a lot to be learned from each other, and I just really appreciating the diverging and converging perspectives here. So thank you to you both for the conversation.
