00:00:00.240 - 00:00:37.686, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Ian. There's a sign on Thursday, 11 March 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So before we jump into the news over the last few days, just wanted to shout out here that Adriano, who runs the Ethereum Art daily initiative here, is featuring one of my AI generated pieces as part of his kind of collection here. So this is the one that I've titled the blobs are coming. It's got an ETH logo in the middle with a bunch of blob like monsters surrounding it, obviously, because Den kun is going a lot, very soon, you know, less than three days now, less than two or around two days, I think, from, from time of recording here.
00:00:37.686 - 00:01:00.822, Speaker A: So very, very close to Denkun now. Now this is up for auction, so I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. And all proceeds, once this does get, I guess, like bought out or once it does that, once the, the auction ends here, all the proceeds go to the protocol guild. So I'm not making any money from this or anything like that. All the proceeds will go to the protocol guild. So if you want to own this piece, you can. It's being auctioned off on foundation Dot app.
00:01:00.822 - 00:01:16.102, Speaker A: The reserve is 0.05 ETH. You can place your bid on here if you want. As I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but just wanted to give a shout out there. And thanks to Adriano for putting this there. I think it's one of the better AI pieces I've generated around Ethereum. It came out really, really well.
00:01:16.102 - 00:01:43.062, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm glad to see that it's featured like this. All right, so I know I've talked a lot about the ETH ETF's lately, but we need to talk about it again and I think I'm going to spend a little while on this. So if you want to skip ahead and you're sick of me talking about the ETF stuff, you can. There's timestamps. Please skip ahead. But just fair warning, there's going to be a bit of talk here because there was some interesting news over the last couple of days. So the first bit of news is from Eleanor to ret here, who works at Fox Business.
00:01:43.062 - 00:02:18.406, Speaker A: You'll probably remember her from when she was tweeting about the BTC ETF's. Well, today she tweeted out that she had a scoop saying optimism about the SEC approving the Eat spot ETF's by May 23 is waning. Now, she's basing this on things that she's heard from various sources. Obviously, she doesn't give away who her sources are, but essentially a ball boils down to that. The SEC staff has been very hard to engage with for the issuers or for the potential issuers of the ETF's, such as Blackrock, Van Eck, Ark, and Grayscale, their conversion, and so on and so forth. Honestly, after reading this tweet, I didn't really think much of it. I read it.
00:02:18.406 - 00:02:49.374, Speaker A: I'm like, okay, well, you know, you're saying sources say this, and the SEC staff playing hard to get, so to speak, is not really something that surprises me, to be honest. And as I mentioned to you guys before, essentially the ETH ETF's are just a copy paste of the BTC ones. They're not staked ETF's, they're just normal spot ETF's. So they're really a copy paste of the ETH ones. Which means there doesn't need to be that much engagement between the SEC and the issuers over this like there was for BTC. And we're still, you know, two and a half months almost out from May 23. So there's still time here.
00:02:49.374 - 00:03:22.558, Speaker A: But what I wanted to talk about was a tweet that I put out where I said, I, quote, tweeted what Eleanor said here. And I said, I'm no expert on the inner workings of the SEC and us politics, but the way I see it is this. The SEC is in checkmate when it comes to the ETH ETF's. If they don't approve them, they know that they will get sued into oblivion and be forced to approve them anyway. And I don't think Gary wants yet another high profile loss against his name. So I think their reluctance comes from knowing that they are in checkmate, but they are trying to desperately to find some way to deny the ETH ETF's without also hurting themselves. Spoiler alert, they won't find a way.
00:03:22.558 - 00:03:52.748, Speaker A: So they are literally in checkmate. Maybe not literally because they're not playing a game of chess, but they are, in my opinion, in checkmate. Here they are stuck. And they're stuck for a few different reasons, but the main reason is because of the fact that the they approved the ETH futures ETF's back in October. Then Grayscale won their court case against the SEC about the SEC denying spot BTC ETF's when they approved the futures BTC ETF's, and that forced the SEC to approve Grayscales. Sorry. To approve all of the BTC ETF's on January 10.
00:03:52.748 - 00:04:20.248, Speaker A: It's the exact same playbook happening here right now, guys. So that's why. That's the main reason why the SEC is in checkmate here. Now, there are three things that the SEC can do here. None of them are good for the SEC, in my opinion. None of them are positive at all, and none of them involve SEC getting out of checkmate. What I like to say is that the SEC can do these three things, but each of these things is flipping the table, you know, flipping the table, flipping the board, and just basically knowing you're in checkmate, but like being a sore loser, so to speak.
00:04:20.248 - 00:04:39.304, Speaker A: So the three things that they can do. First, they can obviously deny the ETF's, right? As I've said before, that makes absolutely no sense for them to do that. There's no positives for them to do that, but they can do that. It's up to them. They have no one stopping them from doing that. They can deny them. But what do you think happens when they deny them? I mean, for everyone who's been listening to me for quite a while, you know exactly what happens.
00:04:39.304 - 00:05:06.834, Speaker A: They're going to get sued immediately. I would actually say that the same day that they deny the ETF's will be the day that the grayscale sues them. At least grayscale. The other ones might sue as well, but at least grayscale will sue them for the same, you know, using the same lawsuit they used against them for the BTC ETF's. And then they'll win in court. It will be a very quick court case, in my opinion, because they have the precedent to lean on, they being the judges or whichever judge is assigned to this. So, yeah, they're gonna get sued straight away, and it's not gonna.
00:05:06.834 - 00:05:23.426, Speaker A: And it's just gonna. Basically what it's gonna do is gonna delay it. It's not gonna stop it from happening. It's just gonna delay, it's gonna punt it down maybe a few months, and then it'll. It'll get approved. So I don't really see what the point of doing that is like, it doesn't actually end well for the ACC at all. And even politically, I don't really think it flies well either.
00:05:23.426 - 00:05:56.918, Speaker A: Okay. That's the first thing. The second thing is that they can ask the issuers to withdraw their applications which would technically not be a denial if the issuer said, okay, well, we'll withdraw the applications and we'll come back next time. That is technically not a denial of the ETF's, but obviously it means the ETF's aren't going live. Now, again, this is pro, this is probably like the, the thing that is, I guess, like least bad out of the three things that I'm going to mention for the SEC here. But it's still not great because, okay, what happens? The issue is withdraw the ETF applications. Okay, when do they refile? They're not going to want to wait to refile.
00:05:56.918 - 00:06:20.086, Speaker A: They're probably going to refile quite quickly. And at the same time, all it takes is one of them to say no. Like it's kind of a game of, I guess, like a prisoner's dilemma, right? Where it's like, okay, well, we all gotta say no together. But if one defects, well, then that one gets to basically, you know, if the ETF's get approved, then they're the only one that gets approved. Right? And the other ones have withdrawn. So that doesn't really actually make sense once you play out the game theory. So I don't think they're gonna withdraw.
00:06:20.086 - 00:06:42.460, Speaker A: And I definitely don't think Grayscale would withdraw if asked to. Right. And then from there, if they all refuse to withdraw and the SEC denies, we fall back to the first point I made about how denying it. It's just dumb right now. The third thing is probably even dumber than denying the ETF's the spot ETF's. And that would be the delisting the ETH futures ETF's. Or I guess like canceling the.
00:06:42.460 - 00:07:01.580, Speaker A: I don't know what the correct word is here. I think delisting might be the correct word here. Basically, they approved them in October. And if they basically say, okay, well, we don't want them anymore, we're delisting them. Okay, well, first they have to give a reason for doing that. And whatever reasoning they give is going to be completely flawed and not based on reality. The CFTC is going to be extremely upset with them.
00:07:01.580 - 00:07:32.722, Speaker A: Right? So not only will there be an interagency, inter regulatory agency war in, you know, between the SEC and the CFTC over this, the SEC is likely to get sued for this as well. So out of these three things that they could do, which, as I said, is called flipping the table here, this is not anywhere that they're in checkmate. There's nothing they can do at this point. They see the board, they know where all the pieces are. They know where they are right now. They know that it's either approved or flip the table by doing these three things right. And I think that each of these three things is not positive for the SEC in any way whatsoever.
00:07:32.722 - 00:07:54.098, Speaker A: It's not positive politically at all. And it just ends in ruin for them every single time. So then, okay, what is the path of least resistance? Resistance. It's to be a, I guess like a humble. I guess like a humble player in the game, and to basically concede defeat and to accept that you're in checkmate. You lost, you played yourself. Because the SEC actually approved the ETH futures ETF's in October.
00:07:54.098 - 00:08:33.924, Speaker A: It wasn't that long ago. So they really shot themselves in the foot by doing that. Because if it wasn't for that, the arguments that they would approve the ETH ETF's would, would not really hold much water. And I would actually be one of the people saying that. I don't think the chances are that high if it wasn't for that. But because they've done that and because Grescale won their case based on that, that is really what most of it rests upon. And I think that there is a consensus right now among, I guess, the people who are taking a more, I guess, the neutral stance on this, that if the SSE was to deny the reason that they would use, was that the correlation between the futures spot ETH trading and futures ETH trading is subject to manipulation, is subject to fraud and things like that.
00:08:33.924 - 00:09:21.966, Speaker A: Now, I mentioned the other day that Coinbase and Grayscale met with the SEC and basically did their own analysis and explained to them that the correlations are basically one to one. I mean, not that close, but basically one to one. Which means that if they are implying that fraud is happening, they would be saying that the fraud was happening on the CME futures market, the Chicago Mercantile, uh, exchange futures market in the US, which is a very heavily regulated market. So that would be an own goal. They'd be shooting themselves in the foot over that. So given all of that, as I said, path of least resistance is for the SEC to approve the ETF's. That's why I'm so confident in them being approved, because I do think that, you know, as much as Gary hates crypto, as much as Elizabeth Warren hates crypto, as much as they've been hostile towards crypto, there is just no way for them to deny it cleanly, deny the ETF's cleanly.
00:09:21.966 - 00:10:01.024, Speaker A: And if they want to go to court again if they want to lose in court again, you know, if they want to spend all that time and effort, if they want to reduce the SEC's credibility even further and set even more bad precedent for the SEC in courts, be my guest. You know, be our guest here. But the better path is just to approve these things and then have to worry about anything after that. There's no more ETF's going to come after that for a very long time. It's going to be many years. As I've explained before, the, the issuers won't even bother to apply for an ETF for other assets because those other assets don't even have a CME futures market, which is a requirement before you can get a spot ETF approved. So there's to see this is off their table for a long time.
00:10:01.024 - 00:10:16.696, Speaker A: They approve them. Okay, whatever, it's off their table. I don't have to deal with that anymore. And they could potentially even just go back to being shitty towards crypto by bringing frivolous lawsuits against crypto companies. Yeah, okay. That's really shitty. But hey, like focus on, you know, then now they get to focus on that instead of the, the ETF stuff.
00:10:16.696 - 00:10:44.520, Speaker A: So that's where my confidence comes from, guys. And as I've said before, I could be wrong on this, as in, like wrong on them getting approved. I do think with 100% certainty that they're going to get approved, approved at some point. I do think they're going to get approved by May 23. But, like, my prediction isn't 100%, it's like 99%. And that 1% is basically the SEC flipping the table and saying, well, no, fuck you guys. We're going to, you know, deny or delist or request withdrawal of these things for such and such reason.
00:10:44.520 - 00:11:17.394, Speaker A: But as I just explained, that would not be good for the SEC. Anyway, moving on from us centric ETF's, there are two other announcements that are more positive, and that's around. The London Stock Exchange basically has said that they're going to accept applications for bitcoin and Ethereum ETNs in Q two of this year. Q two is next month, April, May, June. Now, an ETN is basically the equivalent product to an ETF. It stands for exchange, exchange traded note instead of exchange traded fund. I think there are some nuances and intricacies between the two, but it's essentially an equivalent product.
00:11:17.394 - 00:12:04.984, Speaker A: So they announced that just today. And I think that the market has reacted positively to that because BTC is at all time highs ETH is over 4k right now at time of recording. Obviously positive news here. And then another bit of positive news was that Hong Kong reported that ten financial institutions have planned to apply to launch bitcoin spot ETF's in Hong Kong and ethereum spot ETF's are under discussion. So now you have two other huge financial hubs, Hong Kong and London, saying that they're going to list not only BTC ETF's, but also ETH ETF's or ETNs or the equivalent products here. And then you have the SEC, you know, still potentially dragging their feet here. So is the Sec gonna deny the ETF's and cost the US? I guess like economic activity, you know, I mean, maybe they don't think about that, but that's like another consequence of them denying these things.
00:12:04.984 - 00:12:40.256, Speaker A: So yeah, there's positive news out of both London and Hong Kong here. Hopefully the US gets this right. I really think that, you know, I don't think that, that Gary is going to be happy about approving these things if he does approve them, these things being the ETH. But I do think that the path of them approving them is very clear. And I think that the path of them denying them, while also clear, is just full of shit. Like, it doesn't make any sense, like approving them. What do you think happens when they like, like do the calculus here? If they approve the ETH ETF's, no lawsuits, no one's angry at them, no bad politics, no bad publicity, no bad headlines, none of that.
00:12:40.256 - 00:13:06.480, Speaker A: If they approve the ETH ETF's, good headlines, right? But the price will probably go up. So more good headlines, they, they make all of those financial institutions happy as well. So maybe more donations to the Democrat party, right? Like, you got to look at the layers to this year and what a denial versus an approval means. And in my eyes, like, a denial is literally just blowing yourself up. It literally is just like setting yourself on fire. There is no point to it. It would be a total self own.
00:13:06.480 - 00:13:31.784, Speaker A: It would make zero sense. But yeah. Anyway, before I keep ranting about that, I'm going to end that one, that one there for today because there's a bunch of other stuff to get through. But let me know if you agree or disagree with my analysis there. As you can tell, like, I've done a lot of research into this. I'm really passionate about this and I'm trying to not, you know, be too bullish about it, but like, I can't just, I can't see the good path for the SEC to deny here. I can't see a path where they deny and it ends well for them on this.
00:13:31.784 - 00:14:01.212, Speaker A: All right, so obviously Denkun is going live this week, so I figured I'd give a little bit of a recap over two eips that obviously I'm super excited about with Denkun. Um, just to refresh you and a third one as well that may, you may not, um, have heard about too much before. So obviously those two eips are ERP 48, 44, proto Dank sharding. I've spoken about the oblobs, I've spoken about this at length for years now. You guys don't need a refresher on this really. But I think what I wanted to say was that it's coming in two days, guys. Like just around two days from now.
00:14:01.212 - 00:14:49.052, Speaker A: It is so close. Like it's. I get this feeling every time one of these upgrades comes, like I was talking about the merge for so long, right? I was talking about AIP 1559 for so long now, EIP 4844 I've been talking about for the same like a long period of time as well. And now it's finally going live on the network and we finally get to see what the actual fees are going to be on the roll ups that take advantage of EIP 4844 and how the network kind of, you know, evolves with it and how fast we increase the sizes of the blobs, right? Like how comfortable we are with increasing the slice, the sizes, what the load on the network's like all that sort of stuff. We're going to learn a lot about this stuff and it's going to be super exciting. Second, ERP is another one that I discussed with you guys a few weeks ago, ERp 4788, which basically creates an enshrined oracle that improves the communication between Ethereum's execution and consensus layers. I have a tweet here that describes what that is.
00:14:49.052 - 00:15:36.378, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out. But essentially it means that the execution layer can now access the consensus layer state regarding validator, the status of a validator. So for example, if you want to know the status, sorry, the balance of a validator, if you want to know the status of a validator, if it's like exiting or if it's in the withdrawal queue, so on and so forth, you no longer need a third party oracle system to do that. Like Rockerpool has their Odao system and other other services have their own systems but you no longer need to do that. So that is a huge unlock for Ethereum and there's many use cases that are downstream of that. And the third EIP, which is 1153, is a very old EIP now, but it's finally being shipped in Dengkun and this mainly is good for developers and it allows things like Uniswap V four to launch. So I think that's actually the biggest thing with this EIP.
00:15:36.378 - 00:16:06.814, Speaker A: Yes, other developers are going to take advantage of it, but obviously Uniswap is the biggest app on Ethereum still, and it has been for a very long time. Everyone knows what it is, everyone uses it, whether you know it or not. You use it, you use the liquidity pools there. So this EIP going live allows Unisov to launch, which I believe their launch is slated for. I think Q three or Q four this year sometime. But yeah, Uniswap V four is obviously a huge upgrade of the Uniswap protocol, brings with it a lot of interesting features. But they haven't been able to launch because they are using some of the stuff that they're using.
00:16:06.814 - 00:16:23.662, Speaker A: What's 1153 enables. But I'm not a developer, so I can't dive too deep into that there. But I know that developers are very excited about this. So great to see that finally go live. But you notice the number is very low, 1153. It means it's an old EIP. It's been in the works for a while, but it's finally making it into Den kun here.
00:16:23.662 - 00:16:49.744, Speaker A: And like, last thing on Den Koon is that Trent van Epps has been working on this delivery at dawn animation or this 1 minute animation with the line studio and nouns paid for it. So this film is going to be premiering at 12:00 a.m. My time. So australian eastern standard Time. Actually, I think this is going to be today. I think so, yeah. I mean the Monday.
00:16:49.744 - 00:17:02.496, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, so this is today. So I don't know what it's going to be in your local time zone. It's 1300 utc or 01:00 p.m. UTC 09:00 a.m. Eastern time, which is morning in the US there. But you can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:17:02.496 - 00:17:21.680, Speaker A: I got a sneak peek of this short. It's awesome, guys. There are so many Easter eggs for you guys to find. It's only a minute long, but it is the first time in Ethereum's history that we've had an animation made for an EIP. So it's just really great to see that. And I hope to see more of these made as time goes on. But yeah, I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:17:21.680 - 00:17:48.072, Speaker A: Now, before I finish up my talk discussions about Denkun and everything, there is a live stream going to be happening, I believe it's tomorrow night. I think my time. Let me have a look here. No, it's in two days from now, but it's, it's midnight Thursday for me. So that means like Tuesday when. Okay, so yeah, about two days. And yeah, from, from probably when you're watching this, there'll be a live stream co hosted by me, ETH staker and Eve cat herders.
00:17:48.072 - 00:18:06.250, Speaker A: We're gonna be watching Dane Kuhn go live on the network. I'm gonna be answering all your questions as well on there. There's gonna be a lot of great people on there. So I hope to see you guys there. You can find the link to it, I think, on Eats takers Twitter page, which you can find if you just go on Twitter and obviously search for their page there. But yeah, guys, we are almost here. Almost, almost here to Denkoon.
00:18:06.250 - 00:18:36.962, Speaker A: It is so close. Super excited about it. But yeah, we'll see. I'll do a recap on it once it goes live and we'll see what blobs are like and everything like that on the show in a few days from now. All right, Jason Chaskin here on Farcaster put together a great thread going over or breaking down something called execution tickets, which was originally presented by Justin Drake and formalized in a research post by Mike Neuter. I remember I covered this. I think I covered Mike mutters research post maybe a couple of months ago or something like that around this.
00:18:36.962 - 00:19:17.136, Speaker A: And you've probably already read this, but if you haven't read that post yet, then this thread from Jason is a really great read. It's only 15 casts long and I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but it basically explains exactly what execution tickets are. So this high level is that it essentially shifts validators roles and provides a lot of benefits to the protocol. So basically it's kind of like this overall roadmap of shifting validators roles from being block builders to like so. So, okay, right now, today, a lot of validators aren't block builders because they're using mev boost. But that comes with a bunch of issues that, you know, mev boost isn't enshrined in the protocol. It exists extra protocol.
00:19:17.136 - 00:19:56.618, Speaker A: And there are issues around censorship resistance, and there are issues around kind of economic incentives, things like that. Right? So execution tickets is one of these things that has been proposed as a way to essentially, basically make it so that the validator is no longer proposing a part of the block that includes a list of transactions. Obviously that kind of falls into what we're doing with, with inclusion list as well. And as Jason explains here now, a slot, or I guess like a slot. A slot is like 12 seconds in Ethereum, but we some, we mostly call them blocks, even though the block is part of the slot. But yeah, 12 seconds in Ethereum. But a slot would be split into two phases, a beacon round and an execution round.
00:19:56.618 - 00:20:24.362, Speaker A: As you can see here, this would work with inclusion lists in order to improve Ethereum censorship resistant guarantees and take away a lot of the negative externalities from MeV Boost and Mev generally. But I'm going to butcher the explanation if I try to explain it. Jason does a much better job in his cast here or his cast thread. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out there. But yeah, this is something to keep an eye on. It's not something that's probably gonna go into the network anytime soon. We'll have to see.
00:20:24.362 - 00:20:42.834, Speaker A: I think inclusion lists will go live first in Petra or Pektra towards the end of the year, and probably actually q one next year. And maybe this goes in shortly after or happens shortly after. I'm not sure what the implementation is here. I don't know if it necessarily needs a hard fork or not. But yeah, still something that's in heavy research phase right now. I may not even make it into the protocol. We'll have to see.
00:20:42.834 - 00:21:22.150, Speaker A: There are a bunch of things that are, you know, talked about a lot that don't make it into the protocol. But yeah, if you want to learn more about execution tickets, go check out Jason's thread here. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so there's been a lot of talk about l three s lately, or layer threes, and I know that people have both bearish and bullish takes on these things. I would say my general view is that I'm pretty neutral towards these things. I don't think I'm bullish or bearish on them. I see the use case, but I also see the argument that they may not be necessary long term, so maybe they are only necessary short to medium term, and then long term they kind of fade away in, you know, in favor of better solutions.
00:21:22.150 - 00:21:57.708, Speaker A: So that's why I say I'm rather neutral on these things. And I also hate the name because the name just opens us up to criticism and ridicule. But whatever, it's out there now. But the reason I bring it up today is because Jesse Polak put together a nice little tweet here summarizing his kind of thinking around al three s and why he thinks that they're a net benefit. So he says here, the first point is that settlement costs for l three s will be ten to 100 times cheaper. These costs are small, but for developers they are still meaningful. Secondly, adjusting time bridging from l two to l three will be fast, cheaper, and significantly more capital efficient than going from l one to l two or l two to l two.
00:21:57.708 - 00:22:42.844, Speaker A: I mean, naturally, of course. And the pathway. Thirdly, the pathway for on ramps to l three s will be much more streamlined because you have l two stakeholders who will work hard to make them seamless via routing through the l two and then it continues. I think that on a long time period some or all of these may be solved by proof of aggregation, but in the short to medium term horizon, I'm still working through how exactly that will shape up. And then he continues with a bunch of other thoughts. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to check out, but he basically comes to the same conclusion I come to in that l three s may be necessary or maybe something people want to experiment with short to medium term. But if we get to a point where we can do cheap proof aggregation and do it seamlessly and have buy in from like all the major l two s and they just start using it and it's just all seamless, then maybe a world of l three s doesn't make much sense.
00:22:42.844 - 00:23:11.862, Speaker A: Maybe it is not something that is necessary because really at the end of the day, you would only be doing it if it was necessary, you wouldn't be doing it for no reason. So we're gonna have to see how that shakes out. But as I said, I'm rather neutral on this. I'm not bullish or bearish on them. I'm monitoring the space, seeing how they evolve. Honestly, I'm much more interested in the l two s to be honest, like, than the l three s because the l three s build on top of the l two s. So really I'm way more interested in the l two s themselves and how they're going to shape up because there's still so much work to do there on the l two and on the l one as well.
00:23:11.862 - 00:23:35.114, Speaker A: I mean, I talk about ethereum l one all the time, but the l two s. Yeah, so much work left to do there, so much stuff left to do, so many upgrades left to come. I think that we're maybe putting the car before the horse a little bit with the l three s, but I guess it's a permissionless ecosystem. People can work on whatever they want. But yeah, I'm neutral on them right now. Obviously very, very bullish on l one and l two. Like hyper bullish on both of them for completely different reasons, mind you, but very bullish on both of those things.
00:23:35.114 - 00:23:53.448, Speaker A: But layer three is definitely neutral right now. Maybe I become more bullish in the future. Maybe I become more bearish. I'll keep you guys updated on all of that. All right, last up here is just another thread from Narof. So this thread goes over shared sequencing. Now obviously shared sequences is a hot topic within the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:23:53.448 - 00:24:24.368, Speaker A: And I have talked about it a lot on the refuel. But if you're still confused about what a shared sequencer is, how it works, and everything in between, Narof has a great tweet thread explaining all of this for you, so I just wanted to give a shout out to them. You can check out the tweet thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but you can use this as a really nice springboard into learning more about about shared sequences. It's not a very long thread at all, but it gives you that high level overview that you may be missing and that you may want to read about. So yeah, check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now I've got a few minutes left in today's episode.
00:24:24.368 - 00:24:49.516, Speaker A: I wanted to leave a few minutes here because the market is heating up, guys. Like the market is really heating up. Now we are entering, I would say, maybe halfway through the midpoint of the bull market. So I know it's weird to say that where I say like, we're in the mid of the bull market, which means we're halfway through. But I'm also saying that we're halfway through the midpoint. And the reason I say this is because obviously BTC is at its all time highs. It's, it's basically making new all time highs every other day.
00:24:49.516 - 00:25:08.576, Speaker A: Now it seems to want, it seems to have broken through seventy k. I mean it's only been the last kind of, I guess like day that it's not even day, like maybe 8 hours that it's broken through 70k. It could come back down. Who knows? Right? But we're in price discovery on BTC right now. ETH is not far behind. And then we have all these other stuff popping off. Like, we're getting into the.
00:25:08.576 - 00:25:33.296, Speaker A: To the. To the craziness, guys. They're definitely getting into the craziness. Yeah. I mean, I know meme coins have been popping off and stuff, but I think the meme coin stuff is more the crypto natives trying to front run retail investors coming back and buying meme coins. But I think that in a. In kind of a weird way, even though we're, you know, we're definitely mid bull market, or even, you know, even halfway through the mid bull market, I think, in a weird way, like, there's not much noise, right.
00:25:33.296 - 00:25:53.430, Speaker A: You probably haven't heard much on mainstream media. You probably haven't heard much from friends and family that aren't usually in crypto. Like, the people that I've heard about crypto from that are friends and family are people that are already in crypto. Like, my dad will talk to me about it, and he. My dad follows my tweets and sometimes watches my videos as well, so, of course he knows about it. Right. He was talking to me about it when he was, like, a $1,000, so I don't count him then.
00:25:53.430 - 00:26:10.454, Speaker A: I have some friends that have been in crypto pretty much as long as I have, like, my real life friends. Not just. Not my. My crypto friends, of course, my real life friends that are, you know, pre crypto. Talk to me about it. But I guess I'm talking about the people that just don't pay attention to crypto at all until things start getting hot again. I'm not seeing much of that personally.
00:26:10.454 - 00:26:35.714, Speaker A: Obviously, it's anecdotal. Maybe you have a lot of that in your life right now, but it does seem like we're still relatively kind of quiet on that front. But those people usually come in towards the end of the midpoint, into the late cycle, and that's why we see such violence kind of going up from there. Right. Such violent price movements up. And that's why we see a lot of indiscriminate pumping across all of this stuff that shouldn't really be worth anything. Right.
00:26:35.714 - 00:26:51.450, Speaker A: Know when you see everything just going up ridiculously? I'm not talking about meme coins. I'm talking about, like, just everything. Like, meme coins. You can point to very specific reasons why those things going up. Right. But. But I'm talking about like everything else, that just has no reason to be worth anything, just going absolutely haywire.
00:26:51.450 - 00:27:15.750, Speaker A: And it's because it's just a flood of new money that comes in. It's just all this. You think of it like, literally like water, like liquidity, right? You can think of it like a water come flooding in and just like, rising all the boats. That's, that's essentially what happens, right? And that happens in the later stages of a bull market there. But the reason why, I mean, the main reason I'm mentioning this again is because, again, I'm going to do this quite regularly going forward. Just want to remind you guys, keep your heads on. I know it's exciting.
00:27:15.750 - 00:27:39.128, Speaker A: I know it's very, very exciting that the bull market is getting more and more heated by the day. I know it's exciting that BTC is at all time highs and ETH isn't far behind. I mean, ETH, at over $4,000 today, is at its highest price since December 2021. And back then, that was when it was on the way down, obviously, but that is a long time ago now. So it obviously feels really cool to see this happening here. But don't lose your heads, guys. That's my always going to be my advice.
00:27:39.128 - 00:28:08.248, Speaker A: Just make sure you're still risk managing. Make sure you're sticking to your plan. Make sure you know, you know whereabouts you plan to take profits. Because at the end of the day, it's all unrealized until you actually realize it into something else that you want. I mean, I've talked about this at length with Eric and on the refill, so I'm not going to rehash my points here, but I just want to remind you guys about that because I know how easy it is to get what I like to call bull market brain or kind of the bull market virus. Very easy to fall into it. Very easy to lose sight of things.
00:28:08.248 - 00:28:41.040, Speaker A: You know, I've done that personally a lot of times as well, but this cycle, I feel a lot more muted. And I think it's just because it's the stage of where I'm at with kind of my, my crypto journey. This will be my fourth cycle in crypto, technically. So, yeah, I mean, I, at this point in time, I like, I don't really get that excited about it anymore, which is a good thing, because it means that I can be more objective about it and be more level headed, headed about it and make. And I'm not suffering from the same emotions that other people are kind of suffering from when it comes to the markets. So that's why I'm trying to impart this kind of, I guess, wisdom onto all of you. And you can listen to me or not.
00:28:41.040 - 00:29:07.992, Speaker A: I'm not saying you have to listen to me. I'm not saying that I'm right. Just trying to, you know, impart kind of objective wisdom because, yeah, I really, even at ETH above four k, I saw it and I'm like, okay, like, I'm happy, but I'm not like euphoric and ecstatic, and I don't like being like, oh, my God, awesome up only super cycle. Like, I'm not like that at all. The, I was probably last cycle a lot like that. But these days I'm very, very different here. So that's why I think I can look at things a bit differently and pass that on to you guys there.
00:29:07.992 - 00:29:19.894, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
