00:00:00.440 - 00:00:34.472, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Wave refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 27 August 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So the Ethereum name service, or ENS, announced today that they have now added full DNS namespace integration to ENS, and it's now live on Mainnet. And this has been a very, very long time coming. So I guess to put this into plain English, what this means is that you can now use, uh, the DNS system, whether that be like example.com or like example, do IO as part of the ENS system.
00:00:34.472 - 00:01:16.324, Speaker A: So you can see here this little screenshot on the, in the blog post here, Brantley Milligan, who's one of the developers at ENS, he basically has Brantley milligan.com and his Ethereum address is attached to it. So, you know, there could be like Brantley Milligan ETH, which is a different address to brantleymilligan.com. But what's really cool about this is that everyone who already owns one of these kind of like.com or dot IO kind of DNS names or, or your, or kind of, I guess like URL's can now set their Ethereum address, their bitcoin address, doge address, whatever, to, to kind of like, you know, brantleymilligan.com or whatever.com that they have, which, which I think is really, or whatever DNS they have really, which is absolutely awesome.
00:01:16.324 - 00:01:41.904, Speaker A: Now, as I said, this has been a long time coming. And it's funny because I saw a little bit of drama about these people. People basically said, well, this just rugged everyone that was like domain squatting. You know how people kind of, I sat on domain names, like I was talking about beer dot ETH the other day where someone was obviously sitting on that and then Budweiser bought that. Well, whoever owns beer.com now, they don't have to buy beer dot e, right? They can just use beer.com and tie their ethereum address to that.
00:01:41.904 - 00:02:17.664, Speaker A: But on top of that, like it's just basically all the other kind of like popular domain names out there, like google.com, comma. Google can have their, their official ethereum address tied to google.com. Not, it doesn't have to be google dot ETH, like Reddit.com. You know, you can go down the list basically. And I think this is, I mean, I think the people that were complaining, I mean, this, as I said, this has been in kind of like the plan for a very long time was actually on the front page of the ENS website as well. So anyone who was kind of like domain squatting was doing so either not aware of this because they just didn't kind of like do their research or research or check up on this or, you know, people just love to complain right into the day.
00:02:17.664 - 00:02:53.932, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's, that's just a little bit of drama that I saw about it. But generally I think this is an absolutely amazing feature, obviously, because if you already have a domain name and you can't get the ETH for it or someone's squatting on it or it's like super, super expensive, well, what ends up happening is that you just have to go with something else and it gets kind of annoying. Right? You have to go with like, if you were Google, you'd have to go with a completely different thing to google ETH something else and that wouldn't really work like that. But now you can just go with google.com and set your Ethereum address or bitcoin address or doge or anything else really, as that. So yeah, just really, really excited to see this. There's a bit more details about this in the, the blog post here.
00:02:53.932 - 00:03:14.404, Speaker A: I'll link that in the YouTube description. And there's also a step by step guide of how to import your DNS domain to EnS to be able to kind of do this. Mine's going to remain cessled ETH. I actually don't know if I own sassle.com dot. I think I might have registered it at one point, but I have to check up on that because I haven't used the old DNS system in a while. But yeah, definitely I prefer ETH.
00:03:14.404 - 00:03:41.434, Speaker A: Right. Because it just feels more natural, feels more native. But I think this is just like a really great way to stop kind of that squatting that's going on and to allow people who already own the DNS, you know, not, not to have to kind of like spend lots and lots of money to buy the ETH domain from these squatters. So, yeah, I thought that was, that was pretty cool. And just in general, it kind of like extends the use case of Ens to basically the entire web as well. So. Yeah, really, really great to see that.
00:03:41.434 - 00:04:08.970, Speaker A: All right, the second biggest piece of news comes from transmissions. He works at. I think it's a. He works at Rari Capital, basically revealing what he calls Nova. Now, what Nova is, is basically a way for l one and l two to communicate. Now he describes it in this thread. Basically he says for the last couple of months he's been tinkering with a design for trustlessly relaying arbitrary contract calls between l two and l one.
00:04:08.970 - 00:04:58.640, Speaker A: And that's called Nova. So essentially with Nova, you can make trades on l one, uniswap, you know, ape into l one nfts and use l one aave all from l two. So essentially the way this would work is that you, this is kind of like similar to what, what Starkware has done with their damm, their, their kind of dam that I had, I talked about a few weeks ago, where basically you can send these kind of like messages, I guess you could call them to layer one from L2. And then there's relays that sit in the middle trustlessly, that they kind of like relay those messages for you and they, they process it all in l one and then it comes back to you at l two and you kind of, you can kind of like pay the gas fees from there. So. And the really cool thing about this is, is that this works on, on optimistic roll ups as well as ZK roll ups. So this is just another way we're kind of getting around that seven day kind of withdrawal period for optimistic roll ups.
00:04:58.640 - 00:05:46.002, Speaker A: Right. And I've been talking about bridges a lot recently, and obviously we start where I talked about the damage. But I think the next biggest thing outside of the bridges is this sort of stuff, right? This trustless kind of communication between l one and l two done through these relayers who, when constructed correctly, can't actually steal any funds and can't actually do anything, do any funny business. They literally just relayers. And if they don't relay the messages, then they don't go through and the whole transaction kind of like fails and reverts or whatever. It's kind of like a flash loan where if you don't actually pay back the money after you've taken the loan and done all your business within kind of like that one ethereum block, then the whole kind of thing reverts. So that's my understanding of how this would work, is that if the relay isn't done well, anything that you try, any messages that you sent from l two to l one weren't processed to begin with, and nothing really happens on that end.
00:05:46.002 - 00:06:18.734, Speaker A: The whole kind of like thing reverts from there. Now the thread here from transmissions goes into much more detail about what this is kind of like a link to GitHub and stuff like that. So you can go read that. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But yeah, I mean, as we've been talking about bridges a lot lately and kind of like L2s in general, this is the critical infrastructure that needs to be put in place to enable this seamless liquidity movement between all of these different layers. Because, you know, right now there's kind of like two schools of thought about how to, how to scale blockchains that I see in the wild. There's the Ethereum school of thought, which is like a roll up centric roadmap.
00:06:18.734 - 00:07:03.868, Speaker A: We basically have ZK roll ups, optimistic roll ups, all that kind of stuff as a way to scale Ethereum at l two with l one just providing the security for that. Right. And that, and that is still the same kind of thing with sharding, where sharding just gives us more kind of, I guess, fuel for l two. It gives us more space, gives us more room to kind of do, you know, more activities. Then there's kind of, I guess like you'd call it the Solana school of thought, which is basically scaling everything on layer one without sharding. So essentially just one chain for everything to kind of like be on there. And which, I mean, I've talked about this before and I think the AMA, but I don't think that's like a long term sustainable solution because in order to do that, you, you need to keep increasing hardware requirements over time, right? You need to kind of keep beefing things up.
00:07:03.868 - 00:07:37.536, Speaker A: And essentially you're trying to run like, I guess you're trying to run the. Every, every single thing. I think about it like absolutely everything in a scalable way while keeping fees cheap on just like one kind of like blockchain, which I don't think, I mean obviously these people are quite smart that are working on it, but I don't think that. Well, for one, I don't think it's a decentralized way to do it because you need beefy hardware to run it. And everyday people can't exactly run a full node to verify these things. It becomes very, very hard to because there's so much data on layer one. And I don't think that the validator set can be decentralized because of that as well.
00:07:37.536 - 00:08:06.020, Speaker A: And it's also like a deposit system which turns into a cartel over time. But not to kind of bash that too much. But I just wanted to kind of describe the two schools of thought here, which is the layered approach to scaling, which is what Ethereum is going with, with its roll up centric roadmap. And then there's the kind of like, I mean, and sharding. I mean, it's a layer slash kind of like sharding approach where I guess you could think of layers as like scaling up. So like a building, right? You have a building, it has one floor. If you scale up with layers, like L2, you're adding more floors, essentially.
00:08:06.020 - 00:08:39.444, Speaker A: That's a crude analogy, but I think it works. Then you have horizontal scaling, which is sharding, where essentially you can have like another building across the street, right. And then on that building you can have more, more stories to it than just one, which are more l two s. Do you see kind of where I'm going with this? And then you have like a road between them, which is like the bridge infrastructure on, on Ethereum. So there's that kind of thinking. And that allows us to keep layer one as decentralized and as kind of like as secure as possible and allows people to, everyday people to verify the integrity of, integrity of layer one. And then L2 can inherit that security.
00:08:39.444 - 00:09:21.762, Speaker A: Whereas the other school of thought is, yeah, let's just scale everything at layer one without sharding on just one holistic thing. And the logic flows is that they're doing this because of breaking, because they think that the layered approach breaks composability. And that composability being things like, as I described, flash loans, right, where you can talk to a bunch of different protocols to do something synchronously in one kind of ethereum block. But I don't think that's true or is going to be true over the longer term, because we're going to have solutions like Nova. We're going to have these bridges, we're going to have the DMM from starkware and other such things like that. And I just think it's going to be a very seamless experience. I think a lot of the L2 stuff is going to fall into the background for users.
00:09:21.762 - 00:09:54.206, Speaker A: They're not even going to have to worry about any of this stuff. They're just going to use front ends to kind of, I guess, interact with it. They're going to use bridges, hop or connect or whatever. They're going to use optimism, arbitrary and whatever l two it is, they're not even going to know at the end of the day, they're just going to know what apps they're using. They could be using uniswap on some kind of like roll up that, you know, they never heard of before without even knowing it. And they could be bridging assets across all this sort of stuff. It's, I mean, it's, it's all about branding at the front end, right? And there's going to be different brands that kind of, I guess, win and different kind of front ends that just tap into these things, like even the wallets and stuff like that.
00:09:54.206 - 00:10:42.486, Speaker A: But this is why I think that Ethereum's kind of like, layered approach is just the best way to scale a blockchain and to keep it as decentralized and secure as possible. But also, I just don't think there's any, like, there's any other way to do it because of the fact that you run into centralization issues because you need beefy hardware. At the end of the day, you can either solve it with kind of like software, which, I mean, there's, you also kind of require some kind of like, beefy hardware, I mean, beefier than layer one to kind of like process L2 transactions. But it's a different thing because you're not relying on that hardware for layer, for security, for the L2. Layer two is relying on the layer one for security. So, yeah, I think it just keeps it much more decentralized over time. And I think that the composability issues are going to be figured out and we're going to, I think generally it's just going to be asynchronous anyway.
00:10:42.486 - 00:11:45.806, Speaker A: And it's going to be quick. It's not going to be, I'm going to show you in a sec what I mean by quick transfers between chains, but it's going to be asynchronous where essentially you kind of do what Nova is doing here, where you kind of like relay messages across happen within one Ethereum block or whatever within 15 seconds, but it still happens because you send the message, the message gets received on one end, then that message is replied to, and then that message reply gets kind of like acknowledged by the original sender and kind of like, then it goes from there and then you kind of complete that transaction, so to speak. This is exactly how the World Wide Web works today. This is exactly how the web scaled. And I do believe this is exactly how Ethereum and kind of with its layered approach is going to scale long term and, and is going to be the preferred solution. So, yeah, just, I mean, I didn't mean to go into kind of like a deep breakdown into like how the scaling approach is going to, is going to go, but I think it's good always to give a refresher there, especially when talking about these sorts of things like Nova and speaking of l two, so l two, beat.com got a major upgrade or major update today.
00:11:45.806 - 00:12:36.752, Speaker A: They've added a new risk view, new research and more. You can see here their risk view, and this is a condensed version of it, shows a bunch of different properties of these l two, such as state validation. So how is the state of the l two being validated? Is it fraud proofs or is it zero knowledge proofs? So ZK proofs, whether it's an optimistic system or a fraud based system, if it's plasma, what are the exits like? And then it's, then it goes into the data availability. So is it on chain data availability or is it external as part of a data availability committee, which I've talked about before in the context of any validity or validium. One of the two there from starkware, is the other contracts upgradable? A lot of them are, yes, because they're very early stage. So if they are upgradable, what ends up happening is that if there's no time lock on it, it's a security risk. Because if the contract can be upgraded, it can be upgraded to do anything, right.
00:12:36.752 - 00:13:20.776, Speaker A: It can be changed to do anything underneath you. It's not immutable and there's no time lock on it. So you don't have any kind of like, I guess, path to recovery there. But then there's also the operator censoring a part of it. So is the layer to operator censoring your transactions or censoring you from being able to do anything on l two? If so, you can force exit, or exit to l one. This is the magic of l two, where your, when constructed correctly, your funds cannot be held hostage on the l two that, you know, they can't be stolen or anything like that. What can end up happening? What can end up happening is the operator can censor you because, because they control like the sequencer or the block producer, and then you can just force exit to layer one and your funds from the bridge will be unlocked after a certain period of time.
00:13:20.776 - 00:13:47.370, Speaker A: An optimistic roll ups. It's a weekend on Zk rollups. It depends on what the construction is. It depends how often the proofs have been related to the chain and stuff like that. And then you can see operator down. Do they have an escape patch? Which basically means can you exit your funds from that bridge as well? So I think this is really, really good. I mean, l two beat is doing an amazing amount of work here, basically pulling all these data together and making it like free for everyone to view because I think this is very, very important going forward.
00:13:47.370 - 00:14:13.096, Speaker A: I think a lot of this is going to change over time. Obviously there's going to be time locks added where they need to be for upgrade, for contract upgradeability. There's going to be different kind of like state validation, things put in place and all that sort of stuff. And you know, and to kind of complement this, they've also got descriptions in each, sorry, risk summary in each kind of like projects page here. And they've also got a bunch of links to research and things like that as well. So check out this thread. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:14:13.096 - 00:15:03.282, Speaker A: And l two b is quickly becoming welltobeat.com comma is quickly becoming my, one of my favorite websites in the ecosystem to check, check daily just to kind of see the growth of l two, but also get a lot of context around what's happening with all the different altus that alive today. So again, speaking of l two, optimism has, has announced that custom token Bridge bridging is now supported on an optimistic Ethereum gateway near you. So I just opening up the blog post here because they've got a TLDR in here. So TLDR, basically they released a new gateway interface which enables arbitrary token deposits and withdrawals to optimistic Ethereum. In the previous major release of the gateway, they allow tokens listed in the optimism token list to be transferred to l two and back. But with this new release, the gates have been opened and allow any ERC 20 token to transition the boundary between the layers.
00:15:03.282 - 00:15:45.084, Speaker A: So essentially you can send any token, any arc 20 token you want to optimism, and you can withdraw it back to l one as you see fit there, which is, I mean, awesome. The more kind of like openness we get from optimism and arbitrarium and stuff like that, the better, because they do have obviously whitelisting guardrails in place. But I did say that these guard rails, rails would come down over time as the kind of, I guess system is live for longer, gets more battle tested. As I mentioned the other day, optimism increased their, their kind of like capacity on layer on L2 as well. I think they doubled it to 100,000 transactions per day. And optimism has now done a million total transactions, which is really cool. And you know, I checked out their revenue.
00:15:45.084 - 00:16:37.664, Speaker A: They're actually doing $100,000 of daily trading fee volume as well. So in aggregate, they're doing a lot of, a lot of fee volume, even though they, the fees are like sub $1 and will get cheaper over time as kind of like more and more transactions per second are enabled there. And the proofs kind of get cheaper to, I guess like, sorry, the revenue goes up collectively in aggregate, but it falls down for individual users. But, yeah, great to see they're just kind of like taking, I guess, the guardrails off of this and allowed for arbitrary token bridging to optimism, which should allow for much more pairs on uniswap on optimism to be created and much more trading volume to happen there, which I am really looking forward to seeing. All right, speaking of bridges, litter Cohen here. Whoops, I gotta get rid of that sound there. Litter Cohen here basically showed a video of going from Polygon to optimism in two minutes with only a ten cent transact transaction cost.
00:16:37.664 - 00:17:09.324, Speaker A: And new users won't even need to ever touch Ethereum mainnet anymore. Now, I saw some comments in kind of like the reply to his tweet here, which basically said, oh, well, the Ethereum l one is so limited that the users don't even have to, can't even touch it anymore. It's like, that's the point, guys. Like, I mean, Polygon commits its state to Ethereum every few hours, right? Like as part of its, its construction. And optimism commits itself. Sorry. Optimism relies on Ethereum for security and commits.
00:17:09.324 - 00:17:53.596, Speaker A: Kind of like those, those batches to l one as well. So the kind of long term goal here with these sorts of things with l two s and stuff like that, is to just have them paying for ethereum kind of like transaction, sorry, for block space and all the users to sit on l two. And as I've described l two before, as like a, like a user wrapper. We can have like millions, if not billions of users in these l two s. And then those l two s act as like a one entity that posts proof, proofs to the main, main chain which pay those fees that, you know, go to, I guess, like a burning under 1559. And some of them go to the miners and stakers and stuff like that. So the Ethereum mainnet is still very much being used to secure this whole ecosystem, and it's still very much being paid for and ETH is still very much being burned.
00:17:53.596 - 00:18:21.496, Speaker A: But the beautiful thing is that the end user doesn't have to touch it. The end user can go using, using hot pr, they can go from polygon to optimism in two minutes with a ten cent transaction cost. And it's absolutely seamless, right? Like, this is just amazing. I mean, people were going, we're talking about, you know, seven day withdrawal periods, all this sort of stuff. And and delays here and there and, you know, loss of composability, all that, blah, blah, blah. I don't, you know, I was talking about that just before, but really, these solutions are here. They're getting better every single day.
00:18:21.496 - 00:18:54.200, Speaker A: I mean, there's a new update from one of these bridges like all the time. I mean, hop isn't the only one. I've got connects up here, too, where they've got something that they call expollinate v two, which is arbitrary to polygon test nets in 70 seconds. Like, this is crazy, right? This is, this kind of transfer time is going to come down over time as well, I think. I mean, I think there is a theoretical limit on how, how quickly you can do it because of, I guess, block times and things like that. And definitely depending on the risk curve as well, you got to consider that too. But yeah, arbitram to, to polygon testnets in 70 seconds.
00:18:54.200 - 00:19:07.672, Speaker A: This is going to be live on main net soon. I mean, the bridges are here, guys. Like, they work. You can go try them out today. I mean, you can try this hot protocol out one right now. You just go to their website, click, you know, click on this sort of stuff, bridge some funds across. Go try it.
00:19:07.672 - 00:19:19.020, Speaker A: It's, it's a very seamless and awesome experience. And you know, this is really the future. And I'm really, really excited that we have all this stuff live. And it's not just kind of like it's coming soon. It's coming soon. It's coming soon anymore. Right.
00:19:19.020 - 00:19:51.754, Speaker A: And I mean, arbitram is going live this month still. I'm, I'm going to assume they're going to go live on Tuesday, which is the 31 August, just because it's just, I mean, we're what, at the 27 August right now? But you know, they're going live like very, very soon and you're going to be able to do this on Mainnet. Go from arbitrary to Polygon in 70 seconds on Mainnet, just like on hop, you can go from Polygon to optimism in two minutes here. You know, obviously, obviously optimism is an optimistic roll up as well. So yeah, this stuff's here. It's coming, it's being improved every day. Super, super exciting.
00:19:51.754 - 00:20:54.138, Speaker A: All right, so block native put together a really, really great kind of AIP 1559 piece today titled how to calculate Ethereum. AIP 1559 Max fees, and it's basically a guide on how to do this. Now this, I mean, the funny thing is, is this is not something that most users will have to kind of like worry about or deal with or whatever. But if you're really interested in getting into how things like the base fee, the priority fee, the max fee, the max priority fee, all that sort of stuff works, then this blog post will give you a very comprehensive view on it and kind of like illustrate this in easy to explain, easy to understand ways as well. I mean, honestly, I read through this and I was like, wow, okay, this is awesome. Like, if you really want to know how it all works under the hood and how you can kind of like guarantee yourself to get into like the next block, then this is definitely something that you should check. But also, if you don't want to read this blog post every time to kind of calculate these sorts of things, I mean, block native has already done this for you by creating this tool called the gas estimator tool where you can basically see you have 99% probability in getting into the next block.
00:20:54.138 - 00:21:52.988, Speaker A: If your max fee is set to 142 with a priority fee of four, and you can see what the base fee is here and stuff like that, and then you can, you know, go down the list here and see what your probability is depending on kind of what, what max fee and priority fee you set and stuff like that. So and then you can do a trigger here and say just normal transactions versus 1559 style transactions, or should I say legacy transactions, but still go read this blog post. If you're interested in kind of like, I guess, understanding how it all works under the hood. But at the same time, the funny thing is about this is that I think, as I said, long term, all the users are going to be on L2. And the only kind of like people that will have to worry about this sort of stuff is going to be l two operators. And it's going to become such a finely tuned machine that if most, if not all of the transaction space on l one is taken up by these l two s, then it's basically going to be a very, very efficient kind of block space market where all the l two s will know in advance when they're going to post their proofs. They know which other proofs are going to be posted.
00:21:52.988 - 00:22:51.754, Speaker A: They can probably coordinate with each other to say, okay, you know, I'm going to post my proof here, you can post yours after me sort of thing, or like kind of like batch this stuff together. I mean, there's, there's so much that can be done there, and I think long term it's going to be wild to see just how efficient the l one block space becomes when we do have the majority, if not all, of the block space being taken up by these l two s. And then in sharding it, even, it goes, you know, it goes even further than that. It's pretty crazy when you think about it. But for now, and probably for the foreseeable future, at least for the next, maybe two, three years, it's good to kind of, like, have access to tools like this for us end users so that we can kind of, like, have better predictability about this sort of stuff. But again, if the wallet that you're using is designed correctly, it should already do this for you, and you should already have, like, a very, very high chance of getting into the next block anyway, with kind of like the default that the wallet gives you. But this is just a good way to make sure if you want to, like, ape into a new NFT project or something like that, this is definitely an edge, and this will definitely help you, help you with doing that.
00:22:51.754 - 00:24:02.674, Speaker A: So speaking of 1559, Banteg kind of posted a tweet today where he compared the adoption rate of two major transaction type upgrades, one of them being Segwit, which went live on the 25 August 2017 and is currently used by, by about, sorry, for about 80% of bitcoin transactions, whereas 1559 went live on the 5 August 2021, which is only about 22 days ago now, and has already seen 55% adoption. Segwit took two years to get to those levels. So it just shows, like, how far, how kind of, like, much faster the adoption has been of 1559 style transactions over Segwit. And I think this comparison actually holds a lot of water because Segwit was meant to be an end user upgrade, where it would offer kind of like cheaper fees for end users because it increased, like, the kind of block weight, not the blocks that, the hard block size, but, like, the block weight. Kind of like how 1559, I guess, isn't meant to kind of like, lead to cheaper fees or whatever, but it kind of, like, increases the block, the gas limit to 30 million, but it targets 15 million. So I'm not sure if, like, they're totally comparable, but there is some similar similarities there. But this just shows, like, how fast the ethereum ecosystem is to adopt these sorts of things.
00:24:02.674 - 00:24:34.396, Speaker A: I mean, I mentioned in my newsletter yesterday I expected to get to like 70, 80% of adoption. May maybe taper out there for a little bit, but, you know, it might just be slower to get to 90%. I'm not sure if we'll ever reach 100% maybe we will. It kind of, it relies on like pretty much every single actor on the network, kind of like updating themselves to use 1559 style transactions instead of legacy ones. So we'll see how that goes there. But yeah, still really little, really great little chart here from, from Bandtech. So Parsec have updated their tool here.
00:24:34.396 - 00:25:23.902, Speaker A: I think this is live now, I haven't checked it myself, but they've basically added this thing called the NFT fire hose which basically allows you to do something called tape reading, which is essentially see like a live view of kind of like NFT bids going through over a certain threshold or NFT trades going through over a certain threshold. So as you can see here, this is showing that every NFT traded on the Ethereum network that's worth more than 0.1 ETH. And you can see like different projects here, like stoner cats and, and kind of like bastard gang punks and stuff like that. And I mean, subducts a few other ones that I, that I kind of like recognize here. But this is really cool because I think this is a good way to probably get insight into what NFT project is kind of hot. Like if you suddenly see a lot of things coming through, then you can kind of spot that early on, maybe go, maybe that's some alpha for you to go and buy this NFT and kind of like see that there.
00:25:23.902 - 00:26:00.476, Speaker A: But they also added up an all in one collection level data with NFT preset layouts here. So basically you can see here, I mean for those who don't know, parsecs, like a Bloomberg terminal for like ethereum essentially. But you can see on the screenshot here that the different NFT prices between like, like bastard gang punks here. And you can see on the right side that NFT trades. And then down the bottom, I think my camera is kind of like blocking this, but you can see like holders and stuff like that. So this really gives you like a bird's eye view of what's happening in certain parts of like the Ethereum on chain ecosystem, which I think is really, really cool. But yeah, I think this is live in the parsec tool today.
00:26:00.476 - 00:26:13.184, Speaker A: You can go check them out. That's app parsec dot finance. I think it's a paid service, I believe. But yeah, I'm not sure what the prices are right now. I had access a little while ago. I haven't checked that in a little while. But yeah, this is really, really cool to see.
00:26:13.184 - 00:26:49.960, Speaker A: So we had a burn record over the last 24 hours. I think this was actually a while ago now. This was almost 24 hours ago where we burned 9000 ETH in the 20, in 24 hours yesterday, which is ultramark 7.7 here. If you guys are familiar with Justin Drake's kind of like terminology here, but this is, I mean, this is crazy. I think we actually broke this record over the last 24 hours because if I look at my little, kind of like iPad mini here, it seems that we've, we've almost broken that record or come close to breaking it, which is crazy. I mean, this is basically all the NFT mania going on right now.
00:26:49.960 - 00:27:38.836, Speaker A: It's just pushing us to burn a lot of ETH. I mean, we're already at almost 110,000 ETH burned and we're at 100,000 yesterday. It's just, I mean, it's just crazy, right? And I went through yesterday about kind of like the price impacts and what I expect going forward, this sort of stuff. I'm not going to rehash myself today, but, yeah, just crazy to see this burn record. And I think that we're going to see a day with over 10,000 ETH burned in 24 hours. That's, that's not too far away, I don't think. And we're going to see maybe, maybe even more than that because we, you know, if we went back into like we were with, I guess, like may in terms of price action on ETH and other kind of like coins out there coupled with an NFT mania, you would have both DeFi and NFT mania going on at once, which would lead to probably sustained like maybe a couple hundred plus guy prices or gas prices, I should say, which would be quite crazy.
00:27:38.836 - 00:28:02.724, Speaker A: And that would literally burn like 20,000 ETH a day or something like that. Something insane, which is going to be interesting to see how that plays out. But yeah, we're going to, I'm going to keep an eye on that and keep you guys updated on that for sure. And the last thing I wanted to shout out here was that foundation now has a newsletter. So Kit, the director of collector relations at foundation, is going to be curating this. And you can go to Foundation Dot App newsletters to kind of subscribe here. It's really great.
00:28:02.724 - 00:28:28.124, Speaker A: I mean, I've been spending a lot more time in the kind of like one on one art space at the moment, especially on foundation. I've bought a bit, I bought three pieces so far and it's just really, really cool to kind of like see what they're doing over there and not just there. I mean, there's obviously other platforms, like super rare and stuff like that. But I'm really partial to foundation because I'm good friends with with kid here. She watches the refuel. Shout out if you're watching the episode kit. And I bought one of her pieces actually a little while ago as well, so.
00:28:28.124 - 00:28:50.756, Speaker A: Yeah, but generally, I really like foundations outlay as well. How they kind of like outlay on the website and have all the artists there and all the pieces and everything like that. So I become a bit of a collector on there these days and slowly but surely building up my collection. But yeah, if you want to keep up to date with what they're doing, definitely go subscribe to their newsletter here. But I think that's it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:50.756 - 00:28:56.364, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
