00:00:00.160 - 00:00:46.838, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Candy Cesano, and today's the 23 February 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off with another round of notes from the EIP 4844 implementers call put out by Terrence. As usual, they went over a range of topics that you can find in this Twitter thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I did cover the one major update I think a few days ago with that Jasek was talking about when it came to blobs, and Terrence covered it here, saying the most significant change, which was decoupling blobs, aka free blobs, has been merged. Once the developers have a client implementations, they'll run another round of network simulation to compare results between coupled and decoupled approaches.
00:00:46.838 - 00:01:09.494, Speaker A: And then there's more updates here that you can read for yourself. Now, I did mention, I think a few weeks ago that the 4844 spec is still changing. It's not frozen, and that's totally fine. It still puts us, I guess, with relative certainty of being able to launch this thing later in the year. If not, you know, worst case, probably early next year. But it's coming. It's making a lot of progress moving along.
00:01:09.494 - 00:01:46.550, Speaker A: I think a lot of developers are working on it now, given that withdrawals is pretty much done, I would say, because we're going to be forking sepolia on the 28th of Feb and then just run through the motions of doing girlie. And then we will do main nets, hopefully late March there for that. But you guys know all about that. Anyway, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so superfizz had a great tweet about Ethereum staking, where he said 226 out of the 523,000 validators on the beacon chain have been slashed. That is nothing to lose sleep over. Many slashings have occurred during failed system migration.
00:01:46.550 - 00:02:23.684, Speaker A: And so here are four emerging best practice tips to avoid this. Now, the fact that it's only 226 out of 523,000 is pretty good. I mean, I don't know what that is in percentage terms, but it is like 0.00 something percent, right? And there's a very, very small number of validators that have been slashed. Now, you remember that slashing and kind of and going offline are two separate things. If you go offline, you suffer what's called the inactivity penalty or inactivity leak. Whereas if you get, and that won't kick you out of the active validator set until your balance goes to 16 ETH, whereas if you get slashed, you're automatically kicked out of the validator set.
00:02:23.684 - 00:03:18.738, Speaker A: And because withdrawals aren't enabled yet, your validator pretty much becomes useless and your ETH is stuck there until withdrawals are enabled. So because of this, obviously, you know, we'd like this number to be zero, because a lot of the things that happened here weren't actually validators trying to be malicious. A lot of the time it was them trying to set up, or people trying to set up redundant setups for their validators and accidentally having two of the same validator running in the same running at the same time, which resulted in a in a slashing event. Now, as I said, super Fizz has four emerging best practice tips that he's put together here about how to handle this. Now, as I just mentioned, the biggest thing is that redundant setup that leads to slashing, that what you want to do is if you're trying to, I guess, migrate to a new setup, is you want to wipe your entire old staking machine. Don't use the chain, reuse the chain data to save time. Reinstall reformat and reduce the odds that a lingering service will sting you.
00:03:18.738 - 00:03:39.954, Speaker A: You can use doppelganger protection as well, which is actually built into the rocket pool smart stack, which is actually, I've got it enabled and it kicks in even if you go offline. But I. Sorry, it kicks in. Yeah, even if you are offline. So it's pretty good, right? I actually really love it. And then the third one is take your time and act deliberately. Write out a checklist for your process and follow it.
00:03:39.954 - 00:04:09.464, Speaker A: Add in lots of 15 minutes. Just watch buffers to become aware of problems. And if you feel butterflies in your stomach about any action, just step away. Maybe it means unplugging everything before you step away. Take a small loss and come back when you found support and thought it through, then improved your plan when you're confident. And superfizz does make a point to say that it doesn't matter if you're offline for a few hours. It's better than accidentally getting slashed for, you know, even if it's just one ETH, which is $1700.
00:04:09.464 - 00:04:41.950, Speaker A: If you're offline for, I guess, like a few, I don't know, a few hours or something like that, you're not going to lose much from the inactivity leak at all, really. And you're going to make that back as soon as you come back back online anyway. So it's really not worth kind of worrying about that. But I'll link his thread in the YouTube description, you can check it out. And there are some replies to read through as well. All right, sticking with staking. So Opal Labs has announced today, or shared today, that they have been running the first distributed validator cluster on Mainnet Ethereum since December 30 with a 98.6%
00:04:41.950 - 00:05:05.656, Speaker A: efficiency rating. And they continue by saying as this is the first phase of our road to Mainnet, it's time to discuss our design philosophy and approach. And they have an accompanying blog post and Twitter thread here. Now, they seem to have kept this secret. I don't think they had revealed this publicly. So since they launched this, then it has been almost two months since they've done so. And according to their blog post, it's run quite successfully here, which is really, really awesome.
00:05:05.656 - 00:06:05.064, Speaker A: And actually link to the dashboard where they're, where they are kind of looking at the validator effectiveness and stuff here as well. So what does this mark? Well, they said this marks the first phase of Obel's journey to bring bring to bringing distributed validators to Mainnet Ethereum. And then they go through things like the design pillars, their adoption strategy, the v one roadmap, and all that good stuff surrounding that as well there, which you can obviously read in the YouTube description below. So I wanted to focus on one thing here where they said in their adoption strategy that they believe rolling out DVT will be similar to how it was built in the open, constructive and highly collaborative for DVT adoption will take place in waves similar to the rollout of ETH two for all of our phase zero, phase one, phase 1.5 and phase two. People, if you've been around long enough, you know that the original ETH two roadmap was phased out like this. Well, okay, the phasing, the phase terminology was actually phased out, but there was phase zero, one, 1.5
00:06:05.064 - 00:06:32.892, Speaker A: and two. And if I remember correctly, phase zero was the beacon chain. Phase one was, was the, was data was sharding, I think, or the first part of sharding 1.5 was the merge and two was, oh, I can't remember now I'm screwing it up. I think two was was a bunch of other things, but as I said, these all got phased out and now basically we just have the Ethereum remote that Vitalik has shared a bunch of times. But that was a nice little throwback there from, from oval. But yeah, you can go read this whole blog post for yourself.
00:06:32.892 - 00:07:03.408, Speaker A: All of course, link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But great to see that oval has been running their technology live on Mainnet and it seems to have worked quite well. And we're privileged to get a, I guess a nice lengthy, juicy, detailed blog post here running through all of that as well as a tweet thread which you can check out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, last up on staking here, we have an update from Swell. So the newly improved swell is coming in April of 2023. There will be a reward bearing LST.
00:07:03.408 - 00:07:43.960, Speaker A: So it seems they're trying to change the terminology here from LSD to LST. And obviously LST stands for liquid staking token instead of LSD, which stands for liquid staking derivative. I understand why you would do this. Obviously LSD can be read as referred to the drug and it's, and I guess like it's been memed as that. And it can have maybe negative connotations attached to it because you can imagine an uninformed regulator looking at it and they're like, why are these people talking about LSD's like is this drug money? And you know, you know that's going to happen, right? You can see that happening. So I think that swell is trying to change the narrative here, or change the terminology, I should say, and just say LST. I mean, either works.
00:07:43.960 - 00:08:10.822, Speaker A: I think LSD is going to be sticky though because of that meme ability. But if you see the term LST, it means liquid staking token. And then they continue by saying spell is built for composability, fully fungible with vetted node operators and integrations with top Defi protocols. And you can read about this in the short little blog post here if you would like. And of course you can join their discord and follow their Twitter for future updates here. I'm super excited, guys. We're so close to withdrawals.
00:08:10.822 - 00:08:56.910, Speaker A: There's going to be so many more staking things happening around that not just swell, but obviously DVT, the massive rocket pool upgrade coming as well, where you can basically spin up a mini pool with just eight ETH instead of 16 ETH. A lot of these other staking services that are in stealth right now, or at least maybe not in total stealth, but are kind of under the radar, are going to be coming online and we're going to see a pretty massive spike in ETH stake, I believe. I think it's going to lead to millions and millions of more ETH being staked and just, and it's kind of hard to know what the terminal kind of eats take will be or where it'll slow down. It will depend on the yield, of course. But I wouldn't be surprised to see maybe 30 million ETH stakes this time next year like that wouldn't surprise me at all. It's pretty much almost double what we're at now. So we're going to have to see how that plays out.
00:08:56.910 - 00:09:39.460, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm obviously super excited to watch that all unfold there. All right, moving on. So I spoke about kind of Ethereum test nets yesterday and about how there's a bit of drama around it. And Franzi here from the Ethereum Foundation, I believe, put out a tweet kind of clarifying something that I forgot to mention yesterday. So the two test nets right now that alive are girlie and Sepolia, and they're actually, they actually serve different purposes. So girlie is only meant for, only meant as a testnet for validating and staking, whereas Apollo is meant as a testnet for applications. So because of this, I guess probably confusion or I guess because people don't know this, it's led to a lot of confusion.
00:09:39.460 - 00:10:33.306, Speaker A: But honestly, I don't think this is a well known fact, and it is on the ethereum.org developer section here, but I don't think this is a well known fact even among a lot of the developers out there. So just wanted to give a reminder here that, or a shout out here that the, the two test nets are for different things, girly for validating and staking, whereas sepolia is for applications. And also on top of that, I believe goalie is actually scheduled to be decommissioned or deprecated by the end of the year, which means. So polio will be the sorry and, and be and oh, actually it's written here and will be replaced by something called wholesivus, which I guess is another testnet that's going to be going to be spun up there, which should, I guess, solve a bunch of these issues around speculating on, on testnet ETH. And I guess like that's another massive risk there is of holding go ETH or girly ETH is that it's actually getting deprecated. So you're not going to even be able to sell it or use it or anything.
00:10:33.306 - 00:11:06.110, Speaker A: But the funny thing is, is that what does that deprecation look like? Because the clients are out there are people just going to keep running the girly testnet because that, because of the fact that it's got value attached to it. And does it end up becoming its own little main net? I don't, I don't know. Right. Its own little new network. That would be kind of funny and bizarre, but I could see that potentially happening depending on the value of girly ETH. It's a coordination issue, though. Like, it would require people to get together and be like, okay, we're going to run these nodes and we're going to have all these things on here, have these bridges, we're going to have exchanges, blah, blah, blah.
00:11:06.110 - 00:11:34.478, Speaker A: So the coordination is the biggest issue there, rather than obviously forking the code. But yeah, just wanted to shout out there, that girl is actually only a testnet for validating and staking and will be deprecated this year in favor of another testnet. And so polio is the testnet for applications, and it's all explained on this ethereum.org page, which you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Coinbase and optimism are teasing something big. And not only them, but there's been a lot of things.
00:11:34.478 - 00:12:18.962, Speaker A: I mean, I woke up to this today, there's a lot of different projects kind of tweeting out this blue circle and saying that there is going to be an announcement today, basically. And bankless is actually doing a live stream about this at 09:00 a.m. Eastern time, which is maybe already, by the time you've watched the refuel, maybe the announcement is already out because I think the refill goes live about half an hour before this, this happens. So you may already know what this is, but I want to do something fun where I speculate what this is by connecting some dots and see if I'm right. So I think if Coinbase alone just tweeted out like this, it might have been harder to reach this conclusion. But Coinbase tweeted out this blue circle. Now, optimism has their red circle as basically their official emoji, and they've been using it for quite a while now.
00:12:18.962 - 00:12:50.164, Speaker A: So even if optimism didn't tweet out anything, I still would have maybe drawn a conclusion here now, in saying that arbitram uses the blue circle as well. Right? So I would have first gone to arbitrary and like, okay, something's happening with potentially with arbitrary and Coinbase right now, but I think, you know, optimism tweeted out as well. So it's obviously, obviously got something to do with optimism. And then my mind went to. Okay, well, what could coinbase be doing with optimism? Well, they already support optimism. They already support deposits and withdrawals. They already support the op token and.
00:12:50.164 - 00:13:31.858, Speaker A: Okay, so what's the next logical thing that they could do? Well, optimism has something called the op stack that I've been talking about on the refuel for a while now, which is basically a way for anyone to create their own l two. Now, does that make sense for Coinbase to do it like it's Coinbase gonna create their own l two? What's it gonna look like? Right. Is Coinbase gonna have a token attached to it? Their own token? I highly doubt that, by the way. If from just from a regular regulatory standpoint, that wouldn't fly, so I doubt that's going to happen. Okay, so what does a Coinbase l two actually look like? Well, I believe it would still use ETH as a fee token, especially because the op stack is built with that in mind. So, I mean, obviously awesome. It would be a roll up straight out of the box awesome.
00:13:31.858 - 00:13:44.474, Speaker A: Is it going to be Kyc? I don't know. I don't think so. I don't think people are really interested in Kyc defy. It doesn't even. It's not even defi if it's Kyc, really. But that could happen, right? It could be. There could be parts of it that are.
00:13:44.474 - 00:14:47.594, Speaker A: I don't know. And, you know, what's the architecture going to look like? Who's going to be validating on the network? Is it going to be just Coinbase doing it? Is cos going to be their only sequencer, or are there a group of people doing this? You know, you can speculate all you want, and as I said, like most of you are probably watching this after the announcement's already public. But that's my conclusion that I came to, is that Coinbase seemingly is launching its own l two using optimism's technology, which is super exciting, obviously, for both optimism and the Ethereum ecosystem, because obviously the l two is going to be on Ethereum, and it's a huge vote of confidence, not only for l two s, but also for ethereum as a settlement layer, because l two's. I mean, the way, the very heart of an l two is the fact that they settle their transactions on Ethereum. And I've said for a long time that I believe Ethereum is going to be the global settlement layer for everyone, right? For individuals, for companies, for corp, for corporates, for institutions, for governments. It's going to be that global settlement layer that neutral, census resistant, global settlement layer that everyone can kind of, like, settle onto. Now, Coinbase, creating an l two.
00:14:47.594 - 00:15:30.084, Speaker A: Like a massive company like Coinbase, obviously, one of the biggest in the space, creating an l two is that massive vote of confidence for a theory. M for optimism for l two. S generally, and that would be super exciting to see. Now, of course, if I'm completely wrong here and completely off base, and if it's a nothing burger, just like how those are two fists bumping together the other week where the DeFi protocols were teasing it on Twitter, if it turns out to be a nothing burger, then just ignore everything I just said and we pretend that didn't happen. But I think I'm on the money here, I really do, just because of the fact that optimism does one thing right. I mean, they build l two infrastructure, and coin and Coinbase have been doing a lot of stuff with ethereum lately. They've been working directly on ERP 4844, which is scaling L2s.
00:15:30.084 - 00:15:49.944, Speaker A: They've been supporting L2s. They have someone who works there, Jesse Polak, who I've talked about a bunch on the refill before, just being very public about supportive altoos. So it just makes logical sense for me there. And I hope I'm right here. I'm really, really eager to see what the details are. It's actually getting announced at 01:00 a.m. My time, so I'll be awake for this.
00:15:49.944 - 00:16:13.200, Speaker A: It's always funny when I get up in the morning and I see the announcement and I, quote, tweeted, and I did like the looky eyes, and then people were saying, did you just get up? Yeah. Yes, I just got up. Australia is a real place, guys. Like, we're bloody ahead of you by so much. And it kind of all happened. And then I went through my Twitter fade and I'm like, okay, okay, this is exciting. And then I obviously, I caught up and formulated my own thesis in my head here.
00:16:13.200 - 00:16:36.016, Speaker A: But, yeah, I'm super excited. I just. I want to know. I don't really care if I'm right or wrong, but I just want to know what a coinbase l two would actually look like. Right? Like, as I said, are they going to be the only ones running the sequencer? Are they going to be the only ones running the validator? Or is it going to be a group of people? I don't think they're going to have their own token, as I mentioned. That just doesn't really make much sense to me. Using ETH is the fee token is also, a massive vote of confidence for Ethan Eats value accrual.
00:16:36.016 - 00:17:04.120, Speaker A: And I don't even know what's going to happen. You know, is op going to pump? Is ETH going to pump? Who knows? Right? I don't know what the market reaction is going to be to this, but regardless of any of that, Coinbase, launching an l two is going to be a massive deal and other exchanges may follow and other big companies may follow in this space. So watch. Watch this space, I guess, and we'll see what happens. If you're watching this before the announcement. Well, I guess, like, you're probably one of very few, and I'm sure we know what it is at this point. So, yeah, hopefully I'm right on the money here.
00:17:04.120 - 00:17:19.784, Speaker A: But as I said, you'll be able to watch this bankless stream at 09:00 a.m. Eastern time, which you've probably watched already. But anyway, it's kind of hard for me to record these things and be and talk about something as if it's happened. Even though it hasn't happened for me yet, it's still 3 hours away from when I'm recording this. It's 10:00 p.m. Right now. So anyway, we'll see.
00:17:19.784 - 00:17:46.956, Speaker A: We'll see what that happens there. But as you can tell, I am super excited. All right, so pretty exciting announcement out of uniswap today. So they announced that you can now buy nfts with any single ERC 20 token. So if you don't have enough ETH, it doesn't matter ETH to cover the gas fees. Obviously you can use any ERC 20 token in your wallet to completely trans, to complete your transaction without swapping to ETH first. So actually, I don't, actually, I should have clarified this.
00:17:46.956 - 00:18:25.456, Speaker A: I don't know if this applies to gas fees or if it just applies to using ETH to buy an NFT and obviously having to use ETH to pay gas fees as well. But essentially what this is doing is it's abstract. It's abstracting this away and using the uniswap backend or the uniswap liquidity backend to essentially swap that BRc 20 token. Let's say it's USDC for ETH in the background so that the person that's selling the NFT still gets ETH, but you are paying in USDC, so it's just all abstracted away in the background. So they've explained it here. This is how it works. It efficiently routes your ERC 20 token and Sops are for ETH and completes the transaction with soft ETH.
00:18:25.456 - 00:19:18.012, Speaker A: So they said currently only single input tokens are supported, but you can expect future releases will bring the capacity to bundle multiple ERC 20 tokens into a single single purchase. Now obviously this is a, this is a killer feature, right? This is a huge deal. This is something that I've thought I've talked about for a long time, about how ETH will always be used in the background on Ethereum, but we need to abstract that away from the user. We need to allow users to be able to pay for things in any token that they want. Now, in saying that, I feel like the only things that are really going to be used as money at scale are going to be on Ethereum are going to be ETH and us dollar stable coins. Maybe potentially other fiat stable coins, but definitely just fiat stable coins and ETH are going to be by and far the most liquid tokens use as money on Ethereum. Maybe you might see some bitcoin activity there, like wrap bitcoin, but it hasn't really taken off as people thought it would.
00:19:18.012 - 00:20:00.030, Speaker A: And I feel like ETH is just an easier money to use and it's just easier for accounting purposes as well. But obviously stable coins are even better from that point of view because it's stable. Right? So, but the thing that Uniswap has launched today means it doesn't really matter what you use. You can use it and you can use it to pay for whatever NFT you want. It's interesting that they've done this with NFT so quickly as well, because as I, as I mentioned, I think a few weeks ago, Uniswap seems to be very interested in going all in on nfts. They've obviously got a kind of competition for this, but they're the kicking goals here with this. And I think that they're going to do a lot in the NFT space just out of brand awareness and marketing, but also these killer features that they are shipping here.
00:20:00.030 - 00:20:36.270, Speaker A: But anyway, you can check out this announcement for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so Synthetix V three is now on Mainnet. So you can see this announcement post here describing exactly what Synthetix V three is, with a bunch of pretty graphics as well. You can see here this nice little graphic of what the V three core looks like and some examples and things like that. And the main features are also detailed in here. So that, as I say, Synthetix V three has been successfully deployed on the Ethereum mainnet and optimism after a thorough security audit from open Zeppelin is zero and macro.
00:20:36.270 - 00:21:18.532, Speaker A: Though this is certainly a big milestone for Synthetix, it should be considered a beginning and not a conclusion. We'll be progressively enabling functionality and rolling out upgrades from here as synthetic has too many real world considerations that can't be anticipated in a laboratory setting. Yeah, this has been a long time coming. I remember when Synthetix V two launched and that was a big deal. And obviously that they, they kind of migrated to optimism and have been building on there for a while now. With Synthetix v three, they've done a bunch of other massive upgrades in order to improve the synthetix ecosystem here. And it's great to see this because Synthetix is one of the older defi protocols that, as I've mentioned before, got stung by the high gas fees on Ethereum mainnet, then had to move to optimism, or was basically the first app on optimism.
00:21:18.532 - 00:21:50.512, Speaker A: And I've done a lot of great work within the optimism ecosystem and a lot of apps that have built off of them, such as Lyra and Quinta, and that's. They've been getting good traction as well. I'm curious to see if Synthetix V three is going to be deployed to any of the other l two s. I would say that it's a no brainer for them to deploy it to Arbitrum. Obviously, Arbitrum has, has a big ecosystem as well, and it's somewhere where Lyra already exists and they're using GMX right now on arbitrary them. But I guess if Synthetix launched on there, Lyra could use Synthetix as well. So I feel like they're going to launch on arbitrary, maybe they've already announced plans to do so.
00:21:50.512 - 00:22:36.124, Speaker A: I haven't kept, kept up too closely with that, but it feels like a no brainer to me for them to do that. But for now it is live on Ethereum mainnet and optimism, not fully functional yet in terms of features that they plan to deploy, but definitely something that you can go play around with. And all the relevant information is in the blog post, which will be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so Ingonyama has launched their Ingopedia V two, which is a community driven and comprehensive collection of info related to zero knowledge proofs. So yeah, I mean, I looked at this before and I was like, wow, okay, if you want to learn all there is to know about zero knowledge proofs and you have a lot of time and you like reading and you like? I guess like podcasts and videos. Well then this is for you. I mean, they have links to everything.
00:22:36.124 - 00:22:48.124, Speaker A: Guys, it's crazy. Like look at my screen right now. Okay, let me just go to one of the sections. I'll go to protocols. Look at all the links they have in protocols. Like this is crazy. And then each one of them is going to take you a while to read.
00:22:48.124 - 00:23:09.158, Speaker A: So maybe you are heading to Denver and you have a long flight ahead of you and you're a reader on a plane. I'm definitely not a reader. I can't read on planes for some reason. I think it's weird, but I don't generally read on planes. But if you are a reader, this is something to maybe read. I mean, obviously if you're on a plane you can't do this online, but you can download these pages. And I think there's a download button up here.
00:23:09.158 - 00:23:33.932, Speaker A: Yeah, you can print this book, aka you can download it, save it as a PDF and bring it with you if you're on a long flight. Or maybe you just want to go through it on an iPad or something like that, or a kindle, but feel free to do so there. Me personally on my flight to Denver, which is 14 hours the first leg, and then I think two and a half the second leg or something like that. I'm going to be playing video games. I have a steam deck and I have a switch and I'm going to be playing both of those. I've already loaded up the games. I'm going to be playing one of them.
00:23:33.932 - 00:23:55.842, Speaker A: I'm really looking forward to that. Comes out on the 25th of feb is octopath traveler two. It's a JRPG. I'm so happy it's coming out like two days before I fly out. I'm gonna be doing that. But anyway, tangent there again, if you're not like me and you can read on a plane, then this is definitely something that, that is interesting to get your, I guess, hands on. And it is gonna be technical.
00:23:55.842 - 00:24:18.226, Speaker A: I mean, it's ZK stuff. Of course it's gonna be technical. But I wanted to highlight it because I feel like it's the perfect thing for people to check out if they want to. And of course this will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And just a reminder as to why you should pay attention to this in Ganyama. I should, I should um, I should also disclose I'm an investor in them. They're building ASICs for zero knowledge proving and they've been at it for quite a while.
00:24:18.226 - 00:25:04.986, Speaker A: So if anyone is an expert on not only zero knowledge stuff, but curating resources that let you learn about all these stuff, it's in Ganyama. I mean, there probably is only a select few other teams that would be able to curate a resource like this. So yeah, you can trust that it is a lot of good information in there. All right, so last up here we have this Twitter account maker, Lee, who's shared a screenshot saying that sign in with Ethereum just got added to Shopify. And you can actually see this here in a screenshot that there's a connect wallet button here. If you are holding a certain NFT, you'll be able to get a discount if you connect your wallet. So let's say you're holding an NFT for this beanie, let's just call it Beanie NFT and you connect your wallet or you get an automatic 15% discount from, from holding that NFT.
00:25:04.986 - 00:25:50.444, Speaker A: This is cool. Like, I, you guys know my relationship with NFTs, but this sort of stuff is what I like because it's basically a way to NFT gate certain things and being able to do it and being able to get people involved and more involved with your, I guess, ecommerce platform and get them coming back as well. Because you can do this and then you can send them another NFT on chain and say, hey, thanks for buying a hibini or thanks for spending x amount of dollars. Here's a discount code as an NFT for the next time you, you know, you purchase from our site. So instead of it obviously going to your email, instead of it being a code, it goes to your wallet and you can have that portable with you as well, which is, I think is really, really cool. Can, can follow you, you can send it, maybe you could even sell it. Right? Like there could be a whole marketplace for discount codes.
00:25:50.444 - 00:26:13.354, Speaker A: It depends if it's a soul bound token or not, obviously. But if it isn't, there could be a market for discount code, which I think is really, really cool. So. And there is kind of a market for that already, but it's more of a, it's not really an efficient market. It's not really one that's very scalable or liquid. So having something like this would definitely make them a lot more scalable and liquid here. And you can go check this out.
00:26:13.354 - 00:26:40.076, Speaker A: It's on Shopify's dev platform called tokengating. And they've got a whole kind of explanation of what this is and how people can actually integrate this into their own Shopify apps and site here. And for those of you who don't know who Shopify is or what Shopify is, it's an e commerce platform, the biggest by far on the web. You have probably bought something from a Shopify hosted website. I mean, you've definitely bought something from a Shopify hosted website before. They're massive. Like, I can't, it can't be understated how big of a deal this is.
00:26:40.076 - 00:27:00.204, Speaker A: And obviously it just requires the, the store owners to integrate this, but I'm sure they will over time. And it's great to see Shopify supporting this here. But yeah, I think on that note, that's it for today's episode. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
