00:00:00.800 - 00:00:34.598, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Block Crunch podcast. This is your host, Jason. Now, this is going to be a slightly different episode than what we're usually used to, because we're not going to have a guest today and we're not going to discuss any specific project with a founder. Instead, it's just going to be me for the next 20 minutes talking about one of the most destructive weeks that I've ever seen in this industry in my four to five years of being here. And that is the collapse of the FTX exchange. Even if you're not following crypto, you've probably seen this in mainstream headlines already and probably wondering to yourself just exactly what happened.
00:00:34.598 - 00:01:37.022, Speaker A: And as someone who was there when FTX first started and who witnessed a rise and subsequent collapse, I think I am in a position to offer some unique insights about what exactly went wrong. And over the past 72 hours, I've also been in touch with former employees of FTX, investors in FTX, as well as multiple insiders in the industry to figure out just what went wrong. So hopefully, by recounting the history of FTX, we're able to take from it a few lessons as an industry to take forward so that we don't repeat these mistakes again. And if you personally lost your life savings or your job or your career because of this event, I hope that you find the means to stay in this industry. I do think that this event reaffirms exactly why we're doing what we do, which is building decentralized technologies that reduce our reliance on opaque infrastructures like this. So without further ado, this is the collapse of FTX, one of the largest financial crimes in modern history. Now, as a disclaimer, all of this is my own recollection of events and may not be fully accurate.
00:01:37.022 - 00:02:33.014, Speaker A: None of this is financial advice, as always, and I'm only providing some context as to what I know now. To understand what happened with FTX, we need to go back to the roots for Alameda research. At that time. There were a small hedge fund trying to raise capital back in late 2018 to early 2019, also, roughly when I just got into the industry and I went to an event in Macau, and I remember meeting up with SPF and his team very briefly, and I recall that it was probably his first time in Asia then, and he was deciding whether to move his business to Hong Kong, where BitMex was at the time. And it was an easy way to be close to all the large volume exchanges, which were mostly Asia based, or the large whales who were mostly chinese, and also, stay away from the SEC. This small shop was raising $200 million of debt from investors at that time. And I distinctly recall that on the pitch deck, they were promising 15% to 20% returns with no risk at all, which, as an investor, even a novice one, sounded like bullshit to me.
00:02:33.014 - 00:03:24.212, Speaker A: And they were rumored to have around $5 million in equity, but were managing around $55 million of capital at the time as well. So they were definitely running on a lot of leverage. Now, at the same time, a lot of traders also noticed that they dominated volumes as a market maker on multiple exchanges, and was trading like one of the big boys. So we started to perk our ears up and pay attention to these guys. And from our background checks, we realized that SBF was also born in a very well off family, son to Barbara Fried and Joseph Bankman, both of whom are actually professors at Stanford Law School, who you can easily google. So by then, we realized that, okay, there's probably something interesting that we should pay attention to here. Now, fast forward a few months later, we were approached by the Almator guys, this time to raise for a different thing, an exchange called FTX, with its own token called FTT.
00:03:24.212 - 00:04:33.270, Speaker A: Now, to give you a little bit of context, back then, binance issued their own BNB exchange coin back in April, and exchange tokens were invoked. Basically, these were almost unlicensed securities to unregulated businesses that seemed to be printing cash, which was what attracted a lot of crypto degens. Now, FTX was approaching Hong Kong circles for their raise around June, and they closed around in August with several investors, including FBG, Kinetic, and Race Capital, and also Galois Capital, the fund that famously called for the Luna implosion, which we talked about on the show, which was also recently revealed to have lost 50% of their assets in the subsequent FTX collapse. Now, as a caveat, I don't think any of the seed investors even saw this coming, and they are not to be blamed at all. There is no way to predict an implosion of this scale at an early stage, before the company was even started. But I cannot say the same for later stage investors who are supposed to have done due diligence into the numbers, but that's their own problem now. Now, going back to the seed stage, one of the early investors had an investor memo that I just found recently, again, and they actually stated this as a risk.
00:04:33.270 - 00:06:03.614, Speaker A: They mentioned that SPF splitting his time between Alameda, the hedge fund and FTX. The exchange was a bit concerning, and the fact that they just recently raised for both, and also having Alameda as the sole market maker on their own exchange, FTX seemed to be a massive conflict of interest, which actually prevented some market makers from using the platform because they knew they would be trading against Alameda. It's almost similar to going into a casino, but every single person you can play against is also an employee of the casino. Now, at the same time, it seems that Alameda was promising they will onboard other market makers on eventually, which I believe they did, as their dominance of volume supposedly went from 90% on the entire platform to less than half a few years later. Now anyway, we passed because of that reason, and one of the people that warned us, ironically, was three arrows capital, the fund that is now allegedly involved in defrauding multiple creditors and causing widespread contagion in crypto by blowing up multiple massive credit deaths this year, deaths that FTX would subsequently be involved with. Now at that time, we assumed that three arrows was simply saying what they were saying because they either saw Alameda as a competitor or because they were actually aggressively shilling a token for a competing exchange at the time, the Leo token. Now, as a fun fact, there were only three episodes in my five years of doing this show where I couldnt air because the quality was way too bad, or in this case it was way too self promotional and simply against the principles of the show.
00:06:03.614 - 00:06:42.486, Speaker A: Now that wraps up the part about the seed race for Alameda and FTX. So next, were going to take a look at how FTX got to this scale that they did in the subsequent years. Now, in the subsequent years, FTX would become one of the largest exchanges in the world, known for quickly listing altcoin perpetuals that were simply not tradable elsewhere. And they were also known for a great user experience. In fact, I was a huge fan of using the platform because it was much easier to use than any of the competitors. Now, fast forward to 2020. FTX was valued at $1.2
00:06:42.486 - 00:07:25.868, Speaker A: billion already, and in 2021 at $18 billion. And in 2022, they raised $400 million at a whopping $32 billion valuation. And in that round, we started to see SPF's ambitions to grow beyond just the crypto natives because they added funds such as Singapore Sovereign Fund, Temasek, SoftBank's Vision Fund, and also Tiger Global. And additionally, they also included investors like Tom Brady. And this was representing FTX's move to become more and more mainstream. Now, fundraising aside, FTX was also expanding its empire within crypto beyond just centralized exchanges. At that time, in 2020, they were also starting a project called Serum, which is a Solana based order book exchange.
00:07:25.868 - 00:08:18.042, Speaker A: We actually had an episode here on the show between SPF and Kane, the founder of Synthetix, an exchange project about order book exchanges and AMM exchanges. And around that time, a lot of folks were also aggressively pushing serum and related projects incubated within FTX or by FTX related people. But we ended up passing on most of them because of the aggressive valuations that they were gunning for. And now, in hindsight, I think one of the more egregious things was also the way that they raised for these projects, which was unlike any standard venture deals. Oftentimes, the serum projects would have clauses where if you don't commit within, say, 12 hours, you might get a higher price. If you don't commit within the week, you might get an even higher price next week. Now, this forced investors to basically abandon due diligence and invest on the spot, which I obviously was not comfortable with.
00:08:18.042 - 00:09:03.192, Speaker A: And in hindsight, this should have been a massive red flag that these guys don't want you to look at what they're actually building. Now, this is not to say that there was nothing happening with serum. I personally used serum, and I actually quite enjoyed the experience in the beginning as well. It was quite magical to use a completely on chain order book exchange. Now, however, it seemed like after the fundraise, most of the developments basically stalled, and no one was talking about them anymore. Now, however, with the help of large venture funds like Multicoin capital, that finally kicked off the Solana defi season, which led to Solana becoming one of the largest ecosystems in crypto. Now, at the same time, I do applaud Solana for distancing themselves from FTX in the past few years and exploring use cases that are not related to finance or FTX at all.
00:09:03.192 - 00:10:03.720, Speaker A: And I do think that Solana will be able to recover from this. Now, back to serum. I distinctly recall that time that a few internal employees from FTX told me that SPF claimed serum will be bigger than FTX, and he was painting a very grand vision of it publicly during the race. But in hindsight, it seems like all of that was just another ploy to get more money into FTX's pockets. Now, a lot of those doubts won't even creep into the minds of investors, because they achieved mainstream awareness very soon. Now, at this point, SBF was already taking after the Elizabeth Holmes scammers handbook, impressing the right people, putting up enough of a front publicly, and as always, fooling mainstream financial media into portraying him as the only good guy in crypto. And this won't be the first time that financial publications push someone to the heights of fame only for them to defraud the public.
00:10:03.720 - 00:11:04.854, Speaker A: And this is probably more of a comment on mainstream media and how easy it is for it to be manipulated. But we'll save that for other podcasts now. Anyway, in October 2020, SPF was revealed to be the second largest donor to Joe Biden, second only to Michael Bloomberg, which certainly got him a lot of attention from the political sphere. Now, around that time, it was revealed that Bankman Freed is also part of the wealthiest democratic super PAC, and his parents and his family has multiple ties to people in power in the US government and regulators. Now, at this point, FTX was likely at its height already and attempting to purchase more political power and push for regulator remote down the line for themselves. Now, they also paid, I believe it was $200 million to rename Miami Heat's arena as the FTX arena, and allegedly reached out to Elon Musk around April of this year around his takeover bid for Twitter to offer three to $5 billion. But Musk allegedly denied to speak with SBF as he set off his bullshit detector.
00:11:04.854 - 00:12:21.978, Speaker A: His own words. Now, in hindsight, all of these efforts seem to be a way to get FTX into the mainstream consciousness, to secure SBF as a legitimate businessman in the financial and mainstream world, and maybe allow them to raise more money or just attract more retail capital to finance their unprofitable gambling. So how did the cracks appear? How did FTX lose billions in user funds and commit one of the largest financial frauds in recent memory? This is still being investigated, so we're wading into speculation territory now. But my speculation is that in this year, in the crypto market meltdown after the Luna implosion, Alameda as a hedge fund also got hit, similar to three Arrows capital. But FTX decided to use user funds to bail out Alameda. And the subsequent bailout of failing lending desk like Voyager was probably an attempt to also bail out Alameda because Elemeta borrowed heavily from these desks to avoid a massive blowup. Now, some people might be asking, why would SBF sacrifice a $32 billion to save a prop fund, even if there were a lot of financial ties between the two businesses? It just didn't economically make sense.
00:12:21.978 - 00:13:20.580, Speaker A: Now, there's a bit of speculation that it's because of SBF's personal relationship with the CEO of Alameda, Caroline, but that's wading into tabloid territory, and that's kind of beneath the show. So we're going to leave that for Bloomberg. Now, in hindsight, were there ways to predict this? Were there cracks that we could have seen? Now, over the past 72 hours, I was looking back at every piece of possible evidence that we could have found publicly, and to be quite honest, there wasn't much. They've done a really great job at just fooling the entire world and the media world into thinking that they're a solvent business. Now, however, one prominent short seller, who's at times known for not so accurate calls, did highlight the fact that, for instance, you can't find anything on the CTO, Gary Wang, online, which seemed very shady to him. But this is not something that most people would probably have caught on. Now, most people in this space at that time also knew that Alameda was known for investing in seed rounds and dumping tokens on retails, but founders still raised from them for the easy money.
00:13:20.580 - 00:14:21.360, Speaker A: Still, there wasn't much for concern. Now, I've also been told separately by an employee that Alameda has an API that grants them systematic advantage over their own clients when they're trading on FTX. But if anything, that should have convinced me that Elemeta was more than solvent because the entire game is rigged in their favor. And one thing that, however, made VC's perk their ears was a bill that SBF was pushing through DC recently that basically was seen as killing Defi or kicking down the ladder after they've made their money through Defi. Now, however, all of these slight pink flags would not have convinced most people that Alameda was insolvent, let alone FTX. Now, one thing that might actually have raised alarms was that the co CEO of Alameda, Sam Trabuco, stepped down in August, and he announced his departure on August 25 on Twitter. Now, a successful trader who is great at his job could easily retire if they strike it rich, so most people probably didn't pay much mind to it.
00:14:21.360 - 00:15:59.684, Speaker A: But in hindsight, could he have stepped down because he knew that something was wrong? I guess we'll find out in the coming months. So how did the implosion begin? What was the beginning of the end? Now, something important to note before we get into that is that in June 2021, FTX bought back their shares from Binance, who is one of their investors, and citing differences in business philosophy. But as part of that deal, Binance still had about 500 million in FTT tokens. And another thing to note is that in 2019, Alameda allegedly attempted to break one of Binance's markets on Binance by causing a massive liquidation on one of their instruments, which luckily Binance thwarted because their liquidation engine was based on an index price and not the market price which Alameda was allegedly manipulating. Now, these were just two events that hinted at bad blood between the competitors or frenemies, FTX and Binance. Now, after news of spfs move to lobby for a widely criticized bill that would de facto kill off Defi and probably kill the industry, the space turned against FTX and SBF retaliated by poking fun at CZ, the founder of Binance, on Twitter, saying that he probably cant even be legally allowed to be in DC to represent crypto, unlike what SPF claims he has been doing. Now, shortly after, an article from Coindesk came out displaying Alameda's balance sheet, which suggested that a large part of the balance sheet for the $14 billion behemoth was funny money, $3.6
00:15:59.684 - 00:16:53.384, Speaker A: billion of that was unlocked FTT tokens, which you could trade and sell easily in the market, and $2.16 billion of that was locked FTT Tokens alongside $8 billion in liabilities. In other words, most of Alameda's net equity is actually FTX's own token, which they printed out out of nothing. Now, following this, CZ stated that he looked at the FTX business and decided to sell his entire FTT stake. Now, this triggered widespread panic and a bank run of almost $500 million of stablecoin outflows from the exchange, which I noted on my Twitter at the time that it was happening. Now, Alameda CEO Caroline also tweeted publicly that she would buy all the FTT from CZ at $22 and that he didn't have to sell it in the public markets. Now, for any investor or trader out there, when someone names an oddly specific price, there's usually a reason for that.
00:16:53.384 - 00:17:56.524, Speaker A: So this led to speculation that perhaps Alameda was using FTT as collateral to borrow vast amounts of money, and that perhaps under $22, this would trigger a liquidation and blow up the entire business. Now, if one believes that FTX has ties to elemeta in any way, this should give you some concern. So despite the persistent lies that FTX and Alameda are separate businesses, people are starting to think that FTX might be at risk. And this was the beginning of the end. Now, as a potential bank run looks to be happening on FTX, people began to withdraw their assets from the platform. Now, I think this is probably the most egregious part of the entire saga. Besides the obvious financial fraud is the fact that multiple members of the FTX team, including the CEO Ryan Salami, tweeted publicly to disparage CZ and assure that the public that everything was fine.
00:17:56.524 - 00:18:53.148, Speaker A: And this was around the time that I withdrew most of my personal assets as well, until three to four employees reached out on multiple platforms and assured me that what was happening was a short term duration mismatch between FTX's assets and liabilities, and not a reflection of FTX's underlying solvency. Now, I'm not saying this to blame anyone. I honestly do think that most of the employees in FTX are probably fooled by an insider circle of four to five people, according to multiple sources. And my heart goes out to people who bet their entire careers, jobs, and life savings into this business as an employee of FTX and who were kept in the dark. If what I'm hearing is correct, they were as much victims as we were. And then comes the more egregious part, which is SPF himself decided to publicly lie to his almost 1 million followers on Twitter, stating that FTX assets are backed one to one and that FTX is fully GAAP audited as of 2021. And of course, this tweet was then deleted.
00:18:53.148 - 00:19:54.180, Speaker A: And as we know, deleting tweets is a fantastic legal defense. So kudos to the general counsel at FTX, Ryan Miller. I'm sure this would keep SBF out of jail. Now, around that time, I was told that their head of institutional sales, whose tweets you can still find publicly, was instructed to ally public fears. Now why FTX didn't do that from their official account was kind of strange to me, but now, in hindsight, it seemed like it was a good way to pin it on a scapegoat. And now, before long, onchain sleuths discovered that Alameda was foraging spare change from Defi protocols and depositing them to FTX, which led to further speculation that Alameda and FTX were closer than they let on, and that both were in trouble. Now, before long, withdrawals were frozen, but somehow, in the midst of all of that, Alameda was still able to siphon $10 million from FTX us, as I found out, and called out Caroline, to which she replied that it was just FTX us and not FTX International, the entity that was supposedly not in trouble.
00:19:54.180 - 00:20:40.782, Speaker A: But subsequently, as we found out, both entities were in fact in trouble. Now, soon as markets headed into freefall and collapse, Binance announced that they might potentially reach a deal with FTX to fully acquire them. And at that time, Temasek was also reported to have been in talks with FTX to plug the hole. And as you recall, Temasek is the state holding company owned by the government of Singapore, and they participated in the latest financing round for FTX. So they did have an incentive to make sure this doesn't completely implode in the face of retail investors. Now, the deal fell apart a day later when CZ implied that the hole was likely too big for even an exchange of Binance's size to pluck. And later this will be revealed to be around ten to $50 billion as FTX kicked off their bankruptcy proceedings.
00:20:40.782 - 00:21:41.576, Speaker A: Now, I personally think that hole is probably closer to $10 billion than the $50 billion figure. And even if SBF did use user funds to finance his alleged stimulant addiction, which is now coming to light, I don't think even Tony Montana can snort $40 billion worth of cocaine. Now. However, even before the bankruptcy proceedings were filed, in the time between the Binance deal being cancelled and FTX completely collapsing, FTX continue to process withdrawals to who they claim to be residents in Bahamas, where their headquarters is conveniently based. Now at that time, people speculated that insiders were cashing out using users money before the exchanges shut down for good and before the bankruptcy liquidators seized their assets. But FTX once again publicly claims that they were ordered by regulators in Bahamas to process withdrawals, which we later learned, once again, according to the bahamian regulators, was also an outright lie. And that's already two counts of fraud by SBF.
00:21:41.576 - 00:22:24.952, Speaker A: And I can also confirm from my secondary sources that even insiders not based in Bahamas and not from the Bahamas seems to have gotten partial cash out. So that was definitely something going on internally that they were not letting on. Now, around that time, many people were exploiting the loophole for withdrawals as well, purchasing Bahamas KYC to launder the money out of the exchange. One prominent crypto Twitter personality, Al God from Capital 78, seems to have done this publicly as well, and was accused of buying accounts for cents on the dollar and cashing out fully through Bahamas KYC. Now, from a reference checks with lawyers, this is likely considered to be money laundering. So he might be sharing a cell with SPF. Half kidding.
00:22:24.952 - 00:23:26.432, Speaker A: And finally, FTX announced that they were entering bankruptcy proceedings. And prior to this, I did a Twitter space with about 4000 people talking about the potential duration for bankruptcy proceedings. And we were very fortunate to have my personal friend Arthur of Defiance Capital, who is personally going through some of that because of the fallout from three arrows capital to share some color about what that could look like. And I think the expectation is, given the size and the complexity of this entire procedure, users could wait up to five to ten years before they see cents on the dollars back. So not the most ideal outcome for everyone involved, but I thought that would at least be the end of the saga. However, I woke up a day later and something else even worse happened. Now, a day after the bankruptcy proceedings were officially announced for FTX, it was revealed that hundreds of millions of dollars were being sivened out of FTX by an unknown hacker.
00:23:26.432 - 00:24:29.754, Speaker A: And FTx did not make any official statements once again, as this was happening. And it was also alleged that the FTX application on your mobile phone itself has been hacked as well. And subsequently this was seemingly confirmed by FTX finally, who pinned a message warning users on their application in their official telegram group. And at that time, many people were accusing FTX of hacking their own exchange so their insiders can cash out. Or maybe disgruntled employees who were lied to by SPF were cashing out, and maybe they were deleting all records of internal balances to limit their own liability and make investigations harder. This is really unknown at this point, but I think the final verdict was that part of the cash that was being siphoned out was potentially by a black hat hacker, whereas the other part is potentially by a white hand hacker who is trying to stop the other hackers from stealing the rest of the funds. Now, all of this is still speculation at this point, I'm just trying to offer some color based on what I've seen and heard, but I think it's quite hard to put this level of malice past SPF and his cronies at this point if it is an insider's job.
00:24:29.754 - 00:25:14.662, Speaker A: Now, at the time of recording, there are still a few skeletons that probably need to surface. It seems like a few of the other custodians in crypto might be facing some insolvency risks by being exposed to FTX in some way. None of this is truly verified yet, but I really recommend people to exercise caution out there. Some of these names include crypto.com dot. I'm not claiming that they're insolvent, but a lot of people are certainly investigating what's going on there right now, as well as some other exchanges as well. Now, I really hope that I don't have to do another episode like this, but at the same time, I know that content like this does help people out there.
00:25:14.662 - 00:25:46.986, Speaker A: I received a few DM's from you guys about how I saved your life savings when I was live tweeting the event a few days ago by warning you to take your assets off the exchange. So I'm really, really glad to hear that. And this episode really is just meant to be a public good. I'm not a journalist. I'm sure there will be a lot of more credible and verified accounts of what happened over the next few months. This is just meant to be a quick recap of everything that happened from my perspective as well as from my primary and secondary sources as well. You know, this episode itself isn't even sponsored.
00:25:46.986 - 00:26:41.904, Speaker A: We actually lost a big chunk of our annual sponsorships on FTX. But I do think that putting this out there is incredibly important for people to learn more. So if you did learn something from this, I hope that you can share this episode, especially for people who are trying to understand what is happening now. What have we actually learned from this entire saga? I hope that this is something that we can take away. Now, in hindsight, if there is such a massive crisis happening on a custodial platform like FTX, I think pausing trading, pausing withdrawals, shutting the exchange down, finding buyers to bail them out is what any sane CEO would do. Or at the least, don't lie to the public when things are clearly not okay. Now, I dont think there is a just world in which SBF, and according to my sources internally, the four, five people who knew about the entire saga before it went down, whose names certainly will come to delight soon, dont go to jail.
00:26:41.904 - 00:27:28.928, Speaker A: Now, I dont have to personally name them here, but as Johnny Cash said, whats done in the dark will come to the light now. But if theres anything that we learned from 2008 is that counting on a lot of people being punished for these scenarios likely results in disappointment. And it's not really an effective way to prevent these things from happening. And given the high profile nature of this case and how politically connected SPF is, I do think they'll find some scapegoat for this. But for now, all you get from SPF is and oops, I'm sorry, on Twitter. Now, finally, if you are angry listening to this, I implore you to not abandon this space and instead fund and build more decentralized infrastructure designed to prevent these things from happening. Over the next few months.
00:27:28.928 - 00:28:28.234, Speaker A: A lot of web two vc's, a lot of mediocre web two founders, and mainstream journalism is going to call crypto a scam, and they're going to tell you that they called it all along, but it is your job to remind them that DeFi is not CEFi, that decentralized custodians is the exact reason why there is DeFi. Now, if you're happy listening to this because you felt vindicated about SPF, maybe you called this early, or about crypto in general. I do hope you find peace, because finding happiness from the suffering of many others is usually a sign of pain and also a tiny penis. Now if you're indifferent because you think this doesn't impact you, thanks for tuning in anyway to learn about crypto. Now we'll continue with our regular programming next week with different founders highlighting efforts in this space, because I think if anything, this is the right time to do that now. As always, thank you so much for supporting the Blockcrunch podcast. This has no doubt been a rough week for anyone in the industry, but you will hear from me and I hope you stay tuned in.
