00:16:39.580 - 00:17:08.424, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon. Good evening, everybody. My name is Kartik, one of the co founders of ETHGlobal, and I am super excited to welcome all of you to the Billquest Gaming and Metaverse Summit. So all of you are watching this on ETHGlobal TV. This is the platform we'll be using today for all of our talks. This lets you ask us any questions live. We'll be able to relay all those questions you put in the chat to all of our speakers and you can kind of engage and ask questions and also collaborate and just enjoy this with the rest of the audience here.
00:17:08.424 - 00:17:40.236, Speaker A: Also, as a quick note for everybody, anybody who kind of signs in and engages with our audience will be receiving a poop NFT token for their participation. So please be sure to log in, customize your avatar, and say hi. So let's get started. This event is brought to you by ETH Global. And for those of you who are joining us for the first time, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to onboard thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem. And we do this by running hackathons and summits, and Billquest is one of those events.
00:17:40.236 - 00:18:20.576, Speaker A: So we have a hackathon going on right now that ends this Sunday. And as part of this event, we're doing a summit on just kind of giving you the latest and the greatest on what's happening in gaming and metaverse world. For the hackathon, we have over 630 hackers from 67 different countries participating, building really amazing metaverse and gaming related projects, and we'll be able to see what everybody comes up with this coming week. So I'm super excited for kind of just seeing all the incredible things that come out of the event. And this kind of brings us to the summit piece, which is what today is all about. And I want to kind of give a quick overview of what we're going to cover for the next few hours. And without further ado, let's jump right in.
00:18:20.576 - 00:19:04.780, Speaker A: So we're going to have some opening remarks from Cake. We're going to talk about sort of what does it look like to build the metaverse with IPFS and just using a lot of these decentralized storage primitives. We're going to talk about just some new ideas in web3 gaming that we kind of finally get to blend in and just introduce some crypto native primitives. We're going to talk about randomness in web3 and gaming altogether. And we're going to have to have a panel and an amazing discussion around Play to Earn or Play for fun or just what does that category look like and how we are seeing it evolve. And then we're also going to talk about building for multi blockchain games, just what changes in that realm, as well as sort of what you can get excited about. And we'll have some closing remarks at the end of this summit and that's kind of the handful of talks that are going to happen.
00:19:04.780 - 00:19:19.510, Speaker A: And we are super excited to welcome all of our amazing speakers. So let's quickly get started. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome Cake to kind of share some kickoff remarks with us and he's going to talk about everything that you should also be excited about. So welcome.
00:19:20.760 - 00:19:22.390, Speaker B: Hey, thanks for having me.
00:19:23.080 - 00:19:23.492, Speaker A: Cool.
00:19:23.546 - 00:19:45.160, Speaker B: So I'm going to share my screen. First off, it's an honor to be here. I think it's really cool that everyone is building Web Three games. I think there's a lot of potential here. And so I'm going to give a quick overview of what I think about Web Three gaming as well as some of the talks that I think are coming up and then some of the dev tooling that I think is really interesting. So at protocol labs. We love games.
00:19:45.160 - 00:20:37.244, Speaker B: Factorio is a fan favorite, you can see a lot of people in the company playing Factorio and it's a lot of fun. We also have a long history of games, so I come from a background of playing ultimate online ragnarok. Online fantasy XIV World of Warcraft. All of these games have economies and all of these games have economies where when you did play these games, you actually never took anything with you when you left. So you might have had some small community where you traded stuff online on some web forms, but even in games like Raw Online, Tibia, T, four C and Lineage One, your character kind of died of the game when the game kind of got too old. And so one thing that was really popular in these games that we all are aware of is kind of the in game economies. So you had these auction houses where you could trade gold and in game gill for different items, you could craft items, but all of that stuff was locked in the game.
00:20:37.244 - 00:21:30.844, Speaker B: And so with this we learned, I think in the last four years, when you run a token on Ethereum and Web Three, those tokens can actually participate interoperably between many different ecosystems, many different pieces of software, many different types of clients. And so I think this opens up a huge amount of opportunity and why it's really exciting to kind of bridge the gap between what we're doing, what we're seeing in the space and Web Three gaming. And so Web Three games take advantage of new protocol features that give the player more lifetime value over the games they're playing. So imagine a world where you have a favorite game, but the assets that you have, you don't actually lose them when the game shuts down or if the game is open source, you can still play it. And the game industry is massive. Like we have 35 billion in revenues for PC games, we have 49 billion revenues for console gaming, 90 billion in the mobile games market. So there's so much value being generated here.
00:21:30.844 - 00:22:14.536, Speaker B: But if we continue on the same trend and we make games where everything that the players put in to the game, they don't get back. So you imagine all those mobile gotcha games where you're rolling for characters and when the game dies, your investment dies, that's not so great. So I think there's opportunity here to really improve on this. And so how do we get here? What's special about web3 versus web two? Anyone who is on a network has permission to use the service. That's what's really cool about I think this opens the door from just like domestic US west gaming or European gaming kind of brings everyone together to play games together in the same space. You can call this whatever you want, but there's a lot of cool opportunity there. No one can block you or deny you from access to the service.
00:22:14.536 - 00:22:48.848, Speaker B: That's also pretty cool for gaming. So if you want to play games in different regions but they're kind of region locked, there's a possibility that you can make a game that wouldn't be region locked. Payments are built into native token. This is a huge unlock as we mentioned earlier, with auction houses or whatever in the previous games. And like Old World of Warcraft for example, if you have the payment system built in with a native token, that changes everything and people can trade like back in the day people used to trade RuneScape items outside of the game. So opens up a whole bunch of opportunities. You can pretty much program anything with a smart contract.
00:22:48.848 - 00:23:15.152, Speaker B: So there's a lot of things you can do and there's a lot of tooling that's getting better and templating and wizards and then Web Three servers can't go down. So if we get to our vision of a centralized network of thousands and thousands of computers keeping this stuff up, I think you can really trust in these services and the network can adjudicate basically all of the assets that you own and make sure that you don't lose anything. So I think to be succinct oh.
00:23:15.206 - 00:23:15.810, Speaker A: Sorry.
00:23:18.580 - 00:23:53.140, Speaker B: Players own parts of the game. There's actual economic value and there's native composability that's never been seen before. And so there are many mechanics that you can add to your games today. I think if you wanted to stake your tokens, that's a completely new thing. So a lot of games have this built in if you played any role playing or MMRPG, but with the mechanic that you can play to earn capital, you can take out of the game as well. That's kind of really exciting. Token assets can be used in one platform, as I mentioned earlier, which presents interesting opportunities.
00:23:53.140 - 00:24:31.140, Speaker B: NFTs are global objects that can use in any way the developer sees fit. And then games can be community run with voting mechanics, which can be really fun to listen to your players if you're playing any mainstream mrpg today. There's always a lot of criticism about the game, but if players can vote on what they want to see next, you might be able to avoid a lot of design decisions that would ruin the game that you like. Token assets can be listed on exchanges. So imagine if wow goal is actually tradable anywhere and everything else that we already love in games. So web3 is very additive. It can add to existing Web Two paradigms without like you don't have to lose the things that you enjoy in web Two, but now you have additional features.
00:24:31.140 - 00:25:07.200, Speaker B: And so like an example, a team during this week can create a world that others want to belong to. They distribute ownership of that world to a community. They can launch a token to bootstrap a live economy, they can create a community that raises capital via shared treasury and then they can launch a minimal viable game with Token Syncs, where as you are destroying a token, you're creating an asset in the game. Players can decide if they want to. That increases the value of the token network and then values reinvested in the game you're playing. And then you can continue to make more games and people can bring that token to different games. There's a lot of really awesome stuff that you can do.
00:25:07.200 - 00:25:32.360, Speaker B: So we have a couple of really interesting upcoming talks. One of them is CoinOp. CoinOp is a global community of entrepreneurs and investors operating at the intersection of gaming and blockchain. We have playment by David and Mort. This is really cool because they're video game veterans and so they're going to be working on a lot of interesting stuff to help players earn while they play. Ox park seems like the dream. They do research and development.
00:25:32.360 - 00:26:15.156, Speaker B: They do work with zero knowledge proofs. They do open source tooling and infrastructure and ecosystem development. There's going to be, I don't want to mispronounce the name sheridan's is a leading media and technology law firm with lawyers combine in depth legal and commercial knowledge with breadth of expertise and experience to give unparalleled advice to their clients. So a lot of interesting insights here. And then Sid from Protocol Labs is doing a talk on Drand which if you are a game developer, you know how important random numbers are to making sure that you can create valuable loot drops that are distinct and feel unique in your game. And there's also some interesting development tools in our ecosystem. So we have NFT storage.
00:26:15.156 - 00:26:43.676, Speaker B: Mt Storage is a long term storage service designed for off chain NFT data for up to 31gb in size per individual. Upload using it is as easy as creating account, so I highly recommend checking it out. Table land if you love using Postgres, you love using SQL. Imagine building on Web Three using what's familiar. This could make game dev a lot easier for you. So very interested about this project. I think it's going to make things a lot easier.
00:26:43.676 - 00:27:37.728, Speaker B: Foundry I think the dream to be able to write solidity tests in solidity. So check out this tool if you're writing smart contracts and you want something where you can really test the edge cases of what you're building because there's a lot of cases where things can go wrong when you deploy your smart contract. And then web3 storage is by Protocol Labs. It's a simple JavaScript NPM library you can easily use to pin data to IPFS. There's no invite necessary, so anyone can create account and the documentation is super solid if you want to use it in estuary, we have a tool to easily get data up to the filecoin network. So if you wanted to make sure your CIDs were durable so that if you're pending something really valuable and you don't want to lose it, you can make sure that it's replicated six times on the filecoin network and we have gateway support and it's really easy to use. And so that's it.
00:27:37.728 - 00:27:42.950, Speaker B: That's an overview of pretty much everything. Hope you guys have a great time.
00:27:45.800 - 00:28:12.430, Speaker A: Amazing. Thank you so much Kate, for that incredible overview of what we can look forward to today. And with that, I'm super excited to announce our first talk today and we're going to have Jonas and Benedict talk about building the metaverse with IPFS. So let's welcome both of them to stage and I'll let them take it from here. Jonas Van Dijk. Welcome. Hi everyone.
00:28:12.430 - 00:28:53.572, Speaker A: Let me share my screen. I hope you can see it fantastic to be here. I hope you're having a great time at Buildquest so far. And today we will talk about in essentially the next 30 minutes about building the metawest with IPFS. I have Benedict with me who will then go a little bit more into the technical part. Later on in the presentation, we will cover essentially three things. Give a quick overview of the metawers and what we think the MetaWars will be, then dive into it from a technical side, essentially looking at the components that are required to build a metaverse.
00:28:53.572 - 00:29:47.740, Speaker A: And then last really going into what it means to build a metawers app and what kind of decisions you need to take during this process. And at the end, we will have some time for questions, so please don't hesitate, put the questions into the chat and we will go through later and answer them. But let's get started. Let's look into the metaverse. And I think metaverse, the terminology is something everyone came across now, right? Since the change from Facebook to meta, it is in every media outlet, someone is talking about it. But for me personally, the metaverse is essentially about virtual spaces which will fundamentally enable us as humans to experience the web or technology in a fundamental new way that hasn't been there. And the main reason why it is so different is that there will be some kind of sense of presence.
00:29:47.740 - 00:31:11.000, Speaker A: Today when we interact with technology, it's usually in a kind of two dimensional way. We sit at our PCs or laptops and kind of interact in a two dimensional way. But with kind of the metawers it will fundamentally change and we have kind of this three dimensional space and that will unlock a lot of opportunities and values. It's not really comparable but I think with the launch of the first iPhone and therefore touch screens being widely available, it opened technology up to a wide audience and with the MetaWars it will be even bigger and that's really exciting to me. Luckily, we are just at the beginning but can already build on the experience of kind of the last 30 years or even longer because MetaWars is nothing new. And here I put on a slide that kind of started the first time with the internet, but I think first signs of the MetaWars we've seen in games, for example with Dungeon and Reckons in the 70s where you were in kind of some kind of virtual world and interacted with people, but with essentially the Internet. This really took off and inspired first author and I think everyone heard about Neil Stevenson with Snow Crash who coined the term metaverse.
00:31:11.000 - 00:32:29.812, Speaker A: I think looking through the history, what was for me a very interesting introduction was Second Life. I think that was the first time where people were speaking about there's something living in a virtual world where people buy land, interact, get married. And that was, I think now looking back nearly 20 years, something really new and sometimes I think even people were afraid of it, right? But I think that has changed and then there's multiple events throughout, right? We look at 2011 with Ready Player One, the novel that really introduced virtual reality to people and then Facebook acquiring Oculus. I think that put a lot of additional attention on it. And then I think the first time where we had VR er in the masses was with Pokemon Go. That was really millions of people experiences. AR and was some kind of game that kind of worked, at least at the beginning and I think that got quite excited but it got quiet again and then throughout something like Fortnite, I think started as a game and then really involved in some kind of metaverse.
00:32:29.812 - 00:34:02.540, Speaker A: What is I think quite exciting because we can learn a lot of how to get started and how to involve and then obviously now in the last couple of years, the web, three space, a lot of things happening as well as big tech like Microsoft, Facebook trying to push in the space. But as I said, it's early, right? This still means there's still opportunity, a lot of opportunity and a lot of challenges that we need to overcome. And if I look at it, I think most people think about tech challenges, but I think there's essentially six dimension where we see challenges for really making this metaverse vision a reality. And first and foremost, it's about content and experiences. I think if you are now trying to experience virtual worlds, what you will find quite quickly is there's sometimes not so much to do, right? So we really need enough experiences to have rich and interactive worlds as well as metaverse native experiences, meaning experiences designed for the metaverse, for people understanding what are the potentials. Because I think as we are currently at the beginning, we design things we know and haven't really understood what might be possible. And to enable all of this, obviously we need tools that enable builders and creators to focus on the kind of artistic and the creative process and enable them to build such experiences.
00:34:02.540 - 00:35:16.752, Speaker A: If you look at the technology side of things here's, obviously about software, hardware, if it comes to hardware, we just need to get better here, right? And I'm quite excited for 2022. I think there's a lot of hardware coming our way with higher resolution, higher refresh rate, and if you have better hardware, it means you can do more with your 3D engines to really create a more immersive experience. And then I believe a very important point to really achieve mass adoption is how does your avatar look like? Right? The avatar will be your representation in the 3D world and this needs to be immersive and it needs to kind of allow you to express yourself. And I think there's so much potential for us still to innovate and improve and then obviously things around we need to establish standards and interoperability to kind of create this open MetaWars where people can change between platforms and are not logged in next to technology. And that's something we shouldn't forget, is things around privacy and identity. Given that it is such immersive part, we need to be kind of responsible for what we're building. So we need to think about tracking.
00:35:16.752 - 00:36:42.528, Speaker A: We need to really learn of what we've done over the last 20 years in the Internet and kind of find a way how we can be responsible with the data in a privacy preserving matter, especially if it comes to storing data handling identity, to really enable users to own it and to control it. And then for all of that, we need the right people to build, right? And I think that's super exciting, bringing different skills together, designers, developers, but then content creators, storytellers, people who have experience in building events or artists. So that's quite important to kind of build the workforce and the skills to build out the metawers. And then if you've built a Meta verse, you need to think through and solve for governance. Kind of how are you finding a governance model that might be community driven where you define the rules for the Metawers and then even more important, how to ensure safety of the users as well as how to think about moderation in terms of protecting the users. And last, and that will come slowly and we cannot get around is kind of regulation, especially with MetaWars getting bigger. There will be regulation, and we need to figure out how to link the existing policy systems of countries, for example, with kind of a virtual world.
00:36:42.528 - 00:37:35.948, Speaker A: I think that's quite exciting and I think all challenges can be overcome. And actually I believe all of this are opportunities for all of us to build and shape the metawers of the future. Now, the metawers is reality today, right? We have examples and builders who are doing a lot of things. And I have five examples with me in kind of five areas where I think there's a lot of potential and that might be areas to kind of be worthwhile looking into. Obviously gaming, that's most likely the one area for the metawers where we have something like a sign of product market, fit, social, I think there we are already getting an understanding what could be possible. Productivity. I think a lot of to discover well being, making sure we are kind of fit or mindful, et cetera.
00:37:35.948 - 00:39:10.288, Speaker A: And then obviously art, I think is something that blew up in the last year due to the whole NFT space. So if you think about gaming, I think Fortnite is a super interesting example for MetaWars that grew out of game and then became a platform where people can enjoy, have an incentive, Michelin, have some kind of economy, and then even more important, have the ability to create own experiences and experience life events. And what's especially interesting about this design is that you not just bring together players, you bring in enterprises like brands who are using that to launch new products. And I think there's a lot of things that can be learned from Fortnite and Epic games, how they designed it, and I think it could be a good inspiration for others. If you think about social, I think one of the metaverses in the web3 space that's been around for a long time is Decentral Land, launched in 2015, and then the second launch now in 2020, where you can kind of come together in an Immersive 3D world and interact with people. Obviously it's anchored around buying land, but I think there's a huge potential to have this kind of social interactions. If you think about productivity, for me, a very interesting example is Mosilla Hubs, where you really have 3D spaces where you can come together, have an event, share a presentation and interact with people.
00:39:10.288 - 00:40:03.890, Speaker A: And I really would call out, try it out, it changes how a meeting is handled. It's not like Zoom. So if you would do this event in a 3D space, it would have a different hype and a different vibe to it well being. I think it's quite early there's, for example, Supernatural, who really built something around fitness to really have full body workouts with a fun part of being in a three dimensional world. The last example, and I'm really excited about it, is Mona. Mona is building beautiful spaces, 3D spaces that you can use, for example, as a gallery for your amazing NFT arts. And I think that's a really great example how to bring together artists, developers, by building something beautiful.
00:40:03.890 - 00:41:18.404, Speaker A: That's just a few examples. There's so much more. And then something we did recently is we launched Metaverse landscape that is community driven, built on top of IPFS, where you can check out different projects and contribute if you have your own project or you came across. So we can kind of grow it together and allow people to kind of have a starting point for the metaverse, understand what is out there, what technologies do we have, what kind of projects we have, because it's a continuous, evolving space. Now, at the beginning I said the metaverse is something that is offering and will offer a completely new experience that is much more presence than what we have today. And I think Tim Swanee, the CEO of Epic Games, it's a fantastic quote, kind of the call out he makes, because the metaverse will be persuasive and through that very powerful. And we really need to think through what kind of decisions we take along when designing metawers.
00:41:18.404 - 00:42:09.220, Speaker A: Experience a metaverse because there's a lot of responsibilities with it, because what we don't want is that there's one person controlling it because that will be like God. And that is something we shouldn't do. So what we put here is a couple of things you should think through when designing a metaverse. I think there's much more points, but for us, we felt that's quite important and that kind of design decisions you need to take. So if you think about a building, right, you really need to decide what kind of software are building. Is it closed? Is it open? What are you using open standards? Is it proprietary? And that has obviously an implication of human. What I think is a very crucial decision here is everything around data and especially identity avatars.
00:42:09.220 - 00:42:34.784, Speaker A: Do I control it as a platform or do I control it as a user? And how am I governing my whole metaverse? Is it, again, central or is it more community driven? And I really would call out, take these decisions explicit to make sure we're building the metaverse in a responsible way. Let's go into the technic part. Over to you, Benedict. Thank you.
00:42:34.982 - 00:43:20.240, Speaker C: So now when we dive into the more technical part, we basically developed a framework to kind of reference the different components that we feel are important to build a metaverse. And in order to structure this, we see three broad layers. So the first one on the top is around everything related to the experiences that you build. So the actual metaverses. But then this is enabled by user capabilities that is everything that is let's say more user centric. So things like your avatar and capabilities that bridge over to the real world. And then on the bottom layer we have everything that is infrastructure.
00:43:20.240 - 00:44:16.060, Speaker C: So different building blocks that we have in place today for the web already, but that are also important to drive the meta verses of the future. And I want to .2 of these out, especially it's Fastgear replicated caches and the persistent shared storage where Filecoin and IPFS can play a broad role and we will dive deeper into those into a minute. What I just want to also highlight is that this framework is current thinking. So we are still evolving it. And Jonas mentioned in the last section that we built this metaverse landscape. So this framework is part of this landscape and we evolve it as we come across more projects that are building in the metaverse and try to categorize these projects into the different components we see in this framework.
00:44:16.060 - 00:45:32.010, Speaker C: And this really helps us to drive the technology understanding and the tech stacks of the future to build metaverses. Now if we go into gear, replicated caching and the persistent storage, we basically see that for the caching part, IPFS really shines because you have a decentralized infrastructure where the next node caching your data might be very close to you. This is highly relevant for the metaverse because you don't want long loading times and then the assets around you pop up very slowly. Instead you want low latency and high throughput to deliver the assets to the actual users. And then examples are assets in different forms. So it's not only the 3D models but also other things like sounds and other information that build up the environment around you. Now if we go over to persistent shared storage, this is where Filecoin really comes into play because the protocol of Filcoin basically incentivizes the long term storage of data that you put there.
00:45:32.010 - 00:46:52.084, Speaker C: And this is important for everything that needs to stay and has a longer lifecycle in the metaverse. You can think about NFTs that you want to keep around long term but also other things that you might want to share over a longer time or where user interaction takes place. Okay, now if we think about what does it mean in terms of building your own metaverse, we really wanted to take our research one step further and implement basically a showcase so that we can validate and learn more and especially learn where the gaps are from a research perspective. And our use case is basically in the well being sector that Yunas already also mentioned and we are building essentially a meditation space so you can come together with multiple people and then start a guided meditation. So we set out to basically achieve three things here. The meditation should be guided and live. It should be shareable with your friends and then everybody is represented by their own.
00:46:52.084 - 00:47:54.200, Speaker C: Avatars so that you have this aspect of expressiveness for each participant. Now, to build this there is six key decisions that you need to take on the technical side and that I want to go through with you now. So the first one is basically around the 3D engine that you use. So what do you use to make up the world around you? And we basically chose a project that is run by Mozilla called Aframe and we chose it because we wanted to use an open technology that is web native to really lower the boundary for people to participate. So you can basically send a link to somebody and they open it up in their browser and are already in our meditation space. Now, alternatives that are viable to this would be game engines that are around today. So notable examples because they are pretty big are Unity and Unreal.
00:47:54.200 - 00:49:09.890, Speaker C: The project that Jonas mentioned for example Mona is building everything on Unity so that is totally possible to build these metaverse bases with existing tooling and existing engines. The next decision is on how to design the avatars and bring them into this experience. We choose a project that is called Ready player me. It works essentially by taking a selfie of you and then from this selfie they generate a pretty realistic replication of yourself that is kind of stylized so you can really feel that you have a little mini me there and we were also able to integrate it pretty easily into our meditation. Obviously the other alternative would be that you bring your own avatar that you have custom designed by the 3d artist or you just use default avatars for everyone that you can choose from. Maybe. But then again ready player me really drives this aspect or the goal that we have that you can express yourself in this meditation space already.
00:49:09.890 - 00:50:46.320, Speaker C: Now, the next decision is on identity and we chose MetaMask as it's one of the default options if it comes to web3 identity and Wallets and basically gives you a frictionless experience. So when you join the meditation space you can activate your MetaMask and it will give you direct access, locked in access and will be able to pull your personal avatar into the space based on your MetaMask login. Alternatives here would be social logins that we know today but as I mentioned we really wanted to have this a bit more open and decentralized so that's why we went with MetaMask. On the compute side we chose a service that is called Heropu that basically is a cloud service comparable to the other big cloud services. The reasoning here is that we wanted to be able to operate it easily and alternatives would be to just deploy to a custom or dedicated server that you operate yourself or go with one of the other big cloud providers. Now storage here we have basically requirements to deliver and distribute the assets very quickly and this is where IPFS comes into play. So IPFS as the decentralized storage network gives you this capability of gear replicating the assets around the globe.
00:50:46.320 - 00:51:41.410, Speaker C: But obviously you can also achieve this with let's say the cloud storage services that are in existence today. Before our talk, cake mentioned that there is different tooling to access IPFS today that is also pretty straightforward so you can program it as easily as you would use an existing cloud provider. So notable mentions here are Estuary and web3 storage that we also used for this meditation experience. And then last but not least is about the access. We wanted to have it really open and Fictionless for everyone who wants to check this meditation experience out. So we basically chose to go with web browsers. The big alternative would be that you have a proprietary client that is specifically designed only for this one experience.
00:51:41.410 - 00:53:01.560, Speaker C: So think about something like Fortnite or any other game or some app that you need to download to access the metaverse or the experience. Okay, the next thing that is interesting is that in order to build a metaverse you need a different skill set compared to building a website. So in addition to the website building skills, you need 3D design and modeling skills and then some knowledge around the engines that plays these into the 3D world. You will want to have experience around sound design and audio because the space feels quite weird if you don't have any audio in there. And then on the more classic side, you will also have web development skills most notably with JavaScript to basically build all the logic and interactions. That is if you don't use an existing game engine that basically hides this programming for you. So if you use something like Unity, this is kind of hidden a bit, but the way we chose to go with Aframe, you basically build this yourself in JavaScript.
00:53:01.560 - 00:53:39.830, Speaker C: Then if you go with the same decision we did on identity that you want to have a web3 enabled wallet, you will need to understand basic web3 principles and then the identity provider for example MetaMask to basically access this world of decentralized identity. Last but not least is the cloud or infrastructure part where you need to be able to deploy what you build. And this might also include solutions like IPFS. So where you basically need then to learn additional services.
00:53:43.240 - 00:54:41.960, Speaker A: Right? So if you're excited about the metaverse right, don't hesitate to reach out. We are especially interested or kind of passionate about kind of identity avatars communication, decentralized storage and caching. But if there's anything else where you think we can help, just reach out. And I think we have now five minutes for questions. That was awesome, thank you so much for kind of going through that and just kind of going into the technical side but also just kind of what's upcoming for anybody who's kind of listening in the audience, feel free to kind of ask your questions. It's going to be like a 30 or 42nd delay, so we'll have to kind of manage that on the live stream. But one obvious question we got at the beginning was can people get a copy of these slides because they're super informative and they're requesting to be able to read these on their own.
00:54:41.960 - 00:55:08.370, Speaker A: So that's like the most obvious way. Yeah, for sure. We can share that. I guess we can distribute it on Twitter or via your platform. Yeah, if there's like a link that is publicly available, we can just put that in the chat. After this you can send that to us anywhere. And then obviously for all the people listening, please follow Unison Vandek on Twitter and you'll be able to see everything there.
00:55:08.370 - 00:55:48.850, Speaker A: Easy, easy ask. I think one other kind of question is in terms of just how you're seeing people built in this space. Especially kind of as we look at gaming, are people largely sort of doing things where they're just porting existing? Things that they know and they're just making that more Web Three from the point of view of like, hey, it's just going to be retrieved from a non centralized server, or are you seeing more creative things being done? Whether it's new, primitives or new, kind of just new kind of gameplay being introduced that's uniquely enabled by crypto? So how does that look like from your perspective and sort of what do you think that people should be spending more time on?
00:55:49.700 - 00:56:43.730, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think we are seeing both. On the one hand, we have a camp where people basically try to replicate what we did in the web two days, kind of. So first building the experiences basically more for the web, but then there's also the other camp that really rethink how you build the whole experience. So new primitives that are very popular right now are NFTs, obviously, and then everything revolves around those NFTs. This includes all the assets that are in the game. This might include avatars that you can unlock and certain other things. And then obviously this is also true for the economic side where you have the native tokens of the different blockchains to facilitate payment.
00:56:44.820 - 00:57:34.370, Speaker A: Absolutely. And then sorry, go ahead. If I add to this, I think what is very apparent is that especially things where it's really tough to do if it comes to 3D, having a 3D engine, that's how we've been doing it for 30 years. But that's obvious because there will be not a Web Three native engine overnight because Epic Games is building it for 25 years. But I think on the more easy things where we are more established, if it comes to MetaMask, for example, identity, or even for avatars, there are more Web Three solutions already out there. But I think now at the beginning in 2022 and starting to build a metaword it's really about building together and not saying you are Web Two and I'm Web Three. It's like, let's join forces and shape the future together.
00:57:34.370 - 00:57:53.384, Speaker A: That's a perfect note. We're also at time, so any other questions that come in from the chat, I'll be able to kind of relay them to you directly. But thank you so much for kind of going through this presentation. King is offered for the summit and this is super exciting. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks for having us.
00:57:53.384 - 00:58:19.168, Speaker A: All right, with that, we are ready for our next talk. So I am super excited to introduce Omri, David, Mateo and Justin, and they're going to be talking about new ideas for Web Three gaming. There's a lot more we can do here from Web 2.5 side of things instead of going all in Web Three. So, without further ado, let's welcome everybody here and I'll let them take it away. Everybody.
00:58:19.254 - 00:58:19.890, Speaker C: Yes.
00:58:20.420 - 00:59:00.492, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Matteo here. I'm going to be asking mostly questions, so I'm going to be mostly silent today. I'm an investor, invest in Web Three games, and I've been involved in lots of Web Two projects before, mostly in gaming as well. But I think, again, we want to hear from the other guys here and maybe we should start with a round of introductions. And guys, if you can just say who you are and what you're working on briefly, then we can go deeper in the topic of the discussion. I will call you out just to avoid awkward sequence problems.
00:59:00.492 - 00:59:06.364, Speaker A: So, David, you're the first in my strip, so if you can start. Yeah.
00:59:06.402 - 00:59:29.504, Speaker D: Thanks, Matteo. Nice to be here. My name is David. I run a company called Playment here in the UK. I'm a longtime game native, so I've been making games professionally now for 32 years. So all sorts console, PC, free to play and been in blockchain game space for about a year. The first game that we built is in the Lootverse, which is an NFT collection.
00:59:29.504 - 00:59:45.390, Speaker D: Most people will know and really enjoyed jumping in, using our sort of game production capabilities, but applying to a whole new area. This fun and crazy world of blockchain and Web Three. That's me, I think.
00:59:46.080 - 01:00:12.710, Speaker A: Thank you, Justin. Hey, yeah, thanks for having me here. My name is Justin. I work at Xerox Park. We support innovations on top of Ethereum that go beyond DFI and NFDS. So we are behind Dark Forest, a bunch of new projects that are still unannounced. And essentially we're trying to see we're building for a world where we get 1 trillion gas per second.
01:00:12.710 - 01:00:30.520, Speaker A: If you think, let's say, like, decentralized technology one, and we actually have very fast yet consistent and censorship resistant computers, what can you actually build? So we tried to build for the future and that led us down very interesting rabbit holes. We can talk about later. Yeah. Omri.
01:00:31.020 - 01:00:32.776, Speaker E: Hi, everyone. Great to be here.
01:00:32.798 - 01:00:32.936, Speaker A: Thanks.
01:00:32.958 - 01:00:48.850, Speaker E: Matteo and I work in the day to day. As a lawyer, I deal with crypto blockchain, so the use of blockchain within also interactive experiences, such as the one that David and Justin are working on. And yeah, great to be here.
01:00:50.420 - 01:01:30.268, Speaker A: Great. So the topic today is really started from a discussion we had a few days ago, right, about what are the real new ideas of web3 and what can you do with it in gaming that is not conceivable in web two. And that's what really excites us all, maybe. David, can you talk a little bit about your experience? You mentioned how you come with a long experience in web two gaming. When did you start when you decided to take this web3 thing seriously, at least professionally, and why? What are the most interesting ideas that really got you excited and attracted to it?
01:01:30.434 - 01:02:17.124, Speaker D: Yeah, I think it's not obvious at first how this technology can be used in games. I think everybody has a sort of Eureka moment where they think of how it can be applied to games. And as I say, I've been doing this for a while. I remember big evolutionary changes in the games industry as we went from two D to three D, or when we could connect people and play multiplayer over the Internet, or free to play business model. It's another of those kind of technologies that once you start to understand what it can do, it becomes very interesting. I think we're still relatively early, but there's just so much opportunity, so many new ideas that can come from blockchain technology. I guess central to that is digital ownership.
01:02:17.124 - 01:03:08.844, Speaker D: But of course, if you can own something digitally, then you have the right to sell it. And if you have the right to sell it, then you can potentially make a profit from it. So you add a monetization aspect that hasn't really been there in games before. Interoperability, I think, is another interesting new idea that we've successfully integrated into our first game called The Crypt. And I think I would say that when I first started looking at this and it was very easy to take web two games like Fortnite or League of Legends and just sort of sprinkle NFTs on top or add a token to it. But I think that's a mistake. I've made that mistake before when moving from console to free to play, just trying to adapt an existing game, just trying to adapt that web two game to suddenly be web3 isn't going to work.
01:03:08.844 - 01:03:50.280, Speaker D: I think you really have to burn everything back down to the ground and start again. And so I think that's where we're starting. And I think we're in a really nice position, as I think a lot of other people are on this call, where we don't have to turn around an existing business, we don't have to take our web two game company and turn it into something else. And I think not being encumbered by the fact that we have an existing game, an existing culture, and can throw ourselves into this from the off is a great advantage. And anybody who doesn't, that's the advantage that people on this call have over people that are great at making games but just in the habit of making web. Two games.
01:03:51.100 - 01:04:06.200, Speaker A: That's super cool. And can you elaborate a little bit on Loot? Right, so you mentioned how your first project is in the Loot verse and what is the idea there that kind of is the most interesting to you and change the way you build games?
01:04:06.360 - 01:04:49.308, Speaker D: Yeah, well, first, I mean Loot, when I first heard about I thought it was crazy idea. The idea of starting with a game element and then building the game from that is nothing that's ever been done before and at first I thought it was crazy. What's the point in releasing a game item for a game that doesn't exist yet? But then of course, people start to build games and experiences around this Loot NFT as a primitive. And so now if you own the Loot NFT then there's a dozen different things you can do with it and they all sort of all interoperate with each other. So our game is relatively simple. We take a Loot NFT and you can use it to battle our dungeons. It's a PvE game.
01:04:49.308 - 01:05:29.080, Speaker D: So if you have a Loot NFT then you can collaborate with other players to collectively try and defeat our dungeon. And when our dungeon is defeated, then anybody that was successful in raiding it ends up with one of our relics, which is a prize. So it's a PvE on chain cooperative game, I think probably the first of its type. It's been a lot of fun to make, probably the simplest games that I've ever made, but also I think one of the most interesting. It's been fun to make and we continue to evolve having at least now two chapters. Our second chapter went live yesterday.
01:05:30.140 - 01:06:46.556, Speaker A: Nice. We can talk a bit more later. But Justin, building on this topic of interesting ideas that are really native to Web Three, can you talk a little bit more about Dark Forest and what is the real meaning of fully on chain gaming and how does it change the way you should think about game design? Yeah, I think that's why I'm going to refuse to use Web Three game as a term from now on because I think it doesn't actually give much signal on what actually the thing is. And one subcategory of projects we're really interested in is where we coin crypto native games and we have a bunch of rules for what a crypto native game is. But the TLDR is most games today that are built on top of Ethereum or Ethereum like networks have only the asset ownership on chain and then the game runs on regular centralized servers essentially. So that is interesting because it allows developers to have easy on ramp, off ramp and secondary markets because that's what blockchains have been really good at. But it kind of defeats the purpose for a lot of stuff because if those centralized servers go down, those NFDS are essentially useless pointers to things that can't do anything anymore.
01:06:46.556 - 01:07:33.456, Speaker A: So a very contrarian idea, like a couple of years ago when we started dark forest was, well, what if you put the entire game on the chain? The smart contracts you have are not just your c 720 ones, they're literally like game engines. You could think of it as like the back end for a game. So they only have the rules and the state of the game, and then anyone can build a client that consumes those contracts and allow you to play. And as David was saying, it's very counterintuitive, but it leads to a lot of really interesting downstream properties. The thing you have to pay to be able to get all those downstream properties is that you're essentially dealing with a Macintosh 512k as your back end. Like you just went back in time 30 years when it comes to your back end technology. In exchange, you get a lot of really sweet, neat things.
01:07:33.456 - 01:07:57.236, Speaker A: The first one is that the game lives forever. And if you've been playing games for long enough, you know that most multiplayer games just go down. The servers get shut down, they're never open source. The community has to rebuild the servers from scratch and most of the time people can't play it anymore. The interesting thing here is that because the game is on chain, unless there some sort of like admin function that destroys the game. But even if there were, people can still fork the contract and the data. Most of the time that admin function doesn't exist.
01:07:57.236 - 01:08:26.092, Speaker A: Given your users pay for compute and storage, as a company, as a group, as a creator, you essentially put a piece like an artifact on the internet and then you don't have to take care of it anymore. Node operators run the game for you, miners make the users pay to change the state and it's just there. So that's like the first thing that is really interesting. Essentially you build an entire fragile product so you don't have DevOps. The game is up when developers run out of money. And then the other thing that you get from this is that the data is open. It's client agnostic.
01:08:26.092 - 01:08:44.480, Speaker A: It's just like email. You can use gmail or outlook here. If you build a game, you can interact with the game the way you want. And most of the time, I mean, David's game is on chain. People probably use the playman front end. I don't think anyone probably has built a new front end, but they could, they totally could build a new front end. With darkfrest, we saw this.
01:08:44.480 - 01:09:24.790, Speaker A: The best players started forking the front end and creating new one. So to avoid fragmentation, what we did is we added plugins so people could spawn up plugins in the official front end itself or change it the way they want. And I think this idea is really powerful because it allows you to create fractal games. What I mean by fractal game is like imagine a game that is so big in its span that depending on whether you're new or not, you can be anything from a little merchant to a politician. And you can imagine that those types of players will use different interface. Maybe if you're a politician, you are on the equivalent of Twitter, just vote on proposals and look at big real time strategy maps and you just change stuff. And if you're a new player, you just roam around and those different clients could be made by different companies.
01:09:24.790 - 01:09:58.056, Speaker A: It's like chess. You don't have to buy your chessboard from Hasbro. You can buy it from anyone you want. So this is like this really interesting property of client agnosticity. And of course the last one is composability because it's really hard to compose with games that only have their asset ownership on chain because you can move those things around, but you can't build games with them. Whereas here you can build smart contracts that pretend to be players. But if the protocol is good enough, if it lets you call other contracts in the game, you can do crazy stuff like imagine a massively multiplayer Pokemon like game where any player can deploy a contract that plays for them when they're not there, a contract that implements your strategy.
01:09:58.056 - 01:10:31.320, Speaker A: So now if anyone attacks you, the contract can immediately reply and be like oh, this is Justin's ghost. That is like playing on the chain. And I don't even have to keep that up as a machine, it's just up by the node. I mean, I could talk about this for a really long time because there's a lot of stuff to cover, but basically it unlocks an entire new category of experiences and you really have to completely change the way you think about designing those games. And that's a really exciting opportunity. It's as David said, it's not take all principles and just try to shift them and sprinkle some stuff on top. It's fundamentally rethink the way you design those games.
01:10:31.320 - 01:11:19.320, Speaker A: Yeah, no, absolutely. And I think being also more mindful and inclusive of the community, that becomes part of also developing arm of what you're trying to do. But we can come back to that concept in a second. I actually want to ask Omri the lawyer question, right? And you know Omri, that we're talking to developers here, so keep it simple for us. But in a way, what I'm trying to understand is how do you make sense of all of these new ideas, new concepts, just the ones that David and Justin mentioned in a second ago? And what are the risks and opportunities that arise from these ideas.
01:11:19.900 - 01:12:29.250, Speaker E: So first I have something written down I need to read. So please note that the following is not legal advice. No, I'm kidding. But it's the typical disclaimer as a lawyer because when you work as a lawyer in this space, you also need to rethink in a way, your way of approaching the law and the regulation because it all becomes sort of a risk based assessment. So both David and Justin gave amazing hooks and ground on which I can start and like going chronologically with taking from where David started with the concept of digital ownership. So first of all, when you're dealing with distributed ledger with blockchain and NFTs and tokens, you really need to also think about what do we mean by ownership? And that plays an important role because of course, although the media like to for example, in the case of NFT thinks as JPEG NFTs are not know, they're basically cryptographic assets which are pegged to some form of content. Now the reason I'm saying this is because of course the kind of consideration Justin and David mentioned involve cryptographic asset, the use of cryptographic asset recorded on distributed ledger technology.
01:12:29.250 - 01:13:37.076, Speaker E: So what happened is effectively and what has been very attractive, this kind of early iteration of play to earn is the fact that now you can extract value from the game. So as a long term gamer myself, I've always been a bit frustrated with the fact that I could not recoup any of my investment in terms of time, finances and so on and so forth. And I think what's very interesting of this particular technology is the ability to reward players for their investments in a game. But that also means that if you can extract value, it's kind of a convergence, right? Because entertainment is now not only converged with an interactive element, but also with an economy. And that means that there are new risks coming up. So for example, antimoney laundering, financial services, gambling, and a lot of time for game developers and studios. This comes a bit as a surprise because of course the way that they structure the business, the way the studios are structured is to go full on on the interactive element, on the game design, but they're not prepared to assess the kind of regulatory risk that might arise from that.
01:13:37.076 - 01:14:43.176, Speaker E: And like Justin was saying, and like David was saying as well, in terms know, you really need to rethink the design of the video game. You also need to rethink the way you structure a team and what concerns you might have and what concern you might not. So if you look at for example, when we think about distributed ledger technology and making the most out of this web3 opportunity or creating crypto native titles, I think what's important to understand is that most products so far that have been successful have been community centered or community empowered. Designs, community empowered brands. The community really stays at the heart. Like David was mentioning, it's very revolutionary thinking about first releasing, building an experience, if you want, on top of an asset that already exists out there. But that means that you're effectively building an experience for a community, which means it has an impact in terms of culture and so on and so forth, but also in terms of intellectual property because you might be building an experience that incorporates intellectual property belonging to someone else.
01:14:43.176 - 01:15:24.344, Speaker E: And you really want to be careful. You want to make sure that you are able to incorporate that intellectual property into your title. Right now we haven't really heard much about lawsuits with respect to games that incorporate assets because it is commercially convenient. It's almost like the case of people streaming on Twitch without having a license. It's kind of marketing. But the more this kind of phenomena grows and the more there start to be a strong economy behind it and wider user adoption, this could potentially become an issue. So if you're developing a game like as a takeaway, if you're developing a game around a particular class of asset or a group of NFTs, let's say, or characters, make sure that you can do that.
01:15:24.344 - 01:16:31.752, Speaker E: Make sure that, for example, if you're a developer, if the license states that there are commercial rights, the commercial rights really belong to the player sorry, to the collector, not to the project itself. So you would want to seek licenses from the collectors. If the intellectual property on the other end is centralized, then you would want to liaise with the project. So you'd have to communicate with the project, seek the necessary authorization. And if the project is what is called CC zero, or in the public domain, which is often mixed with commercial rights, which is wrong, unfortunately there is a lot of misinformation within the community, then that means that the intellectual property is open. And I think that makes for a very, very interesting case when it comes to crypto native titles, because it's hard to justify sometime the price that is attached to an NFT, let's say a collectible that doesn't really provide you commercial ownership over the image or the asset, but the value still lies within the utility that can be built around the token. Because remember, the NFT for example, would be we're talking about the cryptographic assets with the unique ID on a database, so it's not replicable with a certain piece of content attached.
01:16:31.752 - 01:17:28.796, Speaker E: So even if the collector doesn't have commercial rights to the image, you can still build utility. And that means that you're incentivizing the adoption of the original NFT whilst at the same time creating something that is culturally relevant. So I think that's interesting and sorry, I know that I lost a little bit myself speaking. I'll be very quick on this next point. Other considerations that come and we touched upon them, it's anti. Money laundering, for example, and you might have seen already on Twitter it was Yugalab and Animoka have released, say, a new coming soon project requiring people that want to join to provide proof of identities and proof of residence. And that's a big development within the space, not a surprising one, because when you're dealing with money transferring, money transferring money's worth so NFTs, or things that you can trade freely, then that elements come into play and it's something that shouldn't be dismissed because there could be severe consequences.
01:17:28.796 - 01:17:51.690, Speaker E: And finally, if you are including any sort of distribution of royalties or governance over a particular company or how the company behave or how the studio behave, please keep in mind there might be a risk from a financial services standpoint. And of course gambling is also very relevant. So I don't want to put up anyone. That's the problem.
01:17:52.220 - 01:18:58.396, Speaker A: That's your job, right, as a lawyer. But I think the first concept that you talked about a little bit be when you build on someone else assets, you should be aware of what you can do or not with those assets. I think it's important. But also going back to what Justin was saying, and David is it also works the other way around, right. As you build in this new Web Three ideas and fully on chain and interoperability, you should be more comfortable with others taking your work and doing stuff with it. Right? And it's potentially also difficult, especially if you come from a long term, from Web Two, to accept that and embrace that and unleash the power of that. So maybe David, starting from you and also Justin, how do you feel about that? For example, when you tapped into the Loot community, how did it work for you in the beginning? How did you get involved and how do you feel about others potentially building on top of what you're doing?
01:18:58.578 - 01:20:03.424, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm going to start somewhere else, which is Alex, the CEO of Axie was talking about this question came up where people heard he obviously in the Axie game, he sells land which is going to be used in gameplay functionality in the game. And there was a situation where people were offering utility in their game for Axial land and they were using it as a mechanism of attracting a set of players. They said your land, your Axialand, that's been provided by another company is good in our game as using it as a way of drawing an audience, a very smart way. And I think the question that was put to Alex was, isn't that frustration for you? His point was, no, this is great. I'm in the business of selling land axialand and now you're providing more utility. The price is going to go up if you can use that land across a number of games. And I think that's a very different way of thinking about interoperability, I think, ordinarily games companies would try and prevent that from happening because it's pulling money away from the game.
01:20:03.424 - 01:21:28.984, Speaker D: But because in that case it was Axie Sky Mavis that was selling that asset that NFT, then it was them that's still seeing the benefit from the uplift in the sale price. So I think it gets thought about in a very different way. And for us, we've seen huge benefits of addressing the Loop community. It's an addressable audience, there's 8000 OG loot holders and there's Mloot, which is a wider set, there's about 50,000 or something and it's an audience that's there and waiting for things to be built. And not only can we give those players something to do with their loot bags, but also the things that they win from our game can be used in other people's games. So you have this weird sort of the whole being greater than the sum of the parts and it's all considered part of loot verse and there's people that will build narratives around how all these games fit together and where it is in the timeline. And there's really like hundreds of people all operating independently but at the same time sort of cohesively by exchanging each other's tokens NFTs, that kind of thing, having functionality, having utility of one NFT in several games and you have this sort of crisscrossing of NFTs and tokens throughout the Loop verse.
01:21:28.984 - 01:21:38.080, Speaker D: So this is something that I've never seen in web two games in 32 years of making games, never seen this stuff before and it sort of opens up a whole new set of ideas.
01:21:39.140 - 01:22:48.656, Speaker A: That's great. Justin, also from your end, obviously you're excited about this and fully embrace it, but can you talk a little bit about what it means to not even control or own your own front end potentially, right? And others just messing with it? Where do you feel ownership if you need to and where do you build the value for you and your company? Yeah, I mean, there's a really easy way out. This is you don't build value. This is not the answer I'm going to give because I allow that answer as well, obviously, but if you can elaborate on that, I appreciate it. Yeah, well, first I have a follow up to Axi having land that is used by other games. One thing that I find really interesting is that even in that relationship, there is a relationship of power from Sky Mavis to ever use their assets downstream because there are ways for them to just change the price, change the dynamics and stuff like that. And one could not imagine a very big game studio building on top of Axialand.
01:22:48.656 - 01:23:34.884, Speaker A: Like it makes no sense economically. Like you should just rebuild it from scratch and that just again leads to fragmentation. So I think that one idea that is very interesting is how do you build shared state that becomes there's this really good blog post by the founder of Zora about hyperstructure and how do you build like a shared state that becomes a hyperstructure? Hyperstructures are adminless. Essentially they're owned by no one and so more loot and even the original loot contract after the keys have been burned is essentially it's a hyperstructure because there is no relationship of power between whoever owns the More loot contract and playment because nobody owns the More loot contract. So it's just like think of it, I like to think of it like lovecraftian gods looming over us. They just exist. There is no way for us to do anything about them.
01:23:34.884 - 01:24:30.768, Speaker A: They're just there. And so how can we build bigger games that are not just like simple assets that are adminless? Because then you don't have relationships of power anymore. And one can imagine very big studios building on top of them because they have no fear of whoever owns the thing to stop giving them access because there is no one that owns it. And the code is verifiable. So I really want to go more towards this universe where we have massive world that are adminless and I think we're not going to be there anytime soon, but that's probably where things are going to go to because just with the history of ethereum and cryptocurrencies in general is that there are coordination mechanisms that incentivize positive sum games, and positive sum games always end up winning. You can't have a competitive game that wins against a positive sum ecosystem. And so similarly with Ethereum, Ethereum doesn't have an admin, vitalik doesn't have a master node even if it's like a well known myth.
01:24:30.768 - 01:25:10.816, Speaker A: And so in the end Ethereum is a company that sells block space. Anyone can buy block space from Ethereum using ETH and that's it. There is no board of shareholders apart from the core devs. And the core devs essentially the only thing they have is legitimacy, right? So I'm really interested in this and I think we still haven't seen it because the problem is most people still think in terms of word building with assets. If you build a beautiful word with assets and stuff like that, of course it's going to come from a company because how the hell do you pay 1000 artists to do this? Which is why we can talk about this later again. But I want to go more towards the idea of physics defining a world that is just rules. No content.
01:25:10.816 - 01:25:46.252, Speaker A: Because a word that is just rules allow people to build content on top of it without an admin. Just like in this world, this rock was dead, there was nothing on it. People came and built stuff and there was no admin key. Nobody needs to get like a certificate from God that tells them they can build a house, right? You can just do it. And so the really interesting thing here is that if you build a world that just has physics I think we're going to see massive players collaborating on top of it. By players, I mean like players in the market. So like big studios collaborating on top of it because they don't have to keep each other in check, because they know that the other people can't stop giving them access to it.
01:25:46.252 - 01:26:13.240, Speaker A: And this is the same thing with emails. Google and Microsoft and whichever megacorp can coexist together because the email protocol has no admin, they can all build their products on top of it. So I'm really trying to figure out what the right structure for this rules only word would look like. And I think when it will be there, it will be obvious. And I think we're going towards that. That's very exciting. And I guess Ombre has maybe some risks and concerns about that.
01:26:13.390 - 01:26:54.468, Speaker E: Yeah, no, I think it's a very interesting concept. I think it has to know, going back to the hyperstructure, if you want ethereum is a hyperstructure. It depends at what level you want it. So you want to play it. So if you look, for example, at creating effectively what I understand a set of rules like physics, like Justin mentioned, you're moving away what we discussed in terms of content, you're moving it away. You're shifting it from the entity that is creating this physics and you're placing it onto people that are still or studios that are still creating the content that then goes and leverages that physics. So it's more of a shift, I think.
01:26:54.468 - 01:27:26.316, Speaker E: But that's beautiful. I'm not against it. I think that's actually the key. And a key in this starts in a way with what you said, Matte, at the beginning of this point is there needs to be and there is already a shift in culture in how we understand intellectual property. For example, because intellectual property has been used traditionally to exclude others. IP is a negative right now, this is really important because it means that it doesn't entitle you to make an income. IP only entitles you to stop other from using a particular piece of property that belongs to you.
01:27:26.316 - 01:28:11.260, Speaker E: So if you think about it, traditionally we've been accustomed to monetizing intellectual property by giving permission to either to use it or otherwise to selling that right to someone else. Now, the problem with IP is enforcement, because when you're meeting scale, it becomes really, really hard to enforce that right. And you see it, for example, at the beginning of when you look at the internet, when you look at the early two thousand s, the music industry was destroyed almost by legal downloading. Because it's one thing it's for example, you, Mateo, use a piece of property that belongs to me. Without my authorization, I can come and sue you. But when you have 2 million people that are using your piece of intellectual property without my authorization, it becomes a whole lot harder to put the genie back in the bottle. So I think that that's the key, really.
01:28:11.260 - 01:28:45.336, Speaker E: From the perspective of an IP lawyer if you want. That's where the value lies to me, in blockchain, because suddenly you don't have to do that. Suddenly you can provide incentives to adopting the original rather than relying on the parent, like for example, lawsuits and so on and so forth. And if you look at there is a starting example. I invite you all to really go and look at this. Kat Simard. Kat is a photographer, and when she had a picture, it's called Free Away the Project.
01:28:45.336 - 01:29:29.188, Speaker E: And when she had a problem with this picture because everyone was using it without her authorization. And by everyone I also mean companies, tech companies everywhere, without their authorization. And once the genie is out, you can't put it back. So what she did was brilliant created an NFT with that picture that's deemed original because it has provenance you can certify that it's that particular token. And then she sold it. And on the sale, which by the way, sold for $300,000 on the sale, the copyright just opened up. And that goes to show that intellectual property right nowadays is important, I think, to identify the legitimate ownership or legitimate owner of a particular work, like to reward the effort that goes into it and the creativity that goes into it.
01:29:29.188 - 01:30:09.184, Speaker E: But you don't have to rely so heavily on enforcement because you can create assets or you can create words and you can incentivize adoption. Actually, incentivizing adoption brings up the value of the asset. You want people to use it. You want people to go out there and create a lot of amazing work around it because you're creating something that is culturally relevant. Interest goes up, awareness goes up. And if you want to monetize and first of all, you're always able to claim authorship over that because it's certified you're the author. But also if you're monetizing through it, you'd benefit from secondary market sales because you can get royalty through the smart contract governing the assets and so on and so forth.
01:30:09.184 - 01:30:33.396, Speaker E: So I think this is really important because again, I really do hope that this future that Justin talks about know sooner rather than later, because I think that creativity has been stifled a little bit recently because of this need to exclude other and sue each other, whereas there is a commercial drive, which is incredible through collaboration. So I think that's an interesting point in my opinion.
01:30:33.508 - 01:31:22.328, Speaker D: Yeah, I was going to jump in a little bit on that and say that when I talk to people about interoperability in games and you guys must have had this as well. I think people that have made games for a long time automatically jump to this idea, can I take something that I own in Fortnite and move it to PUBG? And then they start to think about the game production reasons why that might be difficult. But I don't think that's how this interoperability is really going to work. I think moving something from one web two game to another web two game or even a web3 game. I think it's more starting with a central item or an item where as Justin describes better than me, somebody that's thrown away the keys. I think that often people approach this interoperability in the wrong way. And even now I'm not sure that we've got any sense of what its final form is.
01:31:22.328 - 01:31:29.390, Speaker D: But it won't be just taking something that somebody has built from one game and try and rerepresent it in somewhere else.
01:31:30.160 - 01:32:19.592, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it makes no sense. What's? A Ferrari in World of Warcraft? It's just stupid, this question. I don't understand why people over index on this so much. Like interoperability is synchronous programming, like synchronous codes between different computer programs. And I think one thing that is very obvious is that you cannot have items that move from one game to another if there is no sort of like energy conservation. Because the problem is then the really easy attack is I create a game and I'm like, I'm going to create extremely powerful dragons in my game because I can I just wrote down the rules and then I bring those extremely powerful dragons into World of Warcraft and I'm God. And so the problem then is if you don't have any sort of energy conservation mechanisms, then what you do is you make it permission.
01:32:19.592 - 01:32:54.436, Speaker A: You make it permission. Basically you're like, well, we have a Dow with tokens that votes on who can bring games to whatever and that just doesn't work because it just takes a lot of time. And also even if you have permission someone to do something, does that mean that their code is frozen now? Because if you're then permissioned, then if you have a tiny problem where the economy is slightly off, then you're going to have problems all over the place. And we have solved those problems already. I mean, not us, god or whoever created physics did it and we have energy conservation laws and they work really well. And again in computer science, people have been working on this for decades. Like category theory answer is part of those problems and stuff like that.
01:32:54.436 - 01:33:58.904, Speaker A: So you can just come up and say, well, we really don't have to design games like the way we did it before. What we have to do instead is just you have to stop thinking in terms of content if you want to build games that are like email, where people can build on top and connect with each other. The idea of having a game developer, like thinking for an afternoon, snapping their finger and bringing up a new sword of infinity that has like plus 30 damage, that's not going to happen anymore because it doesn't make any sense. It is completely arbitrary and it will obviously break some rules that already exist and will have deep, deep, deep repercussions downstream because the more systems you have connected with each other, the more nonlinear your actions become, essentially, the more complicated it is to predict what's going to happen, right? So I think we really need to think in terms of protocols and rules and physics and energy conservation. And Bitcoin did it really easily with the 21 million cap. Like, Bitcoin is what, it's a function that turns entropy like computational power into an asset that caps at 21 million with an exponential decay in terms of its issuance. And it works really well.
01:33:58.904 - 01:34:41.400, Speaker A: It's like very basic physics that Satoshi came up with, and it has been working for like ten years now. So I think we need to do the same thing with games. But the problem is, if you are a game designer that has been in the industry for a long time, it's extremely frustrating because now you can't just do whatever you want. You have to go back to working on very simple rules and see what happens there. And that gives me a lot of hope because I look at a lot of the people that have been in the industry for a long time and I doubt they'll be able to reinvent themselves. So for young kids like me, I'm like, it's okay, we came up with the right ideas and it's going to be all right. But I'm really excited for people's for minds to shift here and that's going to be really exciting.
01:34:42.220 - 01:35:24.944, Speaker E: If I can add to that, Mattel, if I just can in a moment on that point, I think it's really interesting because I think that part of the problem know, now we're kind of criticizing pretty heavily the game design philosophy. And I think that part of that, and I agree with you, Justin, I think that content right now reigns king. And it's because content is what you could commercially leverage and you couldn't leverage mechanics because game mechanics are not protectable, for example, under IP. So if you came up with some super clever game mechanics, well, someone else could copy it. It's not deemed as a copy with using distributed blockchain. You can get a reward for that. There are other ways to benefit from that.
01:35:24.944 - 01:36:24.088, Speaker E: And I think that that's really important from a commercial standpoint, because at the end of the day, studios still need to make some form of income and there has to be some form of economy. Also, another thing I want to say about revolves around decentralization, and this is just something to keep in mind when you're developing a game. And the assumption how far you go with the assumption is we think that okay, you create a smart contract, you deploy it out there, that's it, it's decentralized, it doesn't have anything to do with me. But the concept of DeFi is really, really complex from a regulatory perspective because the regulators, sometimes regulators around the world could still pinpoint liability to you. Now how that will show up. In terms of crypto native games, to be honest, I'm not sure. The most basic form in terms of DeFi is when, let's say, you start a project, let's say like some form of staking mechanism of some kind or just a smart contract that has some form of governance and provide a reward based on contribution or so.
01:36:24.088 - 01:36:56.390, Speaker E: The problem with that is that once it's out, if you still retain as a project or as the person that has developed it a substantial amount of tokens, then although the smart contract operates independently from you, you still created it and you are still benefiting from it economically. That could create a tie. I'm not saying that if that happens you're automatically liable. I'm just saying keep in mind that sometimes we might get in the frame of mind that if it's decentralized, I'm not liable anymore. Just be mindful of that.
01:36:57.480 - 01:37:17.016, Speaker A: That makes sense. I'm now curious to do some research and check if the inventors of the email protocols have ever been attacked for spams because they created the email protocol and spams is a downstream effect of email. And so that would be an interesting thing to look at. But it did not benefit from it, which is like a fundamental difference, I'd say.
01:37:17.198 - 01:37:43.408, Speaker E: And I think it's very remote. So it's almost like if you're creating the smart contract, if you have bad actors that start to overload the smart contract, I don't think you'd be liable for that. I'm talking more about. If the Smart contract, for example, incentivizes what would otherwise be deemed as a gambling activity or as a financial service, then that's the kind of scope you might want to be careful with, because you'd still be deemed to benefit greatly from it if the value of the token goes up and you have a good reserve.
01:37:43.424 - 01:38:27.244, Speaker A: I agree. Yeah. A contract that has admin access is not decentralized. It is decentralized compute, but it is not decentralized at all. For something to be a hyperstructure, it has to be adminless. We're going to enter actually a new era of financialization and ways to monetize projects where the main research subject will be how do you monetize hyperstructures? And that's going to be really interesting because as the creator of an adminless protocol, how do you make money out of it? And I have one playbook for this that I'm ready to share to everybody for free, and it's the Gmail playbook. Essentially you create a hyperstructure and then you create an extremely good closed source client on top of the I hyperstructure.
01:38:27.244 - 01:38:59.768, Speaker A: Basically like, well, we deployed this protocol, it's admin less, but because we know the protocol so well, we ended up building an extremely good client on top of it and we sell access to it. That's one playbook. There are many of them, but I think it is possible and it is very much akin to the open source way of financing big open source Project Redis and stuff like that, which had to finance open source databases and of course they got mega screwed by AWS because of their licenses. But in the end, I think that here we can learn from the mistakes of open source projects that had a hard time making money and see if there are ways to shift the incentives slightly.
01:38:59.944 - 01:39:39.450, Speaker E: And I would add something that it's not to incentivize anyone to go down that route. But in my opinion, true decentralization happens in the lack of humanity in a way. Like you need anonymity that's why, for example, Bitcoin could be one of the only example of true decentralization because there is no entity to attack, there is no one that can I'm not incentivizing anyone to do that because it has very bad repercussion. It can be really damaging for you. But yeah, I think that unfortunately, the human involvement like part of having a human involvement, it's kind of the point of compromise within a system and it's always been, but I think this technology limits it.
01:39:40.380 - 01:40:10.230, Speaker A: Guys, I have one final question for David and Justin. But I want to also reserve time for questions from the crowd. So if you have more time, I will ask it. Otherwise I was monitoring the chat. I think there are a couple of questions. Kartik, did you see yeah, there's one that came in that kind of follows up to something Justin said, but I think you can continue with yours and then I can come in. So I think we have only a few minutes.
01:40:10.230 - 01:40:53.890, Speaker A: Sure, maybe let's make sure we cover that and then I can ask the final questions if we have time left. By the way, this has been an incredible discussion. I've been hearing about this in the background here, but the question kind of comes in from a sort of adjacent follow up to one of the points that was made earlier. And the question is about how do you think about frameworks for managing projects, especially as these are largely being proposed to be built in a decentralized way where everybody can kind of come in. How should somebody look at leadership and hierarchy in that sense and how should we think about just any suggested rules to understand? How do you make decisions efficiently? Does anybody have any kind of comments or frameworks around that? And that's kind of the intent of that question.
01:40:55.380 - 01:40:59.970, Speaker D: I can give like a yours is going to be more interesting.
01:41:01.780 - 01:41:35.980, Speaker A: It's 30 seconds. I think that protocols can be designed in a committee, so you need to keep the team extremely small when you design core protocols and then as soon as there can be paralyzed tracks where there is no right answer and different ways to approach something, then it becomes much easier to get the community involved. But I think it's extremely hard to design a protocol with a lot of people and know I recommend everybody to read this essay called The Tyranny of Structured Ness Ness, which is about the fact that if you have no structure, there is actually a structure, it's just hidden and so it just becomes politics. So that's really tricky. And so for protocols, what we're doing is we stick to extremely small teams.
01:41:36.740 - 01:42:14.830, Speaker D: Mine just equally quickly is that it's so embryonic at this stage that just do things quickly, get it out there, let the numbers speak for themselves. I've really found, I've always felt this, that sometimes people are guilty of making games more complex than they need to be and sometimes something quite simple and interesting and new can be just as engaging. So I would say, yeah, do something cool that seems interesting that you can do quite quickly and then measure it. The great thing about everything being on chain is that it's analytic streams because everything is there that can be queried. So a couple of tips for me.
01:42:15.840 - 01:42:44.260, Speaker A: Yeah. And it is actually already kind of something that mobile free to play gaming brought to the industry right. Compared to the previous that's right. Decade. But it's even more powerful here. Kartik, is there any other question? Yes, one more follow up to the hyperstructures. If nobody technically owns a hyperstructure here, what are good ways to think about monetizing?
01:42:47.640 - 01:43:40.730, Speaker D: Think? I mean, Justin talked about the fact that if you align yourself closely with a popular client in the same way as Gmail monetizes through ads, even though it's on a hyperstructure of email, if I understood Justin's point correctly. I mean, also in the case of our loop game, just to give us some context, then sure, we took somebody else's NFT that was there for everybody to use, and we can do different things like you could charge to raid one of our dungeons with that loot NFT. And also you could say in the case of ours, players can win an NFT and we take some money from the secondary sales of that 5% on the secondary sales. So actually there's quite a few different points where I think even if you're using elements that are in the public domain and a hyperstructure, there's still ways in which you can monetize it.
01:43:43.660 - 01:44:23.760, Speaker A: Yeah, I think we are out of the time that was assigned to us, so I don't know to end it here. Thoughts? Feel free to kind of actually, maybe just one parting thought. A question for me, for everyone here in the panel is actually david, you recently started a new studio in web3. But it's been a year, more than a year now. But people that are listening, that are thinking about starting a new studio to do something in the space and kind of embrace some of the ideas we talked about. What is the first thing you would recommend people to think about, to prioritize.
01:44:23.920 - 01:44:25.572, Speaker D: As I said at the top of this call.
01:44:25.626 - 01:44:25.844, Speaker A: Right.
01:44:25.882 - 01:44:58.636, Speaker D: The main thing is do not be drawn. So often I see people joining the games industry because they love a certain kind of game and they end up doing the same game as all the games that came before it. If you're new to this part of the games industry and you don't have a game company that you need to convert, this is the perfect start. Whatever you do, don't do a game that looks like a thousand games that we've seen before. Instead, go down into the weird end where Justin lives and find out some of these really cool. This is where the value is going to be created. This is the interesting new part of the games industry.
01:44:58.636 - 01:44:59.740, Speaker D: Don't go backwards.
01:44:59.820 - 01:45:26.356, Speaker A: Go Mean. Yeah, be more weird. Also, don't think too much about venture capital. That's like my PSA here. There are so many grants, so many ways to just have a bunch of money, a tiny amount to be able to live and do stuff. The premise, venture capital puts a ceiling on how interesting a project can be because it puts you in a box. And it's always okay to decide later on to raise venture capital.
01:45:26.356 - 01:46:00.790, Speaker A: But again, Bitcoin and Ethereum would not have been what they are had they raised venture capital. Right? You don't need the Aspiration to build something that is as big and as legendary. But I think it's always interesting as an exercise to first spend six months a year, think about this without the box of venture capital and then maybe use it later. Because capital is so cheap these days. We live in a very special place in time. The generosity of people is through the roof, especially with crypto stuff, because you have so many people that became rich overnight and now they're like, oh yeah, let's just fund a bunch of stuff. So use this and be more weird and experiment with more stuff.
01:46:00.790 - 01:46:05.140, Speaker A: Amri. Maybe a parting thought that is not scary.
01:46:06.680 - 01:46:45.712, Speaker E: Yeah, no, absolutely. So going kind of surfing this wave that David and Justin started about being weird and thinking out of the you know, we've been talking about games, about physics and so on. And so, you know, ultimately, this one, as we said, is a technological convergence. And I invite everyone to think outside of the lines and not necessarily develop an experience that is within a screen. Immersive technologies are advancing very quickly and I think the word can literally be your playground and that can have very, very strong imagine, you know, like Justin was saying, god or some entity created the laws of physics. So go and interfere with Mean. Don't promise anyone.
01:46:45.712 - 01:47:21.676, Speaker E: They can, like, I think, be weird and experiment, but also not just in the traditional way of how we think about a video game or an interactive experience. This can go a lot more it's a lot more powerful in my opinion, than I don't want to say just a game because I love games, but life is an MMO can be an MMO. It's about translating data. It's about empowering people to communicate, to find joy in little things. And I think that's such an important aspect of design. And maybe I say that because I'm not a game designer, but that's a product that as a collector and as a gamer, I would love to see.
01:47:21.858 - 01:47:52.100, Speaker A: That'S why we love you, because you're not just a lawyer. Thanks for Omari, Justin, David, thank you so much for that amazing discussion. And Mateo, thank you so much for facilitating that amazing conversation. We don't have any more questions from the audience, but the only common comment is they wish this chat could have been a bit longer because there's so many interesting things being talked about. So we'll have to do a round two here in the future. But with that, thanks so much and we're ready for the next talk. Thank you, everyone.
01:47:52.100 - 01:48:19.152, Speaker A: Bye bye. Thanks. Bye bye. So up next, I want to bring on Sid, and Sid's going to talk about randomness in Web Three and gaming. So Dran is a really interesting initiative here and I can't wait for all of you to also learn more about how you can use true randomness in your Metaverse application. So, without further ado, let's welcome Sid. Is it? You are.
01:48:19.152 - 01:48:19.728, Speaker A: Hi.
01:48:19.814 - 01:48:29.472, Speaker F: Greetings, everyone. I hope you can hear me and I'm going to share my screen shortly. I hope you are able to see the slides.
01:48:29.616 - 01:48:30.950, Speaker A: Everything is good?
01:48:31.320 - 01:49:04.184, Speaker F: All right, awesome. Hey, thanks for joining us. I'm really privileged to be here talking about why randomness is actually important in Web Three and particularly in gaming. So just a quick introduction about myself. I'm Sid. I work for Protocol Labs and we are part of a group of researchers and engineering people who are trying to build decentralized systems, decentralized protocols, and offer them as services to the general public. Drand is one of the protocols that we operate as a public utility.
01:49:04.184 - 01:50:00.012, Speaker F: And I would like to talk to you more about why Drand is essentially a very important and critical part of Web Three. So just a quick motivational slide on why randomness is effectively ubiquitous. It perpetuates everything, but we don't seem to be talking about it explicitly. So let's understand why we need to have fairness in generating good randomness. Why all applications that are working in a decentralized manner need good random. Randomness. So just to give you a quick broader view of why we need randomness and to set the motivation in context, a lot of the protocols and cryptography primitives actually rely on fair and verifiable bias resistant randomness, which cannot actually be influenced or be tampered by anybody in a network.
01:50:00.012 - 01:51:51.444, Speaker F: So, ideally, things like leader elections in proof of stake blockchains, for example, filecoin, or even Sharding, even in the gossiping protocols, randomly choosing peers in the network to actually disseminate information, all of those things need to be done in a fair manner and no one particular entity should be able to influence the outcome, so to speak. So I think it's pretty obvious that when you have things like ZKPs zero knowledge proofs and diffie Hellman's exchanges happening in the various cryptographic schemes, they all make use of a very, I would say a bias resistant and unpredictable seed that gives them the confidence that, yes, there cannot be any tampering going on with the actual method used to generate the random value, so to speak. So similarly goes beyond Web Three and obviously goes into medicine trials and stuff like that. So randomness essentially is everywhere and we want to make sure that we are leveraging the same good properties or good or fair good randomness in web Three grade gaming as well. So for example, I don't want to dive too much into it because I assume the audience here are already experts in games. But for both input and output randomness that we actually use to create a more dynamic and a more engaging gaming experience, it actually relies on trusted arbiters of randomness where there is true unpredictability, which means that you can vouch for the source, the randomness source itself, that it is truly unpredictable. If the gamers start realizing that some of these outcomes actually can be either be biased or either can be predicted, then obviously erodes trust, right? And that's not good at all.
01:51:51.444 - 01:53:39.852, Speaker F: The other place where we actually seeing, especially in Web Three is the area of dynamic NFTs which actually unlocks significant monetary value in the network, so to speak. And it's essentially, I think, the key differentiator for web3 gaming, so to speak, from the traditional web two gaming where the vastness of NFTs and the way they can be used to represent a variety of digital assets can be made a lot more dynamic within the games, outside the games based on fair randomness. Which means that I can alter the colors, the rarity, the animations and whatnot of the NFTs based on some pretty sound and fair randomness source, right? So similarly for lotteries and loot boxes, I think it goes without saying that in order to create rewards for users, for sticky monetization and gamification, you definitely need to have a way to verify, publicly verify that the source of randomness was actually truly random. So why do we need good randomness? I think I've touched upon this, but there have been many cases in the past where lotteries were actually rigged. Several millions of dollars worth of value was actually eroded from the network, businesses obviously went completely off the grid and then there was just a general, I think, a sense of distrust amongst the community saying that okay, we don't really trust these guys, we don't really trust a centralized provider or we don't trust a particular provider. So Web Three is all about decentralization and that's one of the key primitives that Dran has actually used to ensure that we are decentralized from day one. So I'm going to quickly touch upon the need for a dependable randomness service for the Internet.
01:53:39.852 - 01:54:46.360, Speaker F: The Internet fundamentally needs a dependable randomness service and this should fairly ideally be available to anybody out on the Internet. And at the moment we start associating specific incentives for someone to provide this randomness, it becomes a little bit tricky to be able to say that, hey, here is a network that is truly unbiased. This is truly formed of a set of people who are not really trying to game the system, so to speak. So like, we have the DNS protocol, we have NTP, we have the PKI infrastructure. All of these are fundamental foundational building blocks for the Internet. And we believe that randomness is similar to NTP, similar to DNS, and a very fundamental building block of the Internet, especially, definitely Web Three. So what are the key properties of a randomness service that we would like to offer to the Internet right in the decentralized web specifically, we need the properties of being unpredictable, of being bias resistant, of providing public verification.
01:54:46.360 - 01:55:10.564, Speaker F: So every single random value should actually be verifiable using public APIs. It should be decentralized. That means there's actually a network of active parties who have come together to generate the randomness. And then of course, this randomness service should be highly available. It should never go down. Just like NTP, it should always be there for you. So here is where Dran comes in.
01:55:10.564 - 01:56:00.230, Speaker F: And these are all the primitives that were designed principles for. So basically Drand is essentially an open source software. It's a project on GitHub. Please check it out. And it's built in Golang and is run by a set of independent nodes run by a set of independent organizations, which I'm going to get to very shortly. And we actually offer a public randomness beacon service using the threshold cryptography concept in which we actually do a distributed, distributed key generation process where we actually make sure that there is at least a threshold of more than half of the nodes in the network that actually have gone through the key sharing process. And it's actually based on the G two method of the BLS pairing curve, same as E two.
01:56:00.230 - 01:56:40.080, Speaker F: And it essentially binds together independent entropy sources. So there are multiple each entity in the network, each operator in the network has their own method of generating their own entropy, their own randomness. And Drand essentially binds them together into one publicly verifiable value, so to speak. And additional sources of randomness can easily be added because if there's another operator who wants to join the network and they have their own let's say they use lava lamps in the data center to generate randomness, they can join the network. Absolutely. And we actually have an ongoing process to actually onboard new operators into the network. And of course it's a production grade service.
01:56:40.080 - 01:57:23.768, Speaker F: It's tested, audited and globally deployed. And of course we have made sure that this is accessible using HTP through CDNS and things like that. So you can simply do a Http API that's available. We also provide gossip sub or lip PTP for public subscribe, sort of a consumption model, so to speak. But simplicity was essentially one of the key principles here. So I probably will not have a lot of time to go into the details of how Dran works. Essentially there's a setup phase at the beginning where we do a distributed key generation ceremony and before generating the random values, the nodes actually perform a ceremony to agree on the threshold as to what is the minimum number of nodes in the network that need to participate in order to generate randomness.
01:57:23.768 - 01:58:03.060, Speaker F: For example, if I have 23 nodes, I need at least twelve nodes as a threshold to be able to participate in the randomness generation process, so to speak. And then of course they also have to agree in the period or the frequency at which this actually is going to be done. So the current DRAM network operates at a 32nd frequency and of course we are working on a multi frequency network. We can actually support lower frequencies. That's coming in the future very shortly. But each node generates the keys from the preferred randomness source, like I said, lava lamps, chacha protocol, seismic data, whatever it could be. And they all generate their own keys from the preferred randomness source and create their own signatures.
01:58:03.060 - 01:58:58.220, Speaker F: And the second part is essentially to generate the act to once you have created your partial signatures, you actually then at every epoch each node broadcasts their partial signature to the rest of the nodes in the network. Each node waits and collects to capture these signatures from at least the threshold number of nodes in the network to match the threshold parameter. And this node can then create the front end. So and of course we provide a randomness verification API which is nothing but a BLS signature that can be verified again and again by the nodes in the network. And that's how we actually service verification Drand. I'll probably skip this in the interest of time, but essentially it's a chain right now and we are also working on an unchained implementation to actually implement things like time lock encryption which will actually help us help a lot in preventing front running attacks and stuff like that. So that's some exciting stuff coming on Dran very shortly.
01:58:58.220 - 01:59:58.524, Speaker F: Dran beacon as a foundational internet protocol decentralized, bias resistant, unpredictable and publicly verifiable. And as of March 2022, we have 15 independent organizations who are currently part of the Dran network and we have completed more than 1.7 million rounds of randomness with zero downtime in the last one and a half years thanks to having a decentralized network. So this network of operators is known as the League of Entropy and we are very proud of the fact that we have a pretty broad selection of participants from the web, two world from the web, three world from universities, from for profit organizations, we have the Ethereum Foundation, Cloudflare EPFL Protocol Labs, University of Chile, UCL. So a pretty vast and diverse selection of participants. So you can actually check it out more on our website. So I probably skipped a few slides here.
01:59:58.524 - 02:00:54.336, Speaker F: Yeah. So essentially, Dran is basically a three tier architecture in which we have at the core, we have the Dran nodes, essentially, which actually share the random values to a more public network, which is the Dran relays. Both HTP. Relays and gossip sub relays which then actually broadcast or distribute the random values to the outside world while ensuring that the Dran nodes are part of a secure private network which cannot be accessed from the outside. And the Dran clients, especially the ones who are actually running Lip P, two P or Gossip sub, they themselves can act as a distribution point for randomness as well. So it's a pretty significant fan out model, so to speak. And of course, I don't really have to talk, I already spoke about the production ready network, what we have, so DDoS resistance, high availability, continuous monitoring is in Prometheus and stuff like that, that's all built in, of course.
02:00:54.336 - 02:01:57.488, Speaker F: And most importantly, we actually have a governance model in which we actually wanted to have a set of participants as large and diverse as possible. And they all have different interests, different incentives, but this is actually a pro bono service which we believe we are going to evolve this into more of, I would say a community driven public utility and good, so to speak. And we would definitely appreciate a lot of interest from people who want to build this and support this as a protocol and ans protocol for the internet. That'd be awesome. Yeah, sorry, just one last thing was about some of the examples of Dran consumers that we have. So Filecoin obviously being one of the largest users and the first users of Dran which actually use an off chain secure source of randomness that cannot be influenced by the minor community, so to speak, of any particular blockchain. So they actually picked Dran as the most secure option for randomness and use it for multiple use cases, including leader election for consensus and so on and so forth.
02:01:57.488 - 02:02:52.516, Speaker F: But the most important aspect was the public Verifiability, the unpredictability and the bias resistant properties of Drand. And of course the Drand randomness can actually be used as a seed which can actually be verified in VRF based or verifiable random functions based leader election. We also have other use cases such as decentralized lottery systems such as Lotera who are also creating the Tirand smart contract which can actually enable consumption of Drand across multiple smart contract systems. So Drand having both a beacon as well as a verifiable functionality built into it can be consumed directly by smart contracts as well. Yeah, I think I might be at time. So I'm going to essentially see if there are any questions or anything in particular you'd like to answer.
02:02:52.618 - 02:03:10.428, Speaker A: I was going to say we have a good ten minutes so I think if you want to cover something more we can do that and I can point any questions in the meantime. And for people who are listening, if you have any questions for Sid or about just how readiness works, please feel free to put them in the chat and I'll relay them here. Sure.
02:03:10.514 - 02:04:32.776, Speaker F: Yeah, I think one of the key things I would say is that sorry, actually I went through I want to make sure that we cover off as many things as possible. But some of the most important things is this is that Drant is a threshold cryptography network which means that randomness is one of the outputs that we are looking at that we produce today. But this network can actually be leveraged for many other purposes, especially in smart contract applications. So the roadmap for Dran is pretty exciting and the properties of having a Threshold network does make it, I would say, highly relevant and I would say a bit more unique out there to serve as a solid protocol, randomness protocol for the internet in general. And that's why we are looking at the League of Entropy as an example, as a collaborative project and having productionized that we are running that for more than half, one and a half years with zero downtime, literally. So it kind of proves out the fact that decentralized networks can actually work and decentralized networks, if they have the right composition, if they have the right participants, it can actually add significant amount of value for the internet in general. And threshold networks are something that we would like to leverage a lot more in many, many use cases, especially around in the smart contract space as well.
02:04:32.776 - 02:05:20.180, Speaker F: So filecoin obviously being one of the key users, and there are several other users as well. But they believe that this also helps with the scaling story. Which means that you don't need to have your own on chain source of randomness, which kind of prevents you from actually scaling your blockchain based system beyond what you believe was possible. So having a more secure network based, threshold network based source of randomness is key and we actually have essentially opened applications from many more interested parties out there who would like to join and help us grow and build the network further.
02:05:24.380 - 02:05:47.120, Speaker A: So I'll start kind of jumping in with a couple of questions too. One thing that I have a slightly missing context from the chat is you talked about a verification or a check earlier in the slide and I don't know where that reference was specifically, but the question was like what is the check for? So I know this is vague but if you know what I'm referring to then I think that's probably one question that's from the audience.
02:05:47.540 - 02:06:37.528, Speaker F: Yeah. So essentially the signatures themselves are based on the BLS signature model. So the value is basically a hash of the signature. So I think I mentioned this over here. So the signatures form a chain, so the final signature is a regular BLS signature that can be verified by the rest of the nodes in the network. So each node, when it collects the six signatures from each of the different nodes, the final signature is basically a regular BLS hash. Essentially, along with the random value, you also receive a hash which you can actually use to check back for any particular randomness round that you receive.
02:06:37.528 - 02:07:11.850, Speaker F: You can actually generate a hash of that particular BLS signature and see if it actually matches what you were originally provided. So that's the sort of a verification that's kind of built into the protocol itself and that's available as part of every epoch, every value that you get as part of every epoch. And I can definitely point to the I think that the documentation has much more details about the specifics in there, but it's kind of baked into the way the hashes are generated and provided as part of every round of runningness that we share out there.
02:07:12.860 - 02:08:01.016, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, hopefully Eco, that answered your question there. The two questions that we have here are, one, just kind of maybe we do have a bit of time. So I know you kind of sort of skipped a little bit of stuff around how D rent itself works, so maybe we can just sort of get an understanding of how the render is actually verified and generated. That's one. And then the second question, which is related to this is sort of what does it mean to improve this over time? How do you measure that this is improved? Is this like a done deal? This is fully figured out and we don't need to do anything here. How do you improve this thing over time and what can be actually improved, added, or just leveraged more as this becomes better and more used? Right, okay.
02:08:01.118 - 02:09:08.236, Speaker F: Yeah, I think this is actually quite simple, to be very honest. Where, as part of the key generation ceremony hang on, I think yeah, as part of the key generation ceremony, each of the participants actually have to agree on certain threshold values. Which means that out of the total number of N nodes in the network, let's say we have 23 nodes participating in the network. Like I mentioned, we have 15 independent organizations, we are running 23 nodes, so we need to have at least an N by two. More than half of the nodes in the network should be actually be participating and available to share the partial signatures. But in order to form this particular initial group, that's the DKG process, the dynamic key generation process, where a leader in the network will actually start the process and then each of the nodes will actually agree by exchanging the messages between themselves. And of course based on the allow list, we have an allow list of based on IP addresses of which nodes are going to participate potentially.
02:09:08.236 - 02:10:38.110, Speaker F: And once those nodes come up and execute the certain commands of the Dran network, they actually then decide, determine through a pre configured values which you supply when you start the demons Dran demon saying that we are going to start with a threshold of let's say twelve. If you have 23 total number of nodes, I need to have at least twelve which are participating and the frequency at which we are going to be sharing these signatures, so to speak. So there's an initial setup process based on the DKG or the distributed key generation process and each node then generates the keys from their own preferred run and source and uses that to sign the messages which are then shared by every other node in the network to agree on membership, so to speak. And once membership is actually established for a particular group, we then move to the generation of the random values themselves. So at every epoch each node is then going to generate or broadcast their partial signature to the rest of the network and each node then waits to collect the partial signatures from each of the other nodes that are participating in the network, which is a threshold T, so to speak. Or let's say in a network of 23 nodes, at least twelve nodes. So each node will have to gather partial signatures from eleven other nodes and then say okay, I have received all of these signatures, I can now use the Dran protocol to generate one final signature, so to speak.
02:10:38.110 - 02:11:31.964, Speaker F: That signature is what we actually send out as the actual, what do you call the random value, so to speak. And because the final signature is a regular BLS signature, it can actually be verified using the hash of the BLS signature can actually be used to verify that, yes, the value that was advertised can be recreated again, essentially. So the final value is basically a hash of the signature, the final signature. And that's what is used for the verification as well. For the verification you can create a hash of that and make sure that the random value that you received matches the hash of the BLS signature. So that's built in verification, so to speak. And the other part, I think the other part of the question was more about where is this going so to speak.
02:11:31.964 - 02:13:02.404, Speaker F: So this is actually we are taking this to a space where we are not going to be relying on chaining. So right now Drand is a chain system where if you want to get a random value for a particular epoch you need to specify the signature for the previous round. And we believe that removing this particular mechanism so unchaining the Dran protocol, so to speak, will actually improve our ability to actually build in things like temporal signatures, which means that I can actually encrypt a message further into the future which can only be decrypted at a particular point in time. T in the future, things like front running attacks and mev and those things can essentially become possible. And the other aspect is that because this is actually a Threshold network, if you don't really have to depend on the previous signature to essentially know, hey, I'm actually getting the right random values or not, because this is actually part of the fundamental nature of the Threshold signatures, is that you don't really want to grind on the previous values. And essentially if there's actually a more than 50% attack, there could potentially be a grinding happening where using brute force, an attacker can actually try out many different previous values to essentially predict the future value. So you're breaking that in the future going forward, you're going to remove that chaining mechanism which unlocks us to obviously have a better security model, so to speak, and also be able to implement front running temporal signatures and things much more advanced capabilities.
02:13:02.404 - 02:13:58.684, Speaker F: But yes, we are actually adding more and more operators to the network. And this is actually a community driven process where the existing members of the League of Entropy actually vote on the applications that we receive because we want to make sure that it's in good faith, good interest, and there is no real financial or some other incentive behind being part of the network. And of course we are also exploring mechanisms such as Dows Decentralized Autonomous Organization model and other mechanisms to have a public funding or a public goods funding model associated with Drand as well. But the intent is to operate this as a protocol for the Internet. Not to say that you need to spend 20 e to get a random value, that's not the point. The point is to make it easily accessible, just like we have DNS and NTP on the internet today.
02:13:58.802 - 02:14:13.392, Speaker A: This is a good example of a utility that actually benefits off of being a public infrastructure. So this is incredible and thanks for sharing kind of what the future looks like. This is actually just being able to reduce that dependency on the last round is going to be huge. Awesome. Yeah.
02:14:13.446 - 02:14:15.152, Speaker F: So I think I'm at time, but.
02:14:15.206 - 02:14:28.096, Speaker A: You are at time. So I said thank you so much for this and hope everybody got their questions answered as well. And if there's any requests for seeing these slides, I'll reach out to you and I share this with the rest of the team on the chat or the audience on the chat.
02:14:28.288 - 02:14:30.916, Speaker F: Awesome, thank you very much, really appreciate it.
02:14:31.098 - 02:14:57.810, Speaker A: Amazing. And with that we are ready for our next panel. So the next panel is going to be about play to earn and just or play for fun. So we're going to talk about just kind of what's happening in this space and what everybody should be looking out for and should be excited about. And for this panel, we're going to have Constantine, BZ, Daryl, Paul, and Penn joining us. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome all of them here and I'll let them introduce themselves and take it from here. Welcome, everybody.
02:14:57.810 - 02:15:13.412, Speaker A: Hi. Thanks a lot, Karthik. Hello everyone. Welcome to Billquest. And today's little panel play to earn. Is it real or should we play for fun? Thank you so much for joining us. It is so good to have you all with us today.
02:15:13.412 - 02:15:46.896, Speaker A: So my name is Pan again, or Pansy. I'm a final coin developer, advocate and your host today. We are honored to have with us our guests paul Gaty of Op Games, darryl Lim from Metapal, constantine Kochak of Protocol labs and BZ of Basic Beast. So welcome everyone. Daryl, BC, Constantine, Paul, really stoked to have you all with us here today. Thank you, fan. Glad to be here as well.
02:15:46.896 - 02:16:19.752, Speaker A: Looking forward to the discussion. Thank you. Great. So a little introduction for our panelists today. Paul is a co founder and CTO of Op Games, so he's been kind of like in the game design scene since the he's been exploring emerging technologies and how to combine them with gameplay. So he's like a veteran here. Op Games is also part of Berkeley Blockchain Accelerator, Open Web Collective, and Outlier Ventures Base Camp.
02:16:19.752 - 02:16:58.630, Speaker A: Pretty awesome. Constantine calls himself a startup operator humply with that, but he's been an artist and technologist with impressive background in civil engineering. For instance, he has won SpaceX Hyperloop competition prior to joining Protocol Labs. He's my colleague and he's currently focusing on various NFT applications, specializing in solutions like NFT Storage and onboarding developers onto the Web Three world. That's pretty impressive. Constantine, we have to talk more about that competition later. Thank you.
02:16:58.630 - 02:17:59.050, Speaker A: And hailing from Europe is BZ, our mysterious founder and developer of the up and coming Play to Earn NFT Project Basic Beast, which, by the way, started out as a fun project between him and his little brother, but has since accumulated thousands of community members. That's really awesome and really impressive. Also, Basic Beast is our filecoin grantee and we're really proud of being the opportunity to actually back them up. BC, it's really impressive what you've done so far. Thank you, Penn, and I'm happy to be here. And last but not least, Daryl is the co founder of Metapal. He is and his team are working on a very cool NFT project that I truly love.
02:17:59.050 - 02:18:53.924, Speaker A: It lets you adopt NFT creatures and have them live right in your browser, which kind of reminded me of the early virtual creatures I used to have on my desktop way back. That's really cute and really innovative. Metapals are also filetcoin grantee and a part of Techstar Accelerator, so congratulations, Darryl and Metapal team. Thank you, Pat. All right, guys, so before we just head it off and get right into the fray here for people who are listening right now, we are doing a file coin swag giveaways to all of you who are listening. So during the panel, I'll be kind of announcing quick challenges along the way. And all you have to do is type the correct answer in the chat.
02:18:53.924 - 02:19:33.592, Speaker A: And if you get it right first, I'll either call out your username or I'll follow up with you later. I will send you some free squack code to you. So listen carefully, you don't want to miss this. And also, if you have any questions, feel free to type them in the chat as well and I'll pick them up as we go. You are free to direct your question to any panelists of your choice, too. If we have some time, probably in the last ten or 15 minutes, we'll address your questions when we can. All right, guys.
02:19:33.592 - 02:20:25.560, Speaker A: So, again, happy to be here. Happy to be hosting you guys. So it seems like if the metaverse is the word of the year 2022, play to earn isn't far behind, especially in the gaming world. Many are looking at P two E games to disrupt not just gaming, but the creator economy as well, where you saw influential game streamers earning massive stream of income from what they do, right. It kind of enables a new kind of wealth per se for the new generation. You don't really have to find work anymore. All you have to do is just kind of like, just stay in your couch all day and just play a game and then you can earn income.
02:20:25.560 - 02:22:28.636, Speaker A: That's a pretty awesome thing. And in fact, a lot of newer generations are actually doing that. Well, on the other hand, the other side of the table seems to think play to earn is like some kind of this giant scheme where average gamers can't really earn anything without investing what they don't have initially, right? I know there's a sentence, this sentence, play for fun in today's topic, but I really want to focus on the core and the economy of play to earn, since I think playing for fun and also earning something is kind of like a no brainer for most of the gamers anyway, so why not, right? So let's talk about the serious things that might be useful to game builders who are listening on right now. So, Paul, can you please do the honor and educate me about what play to earn really is? Why am I hearing this everywhere I go in the gaming world? And if Op games are kind of like doing anything in the space yeah, thank you, Pan. And yeah, I think I can start with, of course, discussing the term play to earn, right? And maybe a bit of the history also of how that happened. I would say it's largely because of course the permissionless nature of the blockchain and the token standards that came about, right? So when ERC 20, the token standard came about and then of course NFDS, game developers saw that now they can create their own currency, create their own virtual items and tie that together to a market economy, right? So that naturally led to games having a way for people to earn from getting these virtual items. So of course we've seen Axio Infinity, which is the current biggest example of play to earn.
02:22:28.636 - 02:23:35.172, Speaker A: People play by getting these NFTs, by initially in this model, purchasing them from the market, right, and then using them to earn a token, for example, SLP, and then using that token and trading them on the open market to get fiat. So now, as you mentioned, in the Philippines, people are playing Axie Infinity and using that to earn. And during the time of Axispeak, I would say just last year, the SLP reached very high valuation. So a lot of people in the Philippines were really using that as their job and a lot of guilds sprung up as well, people organizing to play these. And I guess this was something that we kind of saw would happen just because of the nature of virtual items and I'm happy to talk about virtual items also further on. But one thing to say is at Op Games we are looking at play to earn. But one thing we realize is play to earn is just the earliest iteration, right, because of the technology.
02:23:35.172 - 02:24:30.230, Speaker A: What we want, really, game developers to explore with us is now we have all these tools, we have ERC 20s, we have Ethereum, we have any kind of blockchain and now you can build economies outside of what we currently know. Like a lot of game developers have started building games for inapp purchases and now I would say that a lot of the economic models have focused around ads and that's something I think that we should actively push back on, right? We've now been trapped in these older game design models and now we have all these tools that we can use and yeah, so that's what we're building at Op Games. We want game developers to know about smart contracts, build their own NFTs, build their own tokens, and explore game design. Because this is a very exciting space for us. And I think this is just the start. That sounds all great. And it's great that you mentioned.
02:24:32.120 - 02:24:32.820, Speaker G: And.
02:24:32.970 - 02:26:07.670, Speaker A: You know, the players from the Philippines, because one thing that I really want to mention here is the high barrier to entry for general populations to some of the play to earn games, of course, especially Axie Infinity being on Ethereum, where the market and the gas prices are pretty extreme, to my understanding. Of course, Axio Infinity has been enormously successful but it's also been kind of challenging to onboard your users. As far as I know, they have something along the line of 2 million monthly users. But given the time they have been in the market, they could have done much better, I think. Is it because the new entrants to Axe Universe you must first acquire, I don't know, three or four axes before you can even start playing the game. And on any given day you are looking at a minimum of like $300 to start getting to Axe and play something from where I was born, that's kind of like a month's worth of salary of income, if not higher for a lot of people. So this, I think, kind of makes it hard for new players from other lower wage countries to participate in play to earn in the first place.
02:26:07.670 - 02:27:09.656, Speaker A: So what do you think we can do? Or are there alternatives to help the rest of the world to get on board and try out the play to earn games? Yeah, maybe I can do a bit of introduction there or just talk a little bit about it and pass it over to the other panelists, but I agree, Pan. I think that's one thing that I personally don't like about that model is because of that high barrier to entry. What we've seen with most of these play to earn games is there's now like, I guess, a stratification of users, right? There's the manager, which is the owner, and there's the player or the scholar, which is the person playing the game and earning currency for it. And as I mentioned earlier, I think this is the first iteration. Right. Honestly, I think Axie was designed during the time of CryptoKitties, right, where the model was. You breed NFTs and they create another NFT out of that.
02:27:09.656 - 02:27:56.264, Speaker A: And so I don't think the economy was designed at the start to really be scalable to this extent. So now Axie is trying to skymavis is trying to fix that. Right? And I think they at least have the experience to be able to do so. But I think something that we should really start thinking about is we don't need to rely on these models that we relied on before it was built on the CryptoKitties model. Right. And now that we're building new things, I think you play to earn, developers should look at different models. How do we not rely on that initial barrier to entry? And there might be things to learn from Free to Play, for example.
02:27:56.264 - 02:28:45.736, Speaker A: Maybe there's ways for that initial ownership to be subsidized by someone else in Free to play it's by the Ads. Right? But here we have a lot of other stakeholders that we can rely on and there's a lot of economists looking at pay to earn as well. So we need to learn from them and look at what's worked in other yeah, I do agree that there's this model that makes it hard for people to come in that stifled Axio infinity's growth. I agree also, and if someone can solve that problem and able to scale bigger, right? And then they'll be able to possibly build something more sustainable. So we haven't found that yet. Honestly, I think I haven't seen a good game that does that. So maybe anyone in the panel has seen one.
02:28:45.736 - 02:29:31.232, Speaker A: I'd be curious to know also or have some ideas about it. Yeah, guys, what do you think about this? Feel free to join in. Yeah, maybe I can jump shortly. In also coming more from a gaming experience here than building the NFT solutions for games, I really would love to see more of the content inside the game where I think you're completely right that play to earn was like the initial version of it or that was just an exploration at that time. But what a lot of projects are lacking in my personal feeling is the actual game content that is behind the NFTs and this economic system. So we can always talk about the web. Two examples of for example, World of Warcraft.
02:29:31.232 - 02:30:14.710, Speaker A: Even though you have to pay for it, you have to pay for subscription, it really gives you the enormous amount of content which is not anyhow connected to the economics and people find themselves using a lot of different things without the need to actually pay for each and every step or pay for each and every combination. And that's what I feel should be coming more to the field right now as there is a lot of attraction, there is a lot of effort and developers time we need to see more of or we would love. To see more of the actual gameplay which is coming in together with the NFTs, but not just the economics which drives people to be in there. But then if it drops, then there is no people anymore in the group.
02:30:16.040 - 02:30:17.476, Speaker G: Yeah, I like to kind of add.
02:30:17.498 - 02:31:35.336, Speaker A: In on that, right? Because gaming should be all about a gameplay experience. I think that's the fundamentals of why you're ever playing a game. I mean, I don't call myself a professional gamer, but I probably played enough games in my growing adolescent years in teenager and adulthood from games such as Neopets Hubble, Tell RuneScape to playing common games that we know today such as World Warcraft Diablo. The thing about what makes these games awesome, even games with really good economy such as Eva Online, is that the gameplay experience is really awesome. And to be honest, people don't. I mean, the thing is that gold farming exists for a really long time and that is the very essence of what we call Play to earn. The only difference here is that we were able to unlock the value in terms of where players are able to basically cash out the in game currencies to basically crypto and basically to fiat.
02:31:35.336 - 02:32:39.644, Speaker A: That's the only difference because back during those days if you have played games like Maple, Story, even RuneScape, you probably wrecked even habit hotel. You probably wrecked your brains into the black market as a kid and try to figure out how to cash out these in game currencies itself, right? But the thing is that the games are actually fun and I don't really see that. I think that's something what I like about the space as well, where there's so much room for innovation because there just isn't enough games out there that's coming of new models, right? Everybody's calling self play to earn. But the thing is that if your game, your unique selling proposition lies on the very fact they can make money off it, it's not really a strong proposition at the end of the day because technically anyone and everyone can kind of do that. And so I think as game developers ourselves, in fact, that's something that we prioritize, number one. And that is don't think about the economics first. That's the second priority.
02:32:39.644 - 02:33:30.020, Speaker A: But the number of priority is that from a gamer perspective. But what is the experience they're going to have? Is it going to be fun? Is it going to be engaging? Are they going to have in all sense emotional connections? Because my perspective of the game is tamagotchi and I see that as something revolutionary because it basically captivated the Asian market and of course it was slowly influencing the west through Husbandry which is literally taking care of something basically 24/7. If not, it's going to die, that's game, right? But we managed to capture the essence of it. It's literally a game where you take care of a pet that's going to die. That's it. That's nothing in that. But the thing was that emotional connection kind of gets people inside and I think emotion connection is what bring gamers together.
02:33:30.020 - 02:34:19.948, Speaker A: So I'm one of those gamers where I like to play Halo and I'm one of those person that would try to save as much NPC as I can of my fellow UNSC marines. If not going to restart the campaign all over again, I don't know why, but that's just how I think. Yeah, that's something we focus on, which is the gameplay experience and you can't ever discount that. I totally stand here, Daryl, sorry for interacting. I just wanted to which I also stand like the earnings should not become the main component of it and also the side of earning becoming the main component. Side effect is that there are a lot of unlawful members that try to join the team. You mentioned bots.
02:34:19.948 - 02:35:21.252, Speaker A: There is a lot of mining happening and this ruins the experience for the actual gamer base, which you will have naturally. And I feel that a good example of that is also from the web to the Diablo, which you mentioned. Diablo Three was initially with an opportunity to cash out for the items you looted and then it was really flooded with the market and they had to actually cancel this feature out in order to normalize the environment. So I would love to be in the game for the actual gameplay and not only thinking oh, this is my job now I have to farm this thing for 8 hours and hope that I can sell it afterwards or nothing happened for me at all. And instead of that, I really want to have this ecosystem of players which a could find something they enjoy doing. Maybe that's farming, maybe that's PvP, anything which like a gameplay content, but I can actually interact with people and find the ecosystem where people do different things. But they all are surrounded around the gaming component, not the earning component.
02:35:21.252 - 02:36:12.680, Speaker A: That would be the future, I believe, of any game. And as well the industry development. Yeah, and I guess one thing to add there, Ben, really quickly, I think that's what the game designers who are looking at it pretty deeply are starting to understand. People are trying to move away from play to earn, for example, and moving to play and earn, right. Because they realize that building something just solely for earning is really unsustainable. There has to be some form of burn, some form of utility for the token or there should be people who are really just there to have fun, right? So they don't have any expectation of return. The moment that everyone is there for earning, then it's really hard to balance something out in terms of economics.
02:36:12.680 - 02:37:12.068, Speaker A: I totally agree. I totally agree BC you have something to say? Yeah, sure. So I of course agree with the panelists and I would say that well, the reason I guess that we haven't seen really enjoyable play to earn game yet. Not because Axio Infinity isn't enjoyable for some people. Well, it's because we just had a bear market before 2021 for the last three, four years, I believe. So if you think about how much it actually cost to make AA game Gods on Chain cost $5 million, right? It's also like a place to earn game immutable X have done quite well creating a nice experience and seamless experience. And then we have Fortnite that costs like $50 million.
02:37:12.068 - 02:38:01.096, Speaker A: It's very difficult to get a game studio in a beer market to start building AAA game like that. Especially because no proof of concept had really been proven yet up until Axie Infinity started growing so much. And at the same time we only have 50,000 smart contract developers. So if we think about the largest scale of well, there's around 13 million full time developers, something like that. There's also a competency problem. We need to onboard with two developers somehow, either through making sure they don't even need to write smart contracts or they need to start learning. So we have those issues.
02:38:01.096 - 02:38:58.300, Speaker A: And then there's the scaling issues. If we look at Axio Infinity's data because we mentioned that, well, according to Axio Infinity, their players spend five to ten times more time on the game because they earn from it. For some people, it's how they provide food. So you just have a massive amount of more concurrent users which also overloads their database, stuff like that. And they have to prioritize fixing those things instead of maybe like the game experience. Right, and why do they have to prioritize that with the team? Well, that's because people are not able to provide food for their families some places. If they can't get in, we probably just need to be patient with the market.
02:38:58.300 - 02:39:54.510, Speaker A: And I think what we will see is going to be very interesting is that the most interesting place to earn game probably won't come from the big companies like Fortnite Unreal Engine. I believe it's probably going to be like smaller mid sized companies like Game Studios because it's the innovator dilemma for big companies. The smaller companies are much more likely to go all in with NFTs. They will have less monopolistic tendencies and they'll be more likely to share profits with the communities. And yeah, I guess the value of place you earn is like there's this guarantee. You guarantee that your asset is tradable, you guarantee that there's scarcity. And yeah, you won't even have to trust the developers, just the code to make sure of this.
02:39:54.510 - 02:40:52.368, Speaker A: Guys, I'm glad you guys brought up the fun in gaming here. So it seems like we have ourselves a bunch of gamer nerds here. So I was trying to steer away from the fun and I was brought back to the fun again, which is like totally awesome since billions have been playing for fun only since Pong from Atari in the 70s. Right? So I think in my perspective, I think in real life, you can't really be that successful of a gamer if you only think about the financial yield first. I don't think it's possible in any venture, not just in gaming, but in startup as well. You guys are building startups and stuff like that. I'm sure you guys know that.
02:40:52.368 - 02:41:52.852, Speaker A: Of course, profits and the business model and just getting margins, everything like that, those are important things. But what actually kind of leads you into building a business or a startup is the fun of actually doing it right? So that is the only thing that can make you guys successful actually at one time. Okay? You have to make it a profit, a bell business. But most of all, it's just the fun of building something for that matters in playing something and achieving something in a game. Right? So my point here is that I have fun playing games. And when I got really good, I wish I could earn something from that too. Because, oh my gosh, I'm at the age that I have to think about going to college and I'm in high school.
02:41:52.852 - 02:42:59.844, Speaker A: And then my parents are actually forcing me to study and get the right degree and all that sort of things. If there's a career or there's a future that I can earn from actually just playing games or nothing else, like be this child forever. I think that would be pretty awesome, don't you think? I guess one thing to add there, Pan, as you were talking about that, I'm reminded of this talk by Brooks Brown from, I guess he has a company invested in by Delphi Digital. He mentioned as a great example, Dota. Like Dota has a big price pool, right? And when the champions win Dota and they have a lot of money, right, they don't stop playing Dota. The moment that they win the international, like the next day they're all online playing the game again. And he described it that there's this magic circle of gameplay wherein Dota is a pure game, right? They are there playing it and the financialization aspect is in a different circle.
02:42:59.844 - 02:43:59.068, Speaker A: They don't think about that. You're very right. One thing that will make you top of your game, I would say, is really having fun, really enjoying that process, really learning, really competing with others in the top of the so that's that's very true. I'm totally in line with you Paul, here, as I'm personally playing it. And I can say for sure that the financial part, well, there is no financial part in Dota at all, and it doesn't stop you from enjoying it. But I also see the point from Pan where you want to have some more careers in gaming, or gaming becoming the fundamentals of your life, not only from the perspective of getting fun, but also getting the development of your career or development of your financial status. And here I would definitely strive for looking into balance between those.
02:43:59.068 - 02:44:59.904, Speaker A: Like I'm getting fun, I'm getting the rest and I'm getting the work. Those things may be aligned in some games and I can totally see that some pro gamers exactly do it for that on some streamers. On this side, I'm only a little bit in a controversy because there is also an example of sports where in order to earn with sport, you really have to go to the championships, international tournaments, all of that. But if you're like casually doing sports, it's also mainly for fun or for health or both in this case, but you don't really earn from that. And I would assume that for sports to start earning, it's even higher threshold than it is for gaming. But that's my personal feeling about it. And I feel that generally a lot of controversy about earning games is actually coming right now from web two companies like Ubisoft who tries to bring NFTs but do it in such a bad way that basically no one wants it.
02:44:59.904 - 02:45:38.732, Speaker A: And right now they still dominate the market, we cannot deny that. And I totally in line with Steam or Gabe Newell in that perspective that they don't want to deal with NFTs or crypto stuff just because there are so many bad actors. I definitely here for fun. And if someone is taking care of that, being naturally being in the game, and I'm totally with it, but if it's something which adds additional problems, stress, then maybe that's a good discussion. If something like that has to be in game on the first place. But if you can also earn from making fun, that's definitely a no brainer. I would say everyone wants that.
02:45:38.732 - 02:46:51.940, Speaker A: It's just oh, give me that if you find an example. Yeah, I still remember the time when I was younger and I was doing nothing but just immersed in this Game Boy that I just had and so much that my father had to kind of locked it in a locker to just kind of preventing me from just playing this game, like twenty four, seven. And then I still managed to sort of loot it out. Whenever my father, when my dad was not around, I noticed that where he put away the keys and would just stole the key and then just unlock the locker, get the game out and just play. And then when I saw him coming back, which is like, put everything back in place in a minute or something. So, yeah, I felt like if I could just be that boy who just kept playing just like professional athletes, right? They just kept playing on. Right.
02:46:51.940 - 02:47:28.796, Speaker A: They never had to give up what they love because they know that it's a bet still. It's a big bet. But if you're really a good athlete, you could make a decent living in the future. Right. And that kind of norm is something that I wish play to earn can actually change the arena here. I think you're right, Penn, in some ways. Okay, we suffer.
02:47:28.796 - 02:48:12.204, Speaker A: To start with, the truth of the matter is there's 2 billion gamers, 2 billion of us in this world. Does it make sense that all 2 billion people on earth started making money off of games and not do what they've been doing in a day job? No, it's just not realistically possible. Right. Only if you can replace the conventional job. Exactly. If we ever come to that point, it's a utopia where humanity can live in time of peace and prosperity. But it's not going to happen with the current technology moving right now.
02:48:12.204 - 02:49:10.240, Speaker A: Right, but at the same time, I think what you say is kind of true, that if you're really good, I think the keyword is that you're good to the point where you're a professional gamer, then you kind of deserve to be earning that amount to basically make yourself a decent living. Because the truth of the matter is, will everyone who comes on board a game be making big bucks? No, because number one, you have to be really good at it. And two, it's just simple economics. It can't be simply equal distribution of wealth from the game itself because then everybody will be. Earning peanuts. And that kind of defeats the whole purpose of making money off the game itself. And let's be honest here, some of us here, or I would say most of us, we play games, all kinds of games, from Kyu games to MMORPG, simply because we would like to connect with friends or reminisce of childhood.
02:49:10.240 - 02:49:45.624, Speaker A: And that's why, even for me, till now, even though I'm busy as a professional, I still try to slip 30 minutes in in that week to go play games. That reminds me of my childhood, right? But that's just because it's me. It's kind of like what I do for recreation, but you don't have to kind of be gaming 24/7. That's not how life works. But I totally agree, man. For the ones who want to earn a decent living because they're professional gamers. They're good gamers.
02:49:45.624 - 02:50:47.104, Speaker A: I truly believe that blockchain have basically opened up and created more value from that because now they can not just be earning from sponsors, which is really the main revenue stream urban ads, but way more right now to the very game mechanics themselves. So I think there's some, I would say, value to that, but I think we have to recognize the fact that not everyone can kind of be those kind of users or individuals that be making the kind of money. It's just simply not sustainable and just not for everyone. Great point here. So before we continue here, I totally forgot I totally got carried away and forgot all about the challenges. So sorry, guys. We'll take a quick few seconds break here and drop in a challenge here.
02:50:47.104 - 02:51:39.084, Speaker A: If you guys want to participate, just type the correct answer in the chat. All right, so here goes the challenge. NFT Storage is a free API gateway for NFT builders to quickly upload their game assets and metadata onto IPFS and filecoin network without all the fuz. So that's NFT storage. The challenge is what is the mascot of NFT Storage? What is the mascot of NFT Storage? So first, it's a corgi, it's a dog, it's a second 2nd, it's a smiling geometrical shape. It's just a smiley shape. All right? And the last choice here, the last choice here, it is a honeybee.
02:51:39.084 - 02:52:05.128, Speaker A: All right? The first is a dog, a corgi. The second is a smiley. All right, just a smiley shape. And then the last choice, last choice is a honeybee. All right, if you get the answer first, you just type in the chat and then we'll contact you. And then we'll just send away the free swag. It's pretty awesome.
02:52:05.128 - 02:52:55.508, Speaker A: The final coin free swag is like pretty cool. You don't want to miss that at all, trust me. All right, getting right back in the discussion. Wow, time really flies right now. We have just ten minutes right here. So BZ asked an upstart game developer, how are you seeing your NFT project evolving into a full play to earn platform and what has to be done in order to move there from the current stage you're in. I imagine NFT are just the character gateway for Play to Earn game, but the game itself is like a totally different app and it could take years to develop and launch.
02:52:55.508 - 02:53:50.200, Speaker A: What's your take on this? What's your plan, what's your roadmap to bring Basic Beats into this full fledged Play to Earn arena? Especially, I've heard that one of your users had built like a Fight Simulator for your Basic Beast. I mean, that's pretty awesome. Do you want to merge that into your company or is that your plan? Yeah, so that's pretty funny. True that one of the community members made a Battle Simulator and I was super surprised about it. And it's funny in the way that also that the community are pushing certain things to the game. Right. I don't think you will normally see that in traditional communities.
02:53:50.200 - 02:54:04.188, Speaker A: Whereas Web Three people really have a sense of ownership of the NFTs and really want to contribute in some way. They're also really incentivized for it due to the economy tying the community together.
02:54:04.274 - 02:54:04.910, Speaker C: Right.
02:54:05.220 - 02:55:27.720, Speaker A: So as for the roadmap, since I don't plan for Basic Beast to just ask a bunch of investors, hey, do you want to give us $50 million and let's try this out? So the way I prefer it right now is that we'll work on a really great experience on the browser because that's what I'm able to manage right now, building that experience and figuring out exactly okay, the technology aspects. Also Basic piece is on flow blockchain and we use something called SEL to connect with the blockchain and interact with our smart contracts. Well, in order to create a better experience than what we see in traditional games, like with the play, to earn stuff, the best experience would be that they can play and they are able inside of the game to trade their assets that they don't have to use wallets, all those stuff, just like what they used to. Like normal emails, like click on, press a button, that's it. They don't need to know anything about seed phrases. So technology wise, we still have some time there to develop. So right now it's like figuring out the experience.
02:55:27.720 - 02:56:30.110, Speaker A: How can we make something fun, a collectibles game on the browser from a website and then start to spend in many next years to see, well, how could we build a mobile app? And how could we probably work with these gatekeepers, which is Apple and Google, who can at any time shut down your app because they change the rules? Right, so there's like risk from that. But yeah, that's what we've been planning. And regarding the Battle Simulator, yes, it's pretty fun and it's something that from day one that we have been thinking about. That's why we have skills on our NSCs, right. The metadata there and that's what our community member based it off. So it is something that I do plan to see in the future after I build some other stuff in the roadmap. That's awesome.
02:56:30.110 - 02:57:15.308, Speaker A: DJ, I really love your example here of community building stuff within the game. I think that's where exactly a lot of games were lacking right now and that's a huge opportunity also for investing into your community. I mean the Dota game at some point of time arrived from an add on map from the Warcraft Free and lots of lots of things. If they are developed by the community, if people are given the opportunity to build inside the game, that's where the true value created. And if you can also support the developers inside the game, that would be an outstanding opportunity for the game to develop. For the game developers to develop. And this is kind of like self maintaining mechanism, I would say.
02:57:15.308 - 02:57:46.900, Speaker A: Exactly. That's a whole new dimension that we are entering there that anyone is able to interact with. The blockchain, the NFTs. Right. We'll probably see many more modders of gamers and private servers. Where the game studio? Well, the incentives are aligned because people will use the NFTs more then when people get bored of a certain game and go to a private server. Well the game studio don't see a penny of that.
02:57:46.900 - 02:58:45.784, Speaker A: But if anyone is able to just build on top of your game, well, the incentives are aligned and people are probably also much more likely to spend more money on their virtual assets because of that fact. It's the same thing as the very popular chess autobuttlers here right now, everywhere. But I doubt that the initial idea, creator or developer of it is earning anything from that. So that would be lovely to ensure that the community is developing with the play to earn, not earning from developing with the community, not only just by playing. Yeah, definitely. All right guys, time does really fly. Actually I still have tons of questions really to bombard you guys.
02:58:45.784 - 02:59:41.288, Speaker A: It's such a shame I was given just this amount of time to hang out with you guys. Oh man, it's so sad here. Anyways, Paul Beasy, Darryl as, let's say just the participant in this gaming play to a gaming world, especially BZ and Daryl, you are the elements of a hackathon not different from this build. You know, you kind of grew your project from a hackathon. How would you guys go about giving some advice to the builders who are listening on here? Mattie Opulen might be just starting out building their first web. Three games. Yeah.
02:59:41.288 - 03:00:18.708, Speaker A: Is there anything along the way you want to briefly give the advice before they hack away on their game journey? Maybe I can start. I guess I have a short list here, but I think one of the first things is to really do be creative. I don't think we need to rely on the older models that we've seen and play to earn and even Web Two. Right. If you build a game using the old model of CryptoKitties, as I mentioned, it's probably not going to be sustainable. So be creative. Learn from the things that people are doing.
03:00:18.708 - 03:00:43.496, Speaker A: There are some interesting projects out there that aren't purely games, but also on DeFi. Learn from DeFi. Learn how things are built together. Understand finance, and build a game that really leans on the strength of Web Three. I would say we now have the tools that allow us to use economics in our games and to really involve the community, as Constantine and BC said. So let's focus on that. Build these games.
03:00:43.496 - 03:00:56.240, Speaker A: We don't need AA. MMOs. We need these new kinds of games, these new kinds of community based games. Build that with us. Make it open source. Build it on ethereum. Build it on all of these other chains.
03:00:56.240 - 03:01:29.656, Speaker A: Busy. Darryl. Yeah, so I would say build it on Ethereum or Flow blockchain because there are some major differences, and especially if you're a small team, of course you have to decide which blockchain you want to use. We prefer to use fill blockchain because of asset security and scalability and also a current gas problem for the users.
03:01:29.688 - 03:01:30.270, Speaker C: Right.
03:01:31.280 - 03:02:24.812, Speaker A: And because we saw NBA TOPSHOT was able to do it. It's a really great NFT project. So I would recommend people to join people from decentology IPFS like Flow, like their Discord, because what you see in Web Three that you might be surprised if you're from Web Two is that people in Web Three are for some reason, whatever reason, it is much more likely to help you with answering your questions. They are much more engaged. I was so surprised. And we're not going to discord and ask for a problem. No one answers, actually, whereas I don't know why, but you just get a much higher response rate in Web free.
03:02:24.812 - 03:02:59.396, Speaker A: So really join the communities. Many people are happy to help you, and I think it has something to do with the incentives in this space. Yeah. Awesome. So we are at time, we're learning a little bit over, but I want to thank everybody here for kind of doing this amazing chat. There's still a handful of questions that we didn't get to from the audience, so maybe if a few of you can just kind of join the chat on equivalent TV and just answer them over the chat, that'll be awesome. Some of those outstanding questions can be answered there, but Paul, Constantine, Daryl, and BC, thank you so much for being an amazing panelist.
03:02:59.396 - 03:03:15.564, Speaker A: And Pam, thank you so much for moderating this chat. And I'll also let you decide who won the prize for the Swag, so feel free to declare that out on the chat as well. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone. Thanks for having me. Kardik thank you. Fan thank you, everyone.
03:03:15.564 - 03:03:34.710, Speaker A: Thank you guys, everyone. All right. And with that we are ready for our last talk of today's summit. I want to introduce Kwame to the stage and he's going to be talking about how do you build multi chain blockchain games that everybody can play with and build on. So, without further ado, let's welcome Kwame. Hi.
03:03:37.640 - 03:03:46.010, Speaker G: Hey everyone. My name is Kwame. I'm from ChainSafe and I'll just get my slides here going.
03:03:50.570 - 03:03:51.510, Speaker A: Okay? Yeah.
03:03:51.580 - 03:04:49.466, Speaker G: So my talk is going to be multi chain games for everyone and just a bit about myself. I work at ChainSafe on the gaming SDK. My duties are a mix of development, developer relations, and community. So you'll see me there helping people out with tech questions or whatever you need. I'm lucky enough to have worked my whole pretty much career in game development, did a lot of match three game mechanics on a beach project at Jammedat, Now, EA, Montreal, and worked as an instructor in the video game industry at various colleges in Toronto. So in order to kind of talk about blockchain games and where this is going, I kind of have a little bit of a timeline. Starting off with CryptoKitties and seeing NFTs being brought into the mix as far as our first kind of blockchain game.
03:04:49.466 - 03:05:32.754, Speaker G: And with NFTs, we saw the scalability issues of the L One Ethereum chain. Although this was considered the first blockchain type of game, it really actually didn't have game mechanics to it. You had breeding and all these things. But as far as it being really a game that could be debated 2018 to 2019, we see Axio Infinity coming along and we have an actual game mechanic, this Pde or play to earn.
03:05:32.802 - 03:05:33.910, Speaker A: Game mechanic.
03:05:36.910 - 03:06:37.040, Speaker G: Where you have this kind of like earning mechanism to it. In 2020. This is when the whole play to earn well, I'm kind of being subjective here, but in 2020 is when this whole play to earn kind of concept really broke out and Axi basically led the way. Huge success as far as blockchain games were concerned. And this is when a lot of the bigger studios, or you could say AAA studios, started looking at, well, how could we start incorporating NFTs and Game Phi and earning mechanisms to our games? And then 2021, this is kind of where there's like a bit of a shift where a lot of these bigger studios were like, you know what, I'm not too sure about these NFT things. Maybe it's a bit of hype. Gamers kind of went against it.
03:06:37.040 - 03:08:06.982, Speaker G: Newell from Valve threw out a bunch of FUD about blockchain games and this whole GameFly NFT mechanism. But there was a lot of other bigger companies like Ubisoft that were like, you know what, this could be a big thing, and started to look at different types of different blockchains that would be able to handle the through output of a real blockchain game. And then you have like Epic, who was thinking about getting on board after of course Valve and Dual threw out a bunch of FUD in it. And now in 2022, basically all the indie game developers and folks like you that are doing build quest that are going to be the blockchain games in the future, we want you, we want you to build out these awesome games. We want you to be able to put out your ideas, start companies and take this out to the next level. So here are some of the current blockchain games that are out there or things that probably people have heard about in the industry. You have Talentstar from Gala, you have of course, Axie, Splinterlands, Forest, Knight, Cryptoblades and these are some of the games that have that play to earn game mechanic.
03:08:06.982 - 03:09:19.234, Speaker G: That is kind of like the standard of if you're making a blockchain game, it's basically a play to earn game mechanic that you're implementing. So to get into where the whole history of what a game is well right now we're currently still in the stage of a centralized game that has blockchain type of mechanisms to it. So if we look at a centralized game, we have this basic client server architecture and these games have a single point of failure. So if this game gets shut down or there's a server outage, this whole game is offline. There's just no way of playing the game unless it's spun back up. All the player data maps, they're all stored on the server. And all the traditional massive multiplayer online games and all the traditional games that we're used to are still based around this client server architecture, which we could really deem as the web.
03:09:19.234 - 03:10:29.746, Speaker G: Two infrastructure for either websites and games and any web applications that are currently online hold onto this structure. And then we have our Decentralized, which is our web3 games and then we have a lot of the game data that is stored either purely on chain or with something like IPFS for our NFT and images and 3D models which are usually stored on IPFS. And then all of our game data is on chain which is like the whole disconnect from that client server architecture where everything is stored on databases, player data and stats and all this. And now moving this to the decentralized web3 infrastructure where all this game data is currently stored. And at this point a pure blockchain game is usually like a turn by turn, kind of like a card game. I have a hand or I make a move, that hand is basically salted. That salt is sent on chain.
03:10:29.746 - 03:12:23.818, Speaker G: PL2 does an operation, then that salt from the first player is used to reveal the hand and then a winner is kind of like defined. And this is kind of like the realm currently right now of a pure blockchain game which is all the gameplay is purely done on chain and it's kind of like in this kind of turn by turn world and then you have the hybrid and this is kind of like games like Axie Townstar. A lot of the games that have a lot of the hybrid versions where they're a mix of both centralized parts and the decentralized parts and marrying those two. And this is like the honeypot or the sweet spot of the blockchain gaining ecosystem as it currently is, is finding that perfect marriage between the decentralized parts, which work really well for gaming, and the decentralized client server architecture parts that are still needed. Because a lot of the games that you're going to be building, if they're going to have a lot of engaging game mechanics to it are still going to have are going to be better off in most cases on a client server infrastructure. And trying to balance those two is kind of where we're trying to find ourselves right now. So blockchain game mechanics, like right now currently a lot of minigames drive the player to do a bunch of different things and you're going to basically earn tokens or your NFTs and some kind of economy based around that.
03:12:23.818 - 03:13:53.058, Speaker G: So right now, do a lot of the blockchain games hold traditional game mechanics or is there actually a blockchain game mechanic right now? So is there a clear definition of a blockchain game? And I'm just speaking for myself right now, I don't think that there is. A blockchain game currently is just so new. All of us that are coming from a traditional game development background from Web Two, and then all of us learning this new Web Three infrastructure and taking all the years that we have experience in developing Web Two client server based games and trying to marry it with the infrastructure of Web Three is hard, and it's all new. So we're all kind of like learning as we go. And most pure on chain, chain games as I said before, are just these really turn by turn. Like I do something, set some salt, it goes on chain and then another person does a move and then at the end you use that salt to reveal that hand or that card play or whatever mechanism that you had as a game mechanic that you had implemented. And then there's either a winner there's a winner or a loser.
03:13:53.058 - 03:14:35.026, Speaker G: Or there's a tie. Or they're like a doge dash type of game or some kind of flappy bird kind of endless game type of mechanic where you're incentivized to play. Because for each thing that you traverse, you gain a token. And at the end of it, you get sent a bunch of player tokens from the actual game itself into your wallet. And that's your incentivization model. So a lot of the games that we have right now or the play to earn is not really a game mechanic. It's just like an earning mechanism that are employed in games.
03:14:35.026 - 03:16:01.282, Speaker G: So I guess one of the things that I would really like to kind of stress on when we're as game developers making blockchain games is that we should be really making games first and then looking for areas of our games where the blockchain really shines through. So yeah, again, we're still at the early stage of this. We're moving traditional games to the blockchain and again, the industry is just really new and as I mentioned before, that concepts like play to earn are mostly us, like issuing out NFTs. You start a game, you buy a ticket to play the game, a certain amount of token or whatever gets set into escrow and a bunch of people play and then the winner gets a share of pot or whatever. So there's kind of like a lot of that same type of thing with wrapped into a traditional game. So blockchain game development and this is just from my point of view and as I said before, I'm still learning this stuff. There's a lot of different ways of looking at these.
03:16:01.282 - 03:18:04.340, Speaker G: But if you're going to be building a blockchain game and you're going through build quests and you're kind of making assumptions of what you're going to do is you're going to want to find a chain or pick a chain that has low transaction fees, right? Because, first of all, if you want to have engaging gameplay, well, waiting for 15 rights to the chain or confirmations before something happens, or if a player in your game is going to buy an asset for, say, like, $10, and it's going to cost them three times that amount in gas fees, well, that's not really a great experience. So a bit of research on different chains out there that support high transactions per second will allow you to integrate a lot of these traditional types of game mechanics and gameplay other than just the turn by turn and actually have it be more fluid. Because the biggest problem from my perspective in blockchain games is that if you're using Ethereum as your game of choice, where CryptoKitties are, if the transactions per second and through output and the scaling was there, would CryptoKitties have been developed in the way it was? And it probably wouldn't have been, right. You want to take a look at what your community is using and look at the community that you're going to be building this game for, right? And that will give you ideas and doing some research in this whole area of blockchain agnosticism and allow that to be kind of like your driving force of what?
