00:00:05.120 - 00:01:01.112, Speaker A: So our topic for today is counter intuitive facts of digitalization. It's not only about this, but it's just a general thought that will be like elaborate during this speech. So I'm the first speaker, as you know, and that's why I will try to, you know, just warm up you a little bit. And we will start from like pretty, I believe, straightforward question. What do you think is the most important things for RPC from the depth developer perspective who think that it's actually decentralization? Most important part for RPC. Come on guys, we are on digitalized RPC summit. No? Okay, whosing this latency a little bit better.
00:01:01.112 - 00:01:47.094, Speaker A: Okay, what do you want? I don't know. Okay. And reliability, nice. Almost nobody, just joking. So obviously it's not decentralization and it is a kind of first of controversial facts, like contraindicity facts. Because when we spoke with hundreds of potential clients and started with, you know, guys, we decentralized RPC providers. Like what? Okay, could we just go to real deal? What about reliability? What about everything else? And actually nobody care from the client's perspective, especially right now, about just decentralization.
00:01:47.094 - 00:02:34.116, Speaker A: If you have decentralized RPC, you will not get clients just because of that. And it is a pretty important point that everybody needs to know. So maybe latency, it was summarized hands also kind of, but still, because almost everybody provide quite well latency. If you speak about infuria, for example, they work only in the United States. So basically from Singapore, from any other countries except of United States, you will get basically quite bad latency. But nobody cares if you are one of the leaders at the market. So obviously for some clients, for some Dapps, it is important.
00:02:34.116 - 00:03:28.084, Speaker A: And from my perspective and my team perspective, it is really important stuff for the next generation of DApps. But still currently it's just one of the good enough facts and that's all. But reliability, it's one of the most important part. And we need to understand that our main goal here when we speak about decentralized RPC, it's not just make it as big as possible. We need to create thousands of RPC providers connected to each other because it will be, you know, like brightest future world. It's more about getting some benefits for end users by decentralization. And it is a part of what we will discuss today, what else really important to actually dapp developers and any kind of RPC users.
00:03:28.084 - 00:04:09.102, Speaker A: Actually, first one is cost efficiency. So basically price of RPC. And it's a kind of pain point because, you know, we are trying to create the best possible product at the market. But when somebody comes to you and just ask you, okay, what is the price? You know, you can get price from the site and okay, what about discounts? It's already discounted. No, like maybe somebody can provide me this like several times cheaper. Okay, maybe it will be several times like worse, I don't know, it will be really bad latency, like pretty bad redundancy and so on. But yeah, like one of the first questions, cost efficiency.
00:04:09.102 - 00:05:14.586, Speaker A: Like what is the cost? Could you make it even cheaper? Cheaper than a. I don't know. Another one is scalability. So basically if it's not just like a, I don't know, startup created yesterday, it's really important to have an ability to scale resources on RPC level just like automatically without any kind of additional negotiations, calls with BD team and so on. So basically you just connected based on demand on your site from end users. Your infra should go with you without any kind of tricky packages when somebody trying to get ten times more money from you just because in the initial package it was like $50, but after several extra requests you pay like 300 501k just occasionally. And yeah, like last one, it's convenience and we'll come back to this a little bit later, but let's focus on three main things.
00:05:14.586 - 00:05:59.044, Speaker A: So, reliability, cost efficiency and scalability. As you can see here, it's just alchemy and AWS basically. I believe everybody here know that alchemy work only based on AWS and nobody care. But yeah, it's kind of reliable, it's kind of scalable, but it's bad from like pricing model. Yep, it's cost efficiency, it's quite bad here, but still it is quite enough. Speaking about reliability and scalability, but only for the current level of web3 ecosystems. Because currently, as you know, even biggest applications have small amount of clients.
00:05:59.044 - 00:06:55.354, Speaker A: Sometimes it's just lower and lower day by day. And all of us just waiting for the new next billion of users. And with this kind of setup, I don't think so that next billion of users will see something on their mobile phones or like laptops just because it just goes down and nobody care. When we spoke with several huge potential clients, they worked only with alchemy. And like, okay guys, we can't just switch to you because we already worked with alchemy. Okay, and what? So it's just, you know, like everybody who worked for huge enterprise in Web two world, they understand that you can't just rely on one provider, you need to rely on several providers, at least two better three providers. But yeah, we can add GCP, we can add infuria.
00:06:55.354 - 00:07:31.894, Speaker A: So your reliability and scalability will be better, but cost efficiency will be worse and worse. Like one by one. And we can say also United States is not reliable enough for us, we are in crypto. Like let's add Tencent cloud or bar metals or somebody else. And quick note, perfect reliability, perfect scalability. But you will lose all your money from your business just on RPC and infra. So could we help with it by decentralization? Obviously, like why we are here, so for that.
00:07:31.894 - 00:09:20.284, Speaker A: But we need to focus on quality and cost efficiency, not about quantity, because as I said, we seen a lot of examples of projects who started with just creating decentralization for the scratch and creating hundreds of nodes, hundreds of node operators, thousands of node operators, and on the sides you can find we have 25,000 of nodes, we have 100k providers and so on. Why you need it, you don't need such amount of capacity and especially you can't work with all of these providers from the quality perspective. And that's why when we started to speak with really good companies, really good startups who already tried decentralized RPC, they told us, you know, we kind of suspicious about decentralized solutions and especially about decentralized infrastructure just because we already had really bad experience. We started with one guys, with another guys, and it was pretty bad. And it's kind of predictable just because they focused on onboarding new providers, not on onboarding several levels of quality checks and providing additional services to cover all possible cardinal cases and so on. Actually who did this? Alchemy did this in Fuhrer for some kind of quick node, all of them centralized, but they have a lot of coverage for corner cases. And speaking about quality, it is a kind of high level of quality, comparable to old decentralized solutions here.
00:09:20.284 - 00:09:58.218, Speaker A: So. But yeah, how we can move forward with decentralization for RPC solutions, we need to move step by step. So as we started with initial quality checks for flat, like fair price from our perspective. And our clients also happier. I hope so. And we believe that pay as you go model is one of the best models. Speaking about the clients, because you can't try to implement some kind of outdated web, two models from SaaS business.
00:09:58.218 - 00:11:23.374, Speaker A: When you speak about retention from packages, from extra payments, from extra services and so on and so forth, and there's a lot of hidden fees, I believe it is not a good way to get, to get it like traction. And that's why we started with just time proving web3 info providers only for the beginning. It's good enough just because we can control quality of the nodes. And together with these guys who we worked with inside of graph protocol, Connex Network, Forta other networks, we can actually move forward much faster, we can rely on them and we can create the best possible product. Speaking about quality, after that, when we have initial part, we can move forward with better cost efficiency so we can utilize resources better way we can onboard clients who already have resources. Because currently I believe, you know, like some companies who just pay you for spin up new nodes and you just get money not from requests but from new nodes. In that case, it totally does not make sense just because we already have a lot of capacity in network, like tons of capacity, but utilization of this capacity, it's pretty low.
00:11:23.374 - 00:12:24.624, Speaker A: So much better not to pay more and more to GCP, to digitalocean and any other cloud based platforms, much better just connect existing nodes and sell MC resources to the network. It just allows you to make it just more cost efficient. So it's kind of obvious, but still and obviously when you already have this kind of capacity and some kind of traction, you can't utilize resources till the end of the days. That's why we also need to have several other mechanisms. For example, price auctions and price ceiling. I believe like price bids, price actions, it's quite obvious why we need it. Just because there's different providers with different setups in different regions, so they can use different price and they want to sell their own price, depends on their needs of utilization.
00:12:24.624 - 00:13:38.458, Speaker A: So basically they can use our flat price, but they can also set it on the lower level to get more requests, for example. But also it is a kind of concerning to big clients, because big clients want to have some kind of predictable prices. So they don't want to work only with price auctions. They want to have some kind of highest level of pricing that they can get from the network. That's why price ceiling, it's just like necessary stuff and you can't go without it. And only when all of this prepared and your clients get really good service, you can go to really permissionless join open market for everyone, but only when you have guarantees of quality, when you have several levels of quality checks. So what we forgot convenience because a lot of guys right now struggling to find, okay, where's new roll ups I can find and where is for example websocket support and so on and so forth.
00:13:38.458 - 00:14:53.162, Speaker A: And it's a really huge problem for many devs, especially if you create something like chain agnostic or like cross chain services, you just need to work with different RPC providers. And the worst part here, you need to pay for packages to all of them just to get some percentage of workload for each network. So your product, your decentralized RPC obviously should have good ux all chains in one place, math protection, mev protection, account abstractions, specific data API. Yeah, and obviously intelligent price optimization, like near real time or something like that. Because in the end, all of these big clients will just push all RPC providers to the lowest price. And that's why just like stickiness of this clients, not so good because they can just go to another provider and get better price and after that to another one, another one, another one. So it's just like additional frictions.
00:14:53.162 - 00:15:53.358, Speaker A: Much better if you have some kind of automated mechanism that will provide best possible price. And yeah, it's just like evolutionary when you started with just three nodes, paid nodes, some kind of advanced settings when you can just choose some particular providers from the pool. But we go to quite obvious stuff, it's when you use paid nodes, especially if you're not pretty deep techy, you need to just get what you want. You need high speed, like best latency. It's what we have already, optimal solution with some kind of balance between price and speed. And for a lot of devs, actually, they don't need really huge speed, they kind of find with lowest possible price. It's just we are fine if it will be five times cheaper, why not? We need to get this chance to them.
00:15:53.358 - 00:16:46.434, Speaker A: So that's why right now we believe it's a good point of time to move forward with it. And obviously if you create decentralized RPC solution, you need to provide as much transparency as you can. In that case, it's just examples of our interface for providers on the left side, when I believe some of you guys already worked with graph protocol and graph scan, it's a kind of similar instrument. You can find which region, which kind of node with what kind of competition ratio you have in the network. So it's about opportunities for you and it should be 100% transparent. And another example, it's about who actually serves the requests. One of our clients provides this screenshot from the personal account yesterday.
00:16:46.434 - 00:17:46.934, Speaker A: And as you can see here, I'm not sure that you can see there is all of these requests was served by 18 providers. So basically there is a pretty huge differentiation between all of these providers. And it is really like speaking about decentralization yeah, we don't have decentralized gateway, but obviously decentralized pool of providers. It's more than just something. So my main idea here, decentralization, like decentralized services, should be better by default to get a client. It's not enough to be just decentralized because decentralization itself, it's not some valuable thing if you will not give any benefits from that to end users. So focus on what actually users want to get, not what you want to get, give them.
00:17:46.934 - 00:18:33.282, Speaker A: And yeah, we need to build an open collaborative community altogether. We need to focus on collaboration, not competition. That's why we work together with all kinds of aggregators, RPC providers, to make it much better day by day. So we created initially GRPC with P two, P.org and it was more than ten, like from ten to 15 other web, three info providers. And currently we have around 20 data providers around the globe and hundreds of startups, as well as well known names and more coming. Why is just 20 providers, as I said, all of this, it's about money generation.
00:18:33.282 - 00:19:14.844, Speaker A: It's not about printing tokens or money from the air. That's why we need to be sure that providers connected to us get enough money to cover their expenses on servers, workforce and so on. That's why we are trying to keep it at this amount till the moment. We will create enough demand from the client side and enough quality checks, as I said before, several levels of quality checks to be sure that our final end users will get highest possible, like the best possible service. That's all from my side. Let's make your depth a little bit more depth. Thank you guys.
