00:00:01.520 - 00:00:55.634, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and thanks for joining me for my little talk about economy, like the economics of ethereum scaling solutions. So what do I want to do? I want to give you kind of a quick overview of, let's say the L2, layer three space out there, and then really talk about a couple of metrics where we can really measure how actually, how are these L2s doing and why are they there, and why should we actually look at data to kind of make better decisions as well. So a bit of a background. I'm Dubais, I'm a product designer. And so I worked a long time as a product designer and at grow the pie. I do design business, dev and communications, but a lot of my work really is around design. And also we heard it in the previous talk with Jessica.
00:00:55.634 - 00:02:30.636, Speaker A: It's about finding empathy and really understanding users and how can we abstract away from tech and make stuff understandable in a very human way. And I think that's what Growthepi is also trying to do. Grow the PI is a data platform that is analyzing different theorem scaling solutions and literally kind of providing fundamental metrics, like activity metrics, economic metrics, also around value locked, but also convenience metrics like transaction costs. And a big part of our work is labeling smart contracts. By labeling smart contracts, we can assign different categories to the block space usage so we can really understand, okay, what are people doing on these different L2s that are launching out there? And when we look at a great project that's called l two beats, that does a lot of risk analysis and really kind of analyzes these L2s, layer three s once they launch. From a very security and technical perspective, we actually see there's around 158 plus active L2, layer three projects out there right now, which means, as you see, there's L2 projects that are already being listed and kind of risk assessed. But there's upcoming projects and we already have archive projects.
00:02:30.636 - 00:03:30.170, Speaker A: So that means projects like the public goods network, for example, is already in a way archived because it's shutting down. Because Gitcoin kind of said it's actually not sustainable to run this network anymore. Right? And so we are basically, our process always looks like l two beat does risk assessment and has also really kind of good metrics around total value logged, which we get from l two beat, for example, but also around activity. And we kind of take it on from there. So we're trying to build a complimentary product to that saying like what's the actual usage around these different L2s, layer three s, and want to do a quick flashback to Defcon 2022 in Bogota. We also, how do we really onboard the next billion people to the ethereum ecosystem? And we still haven't solved that because we actually don't get many more users in right now. We're all kind of still here and trying to find our way.
00:03:30.170 - 00:05:30.794, Speaker A: But we said back then, we need to scale, we need to be cheap, and we need better ux. So how do we really make sense of all of this when all these L2s are launching and the market gets more and more crowded and there's now layer three s, and we have different users, different builders, and so where should they actually be and where should they navigate? But for that, we also really need to look at other industries, how they actually do it, because it might sound very abstract to kind of say, look, assessing economics and assessing all these latitudes. So how do different other industries do that? And first of all, why are these scaling solutions actually important? And why is it maybe a good thing that we have that many in the future? You know, we're talking like a different panel, talks about like 100,000 different L2s, layer threes running on ethereum. So why is it actually important? And when we look at like three fields in, like outside of crypto, we can look at cloud computing, telecommunications, transportation. When you actually think about it, we as normal people, we also try to assess, like, these different value propositions that we have in each of these industries as well, right? Like in cloud computing, if I want to do some storage or computing, I also kind of try to compare aws with, with Google, right? And then see, okay, who's cheaper? Actually telecommunication, like, really important metric is. Okay, do they actually have signal? Right, where we try to be like, if you want, like orange here in Belgium, or if you want a different provider, we also have different metrics where we, as normal users can also kind of assess, okay, where should we actually be in transportation as well if we want to go from place a to place b? We're also looking at Google maps, right? And we have different options in terms of roads. There might be roads with tolls, there might be free roads, and then we kind of navigate our way through.
00:05:30.794 - 00:06:47.846, Speaker A: And I think that's very important for in this, our space as well. But we need to make it understandable, right? If you only talk always about the tech, like optimistic roll ups, ck roll ups, then state chance, plasma. And one important is actually missing validiums, then we also just need to look beyond that as well because we won't have always just technical people right now we're always talking in a very technical sense around this, but really onboarding the next billion users, which is set in DefcON, also requires us really to look beyond that. I don't know, how familiar are you with all these different, different L2 technologies? Like pretty much okay, don't need to go into detail about that. But what's really important is that we have a couple of different metrics where we could look at how to kind of really assess these scaling solutions. And I picked a couple to really focus on for today. And I'm also going to kind of show you a couple of examples later on to really kind of make sure we all talk about the same thing and talking about really understanding.
00:06:47.846 - 00:08:04.206, Speaker A: Ok, what are these metrics that we can look at? And one of them is transaction throughput. Actually you might want to look at TPS right now, which is also valid transactions per second. So when you go for example on l two beat right now and you see ok, how are these different L2s actually how they are performing in terms of transactions? Second, so how many transactions do they actually push through? But then also it becomes a problem if you have different tech, what we just saw in the previous slide, and then you might not be able to actually compare them pretty well because we don't have standardized metrics. And also one issue might be that you actually have different chains that have by design higher transactions per second because there might be a gaming chain, right? And we all played, if we played World of Warcraft, we know for each interaction, if we didn't have that on chain, of course it's a massive amount of transactions. Right. But then we can also look at fees paid by users or let's say revenue. So how much do actually users pay on these L2s and layer threes on these scaling solutions? We'll get into that in a bit.
00:08:04.206 - 00:09:03.004, Speaker A: And then also of course we have to look on the other side as well, on the cost side. So like settlement and da costs, we're going to have a really interesting example. But basically it always means, okay, we need to look at where is the data availability? We're here at the modular summit, right? And Celestia is one of the sponsors. So you could choose like an alternative data availability provider, right, which might make it a bit cheaper to kind of really interact on a specific layer too. Let's say a validium like immutable x or mantle for example, or Manta Pacific in this case is a good example as well. But also you might want to see, okay, what does Ethereum actually do in this development? And we recently saw with an upgrade, EIP 4844, that there is work being done, but it's also still an experimental space. And we'll see that in a bit.
00:09:03.004 - 00:09:51.742, Speaker A: And of course then we have always these trade offs between security, decentralization, but we of course want to need to scale these solutions. So that's why I want to go into a couple of different examples. I need to kind of paint the picture a bit more clearly. How can we actually do it? So we talked about throughput, and who ever here had looked at throughput metric for scaling solutions? I see the familiar faces, of course. So I'm going to try to explain it a bit. I don't have a legend here, but let's say the blue part is space. So it's a chain that builds on the optimism stack and it's part of the super chain.
00:09:51.742 - 00:11:52.116, Speaker A: And then we have op mainnet itself. And then you see, okay, look, there's actually a very flat line, right? For example, for optimism. So that means optimism is actually right now always, almost always like not here at that dip at capacity, running at capacity. So that already kind of means, okay, what can you do? Like optimism could say, okay, we're upgrading our own chain, right? And then we have a higher throughput, so a higher capacity to actually, you know, have more transactions per second going through the L2. And that's actually what also Bayes, did you see these steps, what they did, but they also have to make sure as well that they actually can still run at this higher throughput, which is an interesting, interesting metric, because here, like this, like light blue line, that's actually linear. And you see linear had its peak, I think they did an experiment with Linear park, for example, and then they had a lot of transactions all of a sudden, which is interesting then, because you see linear can actually operate at a totally different capacity, which then might be interesting to you if you really want to look at which chain actually has the potential to actually have more users and not actually then have higher fees because it's congested again, because we always want to be building all these solutions around in the scaling space, because we want to keep fees low and we want to still be able to transact really fast. And so linear actually has a lot of bandwidth until like ten mega gas per second, 2nd, for example, and now coming to a different metric, and we talked about fees, EIP 4844, who's familiar with EIP 4844, roughly.
00:11:52.116 - 00:13:05.410, Speaker A: So basically Ethereum had an upgrade and introduced so called blobs. So like, short story is that basically now you can also use so called blobs for fees to say, look, we don't store the data forever, what cold data does, but we just store it for, let's say like two weeks and then that data, because it's not that important to actually store it forever. We get rid of it again, allows us that we can actually have cheaper fees on the, on the scaling solutions. So we saw that like it was, I think in March at some point you see that, that red line and before that, that was all the fees pretty high. Like the median fee to transact was like, sometimes I think that is blast or scroll at like 200 cents or $2 per median transaction, right? And then all of a sudden it dropped. And you see like, we're now down here and like slowly all the other L2 s actually got there as well when they did their upgrade to support blobs, actually. And now everyone saying, like, we're talking about economics, right? So they still have to run their own chain, right? They have operating cost.
00:13:05.410 - 00:14:11.484, Speaker A: So if we now actually get the fees down, do we actually still make money? And that's actually quite interesting in basis on chain profit, if you look at that, because base literally on, for example, the 26 March made $2.3 million in on chain profit just on that day. So that means once you have enough users and again, enough throughput, base can actually then kind of accommodate for many more transactions and can, even though the fees are cheap, make like a good profit. But yeah, then there's June 20. And on June 20, there was like an event which was the, like a blob congestion, basically. So it was like, in a nutshell, it was that there was this layer zero airdrop. And basically people could claim that on arbitrum and arbitrum had quite an efficient way to actually deal with these transactions.
00:14:11.484 - 00:15:15.072, Speaker A: So, for example, fees paid by users, like on that day as well, users in total paid 3.44 million in fees to arbitrum just on that day. So they made quite some money. But also the fees spiked on arbitrum, right? So sometimes people actually then paid, for example, $12 for a transaction again. And that's what we wanted to get rid of, right? That's why we have L2, actually not have these expensive fees anymore. But at the same time, we also saw something, saw something else, because the on chain profit, I mean, for arbitrum was very high, but for base, that, like on 26 March made like more than 2 million in on chain profit. All of a sudden at -180,000 right? So on that day they lost $180,000 and now the question is why did that happen? And so right now the situation is like that we have when using blobs, we actually have a separate fee market.
00:15:15.072 - 00:16:49.340, Speaker A: So basically then all of these L2stan by default basically use blobs. But they also overpaid in that moment because they could have used call data, for example, because in that moment there was a delay with the batcher as well for some chains and all of a sudden they couldn't post the data to l one at the price that they actually gave to the users. So that's why the on chain profit and dropped for these individual L2s, for example, linear, not so much because linear had like a different mechanism. They were like sometimes waiting to actually post in the data to r1. So they have then they could keep the fees low on that day for the users and then just wait it until the market cooled down and then was cheap again. And we actually see, and that's a chart by Hill, Dobby and Dune, we actually see that blobs are not being used that much at the moment, right? They're not at like the target of the blob usage is always kind of here right now, but we almost never reach that. So that's why also it gives us an indication, look, actually right now there's not that many or not enough users actually using the L2 s so that we can efficiently make use of blobs or alternative DA for example.
00:16:49.340 - 00:18:32.940, Speaker A: And that again is the example when it actually spiked on that day, June 20. And other L2s like mantle for example, had then still $0.01 because they were not affected by that, because they're not using blobs, they are using celestia as a data availability provider. So basically summary of that is that we can look at all these different metrics and we also need to know some parts of the tech stack right now to really estimate. Ok, look, what does it actually mean when I use the specific L2, when it is a specific layer three? And also of course is the data availability provider that might also make this more efficient. This whole story, right? And that's the whole point where we say, look, we as grow the pie also believe in like a multiple, let's say like a world where users can literally choose their different L2s, layer threes, and there will be like very purpose built L2s, layer threes, whatever stack you use, if you using arbitrary orbit, if you're using kind of the op stack with the super chain, but we need to make it so that people can actually navigate this whole space. So really kind of bringing the user that also is not a data expert kind of closer to this whole ecosystem and kind of presenting sensible data that is, that's easy to understand and also kind of brings them, let's say, light into this darkness of like this forest of all these different scaling solutions.
00:18:32.940 - 00:19:15.450, Speaker A: And we need the standardized metrics to really compare across different stacks. So I think that's very important to see. Look, we cannot sometimes compare apples and pears, right? It's kind of sometimes you really need, like, different data metrics and charts to really make this more understandable. And so, yeah, that's our view on that. And hopefully some of these examples helped you to understand how to use these metrics and then kind of really analyze for yourself where should you be in the future? But when using or when building on different L2s or layer threes, that's it. Thank you very much and please follow us.
