00:00:02.890 - 00:01:10.382, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning into this week's news recap. Sam Binkman Fried's bail may be revoked co signers are revealed at a hearing for the criminal case against Sam Binkman Fried on Thursday, Judge Lewis Kaplan threatened to revoke the FTX co founder's bail if his access to electronic devices was not severely curtailed. The hearing was scheduled after SPF was caught using a virtual private network, or VPN, though he claimed to have used it while under house arrest to view the Super Bowl using an international sports subscription he had purchased while living in the Bahamas. During the hearing Thursday, his lawyer, Mark Cohen, said, referring to SPF's parents'home, there isn't a television in the house. Earlier in the week, Judge Kaplan ordered the disclosure of the names of two mystery cosigners of SPF's $250,000,000 bail bond after Bankman Fried's legal team failed to apply to the appeals court. Stanford University affiliated Larry Kramer and Andreas Pepke were revealed as the Bond signers. Kramer, a former dean of Stanford Law School, told CoinDesk that he signed the bond in a personal capacity after Bankman Fried's parents.
00:01:10.382 - 00:01:45.390, Speaker A: Both Stanford professors supported his family through a cancer battle. Pepke is a senior research scientist in the Computer Science Department. Still, Sam got at least one piece of good news this week as the civil lawsuits by the securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission were placed on hold by U. S. District Judge Kevin Castell. Judge Castell approved the motion to stay the lawsuits at the request of the Department of justice, which is handling the criminal case against him. The DOJ argued that delaying these lawsuits was appropriate due to the substantial overlap between them and the criminal case.
00:01:45.390 - 00:02:21.638, Speaker A: FTX bankruptcy judge rejects Request for an Independent Examiner The FTX bankruptcy case also saw lots of movement this week. Judge John Dorsey rejected a motion to appoint an independent examiner, claiming that it would be too costly with multiple investigations already underway. According to a court hearing on Wednesday, FTX transferred $7.7 billion worth of assets from its Bahamian estate to its US. Entities before filing for bankruptcy in Delaware. It's unclear to which entity the assets belong. In addition, the bankruptcy court served subpoenas to FTX insiders SBF.
00:02:21.638 - 00:03:37.662, Speaker A: His father Joseph Bankman mother Barbara Fried, former Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison, former FTX CTO Gary Wang and former co CEO of FTX Digital Markets, Nishad Singh. They are all required to produce various documents related to the now defunct crypto exchange's activities. The subpoenas demand information on any payments, digital assets, real estate, fiat currency or other assets received from any of the entities in the FTX Group or from any executive or employee of any entity in the FTX Group. On Wednesday, the New York Times reported that the new management of the exchange is in talks with the founders of hedge fund Medullo Capital to recover the $400 million invested by SPF. The founders are negotiating to return the funds, with bankruptcy lawyers representing the exchange, aiming to be released from certain legal liabilities in return for the money. Moreover, according to a report from the Wall Street Journal, a former FTX executives foundation made almost $150,000,000 in profit from the company's digital tokens and is now trying to access a frozen account on the exchange. The SEC sues TerraForm Labs and Doe Kwan Late Thursday, the SEC sued TerraForm Labs and its co founder Doe Kwan for fraud, selling unregistered securities and other charges.
00:03:37.662 - 00:04:48.626, Speaker A: The SEC claimed that TerraForm and Quan misled investors and that Luna and Anchor protocol were, quote, crypto asset securities. The suit alleges quote, TerraForm and Quan also misled investors about one of the most important aspects of TerraForm's offering the stability of UST the algorithmic stablecoin purportedly pegged to the US. Dollar. Earlier Thursday, when Bloomberg reported the SEC's intention to sue, TerraForm issued a statement saying TerraForm Labs has not been contacted about such a proceeding by the SEC and thus cannot comment. Congress is Divided on Crypto The Senate Banking Committee held a hearing titled Crypto Crash, which indicated that post FTX collapse, crypto may be emerging as a partisan issue. Duke Law professor Lee Reiners, a crypto skeptic, stated that crypto is doing more harm than good to our society, while Linda Zhang from the Crypto Council for Innovation and Yasha Yadav from Vanderbilt Law defended crypto's potential for consumer empowerment and financial inclusivity. Republican senators blamed the SEC and its chair Gary Gensler for the cryptocurrency crash.
00:04:48.626 - 00:05:36.440, Speaker A: Meanwhile, the Democrats seemed to think Gensler should be in charge of regulating the crypto industry. Although there is growing interest in crypto, law proposals will likely face hurdles as the new Congress is split between parties. Also this week, U. S. Lawmakers asked the SEC to release its communications with FTX and its founder related to his arrest, raising questions about the timing of the arrest and the SEC's process. Celsius may get acquired by digital asset manager Nova Wolf celsius Network, the bankrupt crypto lender, has proposed plans for a sale to Nova Wolf Digital Management. The new owners would invest between $45 million to $55 million in the firm and introduce additional divisions, including debit cards, factoring trade, finance and private wealth services.
00:05:36.440 - 00:06:56.142, Speaker A: The restructuring plan would see Nova Wolf managing the new entity, with smaller Celsius creditors receiving the majority of their funds back and larger creditors getting tokenized shares in the new firm. Meanwhile, Cel token holders could face a dilemma over their compensation, as the token may be valued at ICO price for the purposes of the recovery. Its current value, however, is $0.54. Celsius's lead attorney Kirkland and Ellis's Ross Cresteniat said they were struggling to determine the fair value of the cell token and how to compensate its holders without rewarding insiders. Additionally, the official Committee of Celsius's unsecured creditors filed court documents in an attempt to recover millions of dollars, which they claim were transferred fraudulently by former CEO Alex Machinsky, his wife, and other former senior executives. On a related note, Keefi's Jason Stone, who is an ongoing legal dispute with Celsius and other involved parties, have been temporarily prohibited from transferring or disposing of property linked to the lender's bankruptcy case. Genesis files a restructuring plan Crypto lender Genesis has also proposed a restructuring plan to sell off Genesis Global Holdco and Genesis Global Trading to help parent company Digital Currency Group settle its debt with creditors.
00:06:56.142 - 00:07:45.486, Speaker A: The plan includes equitizing Genesis's assets, even if the sale process doesn't result in the sale of all the assets. Creditors would receive 100% of the equity in a reorganized Genesis Global Holdco. DCG plans to conduct an initial public offering by February 2025, and creditors would have the option to participate by converting their preferred interest into equity in DCG and getting two independent board seats. Financed moved $400 million from Finance US to CZ managed trading firm. On Thursday, Reuters reported that in late 2020 and early 2021, Finance moved $400 million from the bank account of its US arm. Finance US at Silvergate Bank to trading firm Merit Peak. Merit Peak is reportedly a trading firm managed by Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao or CZ.
00:07:45.486 - 00:08:54.086, Speaker A: Then CEO of Binance US, Catherine Coley wrote emails to a Binance executive asking for explanations for the transfers. A Binance US spokesperson said that Reuters reporting was based on outdated information and then noted that Merit Peak does not trade or provide any services on Binance US. Additionally, Binance is expected to pay monetary penalties to resolve probes from the US Department of justice and the CFTC. According to Hillman, at its start, Binance's executives were developers unfamiliar with the laws around money laundering, bribing and corruption. The exchange is working with regulators to identify the necessary remediations needed to make amends for that Binance refuted, the investigation reports when they first emerged in December. Mount Gox creditors choose Bitcoin Two of Mount Gox's largest creditors, Bitcoinica and Mount Gox investment funds opted for an early lump sum payment, mostly in bitcoin instead of Fiat, which is expected to be paid out in September. This is positive news for Bitcoin because if the creditors had chosen to be paid in fiat, the estate would have been forced to sell a significant portion of tokens, with the potential of tanking the price.
00:08:54.086 - 00:09:34.366, Speaker A: Following the news, the bitcoin price rallied to over $25,000, its highest level since June. Meanwhile, shares of cryptorelated companies experienced significant increases on Thursday, with Silvergate, Coinbase and MicroStrategy seeing double digit gains. Silvergate jumped by 28.5% to $22.40, coinbase increased by approximately 17.5% and MicroStrategy rose by 10%. Flashbots sets forth protocol to distribute gains to users Flashbots proposed a new protocol called Mev Share that will distribute maximal extractable value, or mev gains more equitably on the ethereum blockchain.
00:09:34.366 - 00:10:26.542, Speaker A: The mev profits are made by validators and Blockbuilders as a result of reordering or including certain transaction in blocks. At present, only validators and block builders can earn these profits. The Mev Share protocol would introduce matchmakers to match partially constructed transaction bundles with selective information users have chosen to reveal about their transactions. Once a bundle is matched, it is sent on to block builders, who are required to share some of the mev back to the user's wallet address. Mev share would be an early implementation of the Suave blockchain. Uniswap governance drama finally ends Venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz lost a vote asking whether or not to deploy Uniswap V Three on the BNB chain using the Wormhole Bridge. It had used 15 million of its Uni tokens to vote against the proposal, since it preferred that Uniswap use layer zero as the bridge.
00:10:26.542 - 00:11:23.334, Speaker A: Despite a 16 z's opposition, 66% of votes were in favor of the deployment, with ethereum infrastructure firm Consensus using 7 million unitokens to vote for the proposal. Disclosure Consensus is a former sponsor of Unchained. Tornado Cash developer to remain in jail Alexey Perzev, the developer of Tornado Cash, a privacy tool for crypto transactions, will remain in jail on money laundering charges, according to a Dutch court hearing. The Dutch public prosecutor alleges that Perzev and others ran Tornado like a business, comparing them to bank clerks accepting piles of suspicious cash without question. Perzev's next hearing will take place in late April. His arrest has drawn protests from Edward Snowden and the crypto community. Time for fun Bits the economic devastation wrought by Bond co signers people were fascinated to see who had signed SPF's Bond, and Jenny Hogan, Unchained's social media manager, has a fun take on the news.
00:11:23.334 - 00:11:36.186, Speaker A: Heads up. For those of you listening on the podcast, there's one joke where the punchline is a visual, but I'll just reveal what it is now, and I'm sure you can guess which joke that applies to the visual is a blank sheet of paper.
00:11:36.368 - 00:12:01.918, Speaker B: Firstly, we got the names of the people who backed SBS bail. It was the former dean of the Stanford Law School, a Stanford research scientist, and Giselle oh, no, wait. Sorry. I read that on SBS substac. That's not true. The two Stanford affiliates pledged about $700,000 for SBS Fail, which is officially the most money anybody has ever put up to let some dude live in his mom's basement. The fact that these Stanford professors have so much money only adds to the carnage created by FTX.
00:12:01.918 - 00:12:35.790, Speaker B: How irresponsible of them to imbue undergrads everywhere with the insane notion that getting a PhD is an economically wise choice. The names were revealed after news organizations petitioned for it, so I was inspired. And I myself petitioned to have the names revealed of every woman SBF has ever slept with. Shockingly, they accommodated me. SBF is also in trouble for using a VPN to watch the Super Bowl. I don't know why he even wanted to if he's curious about what it looks like when a small group of men create a lot of chaos and utter devastation that no one can tear their eyes away from, he should just Google himself.
00:12:36.210 - 00:12:56.850, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Mike and the current spate of regulatory actions in Crypto, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by Me laura Shin pulled up from Anthony Yoon mark Murdoch matt Pilchard zach Stewart juan Aranovich sam SHRIM ginny Hogan ben Munster Jeff Benson Pama Jimdar Shashank and DLK transcription thanks for listening.
