00:00:00.120 - 00:01:22.394, Speaker A: That of course, these are my personal views and shall not be misconstrued as Lanshawn just did. But yes, maybe a little bit of background, because you will see very little post hensian references throughout the paper, because my own education wasn't. I only discovered post tangentism after I graduated, essentially, and then working at the central bank, thinking about money. Seeing how central banking works in practice is of course very at odds with neoclassical economics. And then when I came across, well, this makes a lot of sense. So it's sort of like a mix out of both worlds in an attempt to bring some more reasonable policies into the mainstream. So the title of my talk today is advancing the monetary policy toolkit through outright transfers and tiered reserve remuneration, with the first part focusing on something you might be familiar with, of course, which has been in the public debate as helicopter money, which was more relevant prior to the price pressures we've seen now, of course, whereas the second part tries to deal with issues that are very relevant at the current juncture, that is, how to deal with potential losses to central bank equity, including from large scale asset purchases.
00:01:22.394 - 00:02:32.114, Speaker A: And I'll talk about that more in a little bit. So, as I said, the first part is essentially not something I would advocate for at the current juncture, but something that I think is very reasonable in reserve currency issuing economies would be low target inflation, spare capacity and interest rates close to the effective lower bound, whereas the second part, as I just mentioned, I think has a lot of relevance going forward. And there's now actually a renewed discussion. There's been some editorials in the FT, for example, for the bank of England, on how the bank of England should deal with its very large balance sheet and how central bank reserves should be remunerated. All of that, theres going to be a lot of content. So all of that is also in a working paper that was IMF working paper that was published two months ago, and which will be part of the chapter in the book edited by Silvio and Louis Philippe. So what sets this apart, essentially from a lot of the policy proposals that have been out there, it contains a detailed discussion of central bank balance sheet and policy solvency considerations.
00:02:32.114 - 00:03:46.674, Speaker A: It delineates the differences to debt or money finance, fiscal stimulus, and when LP said it's fiscal policy, I actually have quite a bit of content in there to argue why it's not fiscal policy, particularly in the context of a currency union without a central fiscal capacity. And lastly, it also undertakes a feasibility analysis under different legal and institutional considerations, so that it's not just somewhere out there, but tries to elucidate whether it could actually be implemented in practice, in contrast to other policy proposals that have been out there. So this is what I said is the first part of the, the presentation. Then the third part will look at the implications for the central bank balance sheet. Fourth part looks at the differences to debt or money finance, fiscal stimulus. And then I'll conclude with some institutional considerations. Now, in order to keep the first part alight, since it's not the most relevant at the current juncture, it will just briefly go over this, given that we all know, especially among post King jets, that qe isn't really effective in what its proponents try to make it out to be, particularly as yield curve flattens.
00:03:46.674 - 00:05:57.322, Speaker A: And it's a very indirect transmission mechanism on the real economy. Of course, there's actually, in case you haven't seen it, there was an IMF paper earlier this year on monetary financing which actually shows, provides some empirical evidence that the expansion of the monetary base on inflation becomes very weak and even insignificant when inflation is low, central bank independence is high, and fiscal deficits are small, which was precisely the situation in which many advanced economies found themselves in throughout the past decade. Now this again probably doesn't come as a surprise to you that there has been very little nexus between base money and broad money, the unfortunate multiplier that you still see in many macroeconomic textbooks, of course, although as if you look at the most recent years, of course, this is what also somebody, I think mentioned earlier, this very large, the quote on the very large increase in broad money following the COVID shock, which is a little bit visible here in the data. Now this, basically I'm stopping at the summer of last year in order to not have this picture distorted by what I call the pre, post Covid supply shocks. This confluence of factors, the COVID shutdown in China, the war in Ukraine, a number of factors in order to not get into the argument what's driving inflation, on which we heard a lot today and yesterday, of course. Now, another well known chart to you might be that, if you can look at the red line here, is that domestic demand bore relatively little relationship to the Eurosystems total assets, particularly after the COVID shock. So you see this very large expansion in monetary assets on the central bank balance sheet, but not much effect on demand, whereas the effect on other asset prices, financial and real estate, was enormous.
00:05:57.322 - 00:07:05.034, Speaker A: And of course, these are great problems in terms of the distribution and the feeling of winners and losers in the economy. Whereas the fact, again on inflation. And a lot of here you guys here would argue, well, why should there be an effect on inflation? Again, fairly muted. And the euro system, this is focusing on the euro area, has been undershooting its inflation target for many years prior to the current situation, just to show, and we had yesterday briefly touched on this, this illustrates the wealth distribution in the euro area and the European Union. So where you can see that most of the wealth is concentrated among the top 10% with close to 60%, and among those top 10%, around 25% of all assets are concentrated in the hands of the top 1%. And even that might be an underestimate given the difficulties in measuring that. So apart from the economic drawbacks of QE, you also have these drawbacks on inequality.
00:07:05.034 - 00:08:47.324, Speaker A: And yesterday, when we had that little discussion on, I think you were presenting, it was argued that the central bank shouldn't distort the income distribution or wealth distribution. This is a job for fiscal policymakers with which I would fully agree. And that's why I think the asset purchases of the previous decade haven't been particularly in line with that approach, that the central bank should choose monetary policy tools that distort the distribution as little as possible as that should be decided by fiscal policymakers through the tax system and Social Security, of course. So coming now to the economics of outright transfers, in which there has been very little academic literature, so to speak, and I call it outright transfers because, you know, helicopter money has been a laden term meaning different things to different people. Some even call the Biden stimulus checks helicopter money, whereas I'm purely focused on it as a monetary policy tool, where the central bank provides transfers directly to households in an equitable manner, so to speak, everybody gets the same amount in order to achieve its mandate, whatever that is, whether you agree with it or not, as a preferable tool to asset purchases and how it works in a new DSGE framework, of which I'm not a big fan. But since ive given this presentation at different central banks this summer, its always nice to have a reference to it is basically the way it works. Why its effective there is that it raises the net private wealth of households and aggregate demand.
00:08:47.324 - 00:10:24.158, Speaker A: Given that you have sticky prices in such a model, of course, and id be interested to hear from you, what do you think how that would fit in post keynesian framework? But theres also a nice theoretical paper by Willem Beuter from 2014 and an empirical paper by the IMF from 2016 on the experience in Japan, where it's also found to be the most effective tool, albeit with the caveat that it said, well, it might be difficult to implement for institutional reasons. Now, there's a lot of beneficial effects that such direct transfers would have in the currency union, especially without central fiscal capacity. That is due to the fact that in a currency union with countries with very different marginal propensities to consume that are differently hit by shocks. If you look at the euro crisis, for example, Greece was, of course, much harder hit than Germany, including through bad policy mistakes. And what direct transfers could provide is you would have, if it goes to all the citizens within the currency union, equal magnitude. A country that is particularly hit by a negative demand shock will spend more of it, bringing demand back to its previous level, whereas in countries that might be operating at full potential, of course, or close to it, like Germany, you might get some more effects on the price side, which is desirable for the rebalancing process. So if you want to have 2% inflation, or whatever you want for your target inflation rate, some countries will have to be above it when other countries are below it.
00:10:24.158 - 00:11:38.086, Speaker A: So this would promote this intra currency union rebalancing, while also having positive spillovers beyond the currency area. Something that cannot be said about QE, necessarily, where a lot of its effects comes through the exchange rate channel and competitive devaluation, so to speak. Just to touch on this, what we just mentioned, it's actually, since Steve mentioned he's not a big fan of direct transfers, because the central bank shouldn't mingle with distributional outcomes. I fully agree, and I think this is actually the cleanest way to not mingle with distributional outcomes, because everybody would get the same in absolute terms, not necessarily in relative. And I think part of the reason why some of the papers on QE don't find a pronounced impact on exacerbating income and wealth inequalities is because the gini is not a very good measure to reflect that, given that if somebody 1% increase in wealth is obviously a lot more for somebody with 1 billion than for somebody who owns $1,000. So you don't run into these issues with direct transfers. It doesn't violate the monetary financing prohibition or give rise to associated fiscal dominance concerns.
00:11:38.086 - 00:12:47.522, Speaker A: And I think that's something that has often been overplayed in the past. Right now, we get in the situation in the euro area, of course, where the hands of the ECB are very much bound by all the assets it has accumulated over the last ten years. So even if it wanted to raise interest rates, it will find itself in a very difficult spot if it doesnt want to create a lot of turmoil in some of the peripheral countries where rise in interest rates might bring them closer to the bring off of insolvency, given that it's not really a currency that those sovereigns control. So essentially in the euro area, since it doesn't have a central fiscal capacity, you don't have unconditional backing for national sovereigns through the central bank. So it creates these very difficult situations. Whereas instead a cleaner solution, if you look at the Greece example from ten years ago, would have been to restructure unsustainable debt, which would have meant of course some losses for creditors, for private creditors that they didn't want to take. The way that Altria transfers would work differently.
00:12:47.522 - 00:13:40.104, Speaker A: It would not create new public or private debt, except for, of course newly created central bank liabilities that are however very different from the liabilities of a fiscal authority, particularly in the currency union. So the way that the ECB can issue central bank reserves is very different from the way that Italy or Greece could issue those liabilities in a crisis. So that's a key difference and I'll have a lot more to say about that in a little bit. So now, different ways to do this, and this is mostly, again focused on the euro area. I mean one way of course physical checks another and we're of course not there. But there's a lot of work going on, on cbdcs within central banks. I think there's a lot that has been put.
00:13:40.104 - 00:14:14.882, Speaker A: The arguments that have been put in favor of CBDC, I don't find them particularly convincing, to be honest. But one key benefit of CBDC would actually that it would allow a much more direct interaction with private households to influence monetary policy. There's actually. I think there was a nice presentation by Bintzeil in Taloah two years ago on this. There's another interesting option. If one would. If central banks wanted to work through the financial sector, it could.
00:14:14.882 - 00:15:20.836, Speaker A: Similar to what it's currently doing through its teltra system in the euro area. Targeted long term refinancing operations is to issue a perpetual teltra, which banks could then provide to households, potentially with a certain fee to be incentivized to participate in it, which allows such an operation to essentially come into effect immediately without having to construct a new infrastructure surrounding it. With the novelty of this perpetual territory, it would be non remunerated, it cannot be redeemed. So essentially it's a fictional asset, but with the commercial banks as an intermediary. But of course for private households it would mean they would have an additional cash that could be spent, saved or used to pay down debt. Now, on the central bank balance sheet, this is what it would look like, the just mentioned perpetual teltra. Although given that you have to follow prudent accounting rules, this would have to be written down or put in the revaluation account.
00:15:20.836 - 00:16:13.684, Speaker A: In essence, it creates a loss on capital and reserves. Depending on how large that is, the central bank's equity could become negative. And I think that would be a different discussion talking about the issue surrounding central bank negative equity. But in any case, what would be created is on the liability side, these newly created central bank reserves that are actually in circulation. So it's a simultaneous increase in both base and broad money, which is very different from how QE works. Now, on this commercial bank balance sheet, they would essentially credit households with that deposit and at the same time receive reserves on its asset side while interest rates are at zero. This is fairly revenue neutral for commercial banks.
00:16:13.684 - 00:17:16.548, Speaker A: However, one has to think about the case where central banks want to raise interest rates, and this applies to excess reserves as well. Of course, whether the central bank will then have to remunerate these reserves, which could potentially create a cost to commercial banks. And I'll talk about that in a second. Now, in terms of calibration, if one wanted to achieve boost to nominal GDP of 1%, this would require a transfer of around close to €500 in the EU area to each citizen. Based on assumptions, they're fairly conservative, of a domestic multiplier of one and a marginal propensity to consume of 80% over the course of a year, which is based on studies for the fiscal transfer checks in the US and in Singapore in the past. So this would imply an increase in permanent central bank money of €125 billion, which is less than 1.5% of the ECB's current balance sheet of close to 9 trillion.
00:17:16.548 - 00:18:38.414, Speaker A: So just the dimension here is enormous, right? So when people are saying, well, look, QE is a well established tool and central banks know how to implement it and work it, it creates this enormous expansion of the central bank balance sheet that could be avoided if central banks chose to simply give direct transfers to citizens rather than purchasing assets and trying to work these very indirect QE channels. Now, of course, the difference is when the ECB conducts or any other central bank asset purchases, it gets an asset on its asset side of the balance sheet. But at the same time, that exposes it to valuation risk. Or if it wants to engage in quantitative tightening, it will have to sell those assets and potentially incur those losses, whereas this injection of 125 billion could be in principle paid down over the course of five years with Sanior rich income. So its somewhat of an intertemporal transfer of sanior rich revenue on the central bank balance sheet thats currently basically not being undertaken. Now to the point on negative central bank equity. This would also be far below conservative estimates of the non inflationary loss absorption capacity of the central bank for any reasonable calibration.
00:18:38.414 - 00:19:29.838, Speaker A: Well, I'll go over this as just different calibrations. Let me just jump to this chart right here, which I tried to illustrate here. And of course this is very susceptible to different assumptions that one would have to take in order to calculate how much losses a central bank can absorb without endangering the health of its balance sheet. Central banks essentially cannot become insolvent in the financial sense, of course, but they can become insolvent in the policy sense that they cannot set their monetary policy independently anymore, which only happens in extreme scenarios. And we are all familiar with countries in which this has happened. One way to gauge this is essentially to look at what's the net present value of discounted sanior edge of a central bank. That's essentially, you know, the value of a company.
00:19:29.838 - 00:20:51.836, Speaker A: You would use a discounted cash flow method quite similar, although the parameters one chooses to calculate that, for example, the discount rate, the growth rate, are of course highly uncertain and endogenous by themselves. And one could even come up not too hard with a calibration where this would essentially go to infinity. But just to have a tractable, I used an inflation rate of 2% in line with the ECB's target and the real growth rate of Saniorich of 1%. So this is far larger than the suggested magnitude of the outright transfer and also of course far larger than what's usually considered as the central bank's equity, that is, its capital reserves, including the revaluation accounts, which will bring us to around 600 billion. Let me go back to the previous slide. I think I covered what I wanted to say here on central bank solvency risks, but also I'd be very interested in hearing your views on that. Now I think one thing, and I just alluded to it that most people don't realize, is the implicit risk that QE contains for the central bank balance sheet.
00:20:51.836 - 00:22:51.476, Speaker A: One might say, well sure, the central bank cannot go financially insolvent, so why would it matter? It matters for equity reasons, because basically all the reserves that are being remunerated by the central bank is essentially payments, transfers of senior rich to commercial banks and their shareholders, of course. So from a societal perspective, one should really look at, is that a policy we want to pursue in order to achieve our monetary policy objectives, or are there alternatives? And beyond the fact that the policy solvency of the central bank itself could be endangered, I think this is a very important thing that central banks and societies at large will have to discuss going forward, how to deal with, in the case of the euro area, 9 trillion, €9 trillion in central bank reserves and how they should be remunerated. This doesn't matter if interest rates are at 0%, and here I even stop at 3% in this back of the envelope calculation. But if we're talking about raising interest rates to even four or 5%, this carries enormous costs. So on the left side, I'm showing these costs on a recurring level under direct transfers, and I tried to calibrate it to get approximately a similar effect of a boost to nominal GDP of 1%. On this side, you see that the recurring costs of OT are essentially negligible and always below 5 billion in this scenario, whereas on the quantitative easing, they increase similarly, but at a much, much faster rate due to the much larger size of the expansion on the balance sheet. And I think this is, this panel on the left hand side is usually not something that a lot of policymakers have internalized or thought about, whereas this is something that is very intuitive to see.
00:22:51.476 - 00:23:41.434, Speaker A: It's one of the upfront costs. What are the upfront one time costs of QE versus OT? Upfront costs are essentially zero, because when you buy an asset, it has the same value that you buy it for. You buy it on the market, so there's no cost at all. Whereas if you undertake direct transfers, you have a direct cost and a loss to the balance sheet that a lot of policymakers might be reluctant to engage in. However, when your policy rate changes and you have to remunerate those reserves, this cost, and this is sort of the mark to market cost, you will have to revalue your assets following prudent accounting rules. So if the interest rate increases, you have this immediate loss on your balance sheet. But it's a valuation loss until it's realized, of course.
00:23:41.434 - 00:25:06.674, Speaker A: And if you don't realize that, you bind your hands because you can't undertake QT or set the interest rate that you want to if you don't want to incur these losses. Let me move on from this little quantitative example to the issue of central bank equity more generally. And there's actually some nice, also older papers by Ulrich Binza, where he shows, well, negative central bank equity is no issue per se for moderate levels. And there's a few examples that you might be familiar with, the Czech Republic, Chile, Israel and even Germany, who fed negative central bank equity for long periods of their existence, mostly due to effects, valuation effects. However, one tool that's not having been discussed a lot in the recent past is the use of active reuse of reserve requirement policies and remuneration policies in order to deal with the potential risk to central bank equity. And there's again another, an early paper by Binter from 1997, a Bundesbank discussion paper, where he talks about why we should not discard this tool, which is very useful in a way to achieve your monetary policy objectives at fairly low cost to the central bank balance sheet. Sorry about that.
00:25:06.674 - 00:25:58.674, Speaker A: So in emerging markets, it's a much more widespread tool still, especially in China, which is an example I'm quite familiar with. But there's a lot of other emerging markets which still employ it, but more from a capital flow management perspective rather than in order to contain cost of the central bank balance sheets. In advanced economies, it was mostly abandoned in favor of open market operations to steer liquidity conditions. And Mark and I, we discussed yesterday briefly about the different rationale. It was basically abandoned. But if you look in all the literature, there's a lot on it. And in my view, we might have to revisit that again, because we're back into those post war conditions almost, where we have to think about quite heterodox tools to deal with the challenges we face.
00:25:58.674 - 00:27:00.064, Speaker A: So I would argue that given the very large legacy central bank balance sheets and excess reserves that we currently face, we need to find the best policy mix to remove the tail risk to central bank policy solvency while dealing with potential above target inflationary pressures in a manner that's the least macroeconomically disruptive. And many central banks still have the legal mandate to do so. So central banks can set their reserve remuneration and requirement policies independently. So there's no institutional obstacle to doing so. It's more probably an obstacle to a mental obstacle that a lot of people are just not very familiar with it. Now, what I'm proposing here is a tiered reserve remuneration system, which is already in effect for negative interest rates. So the ECB actually started having a tiered reserve remuneration system in order to lower the burden, the financial burden, on banks from facing negative interest rates, which essentially constituted transfers then of sanior edge to commercial banks.
00:27:00.064 - 00:27:54.960, Speaker A: Now, what I'm advocating for here is to say, well, look, we might have to consider this for positive rates as well. That is, if you want to achieve a certain policy rate, for example, two or 3%, you might as well have a certain percentage of your reserves that are not remunerated at this rate. So you could keep them remunerated at 0%. But if you want to align your policy rate with the market rate, you will have to raise your reserve requirements in order to achieve that outcome. Now, what does that mean for the commercial banks? Well, it's essentially a tax on the banking sector. However, a tax that the banking sector is much better to absorb due to the increased net interest rate margin it makes when interest rates are higher. So it's not clear that from a net present value perspective, this is a net cost to the banking sector.
00:27:54.960 - 00:29:08.878, Speaker A: And in any case, it amplifies the contractionary effect you would want to have through the interest rate increase on credit growth. Because what it does is basically, if either the banks say, okay, our profitability will be reduced, we don't pass it on, then that's fine, no harm done. Or they say, well, we're going to pass on some of these costs, for example, through higher lending rates, which then amplifies the contractionary effect. Although if you don't believe that the inflationary pressures come from the demand side, then of course this argument wouldn't hold much, wouldn't hold up to it. But this is something that I think central banks right now are facing this issue. So if central banks are bent on increasing interest rates, they should consider these implications for its balance sheet and how to better deal with it. Now, I think I have two quotes here from the nineties, from the Binsel paper, who argues that non remunerated reserve requirements tax would be efficient from the point of view of optimal taxation, as it could be perceived as a fair price for some of the services that the central bank provides to the private banking sector.
00:29:08.878 - 00:30:21.982, Speaker A: And Bundesbank publication is, I think, a 50 years Bundesbank report, which also looked at the experience with reserve requirements and arguing that banks opportunity costs deriving from the minimum reserves is accompanied by a number of concessions and competitive advantages, such as the low interest funding available through the discount window, and the fact that minimum reserve balances may also be used as working balances. So there's actually, traditionally, it hasn't really been controversial, but it has gone out quite a fashion. I think in Canada you don't even have reserve requirements anymore. So in other economies it was basically, if you have 1% or 2%, it doesn't really make any difference whatsoever. So I'm not arguing for you need reserve requirements for anything else, but to, to actually manage your central bank balance sheet risk in an equitable and efficient manner. So what would that mean on the interest rate corridor? Well, this is how it looked like over the last ten years. And you can see the main policy rate fairly well aligned with the main refinancing rate, except for when the ECB started engaging in QE in early 2015, which drove down the interbank rate to the lower deposit rate.
00:30:21.982 - 00:31:17.316, Speaker A: Again, not surprising. Now, if you want to raise interest rates as a central bank, and you want to keep that corridor, and this is basically stylized interest rate corridor, while at the same time having a large chunk of your central bank balance sheet non remunerated, you can do so by imposing a sufficiently high reserve requirement, not remunerating that. So that would be the sort of, say, the marginal reserve requirement rate of 0%, while you can still achieve that corridor going forward. So you achieve your policy objectives at much lower cost to the central bank balance sheet. How much time do I have left? Oh, five minutes. Okay, I'll be quick then. And maybe I don't have to spend much time on this, but I think one thing that is always, and actually, there's a lot of both heterodox and orthodox economists who would disagree with that.
00:31:17.316 - 00:31:57.136, Speaker A: Maybe. But central bank liabilities are often treated equivalent to government liabilities. However, there's a key difference in practice, because central bank liabilities are state contingent. That is, the question only arises whether you have to remunerate them or not, if actually inflation picks up and you want to raise interest rates. So this alleviates, first of all, this alleviates any recording effects, although I'm not a believer in many recording effects, but that addresses any concerns that somebody might have around that. So it's different from a recording perspective. It's also very different from a practical perspective of rollover risk.
00:31:57.136 - 00:32:49.224, Speaker A: The government needs to refinance its debt on the market. Central bank doesn't have to do it. It can essentially roll over in perpetuity. And lastly, in the currency union without central fiscal capacity, it allows for intra currency area risk. Sharing is currently largely absent. So if one were to find an equivalent to a central bank liability in a currency union like the euro area, it will be closest to a jointly issued perpetual GDP linked bond or a floating rate console, something which we don't really have right now. So it would, through that, really improve the structure of public liabilities on the difference to money finance, fiscal stimulus, well, first of all, and I think this paper was motivated by the fact that we had very inadequate fiscal policy in the euro area, even much more so than in the US.
00:32:49.224 - 00:33:24.862, Speaker A: So one could say, well look, you could achieve an almost equivalent amount or a result by having a fiscal stimulus that is money financed. The whole problem is, well, we don't have a fiscal. We didn't have a fiscal stimulus in the euro area when we most needed it. So it takes that basically away from the fiscal side and gives it into the hands of monetary policy technocrats. But also, and this is, I think, key here in the euro area context, that would be prohibited by most central banks. They're just not allowed to do that. Canada might be an exception, the UK to a certain extent as well.
00:33:24.862 - 00:33:59.854, Speaker A: But in the euro area you can do it. So you don't run into this issue here with such an operation. So let me. Well, this is basically in my paper, an overview on all the differences that you can see with direct transfers, QE, permanent QE, a money finance fiscal stimulus and a debt finance fiscal stimulus, which are really different in a number of aspects. And I just try to present that in a bit more coherent manner. So if you're interested, feel free to take a look and then let me wrap up. And I don't think I have to spend much, much time here.
00:33:59.854 - 00:35:01.032, Speaker A: Well, it's basically on the healthiness on the central bank balance sheet, on which I already said a lot. Let me skip this, and maybe just to emphasize this point, which I did in the beginning, that fully agree that redistribution should be the prerogative of fiscal policy and not the central bank. And this would actually allow the central bank to have the least distortionary monetary policy in terms of distributional outcomes, while achieving its intended effect with much smaller means, so to speak. So from a legitimacy perspective, direct transfers to every citizen appear a lot less problematic. However, they would be a large deviation from the current status flow of central banking over the last 80 years or so, where central banks are basically purely operating through the financial system. And there's a very strong lobby, of course, that is would be against changing that status quo. So on the legality, I think I can also be brief.
00:35:01.032 - 00:35:41.114, Speaker A: Obviously, it's not straightforward, it's not something that is envisaged in central bank laws, it's also not prohibited in central bank laws. So it's an ambiguous thing, would have to be. So I would leave that to the legal experts. Ideally, from a best practice perspective, one should have a clear legal foundation for these things. But then again, there's also a lot of things the ECB did over the last ten years which didn't have a clear legal foundation, as reflected in the many lawsuits and the ECJ rulings on this. So this is very much ECB related. So I think I'll skip over those so we can go to the discussion and.
00:35:41.114 - 00:36:35.764, Speaker A: Yeah, so just to wrap up with some concluding remarks, maybe. I think what's key is that this is, of course, a tool which should be very contingent on data to say, well, look, we have our mandate. It's purely within the mandate. We're not going beyond that in order to reduce the risk of abuse, because, of course, that's not something you can do on a continuous level. It's also not something that should be used to fund a minimum basic income, which, again, is a different discussion. That would be a very different system, but this is something you can do within the current system, and it was actually beneficial from a macroeconomic perspective. It would reduce inequality, concerns of previous central bank policies, and it would reduce the risk to the central bank balance sheet going forward.
00:36:35.764 - 00:36:38.524, Speaker A: So let me stop here and open the floor for questions.
