00:00:13.880 - 00:01:08.254, Speaker A: Hello. Hello. Okay, so today I'm going to continue to explain to you this, the ideas of the resolution of singularity for vector field in dimension three. So last time I told you about this invariant which is this vector of natural numbers. And the idea is that this should be something which decreases after the blowing up. But of course, as I said, I have to be careful because if you come, so these are numbers which are computed with respect to the Newton polyhedron written with, in some system of coordinates. But the problem is that when you, and of course, this is far from being, let's say, an intrinsic object which is associated to the foundation itself.
00:01:08.254 - 00:02:26.634, Speaker A: And more importantly, the problem is that when you, we blow up with the strategy which is determined by, by this invariant, in principle, you can have this problem of compensation which leads, let's say, to the situation where the invariant does not decrease by blowing up. In this case, it can even increase if you're not careful. Okay, so I just recalled to you this invariant. So it's something which is related to the face of the polyhedron and to some vectors which are computed by taking this edge and so on. We're going to make a picture in a moment. Okay, so the strategy consists in blowing up with the face, which is determined from the main vertex and from the main vertex of the derivative polygon. So recognize, it's a polygon that we obtained when we cut the polyhedron at some height, which is the height of m minus one half.
00:02:26.634 - 00:03:30.764, Speaker A: Well, this is, um. Yeah, so I'm going to skip this. Yeah. Okay. So I said to you that one important issue here is to control, you know, let's say in a nice way, the freedom that you have to choose coordinates. And in the two dimensional case, this was essentially controlled by the fact that you asked your coordinates to be adapted to the divisor, in the sense that the divisor should always be given by, let's say, x equals to zero, where x was one of the coordinates. But in this case, in this high dimensional case, you have to in fact, introduce this additional structure which called an axis, with, well, roughly speaking, it's just another foliation, which it's one dimensional and is generically transversal to the vector field itself.
00:03:30.764 - 00:04:27.997, Speaker A: So this is essentially this vertical axis here and which cuts the potent locus of the initial foliation by, let's say, in a generic transverse way. So in fact, this will control in some way the way that you can choose the coordinates to compute the invariant. So I showed you that you can always find this so you can always find these coordinates. And now, well, I'm going to talk about this, what we call an adapted local chart. So you have now these four data here. So the manifold, the divisor, the foliation, oops, sorry. And then there is the axis now, which is also part of the data.
00:04:27.997 - 00:05:31.384, Speaker A: Right. So an adapted chart is something which you will take into account this four data here. So, but we also have to fix, let's say, an enumeration of the components of the device. Okay, so it also depends on the tagging of the components of the device. So I'm going to, I'm going to associate a number to each reducer component and this number, in fact, we record the year where this component has appeared in the resolution process. So let's say the largest number corresponds to the divisor which has been created the later, okay, so given this, this tagging and all the preceding data, a local chart is adapted. If so, I want that the axis is given by, let's say, the vertical vector field d over dz, as in the picture that I mentioned before.
00:05:31.384 - 00:06:25.864, Speaker A: So if at the point p, you have one component of the divisor, then it should be given in this coordinates by x equals to zero. And if you have two components of the divisor, then let's say these components are the INDJ with I greater than j. So it means that let's say the component di appeared in the resolution process later than Dj, and then they should be, let's say, defined respectively by x equals to zero and y being and y equals to zero. Okay, so it means that the divisor x equals to zero is always younger than the divisor y equals to zero. This will be important. Yeah. Okay, so this is the definition of adapted chart.
00:06:25.864 - 00:07:37.126, Speaker A: So I claim that when you ask all these conditions, in fact, you have something which is quite rigid in the sense that if you write the system of coin, let's say a coordinate change between, to adapt local charts, it has to be, has to have this form here. So I mean that, so in the first two coordinates, x and y, there is no dependence on the third coordinate. And then, well, in z prime can depend on all the coordinates. So this is, let's say, the case where the point, the coordinates are centered on it, on any point on the, let's say on the manifold. But when you have a point which is on the divisor, you have even more rigidity. So if this point has one, there is one component of the divisor through this point, then in fact you have to this x, which factors out on the first map. And if you have two components, then f should be divisible by x and g should be divisible by y.
00:07:37.126 - 00:08:40.774, Speaker A: Okay, so to guarantee this, of course, you have to keep track of the tagging of the divisor by saying that x prime and x correspond always to the same divisor. So there is no possible exchange here between these two. Yes, there it is. Well, so, well, this is quite easy to prove this because in fact, by the required, so this is the point where we use the existence of this axis in an essential way. So by the requirement that the axis always corresponds to, let's say, to the vertical axis at each point, it says that when you make this change of coordinates, it should map the vector field. So this, this one, right, to a multiple of this one, right? So this implies immediately that z prime, sorry, that x prime and y prime cannot depend on z. Okay, well, and then the other two.
00:08:40.774 - 00:10:17.596, Speaker A: So this, so this always already takes care of these two ones. And then of course if you ask that the divisor is preserved, then these two other conditions are also easy to verify. Well, so from now on I only talk about this adaptive coordinate system because this is the, let's say the set where we're going to try to compute things, compute this environment in particular. Okay, so now I recall that you have this adapted coordinate systems and you have this, the main phase, which is both f, and then you have these two vectors, delta. Let's say this number delta and c, which in fact they define together with m the affine hyperplane which supports the main phase, right? So there's this two configurations here. And in fact, let's say the affine plane which supports the main phase is given by f plus some convex combination of delta minus one, c minus 10. Okay, so now I'm going to take the set of all convex polyhedra of this type which have a fixed m and a fixed delta and c, right? So of course this polyhedron, all this polyhedron does not necessarily have the same face, the same supporting face f.
00:10:17.596 - 00:11:26.024, Speaker A: But in this class I claim that all of the polyhedron in this class have the same main vertex and the same displacement vectors delta and c. Okay? But eventually, of course, the support of the intersection of the polyhedron with this affine plane could be different, right? So now I'm going to define a group which I call the group acting on the face. So this is a particular case of the group of changes of coordinates in adapted that I showed you a moment ago, which are just polynomial changes of coordinates which have this form here. So they are, they are triangular and x, y and z. Okay? And moreover, I ask that these polynomials g and f, respected a quasi homogeneous graduation determined by f. Okay, so what, what I mean by that. Okay, so I mean, well, I can, I have this technical condition, but essentially means the following that.
00:11:26.024 - 00:12:08.594, Speaker A: So in this face f corresponds, the choice of this face corresponds to attribute some weight to. So some quasi homogeneous graduation to, to the variables z, y and x. And what I'm asking here is that the polynomial g, sorry. Which appear here has the same weight as y, and the polynomial, the polynomial f has the same weight as z. Okay, so these are the conditions. Well, I can make this more precise. It means that if you take the support, so you, you make them, you look at all monomials which appear, for instance, in the polynomial f.
00:12:08.594 - 00:13:23.708, Speaker A: So all these monomials should be of this form, okay, of the form a and b, which lies on this set here. And. Well, so they're the case where the first displacement vector is zero, is not zero, sorry, is positive. Then, particular, I'm going to show you a picture, and g is the same thing. Okay, so g is a polynomial only on the x variable, whose support should be of this part. Okay, well, so we have to imagine this as some way of sliding the monomials along the face. Okay, so these arrows that I show here show the way that, let's say that the monomials which are supported on the face slide by this chains of coordinates, right? So it means that the graduation, when you say that the graduation is preserved, it is precisely that you have this kind of behavior where the contribution of one monomial here, after change of coordinates, only appears in monomos, which are on the same one on this entries, right? So, so now I go.
00:13:23.708 - 00:14:26.998, Speaker A: So this, this group will be very important for us because it will allow us to define an intrinsic way of computing the environment. So I denote by f and g the element of the corresponding this map, just to introduce annotation and then effect this group, it can be decomposed as a semi direct sum product source, a semi direct product here. So there are two components. So there is a normal subgroup, which is g plus delta c, and there is another subgroup, g delta, which, well, I'm going to show in the picture. So the first, sorry, the right most group, g delta, is something which acts only on the edge here. So it's simply given by this polynomial change of coordinates, where z goes to z plus some constant times x to the delta one, y to the delta two. Okay? But of course here I'm always supposed that this is a polynomial change of coordinates.
00:14:26.998 - 00:15:55.958, Speaker A: So delta one and delta two are supposed to, in this context they, let's say this map is non zero if and only if delta one and delta two are positive integers. Otherwise the group is just dynamic. And so in the second component, the normal component in the semi direct product are, let's say, the chains of coordinates which don't touch the main edges, okay? So in fact it means that you see, they are they, when you have, let's say you see how the main vertex slides with respect to this second, the g component, they are edge preserving maps in the sense that there is no contribution to this rightmost edge which appears that are denoted by e. Well, okay, so now there is this important definition. So among the adapted coordinate systems, there is one which we are going to call the stable system of coordinates. So what's the stable? Yeah, so we start with any adapted coordinate system. So recall this means just that it preserves the axis and associated to this poly, to this coordinate systems.
00:15:55.958 - 00:17:04.570, Speaker A: Systems, sorry, you have this newton, the Newton polyhedron, right? So depending strongly in principle from x, y and z, and I suppose that it lies on this class n m, delta c. Are you called delta c? And m defines the affine plane which supports the main phase. Now I say that x, y and z are stable. If for any element of the group acting on the face. When you consider the Newton polyhedron with respect to the new coordinates, it lies on the same class. Okay, so what I mean by this is that the action of the group g delta cannot modify the supporting hyperplane. So if you recall the case of two dimensions, this is precisely the situation where, so in two dimensions, it's easier to see that you, what I asked you for in the analog of this stability is that you could not displace the main edge by making such a kind of, such coordinate changes.
00:17:04.570 - 00:17:55.632, Speaker A: But here, of course, is a, let's say that two dimensional problem. So we ask to preserve the supporting, the supporting affine hyperplane of the main face. So, yeah, so again, in other words, it means that you cannot make this phase move by the action of this group. And if this is the case, we say that we are in a stable situation, we are in a good coordinate system, which is stable now. So, well, so later on I want to show to you that it's always possible to find such a stable, stable system of coordinates, which is moreover analytic. But what's the use of this? Of course. So one of these importance of using this coordinate systems is that using them, you can identify the final situations.
00:17:55.632 - 00:18:57.134, Speaker A: So what I mean by final situation? Well, all the strategy is determined by the Newton polyhedron. So we'd like to identify in which situations we win, in which situations we have achieved the elementary situation. So, suppose that we have a stable system of coordinates x, y and z. Okay? It's an important point. So if they are centered on the near prototype, then the following configurations cannot occur. So these are, you see, these are by the, the solid dot here, I mean the main vertex of the associated Newton polyhedron. Okay, so if the Newton polyhedron is in one of these four six situations, we have already one in the meaning that by me, by which I mean that the corresponding foliation is locally elementary at the point p.
00:18:57.134 - 00:20:41.584, Speaker A: Why this is so because I recall too that there is a criteria to show that the point is elementary, which was precisely to say that the Newton polyhedron should contain the origin on all possible cognate systems. Okay, so you see that in all these six configurations, the origin is contained on the interior of the Newton polyhedron, right? But moreover, since we start with a stable coordinate systems, if you make any changes of coordinates in these configurations, because of the stability, you always keep the origin inside the polyhedron. So by this I mean that they necessarily correspond to cases where the zero is inside the Newton polyhedron and corresponding, consequently, that the point is. So, these are the situations that we want to achieve by our procedure. Now. So most importantly, the use of this adaptive coordinate systems, sorry, this stable coordinated systems is that they allow to define, they allow us to define an intrinsic invariant and an intrinsic strategy of growing, which will not depend on the choice, on any choice except for the operator, the global objectives which are given on the beginning. So I recall that the invariant is given by this six natural numbers, which depend strongly in principle on the coordinates x, y and z.
00:20:41.584 - 00:21:59.684, Speaker A: So, first theorem, suppose that you have two coordinates, x, y and z and x prime, y prime and z prime, which are stable. So by stable, I recall it, I mean that I cannot move the face by this face group. So in this case, I claim that the invariance given in one coordinate and in the other one coincide. So these six natural numbers coincide. Well, this is, I mean, I'm going to give some ideas of the proof later, but so the invariants coincide first of all. And moreover, and more important, the change of coordinates which maps x, y and z to x prime, y prime and z prime preserve the quasimodo filtration determined by the main phase. Okay? So not only the environment, not only the environment is preserved, but moreover, I recall, too, that the strategy of blowing up is determined by this filtration, right? So, so if I have a filtration which determines the blowing up in the coordinates x, y and z, and in the coordinate x, y prime, z prime, they coincide.
00:21:59.684 - 00:23:41.424, Speaker A: So, using this result, we can define finally what we call the invariant at the point p. So we fix any arbitrary stable coordinate system at p, and we say that the invariant, let's say, offers foliated manifold at this point p is simply the environment computed with respect to this coordinate systems discordant system. As I mentioned before, it does not depend, in fact, on the choice of x, y and z. And secondly, the local resolution strategy at p is the weighted blowing up defined by the face of the polyhedron, which is computed with respect to this stable coordinate system. So again, by the second part of the theorem, it's an intrinsic object. Okay? So now we have the two ingredients to, we have the invariant and you have the local resolution strategy, right? So the, so what we expect is to have the following result, which we call the local resolution of similarity, because it, it says that locally at the point p, if you follow the local strategy, then you are going to improve the environment, right? So you take this. So this object, which now also, as I recall, depends, has the axis as one of its ingredients.
00:23:41.424 - 00:24:50.844, Speaker A: And we consider now the blowing up at the point b. Let's say we germify everything at the port at point p. Now, and we follow the local strategy, by which, I mean, I blow up the center. I make a weighted blow up of the center, determined by the local strategy. And I denote my m tilde, the resulting manifold, right? So now, in this new manifold M Tilde, I go pull back all the data that I had from Emma, okay? So I can pull back the divisor, the foliation, and also the x. So I'm going to explain to you how to pull back the axis by this map. Well, as usual, the foliation, you just take them, let's say, the total transformer defoliation, and then you factor out some power of the defining equation of the exceptional divisor in order to have something, which is, it does not contain components, components of co dimension one.
00:24:50.844 - 00:25:22.540, Speaker A: And then the divisor, of course, the divisor is just the total transformer of the, of the preceding divisor, where you add a new component corresponding to the inverse image of the center by file. Okay? So if you make this, I think. Excuse me, Daniel. Yes. It's the blowing up that you consider here. It's sometimes a point, is sometimes a curve, or it's just a point. I'll show you an example.
00:25:22.540 - 00:25:42.480, Speaker A: Yes, yes. So depending on the position of the face, in some cases, the strategy determines a curve. Yeah. Which is, which will also be given, it will be an axis. In fact, it will always already be rectified in its coordinates. Okay, thank you. So I got to show an example.
00:25:42.480 - 00:27:03.204, Speaker A: So for each point, this should be a pTln, each point ptln, which is on the inverse image of p by five, and which is also important, we have the, that the invariant strictly decreases lexiographically. Okay, so this is the, let's say this is all that we could expect, and it shows that if you follow this local strategy and you look at what we call the sigma, infinitely near points. So at each step, you look just at the points which appear on the strict transform of the procedure step, you eventually will end with no near potent point because of this result. Right. So, okay, now there is a second part, I, of course, not going to detail it, but we can show that we can globalize these local algorithms by the following reason. The reason that the invariant, as I defined here, is an upper semi continuous function. It means that at some given step, the strategy now, globally speaking, will correspond to the one of blowing up the locus while this environment is maximum.
00:27:03.204 - 00:28:01.504, Speaker A: And this means that if you make this blow up of this global center now and the whole manifold, and then you look to what happens in the resulting, let's say, foliation, you have some, this is, this locus of maximal multiplicity will, will disappear successfully. Okay. Yeah. So to answer to Fernando, this local center is always contained in an important lock. So this is some feature, it's not, usually, is not true in the usual resolution of singularities algorithms. As I mentioned to you, that there is this case of the Whitney umbrella where if you want to eliminate the pinch point, at some point, you have to take them, the handle of the umbrella, as a center. Okay.
00:28:01.504 - 00:28:46.366, Speaker A: But if you look at the points which are not on, let's say, which are not on the origin on this whittling umbrella, they are points of local normal cross. So in this case, of course, for us, the normal crossings is the analog of the new potency. So I mean that in our strategy, this is, the center is always containers, is always contained in the bedilocks. So, okay, so there, of course, the case where the center is the point, this is of course true, because we are looking at important points. But there are two situations where the center are not local. I mean, the center are curves. And this corresponds precisely to these two situations, these two configurations of the main phase.
00:28:46.366 - 00:30:31.906, Speaker A: Okay, so the first configuration is the configuration where the main phase has. So the displacement vector delta one is positive. So in this case, by the choice that I've made, if you recall, I define this derivative polygon. And I said that in this case, the main phase should be the one which is vertical for the, which is the vertical corresponds to the vertical edge for the derivative polygon. So if you lift this vertical edge of the derivative polygon to a face of the polyhedron, you get this face which is, let's say, parallel somehow parallel to the, to the screen, right? And now of course, here you see that if you take the omega as a vector which is orthogonal to the hyperplane which supports this face, it should be at this part of this part, right? So there is a weight positive weight omega one and omega three, but a zero weight omega two, right? So there is the weight y variables have weight zero in these coordinates. So if you were to blow up, is to blow up with this weight corresponds precisely to blow up along this center. So the center now is just the y axis and, okay, so it's easy to see that the center in this configuration is always contained in an important locus because, again, because of the characterization that they've given of the new potent locus as the points where the Newton polygon, the Newton polygon does not contain the origin.
00:30:31.906 - 00:32:03.954, Speaker A: So if you look at what happens generically along this curve c, you see that when you take a generic point on the curve c, it corresponds to make this, these dotted lines which appear on the, on the drawing on the right, left side. So you see that for, for a generic point on the curve c, the polygon associated with this point, the polyhedron does not contain the origin. So all these points here are contained in the nippon lines. So the second configuration, which corresponds to the other axis which should be taken as the center of blowing up, is this one, which is delta one equals to zero and c infinity. So in this case, the corresponding weight is given by this by definition. And then this corresponds to give, since we give weight zero to the variable x, this corresponds precisely to blow up with weights omega two and omega three along the center given by the curve y equals to z equals to zero, which again is contained in an important locus. So, okay, so the interesting thing is that the resolution, let's say this procedure never touches points which are not on the nerpotent locks.
00:32:03.954 - 00:33:07.150, Speaker A: Yeah. So now I'm going to show to you in a drawing how you transform the axis. So this is an important part, because this axis, in fact, is what allows us to control the choice of local stable coordinates. And in some sense, this is one of the main points, which, let's say one of the main obstacles to generalize this procedure to higher dimensions because they do not behave so well in dimension four and higher. So what we do, you see that there is this axis. I recall to you, this axis is something, some one dimensional foliation is somehow transversal everywhere to the potent locus of the foliage f. So now we suppose that we blow up locally with the center, which is prescribed by the local strategy, as I recall here.
00:33:07.150 - 00:34:02.474, Speaker A: And then what happens to this axis? I claim that when you take the strict transform of the axis, by this blowing up, you get an axis for the new triple m, tilde e tilde, f tilde. So recall that an axis should be satisfied those requirements. Say, for instance, that it's not singular, right? So what happens here? You see, you take, let's say, light here in the left, you have them, the axis in the original coordinates. So these are given by this. Vertical lines, vertical dashed lines here, right? So it's a regular foliation. There is no singularities. And now we blow up the point p, right? So with the strategy, which is determined by the algorithm.
00:34:02.474 - 00:35:25.694, Speaker A: But when you blow up a point and you look at the pullback of a regular foliation, you necessarily introduce singularities. Okay? So you see here that they appear here. So there is one singularity here, which is of sedal type and non cigarette here below, which is also sedal type. So in principle, if in these two points, you know, you no longer have an axis, because the defoliation given by, by calligraphic a is singular, right? But recall that. So, okay, so this points, there are two similar points in the inverse image of the foliation, which are the points given by the, let's say if you think of this as a sphere, they are given by the North Pole and the south pole of the sphere, right? But fortunately, these points are no longer in the potent locks. So in fact, you don't have to take care of these points because precisely our algorithm, I'm going to show you, drawing in a moment, show that these points here are already elementary for the foliation that I want to simplify why this is so. Well, I have to recall to them how this blowing up acts by like geometrically.
00:35:25.694 - 00:36:04.790, Speaker A: When you look at its combinatorial action, you see that in the, you have this face f. And when you blow up in the Z direction, let's say you look at what happens locally in the two parts, poles, the North Pole and the south pole. It corresponds to this projection here. Right? So you just project the face on the horizontal plane. But you look at just, it's very easy to see that in this case here, you end up in a final situation because the vertex now is on, is at the origin. So by this I mean that in these two potentially problematic points. Sorry.
00:36:04.790 - 00:36:52.906, Speaker A: Yeah, so in this, in this two. Yeah, these two potential problematic points, in fact, you don't, you don't, you don't have to define an x because there are points which are not important locks. So the trig transform of an axis is an axis. So again, this is the data that you're going to pull back to define a new invariant which allows you to prove this, the reduction of the environment with effectively the strict transformative of this previous axis. Yeah, yeah. So I think, I want to detail this a little bit later, but just to explain to you how to achieve this stabilization. Right.
00:36:52.906 - 00:37:38.744, Speaker A: So we recall to that we, to measure our invert, we need to be in a stable coordinate system. So now I explain to you why I have split this. So we have this group which acts on the face. I noticed g delta c. And I said that I have a splitting of this group in a part which is x on the edge and a second part which acts effect on the face minus the edge. So why I have this splitting? Because now the stabilization of the face, I mean the choice of, you start with any adaptive coordinate system. And now the stabilization goes as follows.
00:37:38.744 - 00:38:54.744, Speaker A: First of all, I've drawn here in this, by this line, m delta, this is the edge, let's say the right most edge of the main face, the edge which corresponds to the connection between m and n, where n prime is the main vertex of the derivative polygon. So now you have this edge and the group which acts on the edge is the group which I called g delta. This group which just corresponds to a sliding along the edge. The idea is the, if the edge is not stable, right? So there is a map of the form that I came, that I, there's a map of the form that I showed before which will move this edge. So whenever it moves this edge, it will make what will appear is an edge which is still a little bit farther. Right? So you have, there is two ways where an edge can be farther away. In this case, either by, let's say by going to infinity in the way that I show in the first case or in the second case.
00:38:54.744 - 00:39:59.424, Speaker A: So in the first case, I claim that. So the reason is by, is by contradiction. So you suppose that there is no finite number. There is no finite, there is. So there is an infinite number of steps in this preparation such that at each step you are able to eliminate the main edge by the action of this group. Right? So, okay, so this procedure formally converges to these two situations, we can say, right, so in this first situation, when you see what happens to the polyhedron at the limit, you have a polyhedron which is written now in a formal system of coordinates which has, let's say, which it's situated above a hyperplane, let's say a hyperplane determined by the height of the main vertex. Everything which is below the main vertex will disappear by this formal sequence of coordinate changes.
00:39:59.424 - 00:41:46.654, Speaker A: But as we have seen, this cannot happen, because if this happens, it would imply that in this formal coordinates, the z plane would be inside the nipotent locus. And this is not possible by the hypothesis, because it's supposed the nipotent locus has co dimension greater regular two. So there is this, yeah. So there's this second situation here where you have this limit, right? So there's a limit where, let's say then you stabilize the first coordinate at some height a, and then it goes at infinity on this way, right? So this can happen. And in fact, what we show is that when you have a limit, a formal limit which happens in this way by an argument using a faithful flatness, then in fact, the formal change of coordinates which allows you to pass the limit, gives you an analytic change of coordinates. So this, because, in fact, this is because we started an analytic object and you can formulate the existence of this configuration as, let's say, some relations between the coefficients of this analytic, the analytical efficiency of the vector field, and in particular this should be, there should be, if there's a formal way to, sorry, if there is a formal way to achieve this limit here, then there is an analytic way to achieve achievements. So this is for the edge stabilization.
00:41:46.654 - 00:42:40.834, Speaker A: So by up to a finite number of steps of the action of this group, g delta. Of course, g delta changes each time that the displacement vector delta changes. But at some point you get a situation where you cannot move anymore, this main edge by the action of g delta. And then I achieve a preliminary situation, which I call edge stable situation. Right. Now I proceed by assuming that I have stabilized the edge and now I'm going to stabilize the face, right? So now using the direct sum decomposition that I explained. Before I go to make, I go to study the action of the second part of the normal subgroup given by the maps which preserve the edge.
00:42:40.834 - 00:43:41.564, Speaker A: Because I don't need to touch anymore the edge, I only need to touch the parts which are of the face, which are, let's say, to the left of the edge here, right? So you see that again, there can be some movement. If the edge, sorry, if the face is not stable, but the edge is stable, you can still have this movement here, which I drawn in the right mold side. But again, by this argument of faithful platinum, you can prove that if there is an infinite number of movements which appear like this. So at the limit, you are going to converge to a situation where you see that the face is parallel. Let's say the face is, let's say it's parallel to the, to the x axis. And in this case, it corresponds again to a situation where. Which can be achieved analytically, you see, again, because.
00:43:41.564 - 00:44:50.004, Speaker A: Well, let's say, just to give an intuition, when you achieve the situation formally, it implies that this, the x axis is inside the near potent locus. Okay? And this, if it's formal, it's a formal, if it's a formal curve which is inside the important locks, it should be analytic. So, by which I mean that you are in this situation that I showed you. Okay, so this is the situation where this is one of the limit situations, and it corresponds to the case where the axis, sorry, the center for blowing up, is given by the axis. Axis. Okay, so I'm going just to conclude by giving some words about them. Yes, so that you recall that in this case I've told you how to treat the points which are inside the divisor, right? But they said that this is the typical situation, by which I mean that, let's say that the divisor plays an important role because it allows us to redefine the change of coordinates as much as the axis.
00:44:50.004 - 00:45:51.974, Speaker A: But if you are outside the divisor, so of course you can have curves of similarities which are in particular. When you begin, your resolution worries there is no divisor. Right? So how do you deal with the points which are outside the divisor? So now this idea of globalization, which, let's say, which appears already in the works of Philippe Kano, which is the following one, if you are outside the divisor, then the generic points. So if you have a curve of near potent points, this curve is generically equidistanularizable. By which I mean that except for a finite number of points, let's say a discrete set of points in a curve, the algorithm of resolution can be given uniformly on each point. Why this is so, okay, so I'm not going to detail too much, but, okay, so let's take the situation here, right, so you have this vector field. Yeah.
00:45:51.974 - 00:47:51.354, Speaker A: Okay, so this is typically, if you recall, I have studied this example several times. This is typically the case where you have an important singularity at the origin, right? But now you have three variables. So you have x, y and z, but the vector field itself, it depends only on z and y. So, by which I mean that if you draw the weight, the Newton polygon, the Newton polyhedron, in this case, you have something which has a form of product, right? So there is no dependency on x, which means that the curve given by x equals to z equals to zero is equally singularizable, right? So here you can dissipate all points in this curve at the same time simultaneously, just by blowing up the curve c with the weight given by this graduation, right? So I mean, in this case, you see that this curve, in fact the resolution of civilization along this curve, reduces itself to a two dimensional problem. So in fact, if you consider this situation, and then you put some, let's say some higher order terms which do not contribute to the main phase. So you can see the perturbation of this by adding terms which are, let's say above this plane, the same, the same thing we hold, right? So this is a completely stable, let's say, robust situation. Now what happens? So now suppose that you have this situation, but you add this function f here, right? So this function f, let's say something of the form f of x is equals to x to the power k, right? So now this curve is no longer equidistant because there is a point at the origin which is more complicated than the rest, right? So this, in this case I've drawn the, let's say the Newton polyhedron at the origin.
00:47:51.354 - 00:49:15.330, Speaker A: And you see that in this case, the algorithm at the origin is not the same that you would achieve on a point on a point where x, let's say a point on this curve where x is different from zero. But fortunately, let's see what happens when you take, let's say we just make a x, you make x non zero here, right? So you have exactly the same situation as before, which corresponds geometrically here to project this point here, right? So in fact this curve is equally singularizable, except for the point x equals to zero. So in fact, when you place yourself along an important curve, which is inside an important locus. In some sense this happens. You can characterize completely this kind of situation by saying that except for a number of, let's say for a discrete set of points, you always have an equity similarity situation. So the preparation, let's say as recall that I said in the two dimensional case, you have this preparation which corresponds to include the important locus in the divisor. Now the preparation that we're going to make before applying the algorithm that I explained consists in the following one.
00:49:15.330 - 00:50:37.652, Speaker A: You take all the points in the important locus, right, which are not equally singularizable. So this is a finite number of points in each compact, let's say in each relatively compact component, because as I came to you, if you place yourself along each curve, it could equally similarize, except for discrete points. So these points, you can somehow artificially, well, you can include them in the divisor by blowing up with a convenient weight. And then let's say we can say that the points which are not equally singularizable are inside the divisor. And for them we applied the algorithm that I explained before, and for the points which are in the equidistant locus, we reduce the problem to a two dimensional situation, as I explained. Well, I think I'm going to finish here, but next time I'm going to explain well why these ideas don't work for higher dimensions. And I'm going to try to explain to you some new approach which for, let's say for in my point of view it's, it's more conceptual and in some sense it prevents all these problems which are caused by the existence of this.
00:50:37.652 - 00:51:09.714, Speaker A: So there's a lot of problems which are caused by the existence of these points with negative indices, right? So this is why this invariant is so complicated. So I'm going to explain to you that there is a new approach, that it's a work in progress that I hope will somehow deal with this problem and in fact deal with much more general situations where you don't consider just vector fields. But hopefully, if things work, you can disingularize any differential operator of arbitrary order.
