00:00:00.400 - 00:00:46.100, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you so much for having us. Thanks for being here. My name is Nicholas, and together with Bruno, I'm going to say a few words today about liquidity pools, just as a disclaimer, perhaps we are lawyers, so we look at things from a different perspective. Perhaps we look at things from the perspective of a predetermined system, which is the legal system. And you try to have a look at this topic from this perspective, having to look at the implications from a legal standpoint. So the first thing we're going to do is discuss about the way liquidity is provided in decentralized finance, as opposed as to in centralized financed introducing the concept of liquidity pools.
00:00:46.100 - 00:01:56.864, Speaker A: Then we're going to identify the different stakeholders and assess the legal relationships between them. And then we are going to talk about our favorite topic, which is problems, issues. What can people do? What can they claim? What can the different stakeholders claim in case a damage occurs? And then finally, we will look at the challenges that lie ahead and at the best ways to address them going forward. Liquidity is absolutely essential on any markets, no matter whether it is centralized finance or decentralized finance, because liquidity is defined as the way, as the ease with which people can trade on a certain market without affecting the price. On a perfectly liquid market, basically, you could be able to place any order, no matter the size of the order, at the same price. So basically, every single assets within that order would be able to be placed at the same price. But markets are usually not perfectly liquid.
00:01:56.864 - 00:02:44.950, Speaker A: And traditionally, there are two ways to ensure liquidity on a market in so called limits order markets. Basically, the liquidity is provided by the participants, by the buyers and the sellers. The buyers and the sellers place certain orders, either limit orders or market orders. And an order book, a so called order book, matches the bids and the asks. So the market participant place an order. Either they say, okay, I want to buy, or to sell at a maximum price or at a minimum price, or this is called a limit order. Or they place an order, market order, in which they say, okay, I want to buy or to sell, but I do not define the price at which I want this transaction to be made.
00:02:44.950 - 00:03:21.174, Speaker A: And basically, in this case, the transaction is filled. The order is filled instantly at whatever the. At whatever price the market can bear. This is the first concept, the frustration concept. The other one is what happens on dealer markets. And in that case, liquidity is not provided by the market participants themselves, but by market makers. And market makers are usually large entities, brokers that are either affiliated with an exchange or registered with an exchange and that are regulated.
00:03:21.174 - 00:04:17.894, Speaker A: In the EU, they have to be regulated. And market participants do not transact with each other, but they transact with the market makers. And the market makers have to maintain an inventory of the assets, of the underlying assets, and they quote, bid and ask prices for those assets. And in this case, as I said, the liquidity is provided by them. So this is the traditional ways liquidity is provided in centralized finance. And a distinctive feature of decentralized finance is that liquidity is provided in a very different way, because we do not have an order book that matches the bids and the asks, and we do not have traditional market makers. In digitalized finance, liquidity is provided through liquidity pools.
00:04:17.894 - 00:05:22.064, Speaker A: And interestingly, now not only professional liquidity providers or market makers can provide liquidity, but basically anyone which is the beauty of it. And tokens, crypto tokens are basically deposited, are deposited in pools, and each pool is managed by a smart contract, and the price for the assets on the ratio is determined exclusively by the smart contracts and not by outside vectors. And basically the combination of pairs is virtually limitless. Right now, I think we have over 4000 on Uniswap, and the liquidity providers, as I said, do not have to be registered with an exchange. Basically that can be anyone. This is what a liquidity pool looks like according to chat GPT. So this is a nice pool with several crypto tokens.
00:05:22.064 - 00:06:17.024, Speaker A: Actually, there should be only two, because on each pool only two types of tokens are deposited. This is a screenshot from Uniswap. Basically, this is the way liquidity providers can provide liquidity by selecting tokens. And the key distinctive feature, again, is that basically everybody can do that which is interesting from a contractual or from a legal standpoint. What we want to do as lawyers, as I said, is first identify the stakeholders in order to see whether there is a legal relationship between them. And looking at liquidity pools, and looking at the way liquidity is provided in decentralized finance, we identified three types of stakeholders. First, the operators of the interfaces of the platforms.
00:06:17.024 - 00:07:24.154, Speaker A: Second, the traders, and for the liquidity providers. Interestingly, the problems start with the operators of the platforms, because what we want as lawyers is identify a legal entity or a person or human being, because only human beings or legal entities can be bound by rights and obligations. Typically, however, with operators of platforms, this is not always easy to determine which legal entities behind the platform is behind the interface. In the case of Uniswap, for instance, there is a legal entity based in the US in Delaware which is a limited company, a limited liability company, an LLC. But I understand that the smart contracts are not necessarily deployed by the platform itself, but by the users. With respect to the traders, this category is fairly easy to understand and is not really different than what we would find on a centralized platform. And as I said, the liquidity providers can be basically everyone.
00:07:24.154 - 00:07:56.370, Speaker A: So the big question, and they are incentivized, of course, they get a reward for providing liquidity. So the big question from a legal standpoint is really, what is the legal relationship between those people? Is there any legal relationship between those people? Perhaps we need to define what is a contract? First, a contract is an agreement which means that the stakeholders need to want to be bound by a contract. By a legal contract, not a smart.
00:07:56.402 - 00:07:57.734, Speaker B: Contract, a legal one.
00:07:58.754 - 00:09:29.614, Speaker A: And this is far from obvious in decentralized finance. Do the different stakeholders really want to be bound? If we have a look at the different stakeholders in their relationships, actually there are some suggestions that they want to be bound. If you have a look at the terms of service of Uniswap or other platforms, you can see that in those terms of service, the contracts are mentioned and in order to be able to use the platform, the user must be able to enter into a legal contract. Basically, while the users do not necessarily know that they are actually entering into a legal relationship, what they do and what they get, what they give and what they get really look like contractual obligations. If we have a look at the relationship between traders and operators, for instance, on the one hand the platform has the obligation to provide an access to an interface, and on the other hand, the traders have the obligation to pay a fee or fees in parole under swiss law. Typically this could be a contract for work and services, which means that the actors can be bound by these contracts with the ensuring rights and obligations that exists under swiss law or under any other law that could be applicable. Same thing with liquidity providers and operators of platforms.
00:09:29.614 - 00:10:24.384, Speaker A: Again, the platform operators have a duty to provide access to the interface. This is one way to look at this, which would imply typically a contract for work and services. And on the other hand, you can say that the liquidity providers are actually needed. They are key parts of the entire system, and from a legal standpoint, that could mean that they could be considered as people who are needed to perform a contractual obligation and who could bind actually the platform operators that would be vicarious agents in legal terms. So hence, here again, potentially a legal implication. The last one, the relationship between liquidity providers and traders. Here we think there is no legal relationship, there is no contracts because those people do not interact with each other.
00:10:24.384 - 00:10:40.304, Speaker A: The assets are pooled, the tokens are pooled, and there is typically no interaction between those categories of actors. Now I give the floor to Bruno for the issues that may arise in connection with liquidity pools.
00:10:53.824 - 00:10:55.288, Speaker C: That's better. Hi.
00:10:55.336 - 00:12:12.954, Speaker B: Thank you very much, Nicola. So I will continue with the presentation. So, as you know, there are several types of risks related with decentralized finance and Dex particularly. So, for example, the possibility that a smart contract used by a decentralized application got hacked by someone and that the funds got drained, and liquidity providers, as well as traders, may lose their funds in this situation. And we were asking the question whether, according to the current law, users, so, liquidity providers or traders may ask compensation. And, of course, so Nicolas, were discussing the possible entity that may be held responsible. And I assume that it would be pretty straightforward to go after the operator of the DEx, so not against the hacker itself, because often the hacker would be not a known entity.
00:12:12.954 - 00:13:12.050, Speaker B: And the question is, if we apply the current laws. So we were analyzing the swiss law, is there any chance that users losing their money may go after the dex operator? I can give you a short answer before explaining you our reasoning. So, it will be very difficult, according to current swiss law, to have a compensatory claims, because our current legal system is not well suited for this kind of compensation. So we have two types of liability. We have the contract liability, as it was discussed before we came to the conclusion that there was a contract between the dex operator and the users. So this is a possibility. And tort liability.
00:13:12.050 - 00:14:09.976, Speaker B: So, tort liability is a type of liability that does not require any contractual relationship. So if we have a look at the conditions under current swiss law, so a damage, this condition may be given, contractual breach. So this is the first problem that we have. So it may be very difficult for a user to prove a contractual breach, because the user would have to prove that the operator of the dex was breaching the contract. So, for example, being negligent with the smart contract. And as we know, sometimes it would be different to prove this negligence. I mean, they can be very good hackers and so on.
00:14:09.976 - 00:15:22.824, Speaker B: So this is the first problem that we have under current law, the causal nexus. So the connection between this breach of contract and damage, this is possibly, this can be proven, possibly. And finally, the fraud is a condition that may not be proven easily, because we can consider that Dex operator try their best to have working Dex. So one of the problems we identified as well, the dex operator, according to their terms of agreement, they have the promise to provide an interface, but they are not responsible for the smart contracts. So at least if they are clear terms of agreement. In this sense, if there is any problem with the smart contracts, the dex operator may not be responsible for this. As I told you, the negligence may be very difficult to prove in such situations.
00:15:22.824 - 00:16:18.904, Speaker B: And one more problem is that the dex operators will try to limit their liability under swiss law. Under current swiss law, you can limit your liability except for cross negligence. I will be pretty quick with the tort liability, because basically we have the same problem. So the fault will be very difficult to prove. And with the tort liability, there is one more conditions that will be very difficult to prove. It's the tortures act. The user should prove, must have to prove that the dex operator was trying maybe to steal the assets and so on.
00:16:18.904 - 00:16:30.090, Speaker B: And that will be very difficult unless there is a rook pull or such kind of events. Exactly.
00:16:30.232 - 00:16:30.914, Speaker A: So.
00:16:34.614 - 00:17:52.844, Speaker B: One of our conclusions is that the current legal system is not well suited for DeFi, because basically there are almost no protection for users. On top of the legal issues that we mentioned, we have to consider that DeFi is of course decentralized, transnational. So applying the law would require a cooperation between the state. And this is a goal that is very hard to achieve. And we came to the conclusion that the legal system identifies subjects of law, and maybe a more suitable system for 25 would be to consider actions instead of participants. So maybe to sanction some types of behavior, instead of trying to identify the legal entities involved, and to sanction their behavior. So law enforcement is particularly challenging in the DeFi environment.
00:17:52.844 - 00:19:02.710, Speaker B: Some more reasons. So the participants in DeFi are of course pseudonymous, sometimes depending on the blockchain used, maybe even anonymous, and transactions are irreversible. So all these reasons lead to the conclusion that in case of any problems in relation to DeFi, it would be very hard for users to get a compensation. So we were as well discussing, or we want to discuss possible legislative actions. And in our opinion, there are two possibilities. So first, the question to be assessed is, do we need, and do we want a greater protection of users? And the first possibility would be to have more license regulation. So to check, to review better the market participants, including the Dex operators.
00:19:02.710 - 00:20:14.314, Speaker B: So for example, to provide that any Dex operator should obtain a license before entering the market. So this is, in our opinion, not the way that should be taken, because it would be very hard to enforce. I mean, any dex operator or operator of a dex could move to another country where this regulation does not exist. So this is not the way to be taken, in our opinion. And we realized that the european regulation, the Mayca, is not considering this option either, because the Mayca does not apply to deFi. So the European Union decided not to take this way. So not to provide greater protection in the DeFi by having more licenses or other kind of regulations for market participants in the DeFi ecosystem.
00:20:14.314 - 00:21:07.784, Speaker B: A possible action to be taken, in our opinion, is to introduce a more strict or compulsory liability for the market participant, for example, to cut off the condition of default in the tort liability for participants in a DeFi ecosystem. So this would be a solution that would be, in our opinion, preferable to the opinion of adding more licenses, requirements and so on for the market participants. So thank you for listening to our thoughts regarding the legal regulation of DEX, and I think we can answer some questions. If there are some questions.
00:21:21.164 - 00:21:29.444, Speaker A: I guess there might be room for two questions. So far we have one. Thank you.
00:21:30.184 - 00:22:52.694, Speaker C: Sorry, in the very some of the very first slides, you said there is no legal relationship between a liquidity provider and the trader. There is a relationship between the liquidity provider and the AMM and the amm and the trader. For a centralized entity. For us, which accepts assets from clients, one of the key questions is always if somebody or a client has, let's say, ETH out of ETH USDC Uniswap pool for some reason, but like a week earlier, like a rook hacker or illegal entity whatsoever, provided liquidity into that ETH USDC pool, and our client now basically bought his ETH from that pool, which now has like tainted eve somehow in it. So would you say that the AMM itself separates the illegal entity which provides the tainted coins as sufficiently enough for a centralized exchange bank whatsoever to be able to accept such coins? Because if you're very specifically a nit picky, you would say, well, theoretically, the ETH that the guy just bought out of a uniswap amm pool could theoretically be the tainted ease that some other guy provided a day earlier. Thank you.
00:22:55.594 - 00:24:26.134, Speaker B: Okay, so thank you for the question. So we came to the conclusion that there is no contractual relationship between the traders, let's call them like that, and the liquidity providers, because both entities have a contractual relationship to the dex operator only because there is no will to enter a relationship between the users. Your question, to my understanding, is more related to the AML regulation and maybe the criminal aspects. So to my understanding. So this is not something we addressed in our presentation. So of course the sex have liabilities regarding TD AML and want to act in a way that would not make them liable for criminal actions. And I would say that to my understanding, in some countries at least, this AML or criminal low regulation may force the cex to have adequate measures to make sure that, for example, some people are not using liquidity pools that were obviously hacked or using by hackers.
00:24:26.134 - 00:25:35.914, Speaker B: And I know that there is a lot of change in this aspect lately as well with the MICA that has the goal to have a uniform regulation in Europe. And I would have like really a closer look at the content of this regulation, but I think there may be some obligations with disregard. So the fact that there is no contract between the users does not lead to the legal conclusion that se operator don't have any obligation to check that there was not any criminal activity involved. I don't know if it was underscoring the question. So our presentation was only about contractual relationship and the possible liability, like civilization liability related to it. So compensation of damage, but not the AML and criminal consequences.
00:25:37.454 - 00:25:48.854, Speaker A: We are unfortunately out of time, so please ask your questions out there. And of course, like you guys will have a chance to talk later on. Thank you again, gentlemen.
