00:00:25.220 - 00:01:52.386, Speaker A: Hi everyone, this is Defi dad. And today I'm going to walk you through a tutorial on what are the different moving parts between yearn finance and curve. The reason being is a few weeks ago, curve finance launched their governance token. And so while many of us have used these pools to trade stablecoins or tokenized bitcoin, it has been challenging, I think, for some to separate what are the different options here in terms of what I can do with my money as a liquidity provider in these curve pools, and then how I can stake that in curve to either earn the curve CRV governance token, or I can put that to work in what is called a yvault. And a yvault is powered by urine finance. So we're going to just talk through all these different moving parts and how they fit together, and I'm going to try to lay out what are some of the reasons that I have chosen to use some of these new defi mechanisms. The first part of the puzzle to understand is what is yearn finance.
00:01:52.386 - 00:03:01.786, Speaker A: So I think about it as a protocol that is focused on maximizing DeFi's capabilities, but through automation. So there are a number of products that they offer. The most popular and the first product they ever offered was profit switching lender to optimize lending yields, called yearn finance. So what does that mean? Yearn finance is a yield bouncer. It moves my lending assets from pool to pool, depending on where I can earn the highest returns lending my assets. And so if we go over to yearn finance, earn, if you go to this website, just click on earn and then I connected my wallet and you'll notice that there's a number of assets here that I can lend. And the idea here is that this mechanism is lending my dai, my USDC, my tether, my true USD, my sUSD, or wrapped bitcoin.
00:03:01.786 - 00:04:02.030, Speaker A: I can deposit any one of these and it will maximize my lending interest. So you can see that with DAi, as of today, if I had my Dai in this pool, it would be earning a 7.23 six 1% interest rate. And with USDC, I'd be earning eleven point 45%. So the idea is to not just leave my die or my USDC, or any one of these in a single lending pool, it's to move it across different lending pools, but be able to maximize my lending interest. So the difference between what I would have to do manually versus what yearn finance does for me is that I could leave my dai in compound and it's going to earn whatever the rate is. And if I were to try to move that Dai to, let's say, dy DX, that's going to cost me gas.
00:04:02.030 - 00:04:46.270, Speaker A: So right now that is very costly. So the fact that urine finance automatically moves my DAi to maximize my interest rate between compound DyDX and Ave, that to me is very powerful. And again, I can do that with any one of these assets below. And I am maintaining exposure to a single asset here. So if I put in USDC, when I withdraw later, I'm going to have USDC. So I could go in and say I'm going to deposit 90 USDC. And if I click earn, it'll take me through two different transactions.
00:04:46.270 - 00:05:32.858, Speaker A: The first one is an approval transaction. This is the same stuff that's in all my videos. This is how all ethereum applications work. Unless you're depositing ether, which can then allow you to do it in a single transaction. So here I am allowing urine to spend my USDC, I'm giving permission and I can set the gas. So we'll just leave it at 128 Gwe right now. And then if I scroll down further, what's the permission? Well, this is unlimited permission, which is something folks will opt for so that they don't have to go through this step when they come back at a later date to deposit USDC.
00:05:32.858 - 00:06:13.786, Speaker A: The reason I change this to custom spend limit and I'll put in exactly how much I'm going to deposit is to protect myself, just in case someone somehow gets control of these smart contracts. I don't want them to have permission to spend an unlimited amount of my USDC in my wallet. Okay. Anyways, then I would just hit confirm and I would have a second transaction that I would have to confirm. But that's it. That's all it takes. And then I've got my assets maximizing their lending interest.
00:06:13.786 - 00:07:14.810, Speaker A: And again, I think one of the differences that I'm going to point out later here between this and curve is that I am maintaining exposure to a single asset versus having my assets in a pool with, let's say, dai USDC tether and true USD. At that point there becomes a risk that there could be a lack of liquidity, let's say for dai, when I withdraw from the curve pool, this is much simpler. I put in Dai, and what I will withdraw at a later date is dai. Part two of this is what is the curve y pool. And there are actually multiple pools in curve that offer me exposure to different assets. Now, these are all stablecoin pools. I've got compound pax, y, busd, and susd.
00:07:14.810 - 00:08:11.898, Speaker A: So those are five different pools. Most of them have a mix of stablecoins, but they will focus on exposure to, let's say, BUsD, the binance stablecoin versus synthetics, the SUSD stablecoin. The Y pool is really interesting because it is actually powered by yearn. And so what happens is, if I were to deposit any one of these four stable coins, I become a liquidity provider. And you can see here that there's about 762,000,000 in stablecoins that are in this pool. So I don't have this money, but if I were to put in 1 million, I would have one over 762,000,000. That gives you a sense of just how much you own of the pool.
00:08:11.898 - 00:09:15.090, Speaker A: And it means that 1 million over 762,000,000, whatever percentage that is, I would get that percentage of this trading fee every time someone trades between these four stablecoins. Because at the end of the day, these stablecoin pools are all about the ability to trade between one stablecoin to another. And so you could see here that if I were to trade 334 die for USDC, I would end up with almost one to one. It would be around 335 USDC, and in this case, I would pay $42.94. Most of that is a gas fee, even though I am paying 0.4% as a fee, which gets paid to all of the liquidity providers. So just to summarize that, I have different stablecoin pools here, the two bottom here, these are tokenized bitcoin pools.
00:09:15.090 - 00:10:26.026, Speaker A: So I'm going to focus on these five up top. And the one that is very special is the Y pool, because it is also powered by yearn finance. Why is it powered by yearn finance? Because when I deposit my stable coins, although folks are trading between these, while my coins are sitting idle with another 762,000,000 stablecoins, these coins are wrapped into what is called ydai, YUSDC, YUSDt and ytrUsd. So those are yearn finance related tokens. And that means that they are earning interest. So what's happening is they're sitting idle in the background again, there's a lot of liquidity here. And while that's happening, they are being lent to these different pools in DydX, compound and Ave, and there's some other pools involved, but at this point, they're just using those three pools as of today.
00:10:26.026 - 00:11:38.122, Speaker A: So this is why the curve y pool is special and is often referred to as yield farming, because I am simply lending money my stable coins, and I'm earning two forms of yield. One has to do with that trading fee, so I'm earning a portion of all trading fees. The other is me earning lending interest based on the yearn finance protocol, which is maximizing lending interest for the array of stablecoins that I have here. Now, if I want to participate in the curve y pool, or if I want to participate in any of these pools, all I have to do is go to the pool page by clicking one of these links here, which again, we'll focus on just these top five for right now because these are all stable coins. And then from there I can just choose how much I want to deposit. I can deposit whatever ratio I want. I can deposit a single token here.
00:11:38.122 - 00:11:59.394, Speaker A: Like let's notice there's a few different options here. Use maximum amount of coins available in my wallet. So I will uncheck that. So I can choose how much and don't have to use the maximum amount. I'm not going to give infinite approval. I am not depositing wrapped as in y tokens. These are unwrapped tokens.
00:11:59.394 - 00:12:41.498, Speaker A: These are just Dai, USDC, Tether, and true USD. They are not ydai, yusdc y tether, y true USD. If I had those, I could deposit those though. And then I don't care about adding them in a balance proportion, just because that would be kind of a pain to try to figure out the percentages here. And it's nice because curve will actually split them up into the proper percentages for me. So let's pretend that I'm going to put in just 334 die, I'm going to put in zero tether and zero true USD. And I would do something similar to what I did with urine.
00:12:41.498 - 00:13:59.810, Speaker A: I would just click deposit and this would roll me through two transactions. One is an approval to spend my Dai. If I end up depositing more than just DAi, like USDC, there will be two different transactions for spending. So it says allow curve to spend your dAi, and then I would go through another transaction, allow curve to spend your USDC. So if I do all four coins, that's four transactions plus the final one, which is just executing the deposit to actually spend those coins and deposit them into curve. So if you followed everything I've said so far about becoming a liquidity provider, now I'm in a position where I can earn another form of yield, which can be the curve or CRV governance token. So the way that curve is distributing its governance token is it's distributing it to liquidity providers.
00:13:59.810 - 00:15:29.098, Speaker A: So that means that after I have become a liquidity provider in, let's say the synthetic bitcoin pool or the y pool, now I have the option to hop over to the dow, which is the curve dow, and it takes me here. And if I click on Minter, minter is where I can take my liquidity provider token, which is awarded to me when I become a liquidity provider in one of those seven different pools in curve. So when I deposit my tokens, I receive this LP token. That's the thing that lets me claim and come back later and get all of my assets back. Well, that token can also be utilized to prove to curve that I am in fact providing liquidity and that they should be paying me the curve token as compensation for being a liquidity provider. Or I think the proper way really to think about it is they're meaning to award folks who are obviously believing in the protocol and participating. They're awarding me with a governance token, which gives me a voice in future upgrades and proposals to the curve finance protocol.
00:15:29.098 - 00:16:48.166, Speaker A: So what I do is I come to this page and then I just scroll down until I find the different liquidity gauge that relates to the pools that I'm in. So there were the seven pools, I'm not in the compound pool, I am in the y liquidity pool. So I would come here and if I had that YLP token, if I hadn't already staked it earlier, I would come in and I would turn up the slider or you could just type it in yourself, but this is convenient. And then I go through two transactions, same thing as I've done with all these other applications. I click deposit, it'll ask for permission to spend my YLP token and then I follow that up with actually depositing the YLP token. And the result of that is I end up with a balance here of what's in the gauge. And so this is where I finally finished out this process, and now I'm just earning the curve token, which currently based on the USD price of curve, which say, I think is around $3.50,
00:16:48.166 - 00:17:34.674, Speaker A: I'm essentially earning 84.6% annualized percentage yield. And that allows me then to get paid out in this curve token CRV, which I can claim at any point in time. This is continually paying me, but I can click claim at any point to withdraw that, and then obviously I can do whatever I want with it. I could hold on to the token and remain long, or maybe I choose to go sell it for another token. What's also convenient is that if you're in multiple pools, so I am in the here we go. The SBTC pool.
00:17:34.674 - 00:18:29.670, Speaker A: I have one equivalent bitcoin of liquidity in this pool and I have staked it. And so because of that I am actually earning the curve token and then I can choose here we go. To just claim it all. So I don't have to claim it individually. I can use this really convenient option to just come back and claim it all at once. One last note on being a curve liquidity provider. So there were two programs powered by synthetix to incentivize liquidity providers in the SBTC pool, which uses synthetic bitcoin from synthetics, as well as the SUSD pool, which is synthetic US dollar.
00:18:29.670 - 00:20:02.674, Speaker A: Each one rewards LPs with SNX and Ren and the SBTC pool as well as SNX and the SUSD pool. I just want to note that if I have participated in this previously, it's imperative that I unstake or withdraw my LP tokens from minter synthetics IO and I'm going to come back to this mintergages and I'm going to find the appropriate gauge liquidity gauge for SBTC or for SUSD. And then this is where I would restake that LP token. And the cool thing here is that you'll notice that I'm doing it for the SBTC LP token and I'm still earning the rewards that I was over on Minter Synthetix IO. So these used to be controlled by this dashboard, but now I have the ability to earn the CRV curve governance token along with those rewards from synthetics. Lastly, I don't know if folks will be watching this far into the future, but this SBTC program ends August 20 eigth 2020. So if you're watching it past that date, this probably doesn't exist anymore.
00:20:02.674 - 00:20:59.998, Speaker A: And the SUSD pool, I'm not quite sure when this will end. So what I was showing previously is that I can take my LP token, my IOU token from being a liquidity provider in any of the seven curve pools, and I can earn the curve governance token. However, it costs me money to come back to this and to claim. So I have to hit claim all, and that costs me some gas. And then what I'm left with is curve. I end up with curve in my wallet and I can choose to remain long and hold it, or I can sell it for other tokens, which would cost me more gas to do that. However, the urine finance vault automates quite a bit here in terms of profit taking.
00:20:59.998 - 00:22:11.142, Speaker A: So if I go to urine finance and then just click on vaults, connect my wallet, there's lots of assets here that are being used for yield farming strategies. I'm not very familiar with all of the different strategies, but I do know that when it comes to the y curve LP token, the one that I staked in the Dow, I can choose to alternatively, instead of staking it in the y liquidity gauge and having to manually claim my curve, I can instead come here and I can deposit that IOU token or LP token. So you'll notice I've actually already done that here. So there's my balance of the Y curve LP token, and so this then allows me to deposit that. So if I had any more of that LP token, I could click 100% click deposit. It'll take me through the typical two transactions. One to give permission to spend it, and then a second one to actually deposit it.
00:22:11.142 - 00:23:02.070, Speaker A: But then I'm earning 97% ROI. So this is estimated based on the USD prices of the value of my token compared to what I'm actually earning as a return. I'm automating a lot of manual effort that takes place here in the curve dow. This is where I would have to again hit claim, which cost me gas. And then let's pretend that I want to sell that curve token, which is around $3.50 today, according to uniswap prices. I have to go sell it, which is another two transactions, which means quite a bit of gas, as long as the gas prices are 100 or 200 guay.
00:23:02.070 - 00:24:05.050, Speaker A: So that brings me back to here, where I have this tool that sort of automates it all. And what this is doing is it's earning the curve CRV token, and then it's selling it for profit, and it's adding to my Y curve token. That y curve lp token, remember, that is like an IOU. So when I go back to this pool later to the Y pool, I will have even more of a claim on more stablecoins. So that's how I see the return here. Ultimately, I am over here in yearn finance in a vault, automating the earning and profit taking on the curve governance token. And then I'm earning more and more of that IOU or Y curve LP token, which then allows me to claim more stablecoins when I go here to withdraw.
00:24:05.050 - 00:24:38.520, Speaker A: Another option though, is I could choose to deposit Wifi, any of these stable coins. And there's also an ave interest bearing link token. This is if I have link I could have gone to ave, I can lend it, it's earning interest. And then I can take that a link which represents the ave interest bearing link, and I can do the exact same thing I did up above. I can deposit it. And now I'm earning 67.8% ROI according to the numbers today.
00:24:38.520 - 00:25:43.970, Speaker A: So when it comes to automating lots and lots of manual work, which can cost me lots of gas, this is pretty awesome for me to be able to save on that gas and save on that time and continue to maximize returns. If you want to learn more about the yield farming strategies behind this, I would encourage going to gov urine finance. There is all sorts of forums here, but there's one in particular on governance, vaults and why wiFi. So anyways, if you go in here and start searching, there's quite a bit of information. All right, so let's go ahead and recap all the different risks that I consider. First, as always, there's smart contract risk that is always top of mind for me. And I have smart contract risk related to urine finance, just the protocol that's actually providing for lending interest.
00:25:43.970 - 00:26:19.804, Speaker A: There's risk there. On top of that, it's exposing me to Dydx compound and Ave. So I'm lending my assets at any one time to one of those three pools. So I have to be comfortable with my money being lent to those three different platforms. On top of that, I have exposure to curve. And on top of just curve, I now am using the new curve dow. This is if I choose to use the liquidity gauges instead of the urine volts that I showed at the very end there.
00:26:19.804 - 00:27:29.664, Speaker A: So if I'm using this, these are newer, less tested smart contracts. So that's another bit of risk related to bugs in the code that I might worry about. And then lastly, there are the yvolts, which was an alternative to earning it manually in the curved dow. I can automate all of that and deposit my Y curve LP token, or any one of these assets here that were listed. But then I'm exposed to the smart contracts of urine, and I'm also exposed to any platforms involved in the yield farming strategies that are powering each one of these different assets that are being used for yield farming to generate the Roi that you see here. The one part of this equation that's really missing is I'm not going to cover the different yield farming strategies. I don't really understand all of them in depth, but the one I do understand more of is this Y curve vault, which is the one that I'm using.
00:27:29.664 - 00:28:30.436, Speaker A: And one of the simpler parts of the strategy is that it's earning the curve CRV governance token, and then it's selling it for profit, and then it's adding to my Y curve LP. The second risk that I consider is risk around the liquidity, especially around Dai. If I am in the Y curve pool, there's about 765,000,000 in terms of stablecoins there, but there's only 5% die. If I need die, let's pretend I deposit die, and then that is dai from a maker vault. So I have a loan with Makerdao, and the price of ETH is crashing, and I need that dye to pay back my loan. If I come back to withdraw my money, there's a chance that this pool could have no dye in it. There's a chance that it could have very little.
00:28:30.436 - 00:29:15.040, Speaker A: There's a chance I might have to pay an extremely high premium to get that dye because it's so in demand and everyone's trying to get it. So that would be like a liquidity crunch, and that would not be good. So that's the other risk I have to consider, especially in terms of using dai in these pools. The third risk I think about is I'm exposed to these different stable coins. So if any one of the pegs fails, if it doesn't hold to a dollar peg, that's also not good for the value of the assets that I'm holding. And then I also think about the peg for these tokenized bitcoins. So that's Ren bitcoin, wrapped bitcoin and synthetic bitcoin.
00:29:15.040 - 00:29:38.168, Speaker A: All right, that's all I've got for you today. Thank you so much for watching. If you have any questions, please comment on the YouTube video. You can also comment on my tweets at defi underscore dad. I try to do my best to answer all questions there. Please forgive me, there's been lots more questions lately. Sometimes it's harder to get to all of them, but really, really do try hard.
00:29:38.168 - 00:30:22.804, Speaker A: And then beyond that, please subscribe to my YouTube channel here. If you go to defidad.com, defidad.com, it'll take you to the YouTube channel here, and then you can click on playlists if you're newer to Defi, and there's a great playlist here that I continually update and reorganize called Defi for beginners. Even if you are very crypto literate and you've been in the crypto space for some time, but you're just getting yourself acquainted with Defi. This is a great playlist. It's got lots and lots of videos that I've made on both my channel here as well as bankless.
00:30:22.804 - 00:30:52.530, Speaker A: I make a video once a week for bankless tutorials, so there's a lot of great videos there as well, and I've organized all of those into a playlist here. And then beyond that, I'd say the second most popular playlist is yield farming. So there's lots and lots of yield farming ideas, strategies, tutorials there that I've walked through, and so that can be super helpful as well. Thanks again for watching and I'll see you next time.
