00:00:00.280 - 00:00:17.950, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 31 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. Unfortunately, it seems like I'll only be doing four episodes a week. That's what the universe has in store for me.
00:00:17.950 - 00:01:12.656, Speaker A: But anyway, I'm gonna try to do a full week again next week, but there is a bunch of stuff to go through, so let's jump right into it. So Tom Wan here mentioned that the ethereum's limit on daily activation exeq has increased from eight to nine validators per epoch. So a maximum amount of 2025 validators can be entered every day, up from 1800, thanks to the increase in number of active validators. Now, I've talked about this before, basically, as we hit certain points in the number of active validators, it means that we increase the amount of validators that can be activated per day, which is, which is obviously very, very awesome because it means longer, sorry, not longer, shorter queues for everyone here. Now, we currently have around 75,000 pending validators in the queue still, so it's still going to take a little while for that queue to be, well, the entry queue to be cleared. And Hannibal here actually put Hania Boo. I don't know how to say that.
00:01:12.656 - 00:01:54.730, Speaker A: Sorry has actually put together a new website called validatorq.com comma, which gives you a detailed breakdown of the queue of both the entry and exit queue and the wait time. So currently there is 75,782 validators in the entry queue, and you'll have a wait time of 37 days and 10 hours to become an active validator if you were to spin up a validator today. And then there's also historical validator Q charts and historical wait times, which is very cool to see. And historical validator count as well. So you can see here that because the, I guess like some of the validators got cleared and also the maximum amount that could be entered per day went up. You can see it kind of fell here in the historical wait time.
00:01:54.730 - 00:02:24.840, Speaker A: And the validator queue, I mean, has just been crazy. This suddenly goes back to May 21 or ten days now, but it's kind of funny how it's really just been up only I guess, like since withdrawals went live or just like since a little, little bit after withdrawals went live there. And you can also see the exit Q is just at zero. Like no one wants to exit Ethereum staking. And overall, I consider this to be just so incredibly bullish. And I've talked about this before, but basically you have all of these people staking ETH that are essentially staking it because they don't want to sell it. Right? Like you're not going to stake ETH.
00:02:24.840 - 00:02:56.068, Speaker A: If you want to sell it, you're staking it because you want to earn a money return on your investments. And you obviously believe in ETH over the longer term. Now, of course, not everyone is like that. Obviously there are different ways to enter an exit staking. You could be holding an LSD, which, you know, stere, whatever it is, and you can sell that into the market. And that may not necessarily show up as an, as an exiting validator on, on the beacon chain because you're just selling into a liquidity pool on the secondary market. Now, of course there are arbitrage opportunities depending on how out of sync the price gets with the fair value.
00:02:56.068 - 00:03:38.334, Speaker A: But still, a lot of the time it's just going to be, you know, people selling into the secondary liquidity and validate is not exiting there. But I think generally that's okay. I think just if you look at really the amount of ETH that's being staked, it's being, it's been up only. And that's a lot of ETH, you know, over 20 million ETH. Now that he staked that is earning that ETH denominator reward and that he's kind of in it for the, for the long term here. And why it's, it's bullish is because right now, as I mentioned, I guess not yesterday, the day before yesterday's episode where I talked about the market sentiment a little bit, really, what kind of is happening is that time based capitulation that I've spoken about before where essentially you've got the long term investors in the ecosystem right now, the short term speculators are gone. Most of the tourists are gone.
00:03:38.334 - 00:04:08.640, Speaker A: Pretty much all, actually. I would say 99% of them are gone. The 1% that are left to the tourists, I mean, they're by definition not really tourists, but maybe they're just like speculative gamblers. They're throwing money into things like meme coins, right. Whereas the longer term investors, they're just stacking ETH. And there is a limit to how much ETH they can stack per week because obviously they have a limited amount of money. And I guess like a clear example of this or a clear way of saying this is say that you're someone who gets paid once a week, right? You have a salary coming in once a week, and then you have a percentage of that that you allocate towards ETH.
00:04:08.640 - 00:04:54.160, Speaker A: Maybe you use 10% of your salary every week to buy some ETH. Well, that's, that's basically an effective cap because if there's no new investors coming in and the existing investors are just stacking ETH, then there is an effective cap on how much ETH could be bought realistically each week and bought and held as a long term investment. Obviously, there is volatility still in the markets because of the short term speculators, the scalpers, day traders, they're all there still, and that's totally fine, but there's obviously a lot less of them than there was back when the bull market was happening. And this is what basically happens. And this is why it's time based capitulation, because we're at an equilibria now between supply and demand, where essentially you have the demand there. But it's only from these longer term investors who are basically capped with how much they can buy, given that they don't have unlimited money. You know, they can't just print more money to buy, to buy ETH.
00:04:54.160 - 00:05:48.632, Speaker A: I mean, everyone wishes they could, of course, but they have to wait to get paid or make money in some other kind of fashion. Right? And then you also have the supply side of things, which really is, I mean, the supply side that I should say the sell side is pretty low as well right now, because, as I said, like, the tourists are gone, a lot of the short term traders are gone. So the volatility that you see is usually just people trying to trade, I guess, like derivatives. And the derivatives market right now has more activity in it than the spot market. So what that means is that when you have spot following derivatives, it's not exactly going to lead to any great price discovery because derivatives is not really where price discovery happens for the longer term. Longer term price discovery happens on the spot market, and you have all that kind of playing out. So there is an equilibria now, eventually that equilibria hits a point where, and especially during a time based capitulation bear market, where essentially there we start going up.
00:05:48.632 - 00:06:11.168, Speaker A: You know, the price starts going up slowly and slowly. And then obviously as the price keeps going up, more and more people could become interested. They fomo in, they buy. Maybe that was sitting on the sidelines lines with some cash, and they're like, you know what? I'm not going to put this cash into ETH right now, I'm going to wait because I think it's going to go down and then it doesn't go down. And then it goes up to 2500 and then it goes up to 3000. And then you start the FOMO cycle again. And then obviously the big bull market starts again.
00:06:11.168 - 00:06:42.370, Speaker A: So that's kind of how it usually plays out within crypto. And I think just generally over the longer term, across all markets. You know, I've been looking into a lot of other markets lately just out of curiosity, doing a deeper dive into pretty much every market that I can kind of, that I can think of. And it always is the same thing. I mean, there are obviously different types of markets where there is maybe a government, government holds up a market more than one other market. Like the real estate market obviously is subsidized a lot by different government programs, especially here in Australia. There are a lot of government incentives and things like that.
00:06:42.370 - 00:07:35.930, Speaker A: And it is obviously very, very heavily affected by things like immigration and things like supply and demand. Obviously, if there's not enough houses and lots of immigration, you have the same dynamic there. But really over the longer term, the markets really look the same. Right? You buy or you want to be buying. As I said on the episode the other day, when it's, when it's quiet, when people, when it's like a hated thing, right? When it's like a hated asset class and people are like, you know, this is going to nuke to zero, blah, blah, and then you want to be selling when there's just so much kind of craziness going on in the markets that it doesn't seem like it's going to sustain itself because you need more and more money as, as time goes on to sustain that. And I think bringing it back to crypto, this is especially true. And this is, this is what originally got me really interested in Hal press as an individual and his thesis on things where he essentially talked about these flows where essentially the higher the price of ETH and BTC go, right? Because, I mean, this is pre merge.
00:07:35.930 - 00:08:28.054, Speaker A: Let's talk about ETH pre merge when it was on proof of work, the higher the price of Ethan BTC went, obviously the miners are selling, are still earning the same rewards if it's, you know, obviously every four years, the bitcoin supply halves. But during that four year period, whether the USD price is $100 or $10,000 for BTC, the miners would still be earning the same block reward. And what happens is that at a $100, obviously the the sell side is a lot less than what it is at $10,000. Because if the miners are selling the same BTC or same amount of BTC, there's more and more sell pressure. And now you might be thinking, well, you know, the price of BTC is going up. That means the miners don't have to sell as much BTC for the same USD costs. And like, yes, but the problem is, or I guess like the, maybe not the problem, but the reality is, is that the price of, sorry, the costs go up because more and more miners join, because hash rate follows price.
00:08:28.054 - 00:09:04.534, Speaker A: And this was true for Ethereum as well. Now, in a world where essentially you have that happening and the USD price keeps going up, it just leads to more and more USD sell pressure. And that means that there needs to be more buy pressure to offset that and eventually hits a point where that that's not happening anymore. And we have those big crashes that we saw. I think a lot of people forget that the blow off top that we saw in May 2021 was incredibly brutal. I mean, I don't remember what it was for BTC, but for ETH, ETH went from four thousand, four hundred dollars to one thousand seven hundred dollars in a week, guys, a week. And that's, you know, that's a big asset, right? That's not, I'm not talking about all the other assets.
00:09:04.534 - 00:09:22.670, Speaker A: If you look at the other assets, they got crushed even more. But ETH went from 4400 to 1700 in a week. It was so quick and so decisive because there was so much leverage built up. There was so much money needed to maintain those price points, and it just went crazy. Right? We had a lot of liquidations happen. A lot of people lost money. A lot of people made money.
00:09:22.670 - 00:10:08.866, Speaker A: Of course, if they were, well, maybe not a lot of people made money. Some people made money, but that's usually kind of what we see there now in a post merge world. Why this is really bullish for ETH is because, yes, okay, obviously stakers are getting paid an ETH reward from the consensus layer and obviously execution layer stuff as well. But when you look at just the consensus layer, as the ETH price goes up in us dollars, the costs for stakers don't go up. It's not like mining, where essentially you need to buy more and more miners to keep your share of the network, to make sure that you can keep up with everyone else. Obviously, if you want to add more validators, you can, but your costs as a stake are very, very low. Your electricity costs are negligible your maintenance costs, your hardware costs are negligible compared to under proof of work.
00:10:08.866 - 00:10:46.896, Speaker A: And obviously Ethereum's issuance is a lot less than it was under proof of work. It's 90% less. And then we have the burn offsetting that as well. So what do you think happens when the USD price of ETH keeps going up and we don't have that kind of same sell pressure that we did under proof of work? The flows are going to be in ETH's favor. And this is why I'm so bullish on ETH against other assets in particular, not just us dollars, but against assets like BTC. And why I still believe the flipping is inevitable, because ETH is just not going to have that sell pressure that other things have. And you may be thinking, okay, well, there are other proof of stake coins out there, and there are other other coins out there that don't have, that aren't, aren't on proof of work at all.
00:10:46.896 - 00:11:41.754, Speaker A: They're applied coins. It's like, okay, yes, but they have other sources of massive sell pressure. So for example, a lot of the, I guess like non networks, like the apps and other such things, they have massive amounts of tokens that belong to insiders, that belong to the investors and the team and those unlocking over time, and they add extra cell pressure and stuff like that. I guess during this cycle, for everything that's vested out here, I'm not saying the prices aren't going to go up, but that's, that's a source of sell pressure for that, whereas with ETH, it just has a lot less source of sell pressure than these other things do. And that's just one reason why I believe ETH is going to outperform pretty much everything over the long term. And I mean, it kind of has, there's, there's a few notable exceptions to that, but picking those exceptions is really hard as well. So yeah, a little bit of a bullish rant there, but I think something that's going to play out definitely in a big way when demand comes back.
00:11:41.754 - 00:12:23.118, Speaker A: And as I've said before, I will tell you guys when I think that the bull market has returned in earnest, and I'm probably going to be late to that. But really what I'm kind of looking for to declare a new bull market is when it's kind of obvious. And it may not be obvious to people that haven't been around for that long, but for me it becomes obvious. And I can give like a rough kind of view of what I mean here, if we get to like a $3,000 ETH and we hold that price level for a little while, then it becomes obvious to me because we can go to $3,000 and easily go back to like $1,500 ETH. That can easily happen. And you may not believe it can, but it can. Now, if we go to $3,000 and maybe we stay there for like 3000 or more, and we stay there for like a week or a month.
00:12:23.118 - 00:12:50.790, Speaker A: I mean, a week probably not long enough, but like a month or a couple months or three months, then you kind of think to yourself, okay, well, there isn't enough people wanting to sell to get us back below 3000. This must be a new bull market. And then you actually, you won't just feel it in the ETH price, but you'll feel it as an ecosystem. You'll see a lot of other things start to go up. You'll feel the new people coming into the ecosystem. Crypto, Twitter will come alive again. Like, there'll be all these signals that follow the price here that will convince you that it is a new bull market.
00:12:50.790 - 00:13:28.260, Speaker A: And that's when I would, I would kind of give, give you my guys, my view is when that all happened, but we're nowhere near that right now. Right now we're in that time based capitulation. It's just long term investors stacking ETH, stacking other things that they believe in as time goes on. And I think that's going to be what this year is. And honestly, I haven't even mentioned the macro environment or like stocks or outside of crypto environment even once, because as I've maintained for a long time, I don't think that has a big impact on crypto at all. I really do think crypto definitely still follows its own kind of cycle. I know people will say, well, last year was really bad for stocks and crypto, and it was kind of the same thing.
00:13:28.260 - 00:14:04.782, Speaker A: It's like, okay, yeah, fair enough. But at the same time, crypto had a really brutal time in 2018, 2019. And stocks, by comparison, didn't really, if you look back and same with other times that cryptos have had their own bear market. So I think that obviously, you can draw kind of correlations here, but generally, I don't think there's that much overlap yet between the two kind of markets. There will be more as time goes on because as the asset class becomes more institutionalized and all that sorts of stuff, there will be more and more overlap. But I think for now, crypto is doing its own thing. Still, I think that next year is probably going to be a positive year.
00:14:04.782 - 00:14:31.554, Speaker A: This year feels a lot like 2019 to me in terms of what the market is just doing. Maybe a more muted version of 2019 because in 2019, if you recall, ETH went from like eighty dollars to three hundred sixty dollars, which is like a wife over a four x or 4.5 x or something like that. Whereas this time around ETH has gone from 880 to 2200. So it's like a two, two and a half x at most. And then it's kind of hung around here. So the volatility obviously is less.
00:14:31.554 - 00:14:50.786, Speaker A: But I think that's due to ETH market cap being a lot bigger. But also ETH didn't have that Ponzi fueling at the plus token Ponzi. You can google what that is. That was fueling both ETH and BTC. So yeah, I think generally this year is just going to be a lot of sideways in that well defined range. Maybe it goes back to the low one thousands. I don't know.
00:14:50.786 - 00:15:18.238, Speaker A: There are a few people thinking that's going to happen because they want, they think the market needs to test that area. I don't know. But my kind of defined range for ETH for this year is between 1000 and 2500. That is like the defined range. I know it's a big range, but that is the range that I think that ETH will hang around in for the majority, if not all of this year. And then next year I think we're going to see more, more kind of movement and more positivity. Because really a lot of the Duma stuff that has been said about everything has not really materialized.
00:15:18.238 - 00:16:04.826, Speaker A: And the longer that it doesn't materialize, the more the overall sentiment changes and the more the bears capitulate because there are still a lot of bears thinking that eats going to go to like $400 or $500 and that BTC is going to go like sub ten k. You need to wait for those kinds of people to capitulate and them to be like, okay, well, it's not going there. You know, I've changed my view here. And they start buying and then the price naturally starts going up and more and more people get, get excited and the FOMO starts and then we get the bull market again. So anyway, I spent a good 15 minutes on that, but that was kind of the interesting topic that I wanted to talk about today that I mentioned in the Discord channel. And there's one other one that I'll talk about at the end as well. But, yeah, hopefully that gives you some context around how I think about these things, why I've always maintained that I'm a long term guy, and why being a long term person is so much better than being a short term person.
00:16:04.826 - 00:16:22.674, Speaker A: It just. It's so much more fun, and it also leads to much better outcomes, both socially and financially. But it is a learned skill. It's not something. It's not something that can be taught. I don't think, like, as much as I'm saying these things to you guys, I think you have your own experiences that you learn from. And at the end of the day, I can tell you as much, you know these things as much as.
00:16:22.674 - 00:16:53.630, Speaker A: As much as I can. But it's up to you whether you want to heed my not advice, but, like, what I say or not. And I think the funny thing, and just last thing here on this note, is that I was thinking about this the other day, or maybe a few weeks ago now, where I said to myself, imagine if you had someone who could actually see into the future, and everyone knew that. That someone could see into the future because they had 100% hit rate. They told you each. Each day, or what the price of Ethan or any asset was going to be at this date. This date, whatever.
00:16:53.630 - 00:17:15.086, Speaker A: And let's say they could see out into the future, and they. And it's been tried and tested, and they've been able to predict the price with 100% accuracy. So they could literally see the future. There would still be people, a lot of people, who would not believe that. They would still doubt that. They would still say, well, no, that's wrong. What if they're wrong this time? Even if they had 100% hit rate, they would still doubt it.
00:17:15.086 - 00:17:46.780, Speaker A: And that just speaks to the fact that that investing is a learned skill is not something that can be taught. Because there is always going to be people who doubt what you say, doubt your opinion on things. Even if you could tell the future, even if you had 100% hit rate, that would still doubt you. Because then they would think to themselves, what if he's wrong this time? Right? And that's fair enough, because you can have 100% hit rate, and you can literally see the future. And then what happens if you get something wrong? Because you can no longer see the future? Or what happens if you just lie? Right? So that's actually healthy. But again, that speaks to why it's. It's a learned skill.
00:17:46.780 - 00:18:29.256, Speaker A: You have to trust yourself. You can't really trust anyone else to tell you where the market's going to go or what's going to happen here and all these people who do threads on Twitter telling you what the market's going to do, I can bring up some threads that are absolute garbage. There was one from I believe the beginning of last year that went through all these assets that they thought were going to go nuts and they all nuked during, during last year, obviously. So I think that listening to yourself from experience is probably the best way of to going about it there. But anyway, gonna end that one there. A bunch of other stuff to get through. So Beacon chain has a new service or a new kind of page on their website which shows you which staking services are currently have a super majority or currently running a super majority client.
00:18:29.256 - 00:19:05.008, Speaker A: So you can see here that different services, I mean there's plenty of different services here, are being labeled and what they're using. So the ETH pool and ethermine staking are not using a super majority client, which is pretty cool to see, but the vast majority still are. Rocket pool isn't, which is, which is great as well. But an attestant isn't either. But the vast majority are now. So what is a super majority client? Well, basically it means that you're running an execution layer or consensus layer client that has more than 66% of the network. Now, of course, on the consensus layer side, no client has a super majority right now.
00:19:05.008 - 00:19:30.744, Speaker A: But on the execution layer side of things, according to some data sources out there, Geth has more than 66% of the network share. So they have super majority client and that's what these services will be running. They'd be running Geth here. So this is a great way to monitor. I would hope to see most of these in the green eventually, but it's a great way to monitor and see which ones are in the green and which ones are not. So you can check this out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:19:30.744 - 00:20:11.502, Speaker A: All right, last thing on staking. Jasper from the rockable community has highlighted that the first 10,000 plus Areth mint was just processed without a hitch. When rocket pool launched, the Mac Max deposit possible was only two k ETH. All whales, treasuries and protocols and dows now need to heed this call. Rocker pool is ready. Don't settle for permission staking. So yeah, if you are a whale, you can now basically deposit through rocket pool with 10,000 plus ap and you can actually see the deposit pool at rocket scan IO slash deposit pool to see how full it is and what the kind of pool is, what the state of the pool is like, I should say, and I'll wait for this website to, to load here.
00:20:11.502 - 00:20:42.520, Speaker A: But, but yeah, as Jasper says, there is no excuse really. There's no need to go with these bigger staking providers unless you're like a mega whale. But then at that point like a mega whale to me is like someone who has hundreds of thousands of ETH or I guess a group of people that have hundreds of thousands of ETH. Like there's, there's no reason for you to go if you have less than that 10,000 ETH or something like that for you to go with the permissions platform. You can go with Rockapool, you can go with other, the centralized staking providers. If you have hundreds of thousands of ETH. Honestly at that point you should just be setting up your own thing.
00:20:42.520 - 00:21:17.712, Speaker A: You shouldn't be going with any of these services because if you for yourself, for your own kind of peace of mind here, you should be setting up your own staking service, staking operation. Or if you don't trust yourself to do that, then you should be, you could be outsourcing it but outsourcing it to a player that is not dominant player. So you wouldn't be outsourcing it to someone like, like lido. Um, you wouldn't be outsourcing it to a centralized exchange like Coinbase or binance already has a big market share. You'd be maybe going towards the smaller market shares. And rocketball could still be a solution for you as well. Maybe you want to stake a little bit with them and a little bit with someone else, a little bit there, here and there.
00:21:17.712 - 00:21:43.960, Speaker A: But yeah, if you have hundreds of thousands of each, you should definitely check, definitely be a lot more careful with who you stake with. And Rockerpool is obviously a great choice for you as well. You could do some with rocker pool, some with another service here. But yeah, just great to see this, this growth here. You can monitor this for yourself at the rocket scan website, rocket scan IO deposit pool. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so another EIP 4844 implementers call.
00:21:43.960 - 00:22:19.314, Speaker A: That is summarized by Terrence here. As usual, the three big topics that were covered, two of them have to do with more technical details that may not be of interest to most of you. But the third thing was the Devnet six scope and testing update. So that's the thing that we're all looking for, Devnet six planning. So the update on that is that they reviewed the remaining prs or pull requests, unblocking Devnet Devnet six with adding new the new prs. The new change will apply to all of the specs and the general consensus is to include data gas used for Devnet six and have another 4844 Devnet before moving on to Testnet. So.
00:22:19.314 - 00:22:53.582, Speaker A: And then lastly Mario Mario went over the executions, Pecs test and Hive test work. So yeah, we're getting very close to Devnet six it seems like. And we may only get one more Devnet after that, Devnet seven, potentially Devnet eight before we move on to testnets. And these will be more private testnets or short lived test nets and then obviously moving on to the long lived test nets and then going to Mainnet. So I'm still pretty confident we're getting 48 44 by the end of the year, which is going to be a huge boon. I was actually talking in the Discord channel today about something that I'm actually going to cover in a sec. I'm actually going to cover this.
00:22:53.582 - 00:23:49.300, Speaker A: So I'm not going to mention I was talking about in regards to that this just yet, but you can read the 48 44 thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But actually I think this is a perfect segue into what Coinbase wallet announced today was that they introduced gas free USDC sends on the Coinbase wallets on the Polygon Pos chain. So why this is big and why this is a big deal, why this is related to 4844 is that Coinbase is going to be launching base, probably post 4844. I think that that's what they're going to wait for. I think they're potentially going to wait for 48 44 to go live on the network because Jesse Polak, who is heavily involved or basically leads the base project at Coinbase, is heavily involved in EIP 4844 work and development and kind of stewarding that along there. So I think that base will launch after 4844 goes live and will probably have native support for 4844, which means the fees will be extremely cheap on that network generally.
00:23:49.300 - 00:25:15.976, Speaker A: But then I think that what they're going to do is that they're going to enable free USDC sends on base because if they're doing it on the Polygon Pos chain, which is actually more expensive and will be definitely more expensive than base and any of the l two s post 4844, then they can afford to do it on base because as I said before, when they first launch base, they're going to be the only ones running a sequencer. So they're the only ones paying for both the l one fees and the infrastructure or the sequencer fees, and it's going to be negligible. So they're going to be able to capture an absolutely massive amount of network share by doing free USDC transfers on their base network, not to mention all the other bd that I'm sure they're going to do around it. So that is going to be huge, guys. I actually think people are underestimating how big that's going to be and how big of a deal that's going to be for getting not just people that already use on chain products into using l two s, but people that have never touched on chain products before, the Coinbase user base and the Coinbase wallet user base. They're going to be getting their first experience with on chain stuff using base and it's going to be an l two on ethereum and they're going to be able to interact with the entire ethereum ecosystem, which in my mind is incredibly, incredibly bullish, and I just can't wait to see how that all plays out. But I am very, very confident that they're going to be doing gas free USDC sends on their base network, because if they're doing it on the Polygon PoS chain, which is costing them more to do it, they're going to be doing it on the their base network.
00:25:15.976 - 00:25:57.644, Speaker A: And I reckon that's going to be a permanent thing. I don't think they're going to, they're going to change that because at the end of the day, for them, adoption of both USDC and base is way more important than the little bit of money that they would save by not making them free here. Now, of course there has to be some kind of way to do it in a. In a way that's that it's not gamed and it doesn't end up costing them a lot because people are just spamming the network and I'm sure they've thought of that and will implement controls around that. But yeah, this is actually pretty cool, pretty amazing. And I absolutely love that they've done this and I love that this basically sends a signal that there is. I mean, it wouldn't be 100% chance, but I'm very confident that it's like 99% chance that they're going to do the same thing on the base network once it goes live.
00:25:57.644 - 00:26:34.386, Speaker A: All right, so Chris here from scroll has a great thread and article around those finality events, or I guess lots of finality events that happened on the Ethereum beacon chain on May 11 and May 12, so you can go check out the blog post and thread for yourself. But as I said, it is great. It actually breaks down exactly what happened, the implications of it, lessons learned, all those sorts of stuff, and it is quite an easy read. It's not a long blog post, not a long thread either. As I said, highly recommend checking this out and giving it a read because it recaps things better than I can. It recaps things better than I think that most people did. Honestly.
00:26:34.386 - 00:27:37.836, Speaker A: Besides maybe the actual post mortem from from the pry labs team themselves, this is just a great breakdown, a great overall kind of summary of what happened and the implications and the lessons learned. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, hop protocol has announced that Reth bridging or Rockapool ETH bridging is now supported on ethereum optimism and arbitrum. This is the first cross chain bridge supported for any liquid staking token. This is really, really awesome because obviously there is a big issue with people wanting to buy Areth and they've only been able to really do it on layer one and haven't been able to really easily bridge between the L2s and layer one here. So thanks to the combined effort of rocket pool and the hop communities, the Reth pool has been incentivized with RPR rewards and an Areth Bonda has been set up for this bridge here so you can get on board and stake your Reth on optimism and arbitram today to start accruing RPL on top of the amm trading fees. And the TVL right now obviously is going to be a little bit low, I believe.
00:27:37.836 - 00:28:18.510, Speaker A: I haven't looked at it what it is, but in this screenshot it was, it was a little bit low. But given the that it's incentivized, given that this is something that the communities have worked on collectively, I think that liquidity and that TVL is going to get a lot better and it's going to make bridging reth between these different chains a lot easier and a lot smoother, which is going to lead to more adoption or more overall adoption for rocket pool ETH and obviously Rockerpool as a network. So you can go check this out for yourself. If you have ra that's just sitting there doing nothing, this may be something that you're interested in in providing liquidity to. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, finally, here is something funny that I wanted to talk about. Maybe something a little bit controversial.
00:28:18.510 - 00:29:07.084, Speaker A: So we've all seen that this Ben ETH person on Twitter has issued these meme coins and has been able to raise, or at least get, like, make a lot of money. I think that they've raised more than $18 million or more than $20 million over the last few weeks, which is just crazy. But this tweet here basically says that the Ethereum ICO only raised $18.3 million back in 2014. So it is kind of wild to see that one random grifter on in crypto can raise more than what the Ethereum ICO raised. Now, obviously, this speaks to the fact that the ecosystem is just like a thousand times bigger than it was back when the Ethereum ICO happened. And Ethereum, and we've seen a lot of other projects raise random amounts of money like this, or much more money than this.
00:29:07.084 - 00:29:59.122, Speaker A: Obviously, we saw big ICO raises in 2017, and since then we've seen a lot of big vc or insider raises as well. But what I want to talk about is that I think that the sad thing is, is that the more, I guess, like, scams and grips that we see in crypto, I guess, like, it's a, it's a sign of, like, how much growth there is and how much money there is in the ecosystem. And I think it can be a sign, or I guess like a top signal sign for in a bull market. Because in a bull market, and especially towards the end, we see, we see a lot of random stuff, a lot of scams, a lot of griffs just pumping for no reason. We see a lot of stupid stuff raising money, a lot of things, especially last bull market, it was nfts, a lot of just stupid nfts going nuts. And like, people were just paying enormous amounts of money for these things. I'm not talking about the nfts that people consider to be blue chips, like the bored apes and the punks and stuff like that.
00:29:59.122 - 00:30:53.084, Speaker A: I'm talking about those random 10,000 profile picture nfts that no one wanted, no one asked for, that were just absolute trash, that looked like trash that people were throwing money at because there was just so much money going around that they thought they could make a buck on it, right? They thought they could turn a profit on it. And those kind of things, for me at least, are like the toppiest of top signals. When that kind of stuff's happening, I'm like you know what? Because people are just indiscriminately throwing their money at absolute crap, it means that there's a lot of money being taken out of the ecosystem because the smart players right now are taking profit, and eventually their profit taking is going to exceed the amount of new money coming into the ecosystem and the amount of dumb money that's left to just throw at these random kind of shit coins or meme coins or shit nfts. I guess that it's going to lead to a nuke. And that's exactly what we saw. We saw it in May 2021, and then we saw it at the end of 2021. And then obviously since then, we've seen a lot of fallout, a lot of things blowing up, a lot of daisy chain leverage and stuff like that.
00:30:53.084 - 00:31:14.774, Speaker A: So I think that this tweet just, just had me thinking about and wanting to talk about the fact that when you start seeing that kind of crazy stuff happening, it might be good to start thinking about taking some profits. And I know it becomes very hard because you start seeing people say it's a new paradigm. This is going to continue forever. You know, such and such is going to this price or this is going to this price. Look at this. Look at this chart. Look at this ta.
00:31:14.774 - 00:31:46.072, Speaker A: At the end of the day, it all ends the same. Every single time. It ends the same way, just like it begins the same way. Just as I spoke about at the beginning of the episode, that bull markets begin the same way as they. The same way every time bear mark or bull markets end the same way every time bear markets start the same way. Same way every time. Things get overheated, things get over inflated, people get stupid with things, the new money stops coming in, or too many people get wrecked, that they, they pull out their money, and then we see those big crashes that happen and then all the daisy chain stuff from there, because everything is connected.
00:31:46.072 - 00:32:31.632, Speaker A: At the end of the day. Like, if you wanted to pinpoint the, basically the start of the contagion that led to both the bull and bear market, I think you can actually, or at least led to a lot of the bull market and a lot of the bear market blowing up. The certain players, you can actually point to GBTC and ETH Grayscale's products because they were closed ended products because they led to a lot of, a lot of buying from bigger players that couldn't exit. And they leveraged that, and they leveraged that on leverage. And then obviously, we had the FTX stuff that happened and we had three ac, we had Terra. Like, you can actually go back and point to that as the source of both potentially the beginning of the bull market and the ending of the bull market and the contagion that kind of happened from, from there. So there is always going to be that stuff happening.
00:32:31.632 - 00:33:12.332, Speaker A: It's just the learned skill is spotting it and then not just spotting it and realizing that it's happening, but beginning to act on it and acting on it in investing is obviously taking profits and making sure that you don't get swept up in, in the, in the crazy mania because at the end of the day, you can take profits and then still get fomo because maybe the price keeps going up. Like, for example, I know a lot of people that took profits at $2,000 ETH when ETH first went to, went to two k, and then obviously ETH went a lot higher than that. And they're like, oh, you know, fuck, I shouldn't have sold there. I shouldn't have sold there. But a lot of them, especially the people that have been in it for, for a long time, didn't regret it. They're like, I know the price is going to potentially go higher, but I don't care. I'm taking profits now.
00:33:12.332 - 00:33:26.594, Speaker A: I can't times, tops, tops and bottoms. I'm dca ing out just like I dca'd in. And that's the way I'm going to do it. And that's, that's what I'm sticking to. And sticking to your plan is pretty much the hardest thing to do because everyone has a plan, right? And then they get punched in the face. And that's what happens in the bull market. You have a plan.
00:33:26.594 - 00:34:03.970, Speaker A: You have a plan you formulated in a bear market, and the bull market punches you in the face and causes you to get confused. You're like, is it really a new paradigm? Should I sell here? Is it going to go higher? And then you don't end up selling and then you end up holding it through a bear market and you end up coping. And there's a lot of people who I can clearly tell when they're coping because, or coping because of them not, you know, taking profits or them being underwater on their bags, because they get really aggressive really, really quickly. When you start telling, telling them that what they've invested in is actually trash because they don't want to hear that. They want to hear that what they invested in is going to go back to the price that they invested in at and they're going to be able to exit at break even. And maybe even a profit. So.
00:34:03.970 - 00:34:27.367, Speaker A: So yeah. Anyway, I spoke about the markets and investing a lot today, but I just figured it was something worth talking about because it is very relevant, especially during the time based capitulation phase of the bear market and something that I think a lot of you guys are pretty interested in generally. But anyway, on that though, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:34:27.367 - 00:34:27.823, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
