00:00:09.690 - 00:01:14.926, Speaker A: Thanks for joining our rollout day. And as Emory mentioned, right apart from the Ras services we provide, actually most of our team members are from this academic background. So we are doing a bunch of the research and development in the like crypto space and basically that's why later we will invite a lot of researchers to present their latest research. And today we sort of to review some of the new progress we have done for the past few months or the past one and a half years. A lot of these new middleware and services we provide on top of the roll ups. So the first one is sort of like this decentralized sequencing and execution as we all know right now for a lot of roll apps and also roll up service providers, we are still building this relatively closed system. So we provide sort of the hardware or infrastructure for some applications and in that case it's very PvP, as you can see from the crypto.
00:01:14.926 - 00:02:31.094, Speaker A: Twitter, right, some people say that all roll up as service are going to zero because you have so many providers and down to the road everyone trying to decrease the cost or the pricing plot just to make sure they can get the customer. So in the end, in our opinion, we feel that either for rollabs or roller service providers. So in the end we should really build an open system basically. Not like we just host a node for you and we claim that it's a roll up for you, we should make it very open. So that's why before we make the rollab service into zero, we want to have a very open and decentralized ecosystem to welcome everyone, to become part of the ecosystem, to have the network effect. For example, for a lot of no operators, they can join the system as a sequencer or executor to provide a service either for the roll up itself or for the applications. So then the first thing like we want to have this layer to basically make it open and universal execution protocol, the idea that if you look at all layers infrastructure, we have so called beacon layer to orchestrate all the nodes from the community to become of the roll up systems.
00:02:31.094 - 00:03:44.126, Speaker A: So you can just join this network via this kind of infrastructure or protocol level interfaces and later on this sort of protocol will help you to assign you as the sequencers executor or even Verifiers for different roll apps. As you can see right the end goal in our opinion for all the rollout system, it has to work to this kind of decentralization for the entire roll up ecosystem. And the second cool research we are building together with eigen layer is basically a faster fancy layer. Amre basically presented on Tuesday and I also briefly mentioned on Monday during the estaker event. So in general why we need a faster finality because for all the roll apps there's sort of like hard finality, you have to have your transaction confirmed on the Ethereum. But right now if you really want to have a hard finality confirmed on Ethereum, right, it typically takes you like minimum two epochs which is over like twelve minutes. But for a lot of applications, especially games or different applications on top of roll ups, right, they want a faster fancy.
00:03:44.126 - 00:04:42.866, Speaker A: For example, a software confirmation on roll up sequencer typical is less than 2 seconds. So that's the type of range they want to achieve via this roll up with a faster fancy layer. So for some project, right, they can choose this slow confirmation for all the transactions they will hash sort of posted to the Ethereum. They can get that kind of finality on it. Or as I just mentioned, we work with Eigen layer so we try to provide faster financial wear middle layer for all the different roll ups either spin off by us or by some other providers to really quickly achieve more confidence in transaction from one roll up to another roll up. So that's the thing. As I just mentioned, right, this mark network we introduced here is just to reduce sort of the confirmation duration across different roll ups.
00:04:42.866 - 00:05:55.998, Speaker A: The idea that we have this middleware layer to quickly verify all the state transitions across different roll ups. So in that case you can have more confidence from the result provided by such middleware layer. And roughly as you can see the design, right, as a strawman design, basically the sequencer can produce the transaction blocks and the mark network. You can treat it as sort of funnel network and do all the verification for the state transactions. But at the same time, as I mentioned, we definitely made a lot of improvement and basically work together with Eigen layer to make sure the restaking and also the economic security can guarantee this faster final layer can provide a much better finality confirmation for all different roll ups and application. On top of it, the rough idea that is sort of like via this Mac network, all the transaction and state can be reverified by this Mac network and then across different rollouts, right, they can quickly check the sort of the state verification across different rollout. In that case, the most straightforward use case is a Bridging service.
00:05:55.998 - 00:07:03.794, Speaker A: And beyond that I just mentioned, right, with this network, sometimes you don't really need to do the heavy proof on Ethereum because sometimes we do the validity proof or even the fraud proof. It takes a lot of time or takes a lot of cost on the hardware. But with this network, if you really want this faster finality, this middleware can really quickly do all the verification to reduce the cost, but at the same time can achieve a rightly better confidence for the transactions executed on different roll apps. And the last one is also very exciting and at the same time we help some of our partners to reduce the cost for their ZK proof. It's sort of like a collaboration together with Risa Zero and later Brett will talk more about it. So the idea that we all know, right, ZK proof is always sort of like the go to solution or direction for lot of roll apps to make sure every state transition can be correctly verified and proofed on chain. But at the same time the cost of approval is relatively high at the moment.
00:07:03.794 - 00:08:10.680, Speaker A: So is it a way we can combine sort of the low cost of a fraud proof or fraud proof and at the same time also security of ZK proof? That's something we just proposed like past two weeks. It's ZK fault proof. Basically. As you can see right in this ZK fault proof mechanism, the Challengers only generate a ZK proof when there's something wrong. And instead of doing this bisection lensing protocol, we just make the Challenger generally approved immediately after that posted on the L1, so the L1 can do the verification very quickly. So in general, as you can see right earlier, we're not just providing the roller stacks on top of it to cater for more customers, we are doing a lot of research on the cutting edge topics. Just try to provide more decentralized and more secure rollab services for all different rollab providers and the same time for all the different applications in the space.
00:08:10.680 - 00:08:31.180, Speaker A: So that's a quick word through for all of you and hope you enjoy the conference this afternoon. We will have a lot of amazing speakers and the researchers. Thanks a lot. You our channel.
