00:00:00.200 - 00:00:17.102, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sino and Taser, 8 September 2023. Right everyone, let's get into it. So I just apologies for the mess behind me. I'm doing some stuff in my study today and I didn't get it done in time. You can see there's like stepladders and things like that around me.
00:00:17.102 - 00:00:35.622, Speaker A: I'm moving figurines around. It's always a fun day when I, when I do that. Um, but yeah, just apologies for that. But anyway, you don't care about that. Let's go into the news. So to kick off today, we have some news out of the CFTC, which is the commodity futures Trading Commission in the US. It is basically the sister regulator to the SEC.
00:00:35.622 - 00:01:05.750, Speaker A: It is responsible for regulating futures products, derivatives products in the US and everything in between. Now this is not positive news. This is out of the CFTC. This is, you know what, I don't even know if it's negative news, it's just news. And the headline here on the block reads that the CFTC has, has settled charges against Defi protocols opine or Open Zero X and Dyradex. So I guess like I had heard of two of these before. Dyradex I may have heard of before, but Zero X is a very, very old project.
00:01:05.750 - 00:01:51.846, Speaker A: Now they did an ICO all the way back in 2017. Open is also quite, not exactly new, but not old. So it's been around for a little while here. But yeah, these are all us based protocols, of course. And the CFTC has gone after each of them and ordered them to pay civil monetary penalties of 250,000, 200,100 thousand respectively to each of them and to cease and desist from violating the Commodity Exchange Act, act and CFTC regulations. So essentially what they have kind of, I guess, like, or how they've run afoul of the CFTC here is that they had products that they had created and issued themselves that were available to us persons. And these products were I guess like derivatives products and futures products and things like that.
00:01:51.846 - 00:02:42.710, Speaker A: And the thing is, is that I believe pretty much all of them blocked us people from being able to access these products. At least geo blocked them. Obviously you can't block them if they're using a VPN or anything like that. But apparently that wasn't enough. Now I haven't read the whole kind of detailed detail details on this, but essentially you can see here a quote that says the order finds that OSQTH tokens, which is opens products, are swaps and leveraged or margined retail commodity transactions and therefore can be offered to retail users only on a registered exchange in accordance with the CA and CFTC regulations. Open unlawfully operated a facility for the trading or processing of sops without registering as a SEF here. So the CFTC recognizes each respondent's substantial cooperation with the division of enforcement investigation of this matter in the form of a reduced civil monetary penalty.
00:02:42.710 - 00:03:35.638, Speaker A: The regulator are continued. So yeah, I mean, as I said, not bad. I mean, not good, good news, not exactly bad news, it's kind of just news. But I think when I look at this and when I look under the hood here, it seems that the CFTC is really just applying the law here, I guess because if you want things to change in the US or I guess anywhere when it comes to regulating or I guess like legislating on crypto, it needs to be done at the, at the kind of like base, right? The laws need to be changed and they need to be updated in order to reflect the changing, I guess, financial system that we live in today, where essentially there are smart contracts that power it, which means that they're not, and there are validators that everyone runs around the world that confirms transactions. So that aren't exactly money transmitters. The smart contractors do that, can do these things on their own. People can create their own tokens from anywhere in the world.
00:03:35.638 - 00:04:23.123, Speaker A: And you, and you can very easily and trivially get around geo blocks, right? There's no way to know because there's no KYc and Aml. There's no way to know who your counterparty is here. And even if there was KYC and AML, those things are very easily defeated, um, in various different ways. So yeah, I think that the laws and regulations need to be updated to reflect this. And it seems like the CFTC, I guess, is applying the law, or at least applying the law as, as, as how they see it. Now, Jake Chavinsky actually had a comment about this where he said, uh, he has like a tweet here where he said, perhaps we should later rest the idea that the CFTC is a better regulator for crypto than the SEC. Apparently today the CFTC violated the court's opinion in the uniswap class action and its own principles in an attack on Defi.
00:04:23.123 - 00:04:57.412, Speaker A: And apparently one of the CFTC commissioners here dissented and she, she wrote her dissent here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And then Ryan Sean Adams replied to this tweet asking, you know, how are we going to win when they just keep respawning genslers? I'm here and fighting. It's just depressing. And then Jake gave us a bit of hopium here, which I, in his reply, where he said, they can say whatever they want in a settlement agreement or in speeches or in guidance or in notices of proposed rulemaking, none of it counts unless a court says it does. You may have noticed that we keep winning in the courts. That's not going to stop in the end. We win.
00:04:57.412 - 00:05:45.362, Speaker A: And I've said this before in the refill as well. It seems like the US court system is all the. I guess, like the US courts generally for these matters, are actually sticking to the letter of the law and are our kind of like last bastion here to fight back against regulatory overreach, not just with the CFTC, but obviously with the SEC as well. And as those losses keep piling up for these regulatory agencies in court, uh, Congress starts to take notice and then it becomes a kind of political thing where it's like, well, we need to actually legislate on this because we can't have our regulators continuing to lose in court because that delegitimizes them and it means that they have less teeth, essentially. And it means that we build all this precedent in the courts. That's not good for the government. So eventually, you know, the, I guess, like the theory is that they'll legislate on this and provide better guidance around this here.
00:05:45.362 - 00:06:15.600, Speaker A: So you can go read all of this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But then, uh, commissioner, uh, uh, caroline, uh, defam here also tweeted out, um, as a, as a kind of, I guess, um, a different kind of thing. Not, not with regards to the settlement. But she said, you know, it's time to take action. I propose the first ever us pilot program for digital asset markets as a regulatory sandbox to test, gather data and examine innovation. This creates a safe framework for new technologies and market structures under, under existing regulations and protections.
00:06:15.600 - 00:07:11.256, Speaker A: Look, I'm all for sandboxes to be created in the short term, but in the medium to long term, we need actual new legislation and regulations to cover crypto. Like, crypto does not fall into the old, a lot of the old regulations and protections here and laws because as I mentioned, there are different ways of doing finance now. Like traditionally, finance has been done through intermediaries, right? It was not done in a peer to peer fashion or a peer to, I guess, automated smart contract fashion it was done through intermediaries like banks and clearing houses. And they have to do Kyc and Aml. And most of the time, or pretty much the whole time, they custody assets as well. But in the crypto world and the DeFi world, it's a completely different thing, right? Everyone who is using DeFi directly from their own wallet is, is doing self custody, right? They're not giving custody over to any kind of one party or any unilateral party here. They're interacting with smart contracts.
00:07:11.256 - 00:08:11.858, Speaker A: You know, some of the smart contracts will have multisigs to do various things and some won't and things like that. And that's, I guess, like a tangential kind of thing there. But generally it's done in a peer to peer fashion where the transactions are not, I guess, like settled by a centralized clearinghouse or centralized financial institution or bank. The transactions are put together by, I mean, at least in the ethereum ecosystem, put together by block builders, as I explained yesterday. Then they're passed on to these validators that stake, that obviously is part of the Ethereum staking ecosystem that propose the blocks. And then those blocks get appended to the chain, and then the validators attest to those blocks, and the chain continues on in a decentralized, distributed, diverse fashion, right, completely disconnected from any kind of centralized body that controls that. There's no KYC or AML because they can't be really, I mean, you can, it's all code at the end of the day, right? You're just interacting with a platform that cannot KYC and aml you.
00:08:11.858 - 00:08:43.054, Speaker A: And it doesn't make sense for it to do that, obviously, as well there. So I think that the, the existing laws, regulations, and protections, they all need to be updated to reflect that new world that we live in. It's going to take a long time. So I'm, I'm all for these sandboxes in the short term, but medium to long term, we need that, that kind of stuff happening in the background there. But anyway, you can go check out all of this stuff. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, moving on from the regulatory stuff to a new EIP that has been submitted by ADAP lion here.
00:08:43.054 - 00:09:53.454, Speaker A: Now, this EIP was basically suggested to be included into den kun, which means that it's cutting it tight here, right? And there's a few things that go into this. So I'll describe what this EIP is first. So this is something that I talked about before on the refuel where the core devs were considering putting together an EIP to essentially cap the churn limit of validators on the network so that we could cap the, so that we could slow down the rate of validators being added to the network. Now this was suggested because we had such a long deposit queue. You know, it was over 90,000 and it was persistent and the core devs were afraid that we would add too many validators to the network and basically overload the network and kick off the smaller players because as you add more validators, the bandwidth requirements go up and for everyone because the more validators have to talk to each other and it can overload the network. Now, since then, and since those concerns were brought forward since then, the validator Q has come down a lot and it doesn't seem like it's going to be going up anytime soon. I feel like if it's going to start going up again, it'll probably be next year, maybe when the kind of market heats up again or something like that.
00:09:53.454 - 00:10:42.310, Speaker A: So it seems like this issue is not as I guess, urgent as it once was. But even still, this EIp was submitted by Dapline here and he basically suggested that it could either go into the fork of Deng kun or another fork next year. But I feel like if it doesn't go into Den kun, which it doesn't seem like it's going to go into Dengue. By the way, just reading the comments here from, I guess like from, from all the, the core devs and researchers, I mean, I say it doesn't feel like it's going to go in, but there is a kind of split. And what happens is that it starts bleeding into other questions. Because, for example, this IP would be an effective monetary policy change. It would be a small monetary policy change, but it would still change the monetary policy because right now the churn limit, right, doesn't have a max limit on it.
00:10:42.310 - 00:11:26.822, Speaker A: And every time a validator is added to the network, the issuance overall goes up of new ETH being issued because we have more validators to pay. Now, if you change that and you cap it and you cap the churn limit to twelve instead of letting it continue to go up as more validators get added here, you essentially change the rate at which that new issuance goes up because now it's capped, right? It's, it's capped at the twelve. That sort of the churn limit is capped. It's not increasing anymore. So it is an effective monetary policy change. It's still in line with Ethereum's monetary policy, which is minimum viable issuance because it doesn't increase issuance. It actually net reduces it over time or at least reduces the potential growth of the issuance.
00:11:26.822 - 00:11:56.280, Speaker A: Right. It doesn't reduce new issuance as it exists today, but just like the potential for growth here. But still, it is an effective kind of monetary policy change. So yeah, I mean, I'm not going to spend too much time on this. I want you guys to go give it a read for your yourself. There is a link to this in the YouTube description below. But in terms of kind of timing for things, look, this could make it into den Koon realistically because it's not actually a complex change technically, technical wise.
00:11:56.280 - 00:12:40.850, Speaker A: But to be honest, I don't actually want this to make it in that fast because as I said, there are considerations to be made around, you know, the fact that it changes the monetary policy. Other things like a lot of the assumptions that have been made around Ethereum staking change a little bit here with this. And as I said, it is not something that I believe is urgent right now because it doesn't seem like we're going to get to that like urgent state that the core devs and researchers were worrying about just maybe a month or two ago. Uh, there. So because there's a lot of assumptions baked into this that the deposit queue is just going to keep growing at a, at a kind of like assumed rates and that's going to lead to this many validators. But that's not what's, what's happening right now. But if it was kind of included for Deng kun, I don't, yeah, as a thing, I don't think it would delay the timing around this.
00:12:40.850 - 00:13:11.324, Speaker A: And I still think dengue can happen this year. Look, I'm going to say it's not going to happen in October, that's for sure. There was some people talking about October and I was like on the fence about it because it really doesn't feel like it's gonna, it's gonna happen in October specifically because we haven't even got any test nets forked yet. So I'm still sticking by November. But I have said before that it could push into early December. But, but yeah, we'll have to see how that goes. I think on the next all core dev call they're gonna discuss this and that'll basically be the decision that gets made on that call whether to go ahead with this or not.
00:13:11.324 - 00:13:58.310, Speaker A: But essentially, yeah, that was, that, that was the new AIP that was put forward today by that blind. You can go check it out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, just wanted to put on your radar something that I missed the other day. So this is from August 31, but this was an introduction to something called Pep C DVT, which is a novel mechanism for enforcing proposal commitments in Ethereum without requiring changes to consensus. Now, I have talked about PEPC a bit in the past in the past and how this kind of plays into the whole PBS roadmap. Well, basically this is a design that doesn't require a change to consensus, which from, I guess like my view from the way I'm looking at this, it doesn't require a hard fork, which means it can be built extra protocol, sort of like how the mev boost network exists.
00:13:58.310 - 00:14:38.970, Speaker A: Extra protocol here. So if you want to learn more about that, I'll link the post in the YouTube description below. But just wanted to put it on your radar because I did miss it when it first got published about a week and a half ago now. All right, so I was on the Twitter spaces yesterday with, um, uh, with Etherfy and I don't know if you guys caught that one. I did shout it out on the refuel a few days ago, but I was on there talking about all things Ethereum staking and I was reminded of this really great website called staking directory, which I think I have brought up on the refuel before, but I had forgotten all about it and hadn't mentioned it for a while here. But staking directory is amazing. I mean, as I said in my tweet here, it basically gives you a breakdown of all the different types of ways to stake your ETH.
00:14:38.970 - 00:15:07.562, Speaker A: And you can see here that they not only list the services, but they also list the software that you can use. And I've covered some of this software like ETH wizard before. You know, this is a solo, solo staking software that aims to make it really easy to be a solo staker. And on the staking directory website, it actually tells you here what the staking type is. The 30 day backward looking APR. What's the fee? You know what the minimum stake is when it was launched on Mainnet and it gives you all these links to do your own research as well. It's awesome.
00:15:07.562 - 00:15:37.404, Speaker A: This resource is something, as I said, I had forgotten about, but I'm glad that I was reminded of it because it is something that you should definitely go check out. If you're at all interested in staking your ETH and not knowing which provider to go with or which software to go with here. And yeah, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out there. But they currently have 40 active listings and in development they have seven. This is crazy. I didn't realize that there were so many different ways to stake, honestly. I mean I had followed a bunch of them, but the fact that there's 40 different ways to stake.
00:15:37.404 - 00:16:13.332, Speaker A: The staking directory has updated here and they've got seven other different ways that are in development right now, which I've talked about a bunch of these before I think I've highlighted. Nice note on the refuel diva, of course, stakewise, v three etfi and more there. But yeah, I guess like just wanted to give this a shout out to you guys for you guys to check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can go view it. All right. Geode Finance has published a blog post today titled Modular Staking Infrastructure, a library and standard for ownership. So essentially Geode is trying to do lsts, but in a different way.
00:16:13.332 - 00:16:38.516, Speaker A: So they say here, geode is a not, is not a liquid staking provider. Geode is a liquid staking enabler. Enabler. So you can create your own instance of geode smart contracts and run your own custom ETH staking solution in minute minutes. So basically it's a kind of framework here to allow you to essentially create your own LST protocol which you can kind of get more details about. I'll link it in the YouTube description below here. You can see how this works.
00:16:38.516 - 00:18:15.364, Speaker A: I mean, there is, there's the blog post, obviously, but there's also some graphics to show you how it all works here and how it all plays into something called GE, which is their kind of like parent liquid staking kind of token here. And they've got all the different features listed. But the reason why I wanted to highlight this for you guys is because there are a lot of lsts right now and a lot of them just like look very similar, right? But the fact that Geode is basically offering this software up for people to be able to create their own lsts and to make it so that it can be liquid and interoperable and actually easy for people to do is a killer feature, I think, because as I said before, the only way we're going to reduce dominance of any one big player on the network of whether it be lighter or someone else, is by increasing competition on the network. And in what better way to increase competition on the network for Ethereum staking, for ETH staking than allowing people to spin up their own kind of staking pools, allowing them to spin up their own lsts, allowing them to essentially kind of like plug and play with with the Ethereum staking infrastructure that already exists and the LST stuff that obviously a lot of people are hungry for. Everyone wants an LSD. So yeah, I mean, you can go check out this post for yourself for more details on Jared finance, but I just figured it was worth highlighting because it's something new in the ecosystem. All right, Eigen layer have finally published more details on Eigen Da, which is their data availability solution that they are basically going to be launching, I believe as one of their first if not first products as part of the Eigen layer kind of product suite here for everyone to I guess, restake and be a part of.
00:18:15.364 - 00:19:18.362, Speaker A: So you can go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But it talks about how the Eigen da kind of like works from, from a high level. It talks about the security, it talks about how restaking comes into it and all that good stuff there. As I've said before, I think that out of all the non Ethereum data availability layers, so non kind of like Ethereum layer one da layers and for for l two s that don't want to be roll ups but would rather be validiums, it makes a lot of sense to me that they would pick something like Eigen data availability or eigen da over one of these other solutions, purely based on the fact that logically you would think it would be more secure because it is got, it has got ETH, you know, validators, ETH nodes restaking as part of it, right? And node operators, sorry, I should say node operators that run Ethereum staking infrastructure, running this infrastructure as well, and getting that economic security of ETH stake behind it too on that front there. So yeah, I feel like it's a natural choice. But at the same time, there are other security considerations as well.
00:19:18.362 - 00:20:44.784, Speaker A: There are liveness considerations on top of that. And it also, I guess, like matters about how distributed the nodes are, because not every Ethereum validator slash full node runner, I guess you could say, or maybe I should say not every Ethereum node operator is going to be an Eigen layer data availability network kind of operator as well, right? There is going to be a subset that does that, and by virtue of it being a subset, it's never going of to be as secure as Ethereum itself, right? And that's why if you want to be a considered a full roll up, you're going to have to put your data on Ethereum layer one and your, your proofs on Ethereum layer one. That's why we call, and that's why you're not considered a roll up if you're using Eigen data availability or an external data availability layer here, even if it is using restaked ETH, because it's not the same security guarantees. And I think that's a distinct point that people need to keep in, keep in their mind when interacting with this stuff. Just because it is harnessing the, you know, staked ETH and using it to secure its own network doesn't mean that it's as secure as a theorem layer one. There are so many other things that go into that, not just security, but decentralization, censorship, resistance, all the stuff that Ethereum layer one affords you. It's not going to translate to, you know, whether it's Eigen DA or another service running on Eigen layer, just because there is some ETH that was, that staking on Ethereum that is restaked with an Eigen kind of Eigen layer service here.
00:20:44.784 - 00:21:21.578, Speaker A: So I think that's important to, to keep in mind. But anyway, you can go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I think this may not be surprising to any of you out there, and this is something that I've talked about in the daily Discord channel before. But it's funny when you look at gas prices and you can actually see the, I guess, hours of when the gas prices spike correlate with the hours where, I guess, the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq are open in the US. So the trading hours, I believe, of the New York Stock Exchange is 08:00 a.m. To 04:00 a.m.
00:21:21.578 - 00:21:48.012, Speaker A: Eastern time. 04:00 a.m. 08:00 a.m. To 04:00 p.m. Eastern time, I think it is. And in that window you can see here, Hill Dobby has actually kind of highlighted it on the, on the chart. That's when the bulk of the higher gas prices are, because the bulk of the users are now online and they're basically using the network in business hours, which is kind of funny because you can use the network 24/7 you don't need to use it within US business hours, but it seems like a lot of people do.
00:21:48.012 - 00:22:31.164, Speaker A: And I think that it's partially because when the stock exchange is open, maybe, maybe the crypto markets are kind of correlating with it, and people are doing transactions to follow along with that. Obviously, it's because that those are the hours where people are awake and paying attention to, quote unquote, work, whether that be, I guess, like trading on the stock exchange or trading within crypto or doing things within crypto. So it does make sense here. And apparently, if you look at BSC and look at when their activity spikes, it's during the business hours of. Of countries in Asia. So it's kind of funny how different blockchains have different kind of regional busyness to them. But, yeah, as I said, this is not new information, but when you see it plotted out on a chart like this, I think it's very interesting.
00:22:31.164 - 00:22:51.774, Speaker A: So, yeah, thanks to Hill Dobby for. For plotting this out. This comes from his gas dashboard, which I actually showed off yesterday. And you can find a link to that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, speaking of dashboards, Tom Wan here, he shared a new enhanced dashboard for stablecoins that 21 co. Has put together here.
00:22:51.774 - 00:23:11.202, Speaker A: So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But essentially, you can get a lot of insights on different stable coins here. And Tom lists some of them. So you can get the overview of the stable coin landscape on Ethereum. So they're tracking 25 stable coins. I didn't even know there were 25 stable coins on Ethereum, but apparently there are, and they're tracking 25 of them here.
00:23:11.202 - 00:23:38.514, Speaker A: You can track things like circulating supply and market cap, what their peg currently looks like, change in supply percentage, all that good stuff there. I mean, this is a very comprehensive dashboard, as you can see in front of me here. And if we kind of look at the market cap of each of these stable coins, we pretty much already know which ones are the top. Kind of five here. It's tether. You know, USDC die BuSD is still in there, but that's soon to be zero because they've got till February 2024 to basically zero that out. And SDI.
00:23:38.514 - 00:24:07.132, Speaker A: And then there's just a bunch of the long tail here. I mean, the reason why you probably haven't heard about most of these is because they're really small. You can see that most. Most of them don't even have a billion dollars kind of market cap here. You can see that actually the, I guess, like, top 19 to 25 have under 100 million. You can see PayPal's USD stable coin here is at around 44 million right now. It is obviously very new, so not not kind of, not larger market cap yet.
00:24:07.132 - 00:24:47.292, Speaker A: But then if you scroll down, you can see kind of trends over time, the stable coin market cap trends, obviously, given that you can get a really good yield in tradfi right now, stable coin market cap has gone down pretty significantly. And of course, this kind of coincided with the top of the bull market as well. So you can see here that the top of stablecoins market cap was 125 billion. Now we're down to about 74 billion. So not like, not even a 50% outflow, but a pretty substantial outflow across pretty much all stable coins. And I think that's due to the fact that, as I said, like, people are going to tradfi to get that yield because rates are high. And I fully expect stable coins to come back in during the bull market when rates are going down.
00:24:47.292 - 00:25:11.770, Speaker A: But also the fact that we're onboarding more real world assets too, crypto. So from that lens, we expect stable coins to come online anyway here. And yeah, as I said, you can scroll down all on this dashboard and check out all the different metrics they've got here. It's a really great way to keep track of stable coins. I'll link this dashboard in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. A fresh post from Aztec.
00:25:11.770 - 00:25:43.192, Speaker A: Yesterday or today, they said here at Aztec Labs, we believe building an l two represents a huge opportunity, opportunity to improve privacy ux. That's why we're making privacy that. That's why we're making a privacy first app development more intuitive than ever with painless state management. Introducing privacy abstraction with Aztec. So you can go give this a read. This is more for maybe the developers amongst us and how Aztec is thinking about privacy. But as I've mentioned before, Aztec is building in a L2 that is not a ZK EVM.
00:25:43.192 - 00:26:29.740, Speaker A: It is not EVM compatible and it is being built from the ground up using Aztec's own technology. They're kind of creating a brand new smart contract language called Noir, which I believe is currently live, but, and it's been around for quite a while. And they're actually working on building an l two based on, I believe, the Utxo model. Now, for those of you who don't know, the Utxo model is an accounting model that bitcoin uses. So the reason why Ethereum doesn't use this or the EVM doesn't use this is because it's very limited in what you can do with it. Essentially, with bitcoin, it works for payments and it's. And it works really well for payments and works really well for moving bitcoin around and works really well for just the bitcoin ecosystem generally.
00:26:29.740 - 00:27:33.028, Speaker A: But if you wanted to do more than payments, say you wanted to do smart contracts, so you wanted to have tokens, say you wanted to have nfts, things like that, then you need a different model. And that's why Ethereum works off of an account model where essentially you have one address that is your account. Whether it is an externally owned account or a kind of like smart contract account, it is still an account. It's still based on the account model here where you can have all that stuff and it's really easy to keep track of, really easy to integrate with and build with. Whereas, whereas with bitcoins, Utxo model, it is working like, I guess like, like how cash payments work in real life, where essentially you pay someone and then you get like change for that payments and then that change kind of, it creates a new address in the background and your bitcoin address and that, and the wallet software basically collates all of this together and then you're left with essentially a kind of like unified balance. But for things like tokens and smart contracts and nfts and stuff like that, it doesn't necessarily work very well. And that's why even with things like ordinals on bitcoin, it is very clunky compared to nfts on Ethereum.
00:27:33.028 - 00:27:53.474, Speaker A: Right. It's very different. Um, it's built in a very different way. And the UX is a, is a kind of different experience there. So that is definitely not just due to the Utxo model, but that plays a big part in it there. So as I've said to you guys, I've always been really excited with what Aztec's building because they are building something that's non EVM. Same with obviously stockware, with Stocknet as well.
00:27:53.474 - 00:28:27.364, Speaker A: But if you want to learn more about that, you can go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I think that's going to be it for today's episode, but you won't have to wait till next week to hear my wonderful voice again tomorrow. There is an episode with Eric Connor dropping. We talked about pretty much like the markets the entire time, but in the context of the ETF's, right, the regulatory news, stocks, all that sorts of stuff is about a 45 minutes episode and it was great. If you're not feeling, feeling bullish by the end of the episode, then I don't know what is going to make you feel bullish because we were both very bullish in the episode. So anyway, look out for that.
00:28:27.364 - 00:28:45.594, Speaker A: As I said, that'll be live tomorrow, tomorrow being Saturday, around the same time that the refuel goes out for you to enjoy there. But on that note, I'm going to end it there. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week on the refuel. Thanks everyone.
00:28:45.594 - 00:28:46.414, Speaker A: Bye.
