00:00:09.530 - 00:00:46.730, Speaker A: So actually I'm a roll up as a service today because Don Martz was meant to present, but he wanted to scale himself and be at two places at the same time. Asked me quickly to present the slides, also tried to execute much faster. And yeah, I borrowed the security from him as well, his slides, and we haven't implemented fraud proof, so something goes wrong. Sorry. All right, his disclaimer, but I agree with it. So nobody really knows anything about rollabs. And we all learned from John kind of.
00:00:46.730 - 00:01:34.230, Speaker A: I think that this is like the best source of knowledge. I was learning from a lot of his writings to just get the knowledge to later try to expand towards l two. So, like, what we do with the roll ups with PBS space and so on. So the types of roll up mev. Well, so any mev that will happen on chains, both on l one and l two will happen from either something that happens on chain as some kind of arbitrage between dexes, or it can happen off chain as like in the off chain world, the prices keep changing while the blockchain keeps moving quite slowly, like keeps updating every three or 10 seconds. And then you have discrepancies between the prices. Also from the cross domain aspect, like between multiple different l two s, you can have arbitrage opportunities.
00:01:34.230 - 00:02:40.320, Speaker A: Or the golden example would be, what if the liquidation on chain a can be only invoked if the price on chain b changes and oracle delivers that information to chain a? So then I can actually, if I can sequence on both, then I can extract cross chain Mev. Because maybe I'm the only one who can move the price on chain b at the same time as invoking the liquidation on chain a, the exogenous mev. So this is the thing, and here's the example. There was a paper that was showing the example of the $100,000 mev extraction from simply arbitraging the price of matic and wrapped matic between two different chains. Yeah. The more domains, the more different chains you have, the more of this opportunities you have, and the less breached and connected the chains are, the harder it is to extract, and you simply need to solve it somehow. You need to introduce the tools that are either shared sequencing or some very advanced PBS, shared sequencing, PBS combination and so on.
00:02:40.320 - 00:03:28.394, Speaker A: Within the roll up or within l one. When you think about what brings readers of potential opportunities, you can think that the shorter the block time, the more you start behaving like traditional centralized exchange, the less of the arbitrage between the centralized exchanges and decentralized exchanges. You have the less of an arbitrage of a signal from the world, an ability to catch up with the signal. There is. Right. So if there is a natural disaster somewhere that includes some kind of very strong economic signal, some companies will go bankrupt, some companies will make a lot of money by just rebuilding things and so on. And now if you can react within a millisecond, then it's like, barely see the price differences.
00:03:28.394 - 00:03:57.954, Speaker A: If you can only take 12 seconds, then a lot of things will happen and people can start taking advantage. So the time matters. And the other thing that matters is volatility. So, in a way, kind of a combination of variance and volatility is what defines how much of the arbitrage you can extract from the given chain. And interestingly, the fees on chain decrease your abilities to arbitrage. The fees will just remove ability to arbitrage. Very small movements.
00:03:57.954 - 00:04:41.430, Speaker A: So if you have small levels of volatility below the fee levels, then you will just leave the arbitrage because, well, you would pay too much for just swapping. Turn back. Yeah. So, interestingly, that's what I learned from this slide, and it's amazing. In January 2020, and you have Carl really describing something that we're now introducing. Right, so, three years ago, and we're talking about, oh, we can just borrow the ideas of how to solve the MeV auction from the l one, which at that time, we were not doing yet, and move it to l two. And then even here, I think there are some hints of the base roll ups, like sequencing on l one, the layer two blocks.
00:04:41.430 - 00:05:02.682, Speaker A: And here is a mention of arbitrum. So, the arbitrum does the first come, first served. Right. So there is a time boost. It does update into a kind of sense that you flood arbitrum with transactions. If they don't time out, then they don't expire. They will be promised to execute.
00:05:02.682 - 00:05:38.530, Speaker A: Practically all of them are executed very fast. However, nowadays, they are just batched within those 250 or 500 milliseconds blocks or x milliseconds blocks, and then reordered by the priority gas auction inside. The thing is, the arbitrum will say, there will never be PBS auction or arbitram. However, we have some. Maybe, maybe we'll see. And my slides never have any memes. So I was so happy when I could present Daniel's slides, because for the first time ever, probably, I include a meme in my presentation.
00:05:38.530 - 00:06:07.038, Speaker A: So me v boost. Me v boost is actually, you know, ethereum one mevboost. So it's a proposal builder separation. I mean, v boost acts as this kind of coordinator of auctions of relayers. So it runs as a sidecar to the validator on Ethereum layer one. It connects to relayers and says relay will be sending me different block bids. Whoever builds the best block wins.
00:06:07.038 - 00:06:44.990, Speaker A: And I make the most money as a validator. Well, very often you can simply borrow the same design of PBS and push it to layer ones that are relatively similar to Ethereum. In some other cases, the more differences we have, or what we introduced, the proverbs, decays and so on, the less possible it is to just push the same design. Well, this is the description. So, Ethereum, as you see, you can either directly build locally for your execution client or for mev boost, you can connect with all the relays and you create a builder market. The builders compete. They are specialized in building the best blocks, extracting most mev.
00:06:44.990 - 00:07:16.626, Speaker A: Yeah, lots of roll ups. Keep talking about decentralization of sequencer. Like this is like a big thing to deliver, how to decentralize. So decentralized governance, decentralize the breach management upgrades, decentralize the sequencers, decentralize lots of other things. But here we're talking about decentralization of sequencer. So PBS is a bit of like first step, because sequencer is both proposer and builder. And the builder is the part where sequencers may have trouble to get any skills.
00:07:16.626 - 00:07:56.420, Speaker A: So what if they can actually delegate this to a market that will find the best solutions in sequencing? And every sequencer has the equal opportunities of accessing this market. So if you have five sequencers, either you have a situation when one of them is so good at building blocks that they start dominating and everybody starts staking with them, or so. Or you delegate it and tell all of them, well, all five of you have access to the same quality of blocks. So if you make money, you make more or less, on average, you'll make the same money. So you can invest the same amount of money in infrastructure. And this is healthy for decentralization. There's a series of.
00:07:56.420 - 00:08:42.334, Speaker A: When I saw it in Daniel's presentation, I thought like, oh, I don't really understand it. And then I saw this one and I say, oh, that's what Daniel meant. Like, I don't understand it because we know nothing about roll ups. The idea is here that, well, when we started looking in l two PBS, we said like, how exactly to do that? So let's try at all the different complexities. Or I'm guessing, first of all, we have l two sequencer. This is a centralized one, because this one is better, then we can think of shared sequencers. So shared sequencers are coming, and this is like, oh, so now I'm shared sequencing between multiple different l two s, usually within the same ecosystem.
00:08:42.334 - 00:09:46.070, Speaker A: So it's like an optimist shared sequencer for all the op stack roll ups. And still I feel like, okay, what does it mean where we go? I guess that's what the meme does. And there's l one block builder. So after we do sequencing, can we use l one block builder to sequence? That's for base roll ups? We can. And where actually mev boost goes like, that's PBS design in what place? And talking about base roll ups, what do you mean by base roll up? So that's something that was discussed a lot, like introduced as an if research pause by Justin Drake, and now we're talking about base pre confirmations and so on. So the base roll up is situation when, when you want to build a block on l two, you construct a transaction representing block on l two. And you send this transaction to the block builder on l one and say, hey, if my transaction makes it as a first transaction to a smart contract that validates it as a block on l two, then this would be the block that will be accepted as a canonical block on that l two.
00:09:46.070 - 00:10:06.922, Speaker A: So think of Tyco. I guess Tyco will do that, that it has a contract. Smart contract. Deploy in l one. This contract accepts transactions. Whichever transactions wins, comes first, becomes a block on l two if it's constructed properly. What is very important here is that it means that all the MeV from that block construction, l two, goes to the l one builder.
00:10:06.922 - 00:10:39.850, Speaker A: Why? Because if I'm competing with other transactions, trying to be the first one to be accepted as a block, I have to start bidding to the l one builder of how much I will pay them to win. And it means that what I can pay them is actually all the MEV surplus that I constructed. So I take it from the l two builders myself, l two proposal. And I push it. I have to pay it to the l one proposal. All the MeV goes to l one. And now we have l two block builders.
00:10:39.850 - 00:11:33.654, Speaker A: This one, I don't get one moment. Execution sequencer. Okay, so that was optimistic. Robson means that we didn't have a prover there, right? So here we understand what those slides meant. Like, oh, wait, but all that we talked about doesn't have a prover. Does prover make some additional problems? So any of the l two sequencers, l two proposers can bring the proofs for the blocks that they are proposing, either from a single prover or maybe like they can themselves be approver or can connect to the proverbs network. And the proofs very often come after a long delay after the block being built and verified.
00:11:33.654 - 00:12:43.722, Speaker A: So it may be minutes or hours after the block has been proposed. And the problem is, as you start talking about Mev, you all the time think about who do you have to trust that they will not leak your valuable mev information? So you have alpha in your blog, and you don't want to share it with anyone. You want to have either encryption privacy, some kind of protocol mechanisms that will detect malicious behaviors and, well, you see, that may leak at lots of places. If it's shared sequencer, it means you will send you as a block builder, you will send your block to all the decentralized sequencers participating in a shared sequencer network. It will also possibly leak at the prover network. So if you send it to the prover network says like, hey, who will prove that block for me? They'll say, oh, let me look at this alpha that you have here before I start proving, and maybe even before you submit it, and the same when you deliver it actually to the roll up from your sequencer. So via relay or something, this I think we can skip.
00:12:43.722 - 00:13:38.210, Speaker A: And now a series of proposals from our work at Flashbots and nevermind in the last few months. So we're looking at how to exactly make some modifications to PBS designs for different networks that would work. So for the Opie stack, most likely Optimus will go with a proof of governance. For the proof of governance, you kind of assume that governance already selected the sequencers that can be to some level trusted, or at least will be overseen by the governance. And if they misbehave, they'll be removed, voted out. If you can always bring someone more trusted, which means that, well, you don't need to have a trusted relay out of protocol, because you're already trusting someone, and because there's so few of them, and you accept that they may need to spend more on infrastructure, you can force them to run the relay locally, like relay module, what we call. And then for each of those, you can create a builder market.
00:13:38.210 - 00:14:12.506, Speaker A: So connect them to the builders and say, okay, each of us wants to still have decentralization of the builder logic, so we can all make the same money. It's simple, it's very comparable to Ethereum one. Just you remove the relay that is like a few relays that are out of protocol and just push them close to the validators. So it's a bit like all them. 1 million validators on Ethereum would run their own relay and connect directly to the builders. You don't do that because you cannot govern them the same way as in the proof of governance. On optimist proposal.
00:14:12.506 - 00:14:45.666, Speaker A: Decentralization to a few proposals. 49 seconds. Aztec proposal. I'll skip it because it's not enough and we are changing it a lot. I think Tyco is the base roll up proposal for Tyco. We're proposing the alternating l two PBS solution. So since it's a base roll up and all the MEV leaks to the l one, can we change it somehow so it actually doesn't? And there is a proposal that you actually can introduce competing two mechanisms.
00:14:45.666 - 00:15:43.400, Speaker A: One is permissionless, where you can always pay a bit to say I overwrite default mechanisms and the default mechanism is a PBS. So you select a set of trusted proposers for Tyco that are the only ones that are allowed to submit blocks for Tyco within the PBS auction model. So anyone who goes through the auction for the secret delivery to those proposers will be protected. Their MEV doesn't leak, but if they want to go permissionless route, they're a bit more exposed because everything is open and distributed via the mempool or via L. One builder then can pay a bit of a bribe and use that one instead. And there's a description of this one and it kind of gives you the spectrum between permissionlessness and permissioned approach and gives you different results of MeV. And this was a second presentation in case we had more time, but we don't have it.
00:15:43.400 - 00:15:45.380, Speaker A: Thank you.
