00:00:13.160 - 00:00:53.144, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the show where we explore next generation of blockchains. I'm your host Saul, alongside my co host Dave. And today we're joined by one of my favorite accounts on crypto, Twitter of all time, Xerox Bread guy also goes by bread. He is a great tinkerer with social protocols. He was pretty early on, Friendech established himself as a big voice in that ecosystem, one of the more active users of the platform. He's also a very active user of fantasy top and just generally writes really good content on Twitter about this emergent space. He's very on chain, has a technical background, but also just likes to experiment with really awesome products.
00:00:53.144 - 00:00:59.684, Speaker A: And we're super excited to just talk about all things social fi today. Brett, thank you so much for joining us.
00:01:00.144 - 00:01:03.680, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks for having me on, Dave, did you hear that? I'm one of his favorite of all time.
00:01:03.752 - 00:01:06.764, Speaker C: Okay, that's seriously though.
00:01:07.544 - 00:01:13.160, Speaker A: No, it's just fun watching your account blow up. I've been a follower since your sub one k, so.
00:01:13.352 - 00:01:15.008, Speaker B: Oh, holy shit. Wow.
00:01:15.056 - 00:01:36.390, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So one thing I want to talk about is friendtech specifically, maybe help our listener understand what was it originally and then what is it now with v two? What are these key differences you're seeing and how do you think? Yeah, let's just start with that. What is friende to you?
00:01:36.462 - 00:02:13.414, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, it's kind of tough because it heads this social five sector. You've thrown out that word around a little bit. And that is this emerging layer in crypto these days where we're tying tokenization to social profiles in some capacity. Right? Like we've, we've seen iterations of this stuff in the past. There was a bit cloud, there was a, that was the one that everyone was drawn to. But where it's just like, you have these online Personas, right? You have followers, you have whatever, and they're trying to find a way to bring that on chain in some capacity.
00:02:13.414 - 00:02:58.744, Speaker B: And friendtech, what they did was they've made you, they created this unique stack of, you would just sign in with your Twitter account, right? So that instantly tied and verified your online Persona with a specific address which was spun up in the background. It managed all that stuff and it tried to make it a little less rigid and a little more seamless, right? So people were coming from social platforms to on chain by create, tying their Twitter profile to it. And then once that was done, people had the ability to deploy capital. In this case, it was Ethereum, and you could buy access to this person, almost like a gated private chat with this person. Right? So you buy. Buy something that was generated from their social profile. It was called a key or a share.
00:02:58.744 - 00:03:28.512, Speaker B: Early on, you would buy it. The more people that bought it there, it was on a bonding curve. So the more expensive it would get. So people with a wider audience, with more people that wanted access to them, they would all try to pile into this thing. It would get ever increasing, which would kind of gate the upper limit of who would actually have access to the thing. And once you had possession of this thing on chain, there was an application on top of friendtech also that would allow you to have a private chat with that person. It was a unique chat where it was public private.
00:03:28.512 - 00:04:00.164, Speaker B: And when I say that, I mean the person who generated the account could see everyone's responses inside of his chat, but. Or her chat. And the only time anyone could see other people's requests or comments to the person was if they specifically replied to that person. So it was a one to many situation, unless someone killed. So you had a chance, like moderate stuff. Anyways, the. So the long and short of it was just that it was a gated private chat, basically silverstone civil resistant private chat.
00:04:00.164 - 00:04:17.064, Speaker B: And people started then extrapolating that into a potential world where we could have like social impacts to on chain actions. And that's weird. You talk about that a little later, but yeah, that's what it was. Fraudly.
00:04:18.404 - 00:05:02.244, Speaker A: The thing that's different about that version of fintech, and to this day, to me at least, is the introduction of a bonding curve, which creates incentives for people to find stuff early and rewards them for being really early to finding great creators. And you're seeing this primitive now being applied literally just to token launches with pumpfun, where if you make some meme coin, you're early in the bonding curve. If you discover you're early, you get more allocation. So to me, I think that also played a huge role into the adoption of friendtech because people now can trade the keys at that speculative layer. Do you feel like that's an essential component of things in this genre of social fi?
00:05:03.464 - 00:05:51.258, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. So that was one of the original narratives, right? So it was the, this all plugs into the broader creator economy wave that's going on. I know Chamath just did a big post on that where he wants to start giving more energy to the creator economy because he sees it as this like new paradigm thing. And that's kind of what was going on here, right, where if you were a smaller account and you were doing things, you could have this thing tied to your social output, whether it's creating content or music or whatever, just value. You're outputting value into the world. And people then had the ability, knowing that this thing tied to you was on a bonding curve. And for those who don't understand that, it's what I said earlier, the next purchase is always a little bit more expensive than the previous purchase.
00:05:51.258 - 00:06:45.220, Speaker B: And that curve, how dramatic it goes up, varies on parameters. It was static for frontech, but it created this world. Oh, and we should also say any purchase or sale into this bonding curve generated fees for the person who tied their social profile to it. So if I created my room and people were coming to buy and sell into my room, I would get a little bit of those fees. Now we're talking about people in this economy could buy and sell or speculate on me, thinking that because of the value I output, people would want my key, they want access to me, whether I'm a musician or I'm just good at chatting, or I can make alpha calls or whatever. And then them speculating on me would fund me as someone that is trying to. And then it starts to bridge into the thousand true fam thesis, where you don't need a million people to come and try to give me a century.
00:06:45.220 - 00:07:19.064, Speaker B: I could just have a few people. 510, 100,000 is kind of the number everyone throws around that they're okay paying a little bit more money because they would have a next layer of access to me. And it's just kind of like the whale game inside of mobile games, where you only need a few whales that pay for. They subsidize, frankly, the vast majority of players because they pay an exorbitant amount to be better, best, whatever. It's kind of the same thing here in a creator economy. So, yeah, you create that, people speculate on you, people like that hunt. It's another thing to trade on.
00:07:19.064 - 00:07:27.004, Speaker B: And we talk about tokens like that. The big advance of crypto is we can speculate on basically anything because we can tokenize anything.
00:07:28.624 - 00:08:17.344, Speaker C: What do you think about the keys? Do you think that the real utility of the keys is that they enable speculation on who's popular and who's not popular? Or do you think people are actually gaining value from being in these private chats? Because I remember talking about this with Sal when it first came out, and I think my view was the only way that you can really make your money back from the keys is if they're going to be sharing alpha. But if they're going to be sharing alpha in these groups, firstly, they're already telegram groups where they might be sharing alpha. Secondly, if I'm sharing alpha, I don't necessarily want to do it with a room of people that I don't even necessarily know who everyone is. You'd rather do it maybe with a smaller, more intimate group of people handpicked that you know and have personal relationships with already. Do you think that it's a convoluted way just to allow people to speculate on these individuals? Or do you think there is real benefits to the keys?
00:08:17.884 - 00:09:11.784, Speaker B: Yeah. So I think that's where a lot of the fidelity and what this stuff was, was lost whenever talking about social fire, what bonding curves or just having a key tied to someone does. Because what the friendtech team spun up that chat app was frankly not good. Right. It's just objectively not a very good, technically built platform, which is kind of like scared off a lot of people, but the underlying smart contract and just having a key tied to a specific address and that specific address tied to a Twitter profile, like that link, which the Twitter link was actually in their database, but still it's there, and you could deduce that from their API or whatever, or just whatever other behaviors. Anyways, having all of that stuff confined, are their application confined to just a. A chat client limited a lot of what people thought could be done or like how you could communicate value, right.
00:09:11.784 - 00:10:04.560, Speaker B: And not everyone can communicate value in this case, you're talking about alpha chats, right? Like someone giving a trade advice, like, yeah, if I'm going to communicate value, whether it's strictly monetary value or exposure to me or whatever, and I have to do it through a chat client. Like, not everyone. That's not built for everyone, right? Not everyone can communicate their, their value that way the best. I'm not someone, I'm not a trader, so I can't, in that environment, be very valuable to other people because I can't give valuable information that kind of. But there are people that are like, do really good with, you know, streaming or music or like all. OnlyFans is the example that everyone pulse pulls it, right? Nudity on through video chat or stone streaming or whatever, right? So there was, if you look at Frontech and you look at that specific application, that was it. It really limited what people thought could be communicated as value tied to these keys.
00:10:04.560 - 00:11:01.556, Speaker B: But what got me really excited early on and why I was able to lean into it so heavily is that if you just view that mapping that very simple, simple smart contract. And it is very simple, like 450 lines of code of just mapping of addresses. You have a social network that was spawned up inside of this thing of mat addresses to the social profiles. That thing was basically just gated experiences as a service, right? So, like, I could build my own application and reference that same smart contract and still have a gated experience, but make it for video or make it for streaming or make it for whatever. And in those environments that people can communicate value better, right? So if it's not just a direct trade thing, it could be someone just giving you an afternoon of conversation, or you're can play a game with them or whatever, like whatever it is, right? So it doesn't have to be strictly monetary. It can be an experience. Like people are very willing to pay for experiences if it means like next level exposure.
00:11:01.556 - 00:11:56.848, Speaker B: You see that with bands, musicians, whatever. Like, I will pay well over like the cost of a ticket if I get backstage, right? Because it needs a little bit more exposure to you. That's valuable to me. I'm not expecting a return other than the experience itself. So I was hoping that what they were spawning up because they had a critical mass of people that let it into that app, because we had a lot of twitter to these keys mapped addresses, I was hoping the team would be flexible enough to see that, lean into that, and then facilitate the growth of other applications, make it sustainable that everyone else could use root of mapped addresses that they have created this registry, and then create an ecosystem on top of it. Now, that ultimately didn't play out because racer, like the contract, was really rigid. Racer not very receptive to feedback racers that created a frontech, to put it politely, and the fees were crazy high.
00:11:56.848 - 00:12:51.244, Speaker B: So ultimately that kind of grinded down the ecosystem. Don't blow out how I wanted to, but I still think there is an avenue for long term that coming into place where we'll have some level of smart contract on a public ledger where it has this registry of social profiles to on chain addresses, and then from that, you allow applications to be spawned up on top of it that give you various gated experiences and try to make that sustainable for those applications because they need, they need monetary incentive to be able to build that, right. If I'm building the video chat client, I need to know I can make money from people buying those keys. But Razer's contract didn't do that. So that's a long winded way to say, yeah, I think there's an avenue for it, but it's just not in the current structure because of how it was designed and how the team specifically is, which is unfortunate because they were first movers.
00:12:53.784 - 00:13:06.244, Speaker A: So one thing you just brought up, that something that's really interesting, and I'm not sure what the answer is, is this idea of mapping a social identity to a wallet, essentially, is what you're saying.
00:13:06.364 - 00:13:07.064, Speaker B: Yep.
00:13:08.884 - 00:14:11.804, Speaker A: The challenge with that is money has to come in somehow, and it's. I don't know how people would feel about this idea that they have like a doxxed wallet, essentially, that other developers can build on top of. He will always point it like, Venmo's public lead is like a counterpoint, and maybe that's kind of one, but the crypto is just so traceable. It's a lot different. The chains that people are using are specifically the ones that don't really have any zero knowledge primitives or any way to kind of conceal transactions. So my question is, do you think the apps that go mainstream might actually kind of do some sort of hybrid approach where you don't really dox like the person's address in the app, but maybe like it is, it is on chain still, or do you think that is actually an essential component of all this and in fact, like, user behaviors will just adapt to this?
00:14:13.024 - 00:14:41.412, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm wondering. So I'm constantly trying to reevaluate my position on this stuff and wonder if it's something that is niche to our values as early participants in this ecosystem. Like, right. Like we. Because we're early to stuff, we see things and we're like, this is how it's going to be forever. But then we get so honed in on our beliefs that we forget how the rest of the world thinks. And I'm wondering if this is one of those things that we over index for relative to when you talk about mass adoption.
00:14:41.412 - 00:15:27.518, Speaker B: I don't know if people are going to generally care as much as we care about this stuff because we kind of see the implications of it. But you saw it with friendtech, right? Frontech came out, people saw there was an opportunity to make money and speculate, and they thought whatever, and they were ready and willing. Everyone was linking their Twitter account and they did it. Now, after they kind of thought of the implications of some of that stuff, and there were people that, speaking against, spoke out against it, but they did it. That actually led to a little bit of the people that stayed in the ecosystem, what they valued most. And even now at v two, they're doing some more stuff. There actually finally being able to see some of these anonymous and student anonymous people see their on chain actions, because we can clearly identify now where the source of their funds are coming from.
00:15:27.518 - 00:16:10.516, Speaker B: At Friendtech, they did an airdrop. So everyone who interacted with the platform, which required a Twitter profile, then had to claim their tokens through that profile so that we have a direct link of what they're doing with their tokens. And then you see people in this anonymous environment on crypto Twitter that are saying one thing and we can very clearly go and check on the chain and see, and there's, there are people that value that because of how grifty the space has been at times. So I do think. I do think there will be a subset of people that will value that. I don't know that it would be valuable to the broader. Like, it's as big of an issue to the broader market as it is to us, because they frankly won't even understand the implications of that.
00:16:10.516 - 00:16:30.484, Speaker B: Like, we're thinking deeply on it. I don't think the everyday person is going to know, care, or do whatever that can think about being doxxed. And then I know there's also a subset that very much values the fact that there is a known linkage between those two things, and that's public for everyone to be able to, like, root out nefarious actors and stuff. So, yeah.
00:16:35.384 - 00:17:08.226, Speaker C: I suppose normies just don't really have, like, that much money on chain as well. They've maybe got a couple of grand, and so they're probably less worried than some of the degens out there. You mentioned the airdrop, and I think it was really, really interesting. So I'd like to get your thoughts on that. But the two key things that stick out are 100% of the tokens were distributed to the people using the platform. So firstly, nothing for the team and nothing for investors as well. As I understand, they're more holding equity versus tokens.
00:17:08.226 - 00:17:23.494, Speaker C: So I think that's very interesting. And then the other bit is the tokens are sort of sitting in this walled garden within the app itself and not necessarily on decentralized exchanges. So how have you viewed the airdrop so far? And. Yeah, and these particular anomalies?
00:17:23.794 - 00:18:05.684, Speaker B: Yeah, so the airdrop is actually pretty prescient in today's market with Kobe's tweet or not tweet, the subsec coming out just last night. Right. Very critical of these low float, high FDV releases. Right. Like, I actually wrote a little comparison tweet this morning, talking about, like, yeah, like it's, it is the antithesis of this thing, right? Because all these in the modern market, you have, you have these vc's that are capturing a lot of the upside tokens. Again, this isn't Kobe's words and everyone's down writing think pieces on it, right? They're capturing a lot of upside free market. And then by the time it actually gets the token generation, everyone just kind of gets fleeced and it's down only because there's more and more tokens coming unlocked.
00:18:05.684 - 00:18:39.288, Speaker B: And then, yeah, so friend tech, they first, we didn't even know if they were going to do tokens or that's kind of a hope that we were having it actually happened. And then yes, they said 100% to the community how they were able to achieve that, right. It's not like a pure upside thing. They did it because, and they were able to do it because one, with the original contract, they ate really well when it came to fees. Right. I think they generate something of upwards of $50 million, $55 million. So like they're well funded.
00:18:39.288 - 00:19:13.304, Speaker B: It's a very small team. I think there's still like three of the guys. They had an investment from paradigm before they even launched. They announced that round. They didn't say how much, but they had an investment. And then whenever they launched their token, everyone could claim it, but it was non transferable and it was only usable within their internal Dex and uh, and just, yeah, the walled guard you talked about. Right? So you can't even, you can't even give it to a smart contract to wrap it to do funky stuff, right? There's restrictions on it only going to EOA addresses all that stuff.
00:19:13.304 - 00:19:41.390, Speaker B: So they were able to do this very good thing for us because they're getting their money somewhere. They have to get their money and they're getting it through a closed ecosystem which limits the upside and fees all throughout that journey. Like I can't even just claim and go get out because I have to sell into their decks, which charges a 1.5% fee. And like, so, like they're eating, right. So it's not a out of goodness of their heart. That said, yeah, I think it's, it's a good experiment.
00:19:41.390 - 00:20:20.926, Speaker B: I like seeing teens experiment and I want to see, I think ultimately it's nice. Now after doing that review this morning, I saw that it is a pretty well distributed token. There was a lot of dumping at airdrop, which is to be expected with any kind of airdrop. The chaos that came from that, because you get to see who was doing what kind of revealed several things. One, the people that were saying one thing and doing another. Two, the people that are just selling things that you wouldn't expect to be selling because how profitable you thought they were. And then another is highlighting a lot of these, like these bots and Sybil accounts that were actually used to farm the protocol, which were abundant.
00:20:20.926 - 00:20:56.970, Speaker B: Like I think we saw in the picture at times you'd see like 20,000 sellers of a dollar and then there's actually 50 times the amount of money coming in. So it's just all of these single tokens, single token accounts that were spun up out of bot farm. It's very clearly Sybil because it's didn't do any civil prevention. They were just claiming and selling. So I think ultimately good. The team didn't do great to mitigate a lot of the farming that was done on the protocol. But it's nice to have experiments.
00:20:56.970 - 00:21:01.334, Speaker B: I think that's what there's no rules in this environment, and I'm glad teams lead into that.
00:21:02.674 - 00:21:36.476, Speaker C: It reminds me, just a quick comment, it reminds me a bit about meteor have just released something for meme coins where the developers can just lock up all of their tokens forever, basically burnt into a liquidity pool, and then they just earn fees basically for the rest of the meme coins duration. So, yeah, it sort of reminds me of that, of theyre just giving all of their tokens away, but theyre saying we back ourselves, that we can make it all back on the fees. And I think that would be a pretty awesome model if we started seeing that rolled out elsewhere, because something has to change. Theres sort of utter despair on the timeline at the moment for all the high fdv projects out there.
00:21:36.560 - 00:22:03.932, Speaker B: It'll probably be a middle ground between the two. We're talking about two extremes now where it's like you have 10% of the supply circulating versus 100%. So it'll probably land somewhere in the middle. And I know there's a lot of pushback on that because some teams, like Santiago, talks about it on his podcast, that he doesn't like giving out tokens or he doesn't think teams should be so willing to give out tokens, which is kind of against the common thought with crypto. Right. Because it's all community owned, it's all, you know, incentive driven.
00:22:04.068 - 00:22:05.388, Speaker C: He's a VC as well.
00:22:05.516 - 00:22:07.744, Speaker B: Yeah, he's a VC as well. Yeah.
00:22:08.484 - 00:22:44.364, Speaker A: I was going to ask, what's your take on v two? I saw a tweet recently basically categorizing clubs into roughly three buckets. Interests, native culture coins, third party apps. What's been your response to v two? I think other people have also kind of compared v two in some ways to like having mechanics similar to pump fun, but just more like in a walled garden, so to speak, which was an interesting analogy. And I think people are getting excited by that whole primitive, that whole genre of apps. So what's been your response so far?
00:22:45.104 - 00:23:16.992, Speaker B: Pump fun on training wheels is kind of what I've been referring to it as with the specific meme club section, right. Because like, what you do is you can go click a button, choose how, like, drastic you want the curve to be, so you instantly have a coin and a picture and whatever. That's very pump fun, e. But then you also have a chat that's natively integrated into it. Then now you also have telegram group right there. So it's all of those things kind of encapsulated, which is nice and convenient, and people like convenience and the social linkage. So I know who's launching it, I can see who's buying it, who's selling it.
00:23:16.992 - 00:24:14.946, Speaker B: We can actually do some of that stuff. So you're not at risk to a lot of the externalities that happen in the actual pump fund ecosystem. But also you have limited upside too, right? Because you're never going to see one of these meme coins exceed the market cap of, say, the act like the friend token because it's denominated in friend. So with friend being 100, whatever, 90 million, 200 million right now at DV, you're never going to see meme club go in there and then reach a billion, right? You're never going to see a bone come out of there because it just can't. Now, some future friends worth of gajillion dollars, then sure, maybe some of that crazy stuff will happen, but not in any immediate future. So I do think there is some appeal there. And you are seeing some teams leaning into that, and now you're seeing a little bit more fun because in the contract they have a referral system built in and all that is, is on any transaction you're able to pass in as well a referral address.
00:24:14.946 - 00:24:42.944, Speaker B: And that referral address would then get a percent or a portion of the referral fee. Now, what they're doing in the app, because it's all embedded in the app. If you're in the app and you do that, then it goes to the president of the club, which is a role that can transition. People can fight for that, have fun, take over, do whatever. So that creates some virality or can. So that's fun. And it's just a way to keep the funds inside the ecosystem, which I think is good and which is a huge problem with v one.
00:24:42.944 - 00:25:18.300, Speaker B: V one extracted a ship ton, $50 million, and didn't do anything to eject back in. So eventually it reached gridlock. This way you're at least keeping stuff cycling in the system, so you keep some fun, keep stuff going around, and that's ultimately what they want. They're still taking their fees, but in any ecosystem, you want to have it tightly sealed because any leakage will eventually lead to just people either running out of funds or gridlock or whatever. I'm encouraged by that. Then the other thing is, because of how that referral system works, again, native app does it. It just defaults to the person who's currently the president.
00:25:18.300 - 00:25:42.064, Speaker B: But if I. We actually have a portfolio manager that were built on top of it. Like we have a club that if you have this club key, you have access to our token gated experience, which is our just profile, our portfolio manager. Right. So buy, sell in bulk. A lot of the stuff that you don't actually get from the native application itself, because again, it's technically shit. So you come to our app, you can do things in bulk, you can see your p and l, you can like make educated decisions.
00:25:42.064 - 00:26:11.850, Speaker B: And because how that referral works, we actually can take a portion of that referral fee and fund it back to us. So now we don't have to worry about people buying and selling our access key to make money. We're just say, every transaction you make, we can get a little bit of a cut. It's like perfect. That incentivizes us to build it out. Right. And that was part of my original hope for the app, was that teams like us would come along and find ways that they could sustainably build things on top of it, allow people to do their natural stuff, communicate their value in any way.
00:26:11.850 - 00:26:34.684, Speaker B: Like, these people are just trading, we're speculating, cool, whatever, and we just get a gut. It incentivizes us to do it. If it's profitable, we'll keep doing it. So, yeah, I'm encouraged by it. There's some mechanisms in there that lend to growth, and I want growth because I own friend, because I claimed it and haven't sold much. So, yeah, I'm watching, hopefully.
00:26:36.174 - 00:26:40.154, Speaker C: I think that's an interesting insight, having meme coins with integrated chat.
00:26:41.254 - 00:26:41.654, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:26:41.694 - 00:26:49.526, Speaker C: And it could be the start of a new meta for sure. And maybe you could start seeing pum fund compete in some way, trying to do it themselves.
00:26:49.670 - 00:27:15.638, Speaker B: Yeah. And if you think meme coins are, like, everyone's talking about the meme coin super cycle, right? Like, if you think this, like, meme coins will continue to proliferate, then, like, you want to, you want to make that experience as seamless as possible, right? So, like, if the friction now is I launch an incorn and, oh, I now have to go, like, coordinate a telegram chat, like, that's friction. Right, to have then the specialist to do that. But if that's all just integrated into an application that's appealing to some people.
00:27:15.726 - 00:27:47.444, Speaker C: Yeah. So, yeah, maybe now is a good opportunity to start talking about fantasy top, because friendtech, I mean, for sure it's had a huge amount of hype, of buzz, but then I saw a tweet earlier today where it said that the user numbers were down to 366 people today, down from like 70,000. And I kind of feel that fantasy top has maybe taken the mantle in the last week or two since its launch. So, yeah, love to get into how does fantasy top work and how you think. What are the major differences really, between the frontech thesis?
00:27:47.864 - 00:28:58.542, Speaker B: Yeah, so I actually saw the same thing on Frontec and that was actually for just key trading, which is just the personal profiles I checked after that and I saw that the, then there's people that have done a transaction on the key side, on the club side, there was like, I don't know, 1100 today. It's like there's a little bit more, at least unique addresses, transacting, but yes, definitely down, no question there, which is something I've been trying to monitor. And then, yeah, so fantasy top, like, I didn't, I didn't know how or if I wanted to consider it part of like, my social pie exposure. I was, I have gone over to it because I saw that it was gaining a lot of momentum and I saw that the team that was launching it were born out of Frontec, or at least had a lot of been here since 2017, but they had a lot of experience with Frontec where I did, and they saw or shared a lot of my same opinions on how the team addressed some of that stuff. And they were just very mindful of that. I was encouraged by the direction of the team, so I wouldn't exposure to them. And then the concept of the actual, the application itself, which for people listening, know what that is.
00:28:58.542 - 00:29:39.070, Speaker B: It's just fantasy sports, but the players are Twitter users. Right. So you're, you're betting or you're building a card. Card team, or it's cards, but just building a team out of, out of crypto, Twitter, predominantly users hoping that whoever gets the most engagement performs better on Twitter, metrics scores higher. And then you compete against other people over certain durations to try to win prizes. So it's enticing for the creator ecosystem, stuff we talked about before, because the team has promised to give trading revenues back to actual. They're called heroes.
00:29:39.070 - 00:30:06.886, Speaker B: So a Twitter profile. So if I were to become a hero on there and people were to buy and sell my card, they said today they're giving away like 600 eth or some shit, 6000 eth. There's a lot for the second 6000 lot. So I would say 600. They're giving away that to the heroes. So it's just a way for people to do what they naturally do, which is combat on Twitter for engagement and then out of that, earn fees. So it lends to that idea.
00:30:06.886 - 00:30:23.284, Speaker B: And I think that's why it's kind of being categorized under social fi. And I'm just going there because new ecosystem, I didn't have exposure to blast, I didn't have exposure to the team. And I'm kind of excited about that vertical because I feel like there's a lot of things that they can use to continue the momentum that they've already seen to garner.
00:30:26.744 - 00:31:18.694, Speaker A: Kind of along those lines you mentioned, or I saw a tweet recently saying that Twitter's almost like a sport. Like, there's people that are naturals at it, there's lots of different styles of tweeting characters. And I thought that was really interesting just in this broader umbrella of creator economy stuff. And what you can do with Web three, do you think like, that form factor, though, like the form factor through which a mainstream person interacts with this is like a fantasy top, because to me, like athletics, NBA, NFL, we bet through fantasy sports. But I think a lot of mainstream people actually just will straight up go right into sports betting or something like that. That's been the huge category that's been created since 2018. And then a lot of people just spectate, right? And that's like people scrolling the timeline.
00:31:18.694 - 00:31:48.494, Speaker A: But I guess how close are we to what you think that form factor is? If we really are looking for kind of a mainstream app that taps into this already existing, millions of people watch creators on, on YouTube. They read them on Twitter and what have you, TikTok, how do you think that kind of evolves? Because to me, fantasy top is a bit, to your point earlier, a bit targeted at this really niche audience, but I do actually am very bullish thematically in what they're doing.
00:31:49.634 - 00:32:17.636, Speaker B: So I fully agree with you. And then that begs the next question of, is that enough? Even if. Because, like, Forentech was the same thing where everyone's like, everyone always does the, oh, wait till Taylor Swift is on here, then everyone's going to want to do the thing. And it's like, Taylor Swift didn't join Frontech. It still doesn't stop people from speculating, speculating that Taylor Swift is going to join it. And then even with her never having joined it, it's still launched as a token. That's, you know, 200, 200 million fTV.
00:32:17.636 - 00:33:37.510, Speaker B: And like, there's still upside there upwards towards, you know, whatever, a billion if you want to go crazy on bull market. Right? So I agree with you that the form factor and the appeal of a Twitter based fantasy league is orders of magnitude smaller than I would think, like a actual professional sport category, just because that's very broad, right? Everyone kind of has a little bit of exposure to that and I think everyone thinks they have an edge in that. Whereas here, in order for you to do this stuff, not only do you have to feel like you have an edge in understanding our very niche culture right now at CT, and the team has even expressed they want to stay kind of CT native for a while. Um, you have to deploy a lot of capital at this point, right? Because, like, now they're in this position of like, if you want to compete at the upper ends, like, you have to spend a lot of money to buy these cards. Uh, but in order for it to be truly competitive and then, like, have an actual fantasy lean and fantasy sports, at least the majority of leagues that I've ever played in, like, yes, maybe you have to budget and, like, everyone shares the same budget to, like, pick and choose what people they want to place, but all players are available to them, right? And that's where the strategy comes in. They can choose anyone in any combination of those variants and combinations. What allows it to be like a feel competitive.
00:33:37.510 - 00:34:37.914, Speaker B: Whereas here they're dealing with the negative perception of don't let price go down. No one likes price go down, so they have to deal with that because all of these things are individual assets. And if price go down, mood go down, people leave. But you need more, more cards in order for it to be competitive, because you need all things to be available to everyone so they can have unique combinations and do whatever. So I'm skeptical. And that's kind of why I did the, I was trying to think of the whole market dynamics that they're trying to spin up and, like, what's, what can be known, what can be unknown, and how can you turn that into a game that is, uh, fair and competitive at the same time? And I don't know if you can tie individual assets like we do now with what's going on fantasy top and make that, um, a thing. I'm kind of getting sidetracked here, but, like, yeah, Twitter's definitely a sport.
00:34:37.914 - 00:35:00.714, Speaker B: It's very competitive. There's a fight for attention, and some people are naturals at it. I was thinking about that when I was thinking about the game dynamics and, like, why you lump better people. But the problem is that because we tie everything to an underlying asset, and that's tokenized, because that's what we do with crypto, we tokenize everything. I don't know if it's something that you're going to get someone off the street to use for a lot of reasons.
00:35:02.414 - 00:35:31.484, Speaker C: I think one of the benefits it has is a fairly frictionless experience for the content creators, for the celebs, if you like, because on Friendtech, they have to set up their own room and then change their behaviors to start diverging alpha or whatever it may be on that room. Whereas here, all they have to do is continue shitposting on Twitter. So it works in that respect that you're not really asking them to do anything different than they would be otherwise. So, yeah, just something to think about.
00:35:32.304 - 00:36:22.326, Speaker B: That actually ties back to one of the things I was excited about for Frontech, too, because we saw a bunch of forks come out of that where people were trying to replicate Twitter, and Farcaster leans into that a little bit, where Farcaster is kind of like a Twitter clone, public feed, basically. And I was very against that because I was very against that because what you just said, you changed the natural flow of creator, of the content creator. And I viewed Frontech as an inserting in the stack as opposed to removing or replacing something with Farcaster. It came out. And there's, by all accounts, been. People have been very financially motivated to engage there, right. They're getting Djen popped off for, you know, went up to, like, a Billy or something, and people are being able to hand out hundreds of thousands of it, you know, over the course of a couple of months, at least at the top prices.
00:36:22.326 - 00:36:59.290, Speaker B: And it wasn't, I don't think it's sticky, or maybe X is more sticky. And if you think about the flow of a content creator, they go, okay, idea. And where do I want to put this idea? They either go, okay, in the front text stack you go, okay, I still post this to Twitter. And then if that engages a certain amount of people, they could then come into the frontech, the product, the dated DM's, whatever, private DM's, and talk about it further in a closed environment. So it still works. You still just post x, you take it to the next step of the discussion inside of Frontec. Okay, cool.
00:36:59.290 - 00:37:38.924, Speaker B: I can see that inserting there. Whereas all of the forks for friendtech and farcaster, as an example, they have a public feed. And when you have a public feed now, you go to the creator and you go, okay, I have an idea. And you go, where do I post it? Do I post it over here and then make it unique over here? Or do I just double post it? And you're interrupting that inherent flow that they have and trying to recreate behavioral patterns to make someone leave one platform for another, that's not an easy task. It's not even easy to do the friendtech thing, which inserted in it. If to take on the web two juggernauts and try to fully replace them is not a battle I'm interested in having.
00:37:40.664 - 00:38:06.204, Speaker C: If you like unlaid, check out the Sulfate podcast with Nick and James. They talk shop with the builders and founders in crypto, focusing primarily on the Solana ecosystem. Sulfate episodes dig deep into both the technical and personal aspects of what it's like to build new tools, protocols and businesses in crypto. Search Solana Solfate in your podcast app or go to solfate.com podcast. Now back to the show.
00:38:08.104 - 00:38:49.826, Speaker A: Yeah, completely agree. I don't think the new social apps will look quite like the current ones. It's always something a lot different that incentivizes experimenters to just play around with that new primitive, that new behavioral pattern. So, yeah, I'm a little, I want to say bearish, but just I guess a little skeptical that these drag and drop kind of Twitter replacements, but it has a little bit of web3 sprinkled in. It's going to actually move the needle in any meaningful way. In fact, I read a tweet and this is a good transition to our next question here on. There's so much varish sentiment around ETH, and a lot of people are blaming the fact that a lot of the big eth people just went to Farcaster and no one followed them.
00:38:49.826 - 00:39:20.750, Speaker A: So just like talking to each other over there on a platform that is like 100th the size of Twitter, everyone's forgotten about ETh. And, yeah, sentiments town. It's just kind of funny. My actual question, though is, you put out a tweet recently on, like, block space demand. So basically your thesis is like, yeah, back in the day, you know, bitcoin was good enough because no one was using blockchains. Then in 2020, ETH started to get close to capacity. And then this cycle, EtH is just not.
00:39:20.750 - 00:39:51.924, Speaker A: There's just not enough capacity. So everyone went to Seoul, they went to l two s. But what does this trend look like over time? So I think in this post, if I'm getting it correctly, you're saying Solana is in the right zone now, but then it's possible another ecosystem could come out and have even more orders of magnitude scalability. So I guess my question is, what is your view on some of these blue chip ecosystems? Are you bullish Eth, Solana, something else? How do you see this playing out?
00:39:53.024 - 00:40:25.378, Speaker B: Yeah, bullish all of them. Just because we have to. Acknowledging network effects, once good enough is achieved for some people, it's usually sticky enough that they're going to create value there. Given how the relative size of our industry to basically everything and where we think blockchain is applicable, like, which is everywhere. Like, I think everything's gonna be tokenized at some point. Um, like, that's all gonna find a home and it's gonna go to established ecosystems. So, like, bitcoin is gonna grow because people are incentivized to make it grow because they have a bag there.
00:40:25.378 - 00:41:13.962, Speaker B: Enough people are incentivized to do it, so it'll continue to do it. I think it's dumb, but they're gonna do it because they love it. Ethereum is gonna grow because enough people are incentivized to do it. Some people are gonna think that's dumb, um, and they're going to go to the next thing and that'll continue to grow. Um, that post specifically was on. Like, I know you guys are, are hyper aware of this stuff, but just like, the global demand for, for block space in general, right? And like, these, these ecosystems blockchain themselves. Like few of them, almost like living organisms, right? You need, you need a sufficient amount of demand in order for them to be a sustainable thing to grow, to propagate the network, to do whatever, and, which is all well and good, but the demand for your block space has to almost like, as a percentage of your block.
00:41:13.962 - 00:41:51.276, Speaker B: So that means the size of your block matters. So bitcoin has, relatively speaking. And I try to normalize it across just like bytes per second throughput of all these chains. And it's like bitcoin is basically nothing ethereum did. Like bitcoin is 5% of Ethereum and then Solana, or Ethereum is like 0.005% of Solana, right? Like the scale in which Solana is like throughput wise bigger than an Ethereum block is crazy. And it was just showing that like, because you need like percentage of block to actually be something like, to be filled up.
00:41:51.276 - 00:42:33.110, Speaker B: Like if Solana, with its current design launched, was the very first blockchain to launch, there's no way you could get enough people to pour enough transactions into this thing because there wasn't enough global demand for it. Therefore it wouldn't be a sustainable thing, right? So like we're always, we're in this, we're in this like um, this step function of, okay, you make blocks. You get to a point where it creates enough demand to make a sustainable cool. Then it hits capacity and you start to ossify a little bit because now it's harder, there's more people that have adopted it. It's like that. It's slower to move and then the next thing comes along with a little bit bigger blocks that's orders of magnitude bigger than what you currently have. Probably starts off a little bit sketchy.
00:42:33.110 - 00:43:10.142, Speaker B: You have the high emissions for security, all these things. And then enough people adopt it. Uh, it's slower to iterate because it's more and more complex. There's more parties, there's more whatever, it's become sustainable. Maybe even like Ethereum now everyone was getting crazy because it's, it was deflationary for a period, but now it can't keep up with demand, right? Like if you just view demand as like a linear progression of like blockchain demand is ever increasing because it's a broadly applicable to everything. And these new designs, what people think on new ship, they could do with it. But the way that our block space is increasing, it's almost its step function, right? Up for a little bit, then it takes a few years for a new one to come out.
00:43:10.142 - 00:44:10.250, Speaker B: Then it's up for the next blockchain that comes out. And it's lateral for a little bit that a new chain comes out. It's, you know, bigger. So those two things next to each other, you were kind of oscillating around the demand. So anyways, that is all just to say that it gives me. And then there's also a second conversation in my mind around the mindset, just the pure mindset of user focus building with a solana, because the mindset of abundance versus the mindset of scarcity, which was bitcoin and ethereum almost exclusively building with abundance allows for people to think on new products because something may be born out of that other is not predicting, right? Because you're creating a novel environment that just, you're letting people whatever. So anyways, that is just to say that I think Solana will carry a future because it creates a new mindset of abundance, which allows for new native apps to maybe bear out some new use cases that we're not thinking of.
00:44:10.250 - 00:44:52.344, Speaker B: That's great. That's bullish in my mind. And it's still young enough to be agile to continue to try to scale with some of this global demand that's coming in faster than Ethereum, which was the previous dominant chain, in my opinion, programmable chain. We'll say that Ethereum hasn't been able to keep up with it, even with the LT scaling roadmap. It's great, this fractured liquidity stuff. Maybe they'll come back around once l two s are proliferated out and there is a lot of landscape or surface area that that stuff is accompanying for. So if you're going to come into the ethereum or into the crypto ecosystem, I mean, fuck, at this point you're more likely to land on l two because there's so like, there's so many of them, like there might just be out in some ads or whatever.
00:44:52.344 - 00:45:27.136, Speaker B: But I think we'll eventually reach another point where Solana now it's already starting to face governance headwinds where it's like, okay, we now have a lot of users. Objectively, it's crushing it with MEV transactions, daily users, all that stuff. And now it has to start making changes. We've talked about fee markets and over the last few months pretty heavily, and it's going to have to make these changes. These changes are going to take months to years to implement. So it's starting to get into that. It will start to get into the same governance, long term roadmap stuff that Ethereum is.
00:45:27.136 - 00:46:30.258, Speaker B: And it just takes time to implement that stuff. As you have more and more clients come on board that you have to negotiate with, you have to set up structures to even communicate that stuff, just all of that stuff for implementation, I think will reach a point where Solana will, or maybe this is what I was positing. I wonder if we'll reach a point where Solana can no longer implement things to scale fast enough with users, our global user demand, and maybe 510 years from now, another chain comes along with quantum scaling or something. And that's not to say that Solana, Ethereum, bitcoin won't be worth a shit ton of that time. I think they all will. I was just curious if, like, because of the way that these, these blockchains are actually structured, how they both grow, but are also limited by the way that they grow, which is a decentralized ecosystem. If that means we're going to constantly go through this iteration of grow, like throw the stick really far ahead, then everything catches up to that, and then you have to get a new stick, throw it even further.
00:46:30.258 - 00:46:36.814, Speaker B: Everyone catches up and, yeah, just kind of do that for a little bit. I don't know what the upper bound of that is, but just kind of positing it.
00:46:37.274 - 00:47:19.100, Speaker C: I definitely think there's an insatiable desire for block space. And I think it's quite interesting that the last couple of bull markets have basically ended when the main chain has had a pretty catastrophic failure, if you like, which was sort of ETH in 2017. They had cryptokitties, which was the first NFT project, and it basically ground Ethereum to a hold. And that spelled the end of that bull market. And then in 2021, you had sort of the death of eth, if you like, with the bored ape yacht club when they did the other side, NFT mint. And it was, people were paying $4,000 to have a failed transaction. And then arguably, Solana then had an indian summer, and that came to an end when it started falling over as well.
00:47:19.100 - 00:47:43.808, Speaker C: So I think there's just an insatiable demand, and probably the top of this cycle will be probably when Solana starts completely falling over and just can't deal with the rate of demand. And at that point, as we saw with EtH, either it spends a couple of years innovating and comes back much, much stronger, or as you say, another chain comes out and you get this sort of quantum leap, uh, forward.
00:47:43.976 - 00:48:14.464, Speaker B: You don't think it's like, uh, it's like broadband. I don't know what the actual term of it is, but. Right, like, if you. Same with highways, right, you, you have two lanes. Like, oh, we should add two more lanes in order to meet demand, but you add those two lanes, people just end up using those two lanes and you don't actually fix traffic. It's just the, it finds a way to fill, fill the new space and I think blockchain will follow a similar trend where we add bigger blocks and then people are just like, well, now it's cheaper, it's even cheaper. So I can do more and more things to fill this, this extra space that I have.
00:48:14.464 - 00:48:19.264, Speaker B: The world will find a way to use it, especially with as broadly applicable as blockchain is.
00:48:19.844 - 00:48:49.408, Speaker C: And use cases can come about because the idea of YouTube was founded back in the 1990s, but took until 2005 ish, until broadband capabilities were good enough that you could actually start streaming things live. So I think something like Drip has been an example from this cycle where you have this, as you say, this abundance mindset, where suddenly you're sending out millions of nfts. Compare that to 2021, where it was a case of 100 collections of 10,000 nfts, all artificially restricted.
00:48:49.456 - 00:48:50.124, Speaker B: Yep.
00:48:51.624 - 00:49:24.824, Speaker A: One other thing I saw under Twitter is you mentioned a project about it's kind of like inscriptions on Eth. What was, I guess the. Because obviously bitcoin ordinals have popped off in a huge way, essentially carried the entire, if you want to call it the NFT ecosystem. I think it's fair to say the vast majority of all volume on all chains is on bitcoin these days. So what was the motivation to try to bring some of those same properties of inscribing or etching rather on ethereum?
00:49:26.084 - 00:50:01.296, Speaker B: Yeah, okay. Just reflections on inscriptions. That one, actually. So I was in early with those guys, those guys just being ordinals in general. I was paying attention to it because it interests me, but I faded it because I really didn't like the. Because I'm a nerd, frankly, and I didn't like some of the ownership properties of it, the social consensus stuff. But trying to watch the ecosystem and reflect on it, because you're right, a lot of people have gravitated towards it.
00:50:01.296 - 00:50:35.844, Speaker B: And what it showed me was that people very much value on chain storage of their stuff, whether you think it's practical or not, people really like putting their asset on the chain to be stored. And so that was it. People value on chain things, then whenever. And I just observed that. And, okay, people are clearly doing this stuff and they've woven the narrative that this is more valuable because of that. They value it. Cool.
00:50:35.844 - 00:51:37.764, Speaker B: Then just staying aware of all of these things and having dug into the ordinals, what it is structurally, for listeners, what it is, why it was able to be done, was basically bitcoin had its structure. Bitcoin went through several upgrades, but the Segway was the big one, which introduced a separate little section of, of their block in the segregated witness data that is on chain storage at a discount. But that storage is prunable, which just means the nodes, they get it, they validate it, they don't have to store it forever. But the thought is, if you stuff shit in here and people spend money on that stuff, that now people are financially motivated to preserve that stuff. One, if they want a full history of bitcoin as an enthusiast, or two, as just because the stuff is valuable, people are paying for it, do it. That's the background of what ordinals inscriptions are. Fast forward to the beginning of this past year.
00:51:37.764 - 00:52:18.124, Speaker B: People were talking about that Denkun upgrade for what's going on with l two s. And what that was, was Ethereum had an upgrade the Denkun upgrade had introduced. Guess what? A second spot of the blockchain in the block space they call blob space, which is a larger capacity stored, stored at a discount section of prunable data. Sounds very familiar because it's the exact same thing that was done back with the Segwit upgrade for entabard upgrades for bitcoin. Right? Separate section, larger data on chain prunable. Cool. So, okay, now I saw these two things and I said, well, um, people have shown very clearly they value on chain stuff.
00:52:18.124 - 00:52:42.628, Speaker B: Um, they're doing it on bitcoin. Uh, not everyone loves bitcoin, but everyone loves to like, loves. These things are cults, right? To a degree. Right. There's a lot of, um, people that have tied their personalities to specific chains. Um, so whether it's because they, that's where they started or that's because they believe in the ethos of the chain or just whatever. So I saw that and I said, okay, people value this stuff.
00:52:42.628 - 00:53:23.094, Speaker B: I'm just going to offer it as a service. So we started building this product. It's pretty tough because this stuff is built for l two s and we're trying to make it for consumers. And we're just replicating what was done on bitcoin, these ordinals inscriptions where people just come to the desk or come to the front door and put their stuff on chain very simply and stuff it in this arbitrary data section. And we're just allowing people to do that on Ethereum and that's how we're going to market it. It's just, you come to our dap, we are going to allow you to take your jpegs or your, its arbitrary data just like it is on, on bitcoin. And so it's PDF files, it's MP3 s, it's jpegs, it's whatever.
00:53:23.094 - 00:54:16.960, Speaker B: And in a previous world on Ethereum, the biggest on chain thing, which there are on chain, fully on chain nfts on Ethereum, uh, but you're limited to the way in which you store it because it's fighting for block space and call data, which is, uh, roughly ten times more expensive than the, this new separate blob space that they created through the dank upgrade. So you come, you tokenize it in a smart contract the exact same way you did with all their ERC 721s except the metadata. And all of that stuff is stored in a blob. And we have a metadata standard that we have. So you can actually, blobs have size limits and you can actually span very large files across multiple blobs and then have it be reconstructed because we do that for you. So someone, if they're Ethereum native and they want to store a 50 gigabyte file on Ethereum, they can come and they can actually do it, and it'll store in these flop spaces forever. And they'll be competing against l two s because this was built for l two s.
00:54:16.960 - 00:54:29.752, Speaker B: But we're making it a consumer product for l one s. And. Yeah, so that's it. We're just giving people drag and drop higher capacity on chain arc capabilities. On Ethereum l one, these would be.
00:54:29.768 - 00:54:34.184, Speaker A: Tradable on a NFT marketplace. Or like, how would, how would that part work?
00:54:34.524 - 00:55:21.592, Speaker B: Yeah, so like that's, that was the, so the hard part for us right now is the way that this stuff is implemented is, and like people have, have played with this before. You may have heard of like the eth scriptions stuff that kind of came along. Then the few people I've talked to said, how is this different than e descriptions and escriptions are? Again, they're in the, the old structure of blocks and these call data. So it's a note on a transcription or a transaction. So in order to do that, you would take like a file and make it bait 64 encoded, and you would put it in the notes section of a transaction. Cool, whatever. But the ethereum ecosystem is entirely built on smart contracts, right? That's the standard ERC 721s that everyone adheres to there.
00:55:21.592 - 00:56:11.592, Speaker B: That's what Opensea, that's what blur, that's what looks rare. That's what everyone honors, right? So if you follow that standard, you're natively integrated in all those applications. So each scriptions came along like cool, put your JPEG on chain, you are putting it on chain. But it now requires all of those ecosystem participants to update all of their ways that they interpret nfts and ownership and all that stuff. Right? Because they have to say, oh, you own this thing if you follow this standard, whatever, not adopted because for obvious reasons that rr wasn't there for those teams. For us, we have our ERC 721 based contract that we've modified a little bit just with additional methods in order to account for this new way that we have to store information on blobs. So it will be, if you've mint an NFT year, it natively shows up on all of those platforms because it's ERC 721 standard.
00:56:11.592 - 00:56:52.078, Speaker B: The only difference is because our metadata is stored in blobs, that teams have to, have to have a new way to pull in that information. And from day one, because it's not anything we control, it's just they have to know how to interpret it, they have to know how to decode, combine, do all that stuff out the gate. We're already integrated with OpenSea on Testnet and I'm working with a few wallet people that serve up NFT images to wallet providers for early integration. What we're going to do is serve up our API. We're going to interpret the data because we know our own standard. We have a practice, whatever. We're going to have documentation for anyone else to do it.
00:56:52.078 - 00:57:19.364, Speaker B: But we'll serve up an API to Openc, blur, whoever so that they can quickly query us for the actual representation of that NFT because they won't understand it. They won't have the internal processes for decoding it until they see it's worthwhile. Then they'll build their own or just use our documentation. They know what to do. So yeah, it'll be natively tradable on all the actual standard ecosystems. It's just interpreting the actual data will take some time.
00:57:24.704 - 00:57:32.064, Speaker C: Yeah, it's interesting and it would definitely be great to see some resurgence of nfts at some point in this cycle, but trying this.
00:57:32.184 - 00:57:35.324, Speaker B: Yeah, dude, did you see the punk stuff today?
00:57:35.654 - 00:57:37.678, Speaker C: Yeah. It didn't let Gray do it.
00:57:37.806 - 00:57:40.230, Speaker B: Yeah. What was that, dude?
00:57:40.382 - 00:57:47.878, Speaker A: Oh my God. Every passing month my decision to acquire a punk in the last cycle is looking worse and worse. Eth doesn't move.
00:57:47.966 - 00:57:48.766, Speaker B: We shut my door.
00:57:48.870 - 00:57:57.154, Speaker A: Punk, punk, floor price doesn't move. And then they. I don't even know what to call it. This, this collection.
00:57:57.854 - 00:57:59.118, Speaker B: Yes. Yeah.
00:57:59.206 - 00:57:59.878, Speaker A: Wow.
00:58:00.046 - 00:58:19.464, Speaker C: So, I mean, yeah, just for the benefit of the listeners, but they're basically releasing some what looks like a very sort of substandard full body 3d block figures and. Yeah, it just looks like nothing. It just looks like a cheap cash grab, basically. And surely that's like the worst thing you could be doing to try and maintain the brand.
00:58:19.964 - 00:58:24.344, Speaker A: They diluted the brand with this just ridiculous yuga labs.
00:58:24.964 - 00:58:46.612, Speaker B: Yeah, I was actually just on space with red guy on that. And apparently it's like some people came up and talked about it and it's, it's not their thing, but it is tied to their brand where like, it's a famous artist world around that's just like pulling in some punk stuff. But still, like, the pushback is just that, like, your punk don't do anything. Literally. Just don't. Just don't. And you're, you're winning.
00:58:46.612 - 00:58:51.964, Speaker B: And so they keep doing stuff even if it is tangential and that's rubbing people the wrong way.
00:58:52.124 - 00:58:55.744, Speaker C: It's the bitcoin thesis of nfts, isn't it? Just leave it alone.
00:58:56.104 - 00:59:36.054, Speaker B: Yeah. Okay, so question for you guys. I mean, given that you guys are heavily in the Solana ecosystem, what are your general thoughts on the bitcoin side? So the other extreme, because I know the same thing with, like, you just saying bitcoin don't do anything. And like, I'm having come from the Ethereum ecosystem and thinking about the whole sustainability demand thing. Right? Like, before ordinals, I was like, all right, bitcoin's headed for doom, right? Like it's ten years. It's going to have security issues because subsidies is here and they don't have any usage. Where are your general thoughts on that ecosystem being the polar opposite of where you guys are with the abundance?
00:59:36.994 - 01:00:18.364, Speaker A: Yeah, I've talked about this before. I think it's like the barbell thesis is kind of playing out, right, where you allocate to Solana, Solana adjacent projects and then you allocate to bitcoin and you would have outperformed holding spot ETH. The L two s have some interesting things happening in terms of adoption, but literally nothing's happening on the ETH base layer. Let's just look at NFT volumes. For instance, I've always been skeptical of bitcoin ecosystem bitcoin L two stacks. That's a project I've been following since 2021. But as more people start to use it, it's really, really tough to ignore.
01:00:18.364 - 01:00:48.532, Speaker A: And just the fact that there's a lot of capital already in bitcoin, it's whatever, two, three, four times bigger than ETH entire market cap. Perhaps there's something there. I just don't really see how it's a great user experience. If getting finality takes as long as a bitcoin block, that's the only thing I get hung up on. And as a developer, it just introduces a lot of user experience. Like challenges. Like even just something simple as buying an ordinal or buying a rood.
01:00:48.532 - 01:01:12.354, Speaker A: Right? Like, if I'm buying a Solana token, it'll settle in like 5 seconds. So then you could just show transaction, confirming it, done. Boom. If it's bitcoin, it's like, okay, you started it. Now in 6 hours we're going to tell you that you actually have the asset. I don't really know what to do for the user. Like, yeah, how do you display that? So look, I think generally I'm bullish just because there's too much activity happening now.
01:01:12.354 - 01:01:27.754, Speaker A: Like we mentioned earlier in this episode, most entity volume is happening on bitcoin. You really can't ignore the data at this point. It's really hot in emerging markets, really hot in APAC, but I don't know, there's still challenges. It's not really designed to do that at the end of the day.
01:01:28.614 - 01:02:16.320, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I'm fairly bearish if an ecosystem is just trying to do what another ecosystem maybe does better. I think all the defi stuff on bitcoin, I'm not particularly bullish on the l two stuff. I think even the meme coin, the rune stuff, so far it doesn't look, it's just going to be a poor version of anything you can get on Eth, let alone Solana. I do think the inscriptions, I think they are interesting, they are unique, they are novel, and when it comes to fine art, rare art, the idea that it's tagged to the bitcoin blockchain, I think it has a lot of weight, and I think that alone could potentially drive enough fees, potentially, to ensure that the security budget issue is resolved. And I think that is a big issue. There are ways that they could go around it. They could start doing steady inflation, things like that.
01:02:16.320 - 01:02:43.478, Speaker C: But bitcoin is a meme coin, and the biggest meme about it is the 21 million total supply. And I think as soon as you mess with that, I think it really would lose a lot of the weight behind it. So I think it's crucial to find ways around the security budget. And I think this cycle, they've shown that most likely they will be able to. To be able to pay miners going forwards. And then just generally I'm very bullish. I don't own any bitcoin.
01:02:43.478 - 01:03:20.304, Speaker C: That's just for the boomers. But I'm very bullish that it offers something completely unique in the industry. And I think that the pension funds, things like that, I think they will allocate to bitcoin as a store of value because I think it is the best store of value in crypto and I think it's likely to remain that way for the foreseeable future. So I'm bullish that there's going to be a lot of people who do want to allocate to it. Probably the one negative is the lack of yield which pension funds would want to seek. But yeah, as Sal says, this cycle is obviously being bitcoin and Sol meme coins.
01:03:21.084 - 01:03:55.700, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I do see a lot of that, my own observations. I think it's pretty clear, yeah, bitcoin has been dominated with the ordinals narrative and that's carried a lot of it. I think where I'm going or my head is going is what you're talking about. And then finishing like doing the next step. Because like now I think about, okay, bitcoin. Bitcoin is now going down this path of like it finally has the people interested enough to create activity on top of it. Same thing happened with, with Ethereum.
01:03:55.700 - 01:04:55.782, Speaker B: Ethereum had just enough programmability that it incentivized people to continue to build on it and do whatever. It got to the point where it capacity now it's going to l two s and doing whatever bitcoin is doing the same thing where it just got enough programmability on it now with ordinals ecosystem to incentivize people to start building on the base layer just enough so that it can hit capacity. And then it's going to have to go to eventually L2 ecosystems and like, okay, finishing the thought that means bitcoin is going to and they're already talking about Opcat go down this road route of maybe even formal programmability, which I think, as you mentioned earlier, kind of calls into like shakes the original thesis of the thing. Like 21 million cap doesn't do any logic. So like they're trying to like ride that line. But then like, okay, let's assume this stuff fills out and it does continue to go down this path. Like, okay, now bitcoin is an l two scaling roadmap at just as Ethereum is without the formal governance structure, without, without a willingness to change.
01:04:55.782 - 01:05:57.030, Speaker B: So it's even more rigid in how and probably more will take longer to implement any kind of changes which Ethereum is already having trouble keeping up with the pace of demand. And then it has to try to resolve all of the things that Ethereum has been trying to solve for the last seven years with in protocol Mev mitigation. All this stuff. If I follow this thought through where, yes, bitcoin is starting to get enough stuff, I don't know that even with it just being a harder asset, quote unquote, I don't know that it will be able to keep up or iterate fast enough to keep up with the amount of demand that I predict will come into blockchain over the next five to ten years. And I think all of the people that have leaned into programmable money have already started on smart contract platforms. And that's where I start to think, well, you already have Blackrock doing their biddle fund on whatever you have Coinbase building on. Brian was a heavy bitcoin guy.
01:05:57.030 - 01:06:57.000, Speaker B: He's capitulated and he's built his entire company on top of bitcoin now as an l two or bitcoin, Ethereum as an l two with base. And I wonder if Ethereum has captured enough of those people that bitcoin, yes, will catch some attention. Short term, I think it's a better trade just for because it is a sexy thing. But I think now in an optimal scenario, it's still going to be placed five years behind what Ethereum has already been doing, and then they're running the exact same race at that point. So like, are you wait, like, are people going to wait seven years for in protocol Mev mitigation on a chain that, you know, is like trying to do stuff that Ethereum already figured out and already has l two s and already has, like all of these people willing to build on top of these l two, there's 60 of them coming out in the next, you know, four months. So like, I don't know that the momentum that's already been accrued in the ethereum ecosystem is going to be outpaced in a medium long term horizon by bitcoin because now theyre basically identical. So I feel like, yeah, thats just.
01:06:57.192 - 01:07:19.834, Speaker C: Can you not see that bitcoin just being the asset that it is and just sitting on balance sheets and allowing a way to hedge your portfolio risk? That is the purpose that it serves. And I appreciate that doesnt really help with the security budget, but maybe you can just have a few other bits and bobs being built on top of it. To service that rather than going the full Ethereum route.
01:07:20.134 - 01:07:45.014, Speaker B: Yeah, I appreciate it. I just dont know that it has this high an upside as a programable money with yield. Thats where you mentioned that earlier. And I think if you look at bonds relative to gold. Right. Or the total addressable market of a yield bearing asset versus something that is valued based on speculation is orders of magnitude different. Its hundreds of trillions to 13 trillion in gold.
01:07:45.014 - 01:07:51.614, Speaker B: And I guess you can try to include houses and stuff in that if you're going to try and do assets to whatever.
01:07:53.234 - 01:08:26.154, Speaker C: I suppose that's a different conversation. Which is will anything be bigger than bitcoin? If that's the question that we're having, then yeah, I think both Solana and Ethereum could well one day be bigger for sure, because I think there's going to be so much being built on top of it if you tried to say how much the Internet was worth, all those sorts of analogies. And as you say, the yield piece is huge. So yeah, I think something will be bigger than bitcoin for sure, if the future unfolds as we think it will. Do you agree with that, Sal?
01:08:27.854 - 01:08:45.282, Speaker A: Yeah, well, actually it kind of is a good transition to this closing question I had, which is during this interview, bitcoin broke 70,000 ETF approval. Odds are through the roof now they're like ten x or whatever. So it feels like it was at.
01:08:45.298 - 01:08:47.762, Speaker B: Eleven sec, 11% on polymarket. What's it at now?
01:08:47.858 - 01:08:49.014, Speaker A: It's over 50.
01:08:49.514 - 01:08:50.254, Speaker B: What?
01:08:50.714 - 01:09:07.888, Speaker A: Yeah. So something's happening. I'm just getting notifications. So I guess my question along those lines, never talk about bitcoin. Talking about how things will shake out. How do you think this, let's call it a bull run. I think we're in one.
01:09:07.888 - 01:09:17.004, Speaker A: Right. There's been a lot of conjecture about. I think it's been proven wrong already. How is this going to shake out now? Especially with these newest potential tailwinds?
01:09:18.224 - 01:09:47.226, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to not try to act like I'm a master trader here. I'm more of a long term thesis guy. And in my mind I look at a few things to see if we're where, like how heated everything gets. Uh, I haven't seen absolute exorbitant raises from the VC side, and I've heard on podcasts recently that they're just now starting to notice that, like, they just had the das London stuff. They're just now starting to notice that they're getting thawing at the top of that. That funnel. Right.
01:09:47.226 - 01:10:36.304, Speaker B: So you're getting, you're getting funds uh raised by some of the larger um, players in our ecosystem, established crypto funds. Right. So paradigm AC and see all that stuff and they're starting to get big numbers. You're seeing I think when the last one they just have was just over a billion. But at the heat of the last market we were upwards of 3 billion a month plus in funds getting raised and they were for specific niche stuff from like mom and pop shops. So between one not seeing crazy froth in VC raises to knowing that we have structural flows coming in from BTC or BT. Yeah BTC, ETF and then now apparently ETF for ETH potentially in the next on like whatever this next round, if it wasn't going to be then, then it was going to be blackrocks in August.
01:10:36.304 - 01:11:39.088, Speaker B: So I was confident in that. I participate pretty heavily in Coinbase like the actual token on the other side on traditional markets I say token g is the stock. And knowing that that is starting to garner some attention in tradfi, I just, I feel like it's pretty clear to me that between the structural flows that will come from us being us as the crypto market being recognized as an actual asset class on the uprise, like it's just going to take time for that to play out and I'm comfortable just kind of sitting and watching my bags go up for the next six to twelve months. So I'm saying directionally I think it's pretty easy to say that we're just going to continue to trend up. I don't know when the top is going to be. Im going to hopefully take a little bit more off the table this year than I have traditionally. I know we have a problem of taking profits here in this industry so I want to remind myself of what it takes to be happy and live at those means and capture that this round.
01:11:39.088 - 01:11:53.014, Speaker B: So not worried about raw numbers so much as its just like inflating my life and then maybe getting some nice things on top of that over the next six months. And Im pretty confident next six to nine months is up and to the right.
01:11:54.714 - 01:12:25.234, Speaker C: Yeah, I'd agree with that. Just to follow up on the news that's breaking now, but I think it's some ETF analysts have said that they've increased their odds of it being approved to 75% from 25% and because they're hearing chatter that the SEC could be doing a 180. So now everyone is scrambling. So yeah I think it's getting particularly political probably with the reversal that we saw the other day in Congress and. Yeah, and Trump, I suppose, suddenly being pro crypto and.
01:12:27.014 - 01:12:27.590, Speaker B: That'S right.
01:12:27.662 - 01:12:38.634, Speaker C: Surely, surely someone's in Biden's ear telling him, you could be throwing away your election if you start going against it. So, yeah, it could be that things are off to the.
01:12:39.854 - 01:12:43.994, Speaker B: Do you guys acquire your bowdoin and your Trump before. Before the craziness?
01:12:45.324 - 01:12:56.844, Speaker A: Oh, man. Yeah, that stuff, it's hard, man, because like, you never really know how that's going to trend into the election itself. But yeah, I mean, it's fun.
01:12:56.964 - 01:12:58.052, Speaker B: That's one to me.
01:12:58.068 - 01:12:58.812, Speaker C: I'm Bowdoin.
01:12:58.948 - 01:13:00.504, Speaker A: You're team bowdoin. Yeah.
01:13:01.244 - 01:13:15.610, Speaker C: Even though Tremp has been on Salana, Trump has been massively outperforming it recently. But as I said on a previous episode, if Trump comes out and calls him bowdoin at any point, you know, you're gonna get like a ten hundred x. Yeah.
01:13:15.682 - 01:13:16.858, Speaker A: Debates happening next month.
01:13:16.906 - 01:13:17.090, Speaker B: Right.
01:13:17.122 - 01:13:19.610, Speaker A: So you guys have a catalyst too.
01:13:19.762 - 01:13:34.814, Speaker B: Yeah, between that and like, just all, like, in my mind, there's so many catalysts for people to be able to lean into it. Right. Go to rallies, do whatever. Like, there's just, there's so many occasions for it to pop up that whether or not it actually does, like, we'll manufacture it. Right?
01:13:35.474 - 01:13:49.200, Speaker C: Like, he's already been asked about the Q and A at the NFT Q and A, so, yeah, I think it will keep popping up. And meme coins are about the attention economy and nothing's going to garner more attention over the next six months than the us election.
01:13:49.392 - 01:14:09.858, Speaker A: Awesome. I think we covered a lot of topics. It's been super comprehensive discussion. I don't think we ever had to focus on social fly either. So that was pretty refreshing to do an episode on that. Brad, thank you so much for taking the time out of your day to chat with us. Super excited to see what's going to happen in this space.
01:14:09.858 - 01:14:14.850, Speaker A: And just with everything that's happening now in markets, uh, pretty crazy how quick that things can change.
01:14:15.002 - 01:14:18.122, Speaker B: Yeah, I got a scramble now. Maybe space to get on or something.
01:14:18.298 - 01:14:19.266, Speaker A: Yeah, right.
01:14:19.450 - 01:14:24.170, Speaker B: I had some best put it in the poly market like two months ago when it was at 30% odds, I guess I'm positive now.
01:14:24.242 - 01:14:24.682, Speaker C: Nice.
01:14:24.778 - 01:14:28.426, Speaker A: Oh, let's go, let's go. Awesome, awesome, cool, cool, cool. Well, thanks again.
01:14:28.530 - 01:14:30.374, Speaker B: Yeah, man, that was awesome. I appreciate it.
