00:00:02.720 - 00:00:49.386, Speaker A: It's finally happening. On September 15, the Linux kernel maintainer summit was held in Dublin, Ireland. This was an invite only event which brought together the world's leading kernel developers to discuss the state of the existing kernel and to plan the next development cycle. A recent article by ZNnet stated that at the summit the issue of Rust in the Linux kernel was brought up. Besides some concerns about non standard Rust extensions being needed for Rust to work in Linux, at the end it was was decided that Rust is well enough supported and it was time to move forward with Rust in Linux. The article also mentioned that in an email thread, the creator of Linux, Linus Torvalds, stated that unless something odd happens, Rust will make it into version 6.1 of the Linux kernel.
00:00:49.386 - 00:01:54.868, Speaker A: This is a major step for Rust and shows that Rust is here to stay. The same day this article was posted, the CTO of Azure Mark Racinovich, also famously known as one of the primary developers of Sysinternals tools, posted the following tweet speaking of languages, it's time to halt starting any new projects in C C and use rust for those scenarios where a non garbage collected language is required. For the sake of security and reliability, the industry should declare those languages as deprecated, strong words coming from a systems programming legend and a CTO of one of the largest tech companies in the world. Let me know down in the comment section below what you think about Mark's statement. Lastly, this is not recent news, but I would like to point out that this year rust has yet again been voted the most loved programming language by the Stack overflow developer survey, continuing its streak for the 7th consecutive year in a row. Not only that, but it was also voted the most wanted programming language this year as well. All in all, a lot of great news for Rust this week.
00:01:54.868 - 00:02:11.440, Speaker A: Before you go, if you haven't already, make sure to get your free rust cheat sheet by heading over to let'sgetrusty. Com cheat sheet. Also, if you enjoyed this content, make sure to like the video and subscribe to the channel. With that said, I'll see you in the next one.
