00:00:00.520 - 00:00:29.902, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 26 April 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the weekend. Actually, just before we do that, I did want to give a quick shout to everyone that is subscribed to the channel. We hit 5000 subscribers over the weekend, which is really, really cool. I think we're up to about 5300 right now, a bit over that. So yeah, really great to see just some solid, steady growth on the channel, not in just subscribers, but also video views.
00:00:29.902 - 00:01:13.444, Speaker A: You know, I've noticed that each refill episode now gets over 1000, at least kind of like 1000 views per episode, which is really awesome to see. And the podcast gets about what, couple hundred listens or two to 300 listens, which is really awesome as well. So yeah, we've got some reach there going with, with the Daily Gwei, informing more people about a theory and what's going on in the ecosystem. And I'm really happy that you're all kind of like, you know, watching me go through all of this stuff and it gives me motivation to obviously keep going with it. But at the same time, you know, my goal with the daily ecosystem in general and why everything is like free, there's no sponsors or anything like that, is not to grow it and become this really big thing and then just shield referral links to everyone. Like, I don't want to do anything like that. I don't want to monetize it at all.
00:01:13.444 - 00:01:52.684, Speaker A: I believe, you know, education should be free in general. Now obviously people need to make money, right? Need to make a living, but I'm fine with that. You know, ethereum has been very good to me over the years, so I wanted to give back as much as possible. And that is really my goal with, with the Daily Quay. So yeah, it's always going to remain free. So if know anyone that that should subscribe and should basically be watching these videos, definitely reach out to them and send this across and you know, on top of that as well, I think YouTube has their algorithm, right, which picks and chooses which channels it wants to kind of promote at different times. And you know, sometimes the algorithm will quote unquote bless you and maybe they'll show your channel to a bunch of different people and they'll show your videos to people that haven't really kind of watched it yet.
00:01:52.684 - 00:02:27.964, Speaker A: So maybe the Daily wear will get that eventually, but still some really solid growth going on here. And obviously, you know, at the end of the day, not everyone wants to watch, uh, you know, the refill video every day. Right. There's, it's pretty, you know, it's pretty packed with, with just ethereum focus information. And, you know, I understand people have, have lives and everything like that, but at the same time, I'm sure there's plenty of people out there who just, you know, may feel kind of overwhelmed by what's happening within the ethereum ecosystem and still want to kind of keep on top of everything. So, yeah, that's, that's basically, you know, I guess, like the recap of the thinking behind the daily way here. And there's, there's other things I want to do with it.
00:02:27.964 - 00:02:56.942, Speaker A: There's other kind of videos that I want to make. Like I've been talking about making standalone videos for quite a while. It's just, you know, finding the time to do it and getting that all set up correctly. You know, there's a lot of things that people ask me every day, questions like the same questions I get asked, like pretty much like every day that I love to just put a video together for and kind of pass it on to those people. So keep an eye out for that. And I know with the data pump, like, I'm very late on that. So what I've decided to do is I'm going to, this weekend coming up, I'm going to put out a data pump that covers both march and April.
00:02:56.942 - 00:03:28.098, Speaker A: So it'll be pretty, pretty info packed as well. So look out for that. But anyway, let's get right into what happened over the weekend. So sundeep from Polygon put out a call to action here, basically. And he basically started a COVID relief campaign for, for India. Now for those of you who haven't been kind of maybe paying attention, India has been hit really hard with the recent COVID wave here and they're in dire need of support. So Sandip has put together this base, this address here, this Ethereum address, and then down here, he's got other addresses as well for all types of networks where you can donate.
00:03:28.098 - 00:04:04.718, Speaker A: Now the last time I checked there was, I think, two $3 million donated so far, which is awesome to see. You know, I think Vitalik donated like $200,000 and even Justin sun kind of matched that as well, which is, which is awesome. And a bunch of big players kind of, I guess, put some money in as well. But you don't have to be big to do this if you're, you know, whatever you can give, you can give anything. Obviously, every little bit helps, but just wanted to give a quick shout out there. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for sure. All right, so I think the biggest bit of news over the weekend in the Ethereum ecosystem was that the ETH two network, the beacon chain, had its first incident on Mainnet.
00:04:04.718 - 00:04:43.574, Speaker A: Now, I'm going to give like a TL doctor of what happened here. Essentially, the bug only affected the prism client. So there's four clients on Mainnet right now, Nimbus, taekoo and Lighthouse. And prism, of course, this only affected the prism client, and it sent, it meant that the prism client was basically, I guess, like the fact that there was a bug in it reflected across the entire network and people were missing attestations and things like that on blocks. So the network didn't stop or anything like that. But yeah, definitely was a bug that needed to get fixed. And the bug was actually quite funny because it was based on an issue that was kind of opened a while ago, I think back in January, but it was a very edge case issue.
00:04:43.574 - 00:05:09.264, Speaker A: Now what that means is essentially that it very rarely, if ever, happened. So it wasn't put up to the kind of priority list and what to fix. Like, it was a known kind of bug, but it wasn't something that was like, okay, we need to fix this right now because it's critical. Well, turns out, you know, in certain conditions, the bug is critical. So that's why it was fixed over the weekend. You know, if you have, if you're running a prism. No, definitely update, I'm sure you would have already because you, if you didn't, you would have noticed that your validator is not performing as you expect.
00:05:09.264 - 00:05:49.302, Speaker A: But essentially, you know, it was really like a herculean effort here from the prior labs team to get this update out over the weekend. Obviously, whenever you're updating client core protocol kind of things and client software for the protocol itself, you need to go slow. You need to make sure that you're not like adding in any additional kind of like vulnerabilities or bugs or whatever. So the fact that they basically got this together in not even like 24 hours, I don't think maybe from when, when the bug was found or something, maybe a little bit over. That was, was really awesome. Now on that note, and, you know, as I said, there's four clients right now. There are, there's, the network is dominated by about two thirds of it is prism.
00:05:49.302 - 00:06:34.544, Speaker A: So the prior labs Prism client, now there's no use having kind of like multiple clients if most of them are minority clients, right, where the rest of them only take out that one third. So three clients are basically account for one third of the network and prisms accounting for two thirds of it. So Justin Drake kind of put out a call to action here that we need dominance well under half to merge safely. So if we want to do the ETH one to ETH two merge, what the researchers particularly want to see is a network that is well diversified among these clients. Now, I think the reason why prism is so popular is just simply because it had, it was one of the first clients to start building very publicly. There are a lot of people that are aware of prism, right. The team is more well known, I think, than the others within the ecosystem.
00:06:34.544 - 00:07:08.906, Speaker A: It's got nothing to do with, I think, the engineering talent. I think all of these teams have incredible engineers on them building all this incredible software. And there's no kind of like, I guess, drawback to using this other software. And also on top of that, actually prism has a Windows client. I don't think the other three do. So from that point of view, like, I think a lot of windows users obviously went for Prism and that might be a contributing factor here. But anyway, regardless of that, we need to get to basically this ideal scenario where each client is being used by, you know, 25% of the network.
00:07:08.906 - 00:07:48.118, Speaker A: Now, I don't think that's gonna happen. Like, I just don't think that's gonna be a scenario that plays out. What I do think can happen is we can have like two of the most popular clients making up two thirds instead of just one. So if we can get Prism making up, you know, sorry, prism and Lighthouse making up two thirds of the network and then the rest of it being taekoo and Nimbus, that would be awesome. And the reason I say prism and Lighthouse is because they are more well known than Taeku and Nimbus. I think from my perspective it goes prism, Lighthouse, taeku, and then Nimbus. I don't think, you know, many people are aware of these other clients or want to run them.
00:07:48.118 - 00:08:15.714, Speaker A: As I said, they don't have Windows distribution, so they either have macOS or Linux distributions. So that kind of hampers adoption there as well. And, and then of course, staking providers have their own reasons for using different software. I think staking providers should be using takeu. Take was actually specifically built for like enterprises and companies and things like that. So if you're a staking provider service, you should definitely look into that. But if you're an individual staker and you are not running windows, I highly recommend you change from Prism.
00:08:15.714 - 00:08:56.616, Speaker A: If you're running it right now, change to just Lighthouse or Nimbus or tech, it doesn't even matter. Like, as I said, the, the differences between these clients are kind of minimal. It's really about optimizations for efficiency and effectiveness on the beacon chain. And I think maybe tech is the most profitable by a little bit. So you could actually make more money by running Deku rather than the other ones. But as I said, like if you're on windows right now, you would either have to run a virtual machine to run these, which would, to run the non prism clients, which would actually lead to a lot, probably a lot of headache because I've seen people try to do this before, and introducing a virtual machine into it complicates things. But if you have the option to do so, reinstall.
00:08:56.616 - 00:09:39.424, Speaker A: Like, I mean, install Linux on your machine. Like get rid of windows if you, if you can, right? If you can't, that's fine. But I think, you know, if you're staking on your own, you know, you have more, you have a duty to basically support the network health, and you can do so by just switching over to one of these other clients here. And, you know, not to say that the merge isn't gonna happen if we don't have, you know, the client diversity that we want, but it'd be much better and much healthier and we'd feel much better about doing the merge if this was the case. So, yeah, just a bit of a PSA there. And I think this being the first beacon chain kind of incident just shows that, you know, the beacon chain can run fine for, for a while, but then we're going to have an incident regardless of it. And it's all about how the kind of like, I guess, ecosystem recovers from it.
00:09:39.424 - 00:10:16.502, Speaker A: You know, we even had an incident on ETH, one mainnet with the open ethereum client, you know, after the Berlin fork not being able to sync. And that was fixed rather quickly as well. But the thing is, these things happen, right? Bugs happen. And the reason we have this client diversity is so that if a bug happens in one client, it doesn't affect the entire network, right, the entire network. It doesn't just go offline. Now you can imagine a scenario where this bug is much more severe and, you know, prism accounts from, for most of the network, what happens if all the prism clients just stop working, right. The network would probably come to a halt and then we'd have to wait until prism releases a fear prolapse, releases a fix, and then the client comes back online.
00:10:16.502 - 00:10:36.382, Speaker A: So from that perspective, we need better client diversity. So, yeah, I think I probably said enough there. Definitely go, you know, do that. If you can run one of the other clients. If you're running prism right now, and if you're already running one of the other clients, good on you. Like, you don't need to change anything. But for those running prism, like, and I think Prism also has like a web UI, which makes it even easier.
00:10:36.382 - 00:11:10.526, Speaker A: So maybe these other teams need to, need to step up and have a web UI built. Maybe they're already working on it. I think they are already working on it. I don't track, like, each of the developments too closely, but definitely run by these other clients, if you can. So another big, and actually this was probably just as big as the beacon chain incident, had this announcement that they came out over the weekend that AIP 1559 is tentatively, tentatively scheduled to be deployed onto the Ethereum mainnet on July 14, 2021. So we have our first date here for ERP 1559. Now, we all kind of like, knew that it was coming in July.
00:11:10.526 - 00:11:33.354, Speaker A: We just didn't have an exact date. July 14 is amazing. My birthday, July 16. So that's a nice little early birthday present there. Now, the reason why I say tentatively scheduled is because obviously, for those of you that are aware, Ethereum network upgrades are based on block times. Now, block times can vary. You know, we target around 15 seconds, but they can go as low as 13 seconds I've seen, or as high as like 16 or 17.
00:11:33.354 - 00:12:05.884, Speaker A: It just depends. So, you know, if all goes well, it'll be on July 14, barring any kind of delays in the client implementations as well. And then you can see here, there's a tie. There's a table here of when it would be going on to, I guess, different test nets and when there'll be a clients freeze. So the clients have about another maybe almost a month to build out the 1559 implementation, making sure that it gets in and that the, the kind of like clients don't change from there. Then the clients are released to the public on June 2 here. And then we have the testnet forks one after the other.
00:12:05.884 - 00:12:54.532, Speaker A: So we have Ropsten and then Gorely and then rinkeby, and then we leave two weeks, I think, or three weeks until Mainnet. And then we have the Mainnet fork. And after two years, pretty much 1559 will be live on the Ethereum mainnet this is going to be one of the biggest days in Ethereum's history. I mean, the other one's going to be the merge, of course, which I'm going to talk about in a sec, actually. But this is just such a huge deal, I think, for many, many reasons. Not because, not just because it's really good for the price, obviously, because of the fee burn, and it's really good for Ethereum's monetary policy narrative, but it's going to be so good for the user experience. Now, for those of you who maybe unaware of, like, why this is going to be so good, he's just like one thing, there's multiple reasons, but he's just like one core reason that we're all going to be affected by from day one and we're all going to feel and we're all going to get a benefit from.
00:12:54.532 - 00:13:36.550, Speaker A: Now, you know, when you put through a transaction and gas fees kind of like spike from under you, so say you put like a transaction in, I mean, now you can get one in for 40 Gwei. Like we're talking about like the gas prices right now. They're really low. But you know what? You can get one in for 40 way. Now, sometimes what happens is you'll do that and then gas will, and that'll be like a rapid transaction, right? Because there's like rapid, fast, and then standard and slow. But if you do a rapid transaction, that means that you are most likely guaranteed to get your transaction in the same Ethereum block. So if you pay 40 Gwei, but then all of a sudden rapid transaction speed, know, skyrockets to like 80 gray, well, then you're not going to get into that block because you've only paid 40 and pretty much like everyone else is outbidding you to pay 80.
00:13:36.550 - 00:14:49.390, Speaker A: Now, we saw this happen a lot more before flashbots came out because this was typically, like, mev transactions and things like that. So that minor extractable value that I've been talking about on the refill lately, but it still happens today, right? And it's super annoying because then you have to, like, go to metamask, speed up your transaction, and then, like, you know, you just feel like you've been rugged, essentially, right? And you have to pay more. And whatever with 1559, the way it works is that 90% to 95% of the time, if you set a gas, a Gwei price, right, at like 100 and like, the standard is like, you know, 100, and you set it at that, then your transaction should get into the next block. And this is because you can set, like, a maximum that you're willing to pay as well in Gwei, so you can set like, 100, and then you can say, okay, well, I'm okay with it going all the way up to 200 anyway. And then from there it'll get included regardless, because of the fact that it's a more predictable kind of transaction mechanism here. So that's something you're gonna feel immediately, you know, goodbye, most of the, you know, goodbye to, like, pretty much like, I mean, there's maybe, like a five to 10% chance that you'll still have to do this. But, like, speeding up transactions, having to do that through metamask is just, like, one of the most annoying things about interacting with Ethereum.
00:14:49.390 - 00:15:33.894, Speaker A: And on top of that, if you speed up a transaction and metamask and you don't do it correctly, because, like, the fees just go even higher and you don't, and you have to, like, speed it up again, then metamask won't give you the option to speed it up again. You have to manually do it. Now, some of you may have done this before where you have to basically send a zero ETH transaction to yourself with the same nuns, which will basically clear that transaction and then allow you to do it again. Essentially what you're doing is you're replacing your original transaction with, like, a zero transaction because you're using the same nuns, which stands for number only once, which is a funny, funny thing there. But anyway, that gone are the days of that, pretty much, like, for. For most of the time, gone are the days of that kind of ux. And I think that's a huge benefit for users.
00:15:33.894 - 00:15:53.656, Speaker A: Now, obviously, this isn't perfect, right? It's good. You know, an ERP 15 nine is not going to work to materially lower gas fees. I think the gas limit has done that. I'm going to talk about, like, the reasons why the gas fees are lower. I think it's over here in this tweet. Yeah, I'll talk about that actually, after this. But essentially, 1559 just has so many benefits outside of fee burning.
00:15:53.656 - 00:16:30.362, Speaker A: I think that's why it's going to be so exciting. And, you know, we need to kind of, like, I think, flip the narrative as well on ethereum in terms of, like, the gas fees being high and scalability and stuff like that. And this works to help with that for sure. So, yeah, I'm looking forward to July 14. Hopefully there's no delays. As I've said before, it has to happen in July, latest August, because of the difficulty bomb, which is a mechanism that's built into the ethereum network, where at a certain date, the block times will start getting kind of like longer because the difficulty will go up. And then eventually, if the difficulty bomb isn't diffused, the network pretty much bricks itself, because the block times get so long that it basically becomes unusable to do anything.
00:16:30.362 - 00:17:13.988, Speaker A: Could you imagine an ethereum with like a ten minute block, block time, like what bitcoin has? Imagine having to wait ten minutes to get your, like, um, Dex trade in or whatever. That wouldn't work. So from that perspective, we have to get, get it done then. So I'm very much looking forward to this. And then, as I mentioned, after this, we now have one of the 8th one teams, nevermind teasing that the merge, the ETH one to ETH two merge is being targeted for October 2021. This, I mean, I've been saying a lot for a while now that I don't expect the merge to happen till Q 120 22. This, and this has kind of, like, caught me off guard because this is really ambitious, and I'm talking, like, really ambitious because October 2021 is not very far away.
00:17:13.988 - 00:17:36.042, Speaker A: We've just started building. I mean, the merge has been, like, building. People have been building towards the merge for a while now, but we haven't had any, like, major test nets up. We haven't had any, like, I guess, long live test nets. We haven't had any kind of, like, major bugs that we've had to fix. And obviously you want to be seeing bugs, right? You want to be seeing these things on test nets. So I think maybe we can get to a workable point by October 2021.
00:17:36.042 - 00:18:11.286, Speaker A: But I don't know if the ecosystem and all the teams will feel comfortable with doing the merge by then. I think that's maybe too early. And obviously, like, I'm not, you know, a core protocol developer. They know better than me. But just, it just doesn't, for me, just looking at it from, like, an outsider perspective, it just doesn't look like something that I think is realistic. Now, the fact that we've got a target there and everyone's working towards that target is still really awesome, right? Because you can look at that and think, okay, well, now the teams have, like, a timer on them and, like, they're all going to race each other and, like, be a bit competitive to get to that October 2021 merge date. And maybe it just gets pushed back to December or something instead.
00:18:11.286 - 00:18:57.080, Speaker A: But the clients are ready, the testnets there, everything's, everything's all good. But yeah, if it does happen in October, I mean, I'll be even more bullish than I usually am because I don't think people realize what the merge means for, for not just, I guess, like the Ethereum kind of network as a whole, but also for the ETH price. Now, obviously for the Ethereum network, it means that we get off proof of work, right? And we're only with proof of stake and it's all well and good and we can leave the kind of legacy mining behind and everything like that. But what it means for ETH asset is that we basically get a 90% reduction in issuance from the current 4.5% on ETH one to the current 0.35% ish on ETH two. Now, obviously that'll go up as time goes on, but it's still going to be much less.
00:18:57.080 - 00:19:24.536, Speaker A: It's going to be 0.5% or less for a little bit, for a little while there. Now, that's a huge reduction. And not only is it a massive reduction in new ETH being issued, the ETH being issued is now going to stakers instead of miners. And as I explained last week on my bullish case for ETH, I basically said that the miners have costs that they cannot get around, right? They have to pay for electricity, they have to pay for hardware maintenance and new hardware from time to time. That is non negotiable. There is no way for them to avoid those costs.
00:19:24.536 - 00:19:52.202, Speaker A: So they are what I like to call forced sellers. It's the same reason as you having to sell, you know, for taxes. If you owe taxes, you are forced to sell, essentially. So from that perspective, stakers aren't forced to sell. Stakers don't have massive costs. You have a little bit of electricity costs for running a pc 24/7 but that is like 99% less, probably even 99.99% less than what miners have to pay, right? So the stake is the 8th that they earned.
00:19:52.202 - 00:20:26.364, Speaker A: They're just going to restake it or just keep it or just hoard it or whatever. And the fees that they earn is the same thing, right. Because obviously not all of the fees going to be burned under 1559. You know, some of it's going to go to stakers and miners while the miners are still active for a little bit, but we expect most of the fee to be burned, but still, like, and the APY is going to be so high that more ethically is going to be locked up because of that high apy once the merger happens, because the fees are going to be going to stakers. That is just an incredible catalyst for ETH as the asset. Right. Massive reduction in sell pressure from, I mean, 1559 as well.
00:20:26.364 - 00:21:04.640, Speaker A: Because instead of like the fees going to miners who just, you know, they may just dump it, it's getting burned to deleted from the supply to. You have them, the, the merger going through that reduces the issuance by 90%. Three, you have the issue, the. Sorry. Three, you have like the cost going down considerably for the people that are validating network, so they're not for sellers anymore. And four, you have this massively high staking apy because of the fees being paid. And from that perspective, you have, you will have more ETH being locked up in staking, which takes ETH out of the kind of circulation which naturally should lead to a kind of like high ETH price over the long term.
00:21:04.640 - 00:21:32.144, Speaker A: So four extremely bullish catalysts for ETH possibly happening over the next six months. And it's not like once they're in it, that's it. Right. We're going to keep burning fees in 1559. We're not going to change the monetary policy to increase issuance like, and blow it up. Now, obviously, as more ethy stake, the issuance goes up a little bit because we need to pay more to stakers, but it's negligible compared to the lockup of the ETH and the fees being burned. And potentially we see a deflationary ETH with all of that.
00:21:32.144 - 00:22:03.286, Speaker A: Right. So anyway, I digress there, but seriously, like, it's just a crazy amount of bullish catalyst for the Ethereum network itself. Not even talking about all the defi stuff happening or the L2 stuff happening, just the Ethereum network itself and all the core protocol upgrades are going to lead to these just like awesome, kind of like narrative and bullish catalysts for Ethan. That's why I am just like, not bearish at eat on ETH at all. I mean, there's one of the reasons, there's plenty of reasons, but like, there's just I. I can't see any reason to be bearish right now. So, yeah, anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that for now.
00:22:03.286 - 00:22:36.738, Speaker A: I'm gonna move on to a tweet here from Trent, which has actually got to do with Ethereum protocol upgrades as well. So he's saying that it struck him that there's potentially five network upgrades for Ethereum going live in 2021, which is absolutely unprecedented. We had, we went from not having one upgrade for 18 months to having five upgrades in one year. Now obviously, we've already had Berlin, which went live on April 14. We have London going in mid July. We have Altair, which is on ETH two, which is mid year. We have Shanghai, which is Q three or Q four this year as well, which is separate to the merge.
00:22:36.738 - 00:23:07.778, Speaker A: And then we have the stretch goal, as he likes to call it, which is the merge in possibly Q four, which would mean, yeah, five upgrades in a year. Absolutely incredible work here. I mean, for a while there, people thought that ethereum, the network, had ossified already. But if you were paying attention, you knew this wasn't true. You knew that there was kind of multiple upgrades going through. You knew there was plenty of stuff being done on the core protocol work on both ETH one and ETH two, and you knew the merge was actually closer than most people thought. Af people still telling me that they didn't think the merge would go through until, like, 2024.
00:23:07.778 - 00:23:33.542, Speaker A: Like what? 2024? Like, we have, we already had, like, small scale testnets. We have the specs out there. We have all these teams working on this already. It's become a priority because of the stuff that happened with the miners. And when I hear that, I'm just like, well, I mean, like, I say it sometimes, but, like, just not going to make it. Right. Like, if you, if you don't realize, like, how close we are to these things, then, then, yeah, and then I have some people saying, oh, sharding is not going to come out to, like, 2024 as well.
00:23:33.542 - 00:24:04.620, Speaker A: I was like, like what? Like, sharding is, like, not that difficult to do. I mean, we're going to settle for, like, data sharding first and maybe do execution sharding later. But with a healthy L2 ecosystem data shade, a data sharding might just be enough. We can just, like, and get massive scalability from the shards at L2 and be fine. So, I mean, from that perspective, I just don't understand where people get these wild timelines from. It's just goalpost moving. I mean, we dealt for it forever about, you know, I mean, I know there was a lot of delays with ETH two, but people literally said ETH two would never ship, right.
00:24:04.620 - 00:24:15.246, Speaker A: That proof of stake would never ship. It would never work. I mean, it's all false. It's all wrong. Yes, there was delays, but there was delays because a lot of this stuff is hard to do. It's bleeding edge research. It's bleeding edge engineering.
00:24:15.246 - 00:24:37.450, Speaker A: It, you know, it takes a lot to kind of, like, I guess, coordinate in a decentralized community, all these people together. So from that perspective, I just don't get these kind of, like, wild dates here. And Ethereum has been shipping, like, crazy lately on the protocol, protocol level here and. And been doing so much good work. So, yeah, I just don't get it. I remain bullish. I think that we can maybe get all five of these this year.
00:24:37.450 - 00:24:55.394, Speaker A: As I said, I'm, like, on the fence about the merge this year. I would just, like, say, temper expectations here. I wouldn't expect it in October, but if we get it in October, I mean, I'm just, like, even more bullish then maybe I should be buying even more. Ethan. I am right now. But anyway, cool to see that. And I guess, like, thanks, Trent, for pointing this out.
00:24:55.394 - 00:25:41.774, Speaker A: So Synthetix has launched their FAANg equity since finally, which is really, really cool, and s Tesla. So basically, you can now get synthetic asset exposure to a bunch of very popular tech stocks here, including Facebook, Apple, Netflix, Amazon, Google, and Tesla by using the Quinta decentralized exchange platform that's built on synthetix here. This is awesome. I mean, I feel like to me, buying stocks is just like, quote unquote boomer, right? It feels like old school, but buying stocks on Quinta or, like, within Ethereum, Defi feels futuristic, even though the asset is essentially the same. Or I guess this is a synthetic asset. It's not the actual asset itself. But, like, I don't really care about owning the actual asset itself for stocks because really, you just own a piece of paper.
00:25:41.774 - 00:26:10.646, Speaker A: It's not a bearer asset. It's a piece of paper that basically has a legal right to the stock. So at the end of the day, you're at the mercy of the legal system. Anyway, I won't get into that for now, but essentially, like, I mean, I love synthetix. Big fan of it, being an SNX holder for ages. So for them supporting these assets, this fits into what I think synthetix is really good at, is supporting these assets that are not naturally kind of like native to Ethereum, obviously, you know, doing, like, a synthetic ETH is fine and everything, but ETH itself is already on Ethereum, right. It's already very liquid.
00:26:10.646 - 00:26:34.760, Speaker A: It's already got massive, kind of like, trading volumes across the ecosystem on defi. So the more interesting assets are ones that aren't on Ethereum yet. So, like the, like, stocks and things like that, like synthetic assets here. So really, really cool to see this from synthetix. Really bullish, because as I said, that's been one of the things that I've been most excited about. And, you know, they can just keep adding things here. I know there's a bit of a regulatory issue here, so I think that's why it went through Quinta.
00:26:34.760 - 00:26:54.724, Speaker A: I think Quinta is supposed to be detached from synthetics from a regulatory point of view, which is smart. And I see a lot of teams doing this lately. But yeah, really cool to see this. And you can basically go check this out out on Quinta. It'll be linked in the YouTube description as well for an easy to access link. So, Wangarian, I think that's how you say it. I don't.
00:26:54.724 - 00:28:00.082, Speaker A: From defiance capital here, basically put out an interesting thread where he said that the, the AavE new liquidity mining program for AavE, which for those who don't know, is going live soon. By the time you've watched this video, it may already be live, where you can basically earn staked Aaver tokens for providing liquidity and borrowing from the Aave platform. But essentially what he says here is that he believes this very well could be the catalyst to kickstart Defi summer 2.0. Now, we all know, I mean, most of us, maybe not those who came into the ecosystem this year, but those of us who are around from about June last year to maybe September ish, I think it was, we had the Defi summer, which is basically when DeFi went from being a toy or very niche thing within the Ethereum community to basically breaking through that barrier and onboarding people outside of Ethereum. That's when you kind of know that something is really bullish, is when you're able to onboard kind of a community that is like distinctly different from the existing community. And for me, when looking at, back at DeFi summer, that was the bitcoin community. Because if you saw what happened, bitcoin and Ethereum exploded.
00:28:00.082 - 00:28:46.486, Speaker A: Because what happened is compound launched the liquidity mining program in June, and you could earn comp tokens for supplying like your bitcoin to compound. And you could also do it for, you could also earn other tokens for doing something through synthetix and Ren. And then it just kicked off all these kind of like yield stuff that happened and yearn launched and Wi Fi and all that stuff, right? The rest is history. But essentially that's what Kickstarter DeFi summer was. That compound liquidity mining launch that just sucked in billions of dollars of assets from everywhere into the ecosystem, into deFi, and basically exploded the TVL across the board, the trading volumes, everything. So you know what Huangarian saying here is that he believes that Aave's liquidity mining program can have the same effect and Kickstarter Defi. A second DeFi summing here.
00:28:46.486 - 00:29:19.668, Speaker A: Now, I agree with this to an extent. At the same time, and it pains me to say this, I still think, even though the gas prices are relatively low right now, I still think so many new users are locked out of it. I still think a lot of new users are actually going to things like BSC. Now, that's simply because binance. I mean, there's two, two major reasons. Binance has a major kind of, I guess, user funnel, right? New user funnel flowing into BSC from their exchange. And then you also have the low fees as well, right, which are not actually that low anymore.
00:29:19.668 - 00:29:40.168, Speaker A: I think they've actually been spiking up. But anyway, regardless of that, I think that I'm true. Defi summer 2.0 might need L2. It might need, like, a big L2 implementation that has a bunch of Defi apps on it to really kick it off. Maybe we have a mini one because there's enough whales out there. You know, everyone's made a lot of money lately because the price is going up.
00:29:40.168 - 00:29:56.606, Speaker A: Maybe that happens. But for me, I just. I kind of like. It pains me to say it, as I said, but, like, at this point in time, like, we're just not getting those new users like we were back then, because, you know, back there, people didn't. Didn't have an alternative, right? Didn't have a choice. They had to pay the high fees on Ethereum, but now they have a choice. They don't.
00:29:56.606 - 00:30:10.822, Speaker A: They don't have to do that. Obviously, there's trade offs, right? You know, BSC being, you know, centralized and all that sort of stuff and, like, any other. Any of the other kind of stuff there. But that. But that's like a separate issue, right? The. At the end of the day, like, the new users coming in don't know this. They don't know the intricacies.
00:30:10.822 - 00:31:00.126, Speaker A: You know, they should obviously, like, we could kind of expect them to instantly know all the differences between all these platforms. So the best that we can do is just outbuild them here. All the innovation still remains on Ethereum, right? All the cool stuff still remains on Ethereum. The Giga brains are on Ethereum. The L2 innovations that, you know, going nuts right now. But until we get that platform that basically allows people to build whatever they want on L2 and build, like, in a generalized L2, like optimism or arbitrary more, you know, ZK sync as I spoke about the other day, or Starkware's kind of generalized platform, we're just not going to get the, you know, the kind of like activity that we want. I think, you know, I think that the things like the standalones like DydX and loop ring diversify, all that good stuff is fine, but because they're standalone, they don't lend themselves to a fully composable kind of like wide, kind of wide reaching ecosystem here.
00:31:00.126 - 00:31:48.370, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I agree with, with his opinion here, but I just, I mean, I'm going to have to wait to see it. And maybe, maybe there really is enough whale liquidity or enough people that are happy paying these fees to kickstart another massive defi summer on Ethereum. But it remains to be seen, and I don't think that's bearish. I think just like it's just going to take longer to get there than we think. Maybe it just doesn't happen in the next like two or three months, but maybe it happens after that. Or maybe uniswap goes live on L2 next month, as I've said before, and that kickstarts it. I can see that as being a potential catalyst because at the end of the day, what a lot of people just simply want to do is they want to trade between assets, right? And trade like any types of assets, whether it's like the, the productive Defi assets, whether it's like ETH or whether it's like WBTC or even like complete shit coins and scans, people just want to trade that stuff.
00:31:48.370 - 00:32:17.496, Speaker A: And some people call it gambling, whatever, right? That's what, that's what we want to do. Now, if Uniswap can capture that market back from the low feed chains, so to speak, right, then that could kick started as well. And if Uniswap's on optimism, then it becomes composable with other defi apps on there. So maybe, you know, there's something else launched there as well. We'll have to wait and see. I don't want to promise anything. I don't want to like get too bullish about layer generalize L2, because we've been disappointed before, obviously, unfortunately.
00:32:17.496 - 00:32:36.884, Speaker A: So we'll just have to wait and see. But the long term game is still very bullish. I just, it remains to be seen if we, if this other liquidity mining program is the catalyst that's needed to kind of kick start defi summer two. I give it about a 50% chance at this point. I'm just on the fence about it right now. But anyway, I'll move on. I'm going over time already, so I want to get through these, these things here.
00:32:36.884 - 00:33:05.394, Speaker A: So Santiago from power five had another great tweet today where he said, I can't think of a single fintech startup that has reached the scale of Defi protocols in the same time. And capital raised many Defi protocols are less than five years old, generating at least $100 million in revenue. Profitable with small teams and global expanding communities. And then he's put a nice table here, kind of like going through now. The only, I guess, like protocol here that is five years old. I wouldn't even say, I don't think it's even five years old. Not even four is maker.
00:33:05.394 - 00:33:24.130, Speaker A: The rest of these are much younger. I mean, sushiswap, for example, is only like, I think eight months old. Yearn is about nine or ten Arwe beginning of last year. So about 15 months, right. Nowhere near five years. And they already have an annualized revenue. You can see here.
00:33:24.130 - 00:33:41.796, Speaker A: Sushi's annualized revenue is 400 million. Uniswaps is 1.3 billion. You know, compound 600 million. And then you have these, these earnings here as well. Like, the earnings for maker are incredible. Even compound at 63 here, sushi at 67, you earn at 60 mil as well.
00:33:41.796 - 00:34:07.070, Speaker A: And then, yeah, I mean, you can see the total raised, obviously, like, some of these didn't raise anything like sushi swap and yearn, which is, which is even more incredible. And actually, I just noticed he's got a, he's got a column here for the years since founded. Okay, so he's taking it from founder, not from on Mainnet. So mean. Yeah, that was founded a long time ago. Same with, with maker and compound here. But if you go from like when they deployed to main net, you know, it's much shorter.
00:34:07.070 - 00:34:38.386, Speaker A: But, but yeah, to be fair, I guess he has since found it because they had to build it and everything like that makes more sense. But still, I mean, it's, it's incredible to see just such, such fast growth. And it's only getting faster, right. Because we have more of a kind of like, ecosystem to play with now. And it's much easier to bootstrap these ecosystems. I mean, you kind of like, see what happens sometimes with very popular defi apps is that they can get a billion dollars into them with a liquidity mining program, like really quickly. Like liquidity did this the other day and, you know, it hasn't gone out yet.
00:34:38.386 - 00:34:55.361, Speaker A: And I think it's going to stay in there because it actually is a good product, too. So from that perspective, this is just insane. All these protocols, to my opinion, are just, like, undervalued compared to their fintech counterparts. And they're just gonna. I mean, they're gonna disrupt all of fintech, right? Like, trad five fintech are done. Like, they're finished. It's just.
00:34:55.361 - 00:35:09.013, Speaker A: They're dead. They're dead. I'm kind of like companies walking, unless they kind of adopt defi. I think in the, in the long run, I think they're. They're basically the blockbusters of the. Of the arm finance world. But anyway, let's move on, because I'm running out of time here.
00:35:09.013 - 00:35:26.592, Speaker A: Oh, yeah, I did mention I wanted to quickly go through why our gas is cheaper lately. So obviously, we had the gas limit. Blocks, or block size was increased by 20% last week. I think that's. I mean, I did say that I didn't expect any substantial gas. You know, I guess, like improvements here, but maybe I've been proven wrong here. I don't know.
00:35:26.592 - 00:35:47.736, Speaker A: It's too early to tell, I think, because there's a bunch of other things here, like flashbots allowing me extractors to bypass the Ethereum mempool. Right. That's playing into it. Layer two and other chains taking the load off. And the market has been relatively quiet, at least until today. Over the weekend, it was very quiet, which naturally leads to less activity. But as Larry points out here, two and three were true before the gas limit was increased.
00:35:47.736 - 00:36:17.936, Speaker A: So flashbots and L2s work true. So he thinks it's mostly the gas limit increase and less activity, which I pretty much agree with. We had a discussion in DM's about this as well, and he gave his reasoning for it, basically saying that when the gas limit gets increased, you know, obviously there's more capacity for transactions, in this case, 20% more. But the bots will take a little bit to readjust themselves, and network will take a little bit to readjust itself to this increased capacity, and then slowly, we'll go back up to 100 grade plus. And I agree with that. So I'm glad Larry commented here. Larry's.
00:36:17.936 - 00:36:41.864, Speaker A: Larry's great. He always has it, has a great opinion on what's happening with these things, but definitely agree with him there. But as I said last time, long term gas limit increases are not the solution here. We can't just keep increasing this. It has negative externalities on the rest of the network, like, obviously increasing the size of the state, which increases the size of the blockchain. Which makes it harder to sync. And we may have issues with network stability if we raise it too high as well.
00:36:41.864 - 00:37:00.230, Speaker A: So. And producing too many uncle blocks, which I explained last, last week on the refuel. But anyway, last thing to talk about is this pretty funny promo from grid here. So they basically announced that their lattice one hardware wallet is now available in Australia. So I have mine. You can probably see it in the videos. Actually, I have it here.
00:37:00.230 - 00:37:23.700, Speaker A: I've had it sitting here for a little while, if you've noticed on the videos. I got a, an early access to it, but it's great. I've been tinkering around with it. I plan to move all of my assets over to it for those who want just a quick kind of rundown of what it is. It's basically a hardware wallet that is super secure. The most secure hardware wallet on the market. So if you're looking to, for an alternative to ledger or Trezor, definitely check out the lattice one hardware wallet.
00:37:23.700 - 00:37:46.102, Speaker A: I haven't been paid to promote this or anything like that, obviously, as I have one here, and I'm actually close friends with, with one of the people who works at grid. Plus, I have an incentive to kind of show it there. But I wouldn't be. I wouldn't be shilling it unless it was like a great product. So definitely go check this out if you haven't yet, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. And I think that's it for today because this is probably the longest refill I've ever done. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:37:46.102 - 00:37:55.654, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Let's get to 10,000 subscribers like the video. If you haven't, go subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
