00:00:01.000 - 00:01:42.836, Speaker A: I just sent everybody an email outlining some of the things that I've been talking about and we've been discussing, which I think are important for the course. Does anyone have any, does anyone who's looked at that already have any questions about the summary of the various questions we've been studying? Doesn't move normally where I stand. Of course, I couldn't stand there. This is 500 pounds, 300 pounds. Does everyone know what weight is in pounds? I think. I think that some things, often things are measured in both. I think sometimes prices is given in kilograms because of legal, for legal reasons.
00:01:42.836 - 00:03:22.884, Speaker A: And then it's what you actually are getting is specified in pounds. One of the main questions that I suggested we look at is some rattly diagrams in general, and in particular the Bradley diagram of the, which is called Pascal's triangle. And actually that's just the latest version of it. I mean there are hundreds of years over the centuries before that in other places seems to be quite basic. Of course it's related to the binomial coefficient. So one question is to look at bodily diagrams in general and consider the question of what you have to do to make them into a category. And I guess they would be, since they're not quite sets, that with structure which is preserved by maps.
00:03:22.884 - 00:04:16.690, Speaker A: I don't think you can really just describe it as a concrete category. In any case, some maps going from one to another are arrows from one bodily diagram to another. They're really, you want to look at equivalence classes of free arrow. So something that you would think of first is just a way of going from one diagram, rows of one diagram to the rows of another. In other words, you have a Bradley diagram, then you have edges between the rows. And then if you have another Bradley diagram, you might think about having edges between. The arrow is supposed to go from left to right.
00:04:16.690 - 00:05:05.364, Speaker A: Then you have some edges going from the points in the, in the left hand row to the points in the right hand row. Okay. And then you might say that this should be commutative. And what does it mean? What's it going to mean that this is commutative already just for two step boundary diagrams and the edges for one and edges for the other model. PhD, this is thought of as a model physically matrix, right? And here we have a monopolistic matrix. And this one going from here to here, I guess. Well this, each of these horizontal assembly of edges could be thought of as edges with monopolistic, could be thought of as a model physically matrix.
00:05:05.364 - 00:06:17.514, Speaker A: Right. Okay, so sorry, I didn't hear that until, well, modelicity, I was talking about model, come on. We've already interpreted the edges as corresponding to map between matrix algorithms. If you have a map between a matrix algebra, what's important is the modal physics. In fact, that's one of the, we've been discussing classification of af algebras and for finite dimensional algebra, for finite sums of matrix algebra, just for single matrix algebras, what's important for a map from one to the other is the monoplicity. If it's a unital map, the monoplicity is determined. Okay, like if it's, if you have two by two matrices and four by four, then you can, you could have a multiplicity one mapping from two by two into four by four.
00:06:17.514 - 00:07:41.370, Speaker A: You put it in the upper left hand corner, you put the two by two in the upper left hand corner and put zeros everywhere else. I would have multiplicity one, but multiplicity two would have two blocks, two identical blocks, two by two down the diagonal, and that would give you, that would take the unit into the unit. But anyway, this is a very important exercise that maps between two matrix algebras are determined entirely by the monoplicity up to what you might call unitary equivalence or similarity composition, with a meaner automorphism in the star algebra setting, unitaries and the algebra setting of invertible elements. Okay, so that's, but if you just abstractly look at the, at the points labeling, the direct summons and the finite dimensional algebra, then look at the monoplicities record of the multiplicity between the points in successive rows, then these are a bunch of natural numbers, 0123 and so on. There's no edge at all. That means monoplicity is zero. So from here to here, there's no edge.
00:07:41.370 - 00:09:28.802, Speaker A: So it's moneticity zero. That would be the zero map, right? But it's pretty easy to see that two maps of monopolisticity zero are going to have to be similar, because you just proved that monopolisticity zero has to be the zero map. But if it's monoplicity one, you have two maps from m two into m four, and if the end of k zero map has morphers to one occasional map of the homomorphism from z to z, and so it's multiplying by some natural number, right? Well, if that's one, then it's a good, it's a fundamental. If you can prove, improve this case and you've got the general uniqueness theorem, which is important, crucial to every classifying af algebra. You prove that a map from m two into m four, model 51 has to be unique up to, unique up to similar, unique up to composition with an inner automorphism. What's an inner automorphism, Daniel, do you know what an inner automorphism of a group is? Say of a group, you know what an automorphism is? What's an example of an automorphism? Correct. Yeah.
00:09:28.802 - 00:10:11.890, Speaker A: Okay. And like, what's the next one? Well, it's a billion group. This one won't exist, but the non abelian group are always what are called inner automorphisms. Well, what do you do? Right, but that's what I'm asking what it is. Okay, good. Thank you. So what's in our automobile of a non abelian group, say, mostly written model, pivotally, of course, no one's going to write a non ability group additively.
00:10:11.890 - 00:11:08.784, Speaker A: Right. Okay, what's what, how do you write that? What's in there automatically? That would be a, that'll be about left multiplication by a fixed group element. That will be accept automarchism. It will be a permutation. It'll be an injective and surjective mapping from the set onto itself, but it will not preserve the group modification will preserve the group operation. Okay, anyone else want to get, sorry. All right, well, that's, that's, if you use a word like that, that implies that everyone should be giving the answer.
00:11:08.784 - 00:12:03.954, Speaker A: Right, because that's everyone in the word conjugate, I guess. How do you, what are the conjugacy classes in the group? Well, it's, the two elements are conjugate if there's a third element such that if you conjugate by it, conjugate one of the elements by it, multiply it on the left by the, on the right by the inverse, then you get the other element. That's what, that's what conjugacy means for elements. Well, now it's not so well known perhaps, that the map from, from an element to a fixed conjugacy, a fixed element element and a conjugate to it in a fixed way. So we're talking about groups. Works exactly the same for algebra, but in a group map g into h g h inverse for fixed h is six through Pc. Okay.
00:12:03.954 - 00:12:49.790, Speaker A: And then this preserves modification. Okay, so it's a, it's a, and it's a bijective course, it's a bijective map as far as the set goes. So it's an automorphism, well, you have to check that, strictly speaking, you have to check that the inverse, the backwards map is existed that's also preserved multiplication. Okay. It turns out that's automatic. If any, any homomorphism between groups. If it's, if it's, if it's surjective, injective and surjective.
00:12:49.790 - 00:13:38.884, Speaker A: So the set theoretical inverse, then the set theoretical inverse also preserves the multiplication. That's a good exercise. Okay, so this is the automorphism of the group. It's written add g. Okay, it's an automorphism, capital a, add g, little a add is the notation for taking the commutator. This is the multiplicative, this is the multiplicative operation. But if you have an algebra and you have add x and apply this to y, and that's by definition xy minus yx, that's not a multiplicative, but it has a very important property with respect to multiplication.
00:13:38.884 - 00:14:30.094, Speaker A: How many people know what have an algebra? The talking about algebra, to map for fixed x, you map y into x, y minus yx. That's a linear, it's obviously linear. Right? Linear map, what properties does it have with respect to multiplication? How many people have gone into that? Okay, I think what you maybe just said was that it kills the identity of the algebra, the multiplicative identity, a unit in the algebra that's going to get killed. Okay, that's one thing that happened, but I'm not quite sure if that's what you said. But anyway, that's a special case. The proof of that is a special case of identical property. This will come up, we'll probably come across this.
00:14:30.094 - 00:15:54.654, Speaker A: It's just a bit of a detour. You have the group then conjugating by any element which is of course invertible in a semi group, if you have an invertible element, it would work too. And in an algebra given invertible element works, it preserves addition and modification in the outer, that's what's called inner automorphism. And if all the inner automorphisms are trivial, that means at least all the central, all the invertible elements are in the center. And if it's a Banach algebra, this implies that the complex Banach algebra, and this implies that the algebra is community as an exercise. So I'm saying unique composition with linear automorphism, which is another form a goes to save. Okay, we're asked if something is fixed invertible.
00:15:54.654 - 00:17:15.471, Speaker A: Okay, so that's the so called uniqueness theorem. Tried dimensional algebra, crucial technical basis for the classification of the algebra. Okay, but does anyone have my email in front of them? They want to remind me, to remind me what the first theme was in my outline. Oh yeah, Pascal's triangle. Okay, right. I didn't get as far as getting on the board, but we're not quite finished with Radley diagrams because, uh, what I was doing was emphasizing how important the model 50 is for single matrix algebras or for finite direct sums. In that case, you talk about a model 50 matrix, okay? And the point is, if you have two finite dimensional algebras and, well, just two rows, two barrier diagram rows and multiplicity matrices between them, if you want to erase the middle row, you can do that.
00:17:15.471 - 00:18:11.116, Speaker A: Then you just modify the model 50 matrices, okay? That's, in a deep sense, it's the same diagram, okay? But that's what a map between two, two boundary diagrams is. You have look at just the same kind of multiplicity matrix between two rows at the same level from the different diagrams as between two rows in the same diagram. And then. So then you get four. They're just a two step, two step diagrams. Then you have four monoplicity matrices, okay? Then you want it to be community. Well, what does that mean, Abigail? What would.
00:18:11.116 - 00:18:24.064, Speaker A: Saying that. What would have this situation is communities. Yeah. You know, I think. I think I. I know. I can tell what you're saying.
00:18:24.064 - 00:19:39.686, Speaker A: I can almost. I can almost see the words coming out of your mouth before they come out even. I mean, how many people do keep. Do you see what commutivity means? Okay, Charlie, do you see what commutivity means? Well, it's a single diagram, and then it's sort of a special case of what you mean by commutative diagram in algebra, right? Except that these are not so much mapped at the moment. If we put Z's at the center of the points, we put zeds, then they'd be mapped, right? But before we can even talk about purely combinatorially, before we put in Z, and just say that when you go. When you go from one row combined, going between two rows, that going to a third row, and the multiplicity matrices just multiply and. Okay, but then going from here to here, this way or this way, the product should be equal.
00:19:39.686 - 00:20:19.536, Speaker A: Okay, that's what. That's what it means. Now, in fact, Bradley didn't require that exactly. He said it should be true. After you go farther, okay, if you either these two combine routes, okay? But then you don't just stop here, you follow them both to the next stage or to the first and farther stage, okay? So you say that it's commutative after some finite. After proceeding some finite number of steps, okay? And that's why it really becomes quite abstract. This is Kubernetes class of arrows.
00:20:19.536 - 00:21:17.830, Speaker A: If you like, you have three arrows. And then furthermore, you don't have to map an arbitrary row to the corresponding row. You can just map an arbitrary and map a whole bunch of rows going out to, you can drop rows, you can drop rows and map a whole bunch of rows to certain rows farther and farther out. On the right hand side, the level don't have to correspond. So it's a very, it's very vague, it's very loose, like a rattler diagram homomorphism is. Okay, and what's the reason for making it so loose? The reason is you want the category to be equivalent to the perfectly concrete category of order groups that arises. You look at the k zero group of Af algebra, you get certain order groups, okay? With additive maps, obviously what the maps should be, additive maps, group maps which take positive elements into positive elements or preserve greater than or equal to, that's the category of order group.
00:21:17.830 - 00:23:17.130, Speaker A: Okay? So if you want the category of graphic diagrams to be the same as the category of order groups, and that's what you do, you make it into an abstract category, and that's, by the way, you then, and that's what you want to do, by the way, to get a functor from the algebra two, Bradley, that's the function and that's something, I didn't put it on my list of things to discuss, but it's a slightly subtle point that you have a functor going from Af algebra to bar the, independent of, even independent of how you, how you, oh, that's not, let's not get into that right away, but so, Brian, is that battle diagrams are very important. It was the first way of classifying af algebra, and some people think it's the best way. It's so concrete, pictorial. Pretty hard to draw an order group unless it's a subgroup of two squared. Well, Pascal's triangle is a very particular boundary diagram. What is particularly interesting about it, besides it's so simple, it brings in the binomial coefficients. Well, it's, it's an order group.
00:23:17.130 - 00:24:36.000, Speaker A: Well, if you take a diagram and instead of interpreting it purely commentary, you interpret it as a sequence of some positive maps between order groups. Okay, then it's a very simple order group, very interesting order group, and it turns out that it has a very concrete description in terms of polynomials with integral coefficients. And so of course that's a group. Polynomials with integral coefficients are a group, and the inductive limit of each stage you have a group and then have projective maps, positive massive limit group. And it turns out that the inductive limit group, as a group, is isomorphic to polynomials in a natural way. If you say that the left hand. Oh, I don't know what's better.
00:24:36.000 - 00:25:19.784, Speaker A: Smaller, bigger. The left hand copy of this is a power associated with power of x. And that gives you, then it tells you how, what all the other copies of set should correspond to. Again, if you say that, how do we. Well, this, this map takes one. By definition, one goes to one and one goes to one. So the.
00:25:19.784 - 00:26:24.668, Speaker A: If we look at this one in the first row is doing double duty. Okay? See, it's the number one in the integers, but also it's the polynomial one x to the zero. Okay? Here we have x to the one, and it doesn't belong to the group Z, but, so the element one still belongs to the group Z. And you have the element one over here. So as a group map, you have one long desired mapping into one plus one, one, comma, one. Okay? But if you want the association of these elements to the polynomials to be a group to be added to, you want the association to be added to. Then what if this, if this is supposed to be associated with some polynomial? The second, the second one in the second row.
00:26:24.668 - 00:27:04.564, Speaker A: This is supposed to be associated with some polynomial. Well, then the sum of the two has to be equal to one as a polynomial. That tells you what it is, right? Daniel, what does it say it should be? This is one. This is x. So what's this? So that this plus that equals that one minus x, right? Yeah. Okay, but then at the next stage, how does it continue? Next stage, you have x squared. So what are we going to have here? So there's a one and a one.
00:27:04.564 - 00:27:45.274, Speaker A: Well, I guess what you have here and what you have here, it's going to add up to x, right? So you. So it's going to be x minus x squared, which is x times one minus x. And then x. What is it? That if you add two x times one minus x, you get one minus x. Right. We don't have any negative powers. We're just talking about polynomials.
00:27:45.274 - 00:28:28.406, Speaker A: But I mean, at some point, we might want to do that, but not right away. Okay? But I would say that this is just as far as a little arithmetic. So, x, one minus x plus piece of x is supposed to be equal to one minus x. Okay? P of x equals one minus x. Okay, well, times one and then minus x. Well, lo and behold, that's. We can simplify it.
00:28:28.406 - 00:29:20.764, Speaker A: It's the square of one minus x. Okay? So that's what we get. Did anyone, was anyone, was anyone about to say that you were okay? Maybe you were okay, good. Okay. But that we want you, what we want here is one minus x squared. And it's interesting, what we have, the success of binomials that we have are just the powers of, if you take one, one minus x plus x, okay? One minus x plus x, and you expand that to some power, and then you get powers of one minus x times powers of X. And the coefficients, of course, the binomial coefficients.
00:29:20.764 - 00:30:17.252, Speaker A: All right, but that's, so this is clearly related to having the monomials here. I can't, in a finite length of time, I can't navigate the whole tight straight, the whole tight corridor. Right. It's very, maybe I should be, what did they do in the labyrinth? One thing you could do is keep one hand on the wall. Another thing you could do is drop a trail of breadcrumbs behind you. But that might not be difficult. Might be something like breadcrumbs you could unravel.
00:30:17.252 - 00:31:03.064, Speaker A: You can unroll a string. You can unroll a string. Okay, maybe that's what I should be doing. But anyway, this, this is now laying out what a possible isomorphism is between the group and the polynomial group. Okay? The battery diagram group. In the polynomial group, namely at every stage, the generators could correspond to obvious monomials x and one minus x. And you have to check that that's consistent.
00:31:03.064 - 00:31:48.254, Speaker A: If you're going to map in this row, you're going to map one to one. In this row, you're going to map one to x and this, this one to x and this one to one minus x and so on. If you're going to do that mapping, you want that to be compatible, right. For that to actually make sense. So, for instance, but that's, that's how we constructed it, okay? Because the only things, the only compatibility we have to check are that since this plus this equals that, and at the z level, it should be true at the polynomial level, too. But that's two by definition. So it's a group isomorphism.
00:31:48.254 - 00:33:06.914, Speaker A: We have to check its surjective that every polynomial, to check every polynomial, well, we get these ones, right, we get the x, we have in particular, we have the power, but we're going to get all polynomials as integer coefficients. And so what's, well, that's already, that's already interesting that you need to do this arithmetic to show that the map from polynomials to, to the group is trajectory, right? You need to, the group is generated by all these things. Also, every Z has to come from some polynomial. And this is, we've done enough work now to check, I mean, maybe you have to summarize, we've done enough work now to check that this is a group isomorphic, anyone? Oh, subject to a later verification. Does anyone want to, does anyone want to question that at this stage? Okay, so I'll take that as approval. Okay. All right.
00:33:06.914 - 00:34:11.404, Speaker A: I'll say that you're taking it under advisement. All right? But this is a very nice, it seems like a natural group isomorphism, and the Pascal diagram group, that group is an order group in natural way. At every stage, you say that these ones and zs, the positive integers in every state, should be positive elements to the group. And then, so the limit is just the union, increasing union. These are, these are inclusion, these are injective maps. And the order on the inductive limit group is just the positive cone, is just the union of the positive cone. And that means that.
00:34:11.404 - 00:35:35.142, Speaker A: So what we're saying if it's isolated, to say this correspondence, this group correspondence is an order isomorphism that says that arbitrary polynomial, it's positive in a certain sense. It's positive in a certain sense. It's positive according to the isomorphism. It's positive according to the group isomorphism. If it's a finite sum of monomials in x and one minus x, for some finite stage, it should be a integral positive integral linear combination of one minus x to the n and one minus x to the n minus one times x, and so on, the monomials of the total degree n in one minus x and x. And so that's the order relation on the polynomials that comes from the group isomorphism. The question is, can we interpret this? Can we forget about Pascal's triangle and just look at the group of polynomials within their coefficient and say that this funny order relation coming from Pascal's triangle and the binomial coefficients and so on.
00:35:35.142 - 00:36:52.258, Speaker A: But this funny order relation is a very natural one in terms of just evaluating, evaluating the polynomials at certain points on the line. Okay, well, in fact, that's what you can do. You can do that. And that's as a consequence of that. You get the famous outdoor moment problem, just dropping out, falling out. You can prove there's a group isomorphism with a very natural order relation on the polynomials. Okay, well, in general, if you have functions on the line, on a subset of the line positivity would normally mean point wise positivity, right? That's sort of a common idea that would give you an order of relation if you have functions on some subset of the line, then if you say one function is greater than or equal to the other with respect to this subset of the line, if one function is, if the first function is greater than or equal to at every point, the second than or equal to the second function, you have a choice.
00:36:52.258 - 00:37:49.338, Speaker A: You could say greater than or equal, or you could say strictly greater than or equal everywhere. So if you want, there's two different functions. You want to say that one of them is greater than the other. And, well, the way what turns out to apply here is you look at a certain subset of the line and you say that the first function should be strictly greater than the second at every point. And what's the subset? What's anyone want to add as a guess what, Charlie, what's a nice good subset of the line for this order relation to sort of the bring in? What's the simplest subset of the line? The simplest interesting subset of the line. Yes. And open or closed? Well, in fact, I want open.
00:37:49.338 - 00:38:49.306, Speaker A: Okay, strictly greater than first one. Well, if you want something to be positive and it's not identically zero, you want it to be, to be strictly, to be positive, n on zero. And just say you look at every point in the open interval, zero, one, and you say it should be strictly positive. People say positive to mean strictly positive, but that does cause confusion in mathematics often, even though some areas of mathematics don't do it in this course, I really would like to say strictly positive if it's meant. Okay, but that's the answer. Okay, you follow coefficient, and you say the order of relation is open interval. That means that the endpoint is greater than or equal to, but you don't know whether it's strictly greater or not.
00:38:49.306 - 00:40:11.804, Speaker A: But if somebody inside it should be strictly greater. Okay, that's the relation in the open area. And so that's a, that's now a necrocyte, right? Prove a disorder relation on polynomials with integral coefficients. You, if you never heard of bodily diagrams or Pascal triangle, then all you could say is this is a perfectly good order relation. Well, actually, there's another thing you might, someone might want to tell you. This order group Z with this order relation, it's an order group, and it has a property called the reach decomposition property, which is where an order group is equivalent to the reach, the brick off interpolation, interpolation property, which says that if you, which is very easy to say, you have any, any ordered set as a Burkoff from the interpolation set, whenever you have a finite set of elements and another finite set of elements. And the upper one lies uniformly above the lower one.
00:40:11.804 - 00:40:49.926, Speaker A: So every point upstairs is greater than or equal to every point downstairs. And the reason that's true is that there's some point halfway in between. Certainly, if there were a point which is less than or equal to the upper one, I would have calling the upper ones and greater than or equal to the lower one, then every upper point is greater than every lower point. So that. But that's the recent interpolation property. Exactly. And, well, this disorder group has that property.
00:40:49.926 - 00:41:29.884, Speaker A: And if it comes from a. If it comes from a broadly diagram, that's obvious, because the finite stage ones have that property. And so the limit will teach you to see that the property is preserved by taking a limit. Otherwise, it could be a little tricky to prove. And it's important to prove if you want to get the house door, trying to get the hostor from moment theorem, and then you want to know that this group is. If you take q of x instead of z of x, then it's dense in the polynomial. I'm sorry, dense in the algebra of continuous function.
00:41:29.884 - 00:41:59.350, Speaker A: Dense in the linear space of continuous functions with respect to the sup. Norm on the closed. And that you can prove using. That's easy to prove using the Reese property, of course. But by the way, it's also a well known term. You can also just apply. Also just appeal to it.
00:41:59.350 - 00:42:51.094, Speaker A: What's the well known theorem I'm thinking about? I think it's an undergraduate course. Okay, rishi? Well, okay, but those people were separated by many years, right? Which one came first? What was virus crosses first? This is virus process. Yeah. Okay. So stone, he came along later and with a very nice generalization. Okay. And he did a lot of other things, not only mathematical terms, but he's one of the people who put the University of Chicago on the map.
00:42:51.094 - 00:44:03.194, Speaker A: Well, more emphatically than it had been earlier. All right, so that's. And it's a good. If you know all these facts we've been discussing so far, it's interesting, then, to see how you get the, how you get the house dwarf moment problem. It just says that you have a measure on the. Well, notice, you notice first, if you have a measure on the line on the integral zero one, then you integrate the polynomial, you integrate the monomial, and you get something which is a well known, well known sequence of positive numbers, what we call the moments again. And furthermore, these functions are decreasing on the interval just in the regular, point wise order.
00:44:03.194 - 00:45:02.756, Speaker A: When you take into account when you're integrating, these are, these functions get smaller and smaller, so the moments get smaller and smaller. And in fact, the, the differences between the moments are getting smaller and smaller too. Okay? So that if you fill in this table with the moment, then you get positive numbers everywhere. Those are exactly the positive functions on this or the group. The fact that the polynomials are ordered point wise for integration or with respect to fixed positivity in the interior of it. And we'll let that completely immaterial look, the word partial to me doesn't exist. Okay? If you, if you're going to, you want to have a total order, then say so.
00:45:02.756 - 00:45:34.564, Speaker A: Otherwise it's just an order. When I was in first year, I learned what an order relation was. And nobody talks about a partial order relation. I don't ever heard of that. And you have pre order groups which are not quite the same as order groups before. You have anti symmetry, but no one ever talks about partially pre ordered group or pre, partially ordered group. Right.
00:45:34.564 - 00:46:00.844, Speaker A: It's just a. If that's what you're worried about. I think it's just a slight obsession, a certain group of people to say partially ordered, but I know how it originated. Historically used to be the theory of ordered fields. There still is. And that was meant, that meant totally ordered fields. Didn't say so.
00:46:00.844 - 00:47:10.908, Speaker A: Of course, after that, everyone has to say parfum. But now I don't think that happens quite so much. Does that answer your question? Okay, good. Sorry. Okay, but, so, but we have to check. So how do you prove housework? You have to know that positive functionals on the polynomials are the same as positive functionals on the continuous functions. Okay, I read representation theorem of my measures, but we really want to know that every positive, we want to know that the positive functionals on this one group are exactly coming from the measure.
00:47:10.908 - 00:47:43.334, Speaker A: Okay? Which means that they extend to polynomial. But another way to say that is, um, the extreme. If they form a simplex, it's easy to say they form a compact convex, that, which is a simpler. And if you can show the extreme points are the unit interval post unit interval extreme points, extreme positive linear functions are anywhere. Then we're in business. And, and, um. But now there's a trick.
00:47:43.334 - 00:48:01.554, Speaker A: This group z and z plus z plus z plus z. These are all rings. They're not just groups, they're rings. Multiplication. That is a ring. You can multiply. And these embeddings are ring.
00:48:01.554 - 00:48:39.358, Speaker A: The inductive limit is not just a group, it's a ring by the way took a polynomial. That's a ring, too. And I guess you can see it's a ring isomorphism, not just the group isomorphism. What we're talking about, the point is, if you, and it's an ordered ring, the product of two positive elements is positive. Okay, take two positive, in this sense that we're looking at. Well, either sense, I mean, you look at either order relation, then it's, it's the product of two positive moments as possible. Here, here it's kind of obvious.
00:48:39.358 - 00:49:44.378, Speaker A: You're looking at some positive integral combinations of these monomials. Well, any product of two of those will be another one at a later stage. So it's an ordered ring. Okay, some people would say partially ordered ring, but I think we can. My preference agreement, no one ever talks about totally order rings. All right? But there's a theorem that says if you have a, by the way, the ring homomorphism from the ring into the real numbers are very easy to compute, okay? The, especially if they're positive. If they're positive, then they take positive functionals.
00:49:44.378 - 00:50:25.374, Speaker A: At this stage, you'll have two numbers, lambda and one minus lambda. The value on this function will be lambda. Here would be one minus lambda, because they have to add up to one. Because we're talking about functional, such as lambda, one is equal to one. Okay? So the values are, at this stage are numbers, real numbers, they're positive, and it's between zero and one. Here's where the interval zero one comes in. And if you just go to all later stages, you see, the more applicative positive linear functionals are exactly evaluating at points in the unit interval.
00:50:25.374 - 00:50:57.950, Speaker A: So that's, that's a computation of computation as a positive linear function. We're finished. We've got the house darth moment problem. We don't even need to prove this is an order automorphic. It will be proven. I don't think we need it. Okay, you have to check that.
00:50:57.950 - 00:51:45.664, Speaker A: Okay, saved by the bell point. Is that extreme points in positive linear functional, any ordered ring are multiplicative. Okay, you have to prove that. That's easy, very easy. Green points are multiplicative. If it's multiplicative, then it's exactly evaluating at a point.
