00:00:05.360 - 00:00:45.795, Speaker A: Hi everyone. Thank you so much for being here today. I am absolutely super happy to be here today. We're going to talk about Crunch Lab and Crunchdao. So if you didn't heard about us Guy, Crunchdao is the largest decentralized AI community. We have about 6,000 active machine learning engineers on the platform, we have about 600 PhDs and our community is currently based in more than 100 countries. CrunchDAO is currently crowdsourcing and selling machine learning models to some of the largest financial institutions on the planet.
00:00:45.795 - 00:01:36.275, Speaker A: To give you an example, last year we've been working with the research lab of the third largest sovereign fund on the planet. We've been selling models to the Broad Institute of Harvard and mit. We've been working with a Nobel laureate last year as well. And recently we just cut a deal with one of the largest investment bank in Australia. So crunchdao is often kind of compared to a Palantir with a token because we find a way to monetize AI and generate revenue out of our models. But the truth is that we are kind of something closer than a hugging face with a token because our community are uploading models on our platform. We are hosting the models and then any of our customers can come and trigger the model to get their output.
00:01:36.275 - 00:02:49.225, Speaker A: Now another very cool thing at Crunch is we put together the incentive mechanism that allow to coordinate 6,000 researcher around the world to solve some of the problem of our customers. And actually we have pretty good numbers. So the core team and I are pretty sure that the CrunchDAO is going to be one of the leading voice in the decentralized AI conversation. So what better place to host this project than Solana? We have this first announcement to make today, but there is a second one. Having very good machine learning model is very important, but it's actually not enough. If you think about the improvement that you can have with one of the best machine learning model on the stage, you're going to have maybe a double digit improvement. But some of our customers actually come with questions like how can we get to the three digit improvement? Right? Can you guys kind of leverage your collective intelligence network to for example create an infinite amount of unique insights that we will be able to use on financial markets.
00:02:49.225 - 00:03:26.365, Speaker A: And actually this is a multi billion dollar question. Having good model is a good thing, but the data behind is actually even more important. Now we started to think with the guys, how could we actually generate this infinite amount of unique insight? We started crunching and we came with PI. PI is our latest product at Crunch. So with PI, anyone, doesn't matter if you know how to code, doesn't matter if you know how to compute some correlation. You just have to come with a simple question to generate a data set. And I'm going to show you how to do that.
00:03:26.365 - 00:03:58.701, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. So here on the screen you see the latest version of PI. So PI is basically a prompt. And every question that you're going to ask to this prompt is going to be asked to any relevant documentation that we can find online. So first we had to focus on some kind of problem that we wanted to solve. So we decided to focus on the largest market. Largest market today is foreign exchange.
00:03:58.701 - 00:04:48.363, Speaker A: Basically, it's where countries exchange value with each other. So if you can find a question here that kind of correlates with some of the leading economic indicator, you can generate revenue. So let me come with some random question out here. This question here is currently traveling 10 years of documentation and is trying to get an intuition about the answer to this question. And the line that you're going to see appearing today is a time series that didn't exist before, right? This is in no data set of no banks. It takes a bit of time, the travel is a bit long, but basically this is what you will have. So here you can see that my time series actually correlated with some leading indicators.
00:04:48.363 - 00:05:08.025, Speaker A: And if we manage to altogether come with hundreds of thousands of questions here, we have an opportunity to unlock a $1.2 billion a year opportunity. Guys, so what about we get that bread, you guys crunch that, come on the website, connect your wallet and start asking questions to buy. Thank you very much.
