00:00:00.320 - 00:00:32.076, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei reveal, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 24 November 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I think the biggest piece of news over the last 24 hours probably fell under the radar a little bit. I saw someone post it in the Daily Grey Discord channel, but I haven't seen much discussions about it. But it was essentially this new eIp that's been proposed not by polynyar, but it's basically a draft eip that was kind of like put together by Vitalik Buterin. But Polynar wrote a great article explaining exactly what this is.
00:00:32.076 - 00:01:20.004, Speaker A: So this draft EIP, as I say, because it's a draft, it hasn't been submitted yet as an EIP. But what this aims to do is reduce the call data gas cost on layer one. Now, okay, what does that mean in plain English? As Polynya says, this will lead, if implemented, this would lead to an up to five times reduction in transaction fees on roll ups. Because as I've described before to you guys, the main transaction cost for roll ups, the most expensive thing is core data, right? And especially for optimistic roll ups. That's why there is an unavoidable l one gas cost that optimistic rollops have to pay. And that's why kind of like their fees are higher than what they can be, in addition to the fact that they're not doing core data compression. So essentially what this, what this kind of like thing, Vitalik, this ERP draft Vitalik's put forward would do is reduce the cost of, of cold data gas from 16 to three.
00:01:20.004 - 00:01:59.148, Speaker A: So about a 5.5 times cost reduction there. So this would be absolutely massive. You know, it would give like five times more scalability to roll ups today at layer one without them having to change anything. And then, you know, couple that with them doing, uh, them doing kind of like call data compression, amortizing the gas costs at L2 as well as they ramp up, we could easily see optimistic roll ups do sub $1, sub even, sub 50 cent, um, swap transactions, which is amazing, right? That's absolutely awesome. And that, that would scale like really, really well, because, because it's a roll up. So if you want to obviously dive deeper into it, you can read both Polinar's blog post and also Vitalik's kind of like ERP draft here.
00:01:59.148 - 00:02:31.308, Speaker A: But Polynar does a really great job of kind of like breaking it all down. What it actually means you know what the impact is, kind of like put some numbers to it. So it's a really great post, you know, as usual for Polynyar. But this is what kind of like I spoken about in the past about how layer one ethereum is still kind of like scaling, but it's just scaling to help L2. Like layer one ethereum is not going to be the user layer as we all know, right? It is the settlement layer, but that doesn't mean that we can't scale layer one. This is one of those ways by reducing the gas cost, which would require a network upgrade. Hard fork, by the way.
00:02:31.308 - 00:03:19.756, Speaker A: This isn't something that can just be done by in client, sorry, just be done by changing something in the client. It has to be done as part of a scheduled network upgrade. And on that note, I think from what I can see and what I've been thinking about, it's like, okay, well when is this going to be done? Because if it needs to go into a network upgrade, we all know the next network upgrade for Ethereum is Arrow Glacier, which is just pushing back the difficulty bomb. And that's happening in like two weeks. And then there's the merge, which comes after that, which is obviously the big one that does not come until probably June, you know, ish, q two ish, I guess. Like that's my own estimate, of course. So does this happen before then? If so, will that delay the merge? Right, because these sorts of changes have to go through, you know, a lot of kind of like research, development, a lot of kind of like auditing things like that to make sure everything's okay with it.
00:03:19.756 - 00:04:05.016, Speaker A: And then I kind of thought to myself, okay, well, is it worth it? Like, is it worth delaying the merge by one to two weeks or something like that? Because it wouldn't be a big delay, I don't believe it's not a huge change. It's just like reducing kind of like an opcode gas cost here. It's been done before. It's not like it's an alien thing, but it would definitely delay the merge. And, you know, how long are we willing to put up with the delay of the merge to get five times more scalability out of roll ups within say the next two to three months? Personally, I think that this is probably worth it, right? Doing this kind of like change, making sure that we can kind of like give that short term scalability boost to rollups before data sharding goes in place, which probably won't be till 2023. I mean, I definitely won't be till 2023. Because data shards are what give roll ups much more kind of like data capacity.
00:04:05.016 - 00:04:50.020, Speaker A: But if we can give them like a boost, like a kind of like nice boost at layer one by just doing this change, then I'm all for it. But in saying that if this was to delay the merge by like two months, then I don't think the core developers would even be in favor of this, because the merge is obviously what we all want. I mean, not just us as kind of like community members, but the core devs as well. They want it just, just as badly and they want it to go through ASAP. But at the same time, they also realize that there is a kind of like a migration going on to L2 and to roll ups and whatever we can do to kind of like, make that migration easier, whatever we can do to reduce those gas costs with these kind of like quick wins, we should do. And on that note, I should kind of like give the drawback here. The drawback of doing this basically means that the size of a full node increases.
00:04:50.020 - 00:05:29.202, Speaker A: I think it would add another kind of like three terabytes or something a year onto. Onto a full node. I mean, I think polynar breaks it down here, but then. Oh, and Vitalik breaks it down as well here. But then Vitalik also suggests that this could be coupled with EIP, you know, quadruple four, which is an EIP basically for bounding historical data in the 8th one execution clients, which is a whole nother, kind of like kettle of fish, which you can read about as well. But essentially, I'm all for this EIP as long as it doesn't delay the merge by more than a couple of weeks, which, as I said, I don't see a reason why it should. I'd be all for getting this in maybe February ish, February March is March ish, maybe.
00:05:29.202 - 00:06:02.918, Speaker A: And just because this is being devved and kind of like put into the protocol doesn't mean the merge work stops, you know, not at all. I mean, I feel like this has already been kind of like pretty, pretty well specced out. It just needs to be developed and put into clients and everything like that. So from that perspective, I'd be all for it. And, you know, as I said, this would be a really, really great kind of just instant five x scalability boost for, for roll ups because it would give them more core data space. And by doing so, it would bring costs down considerably in the short to medium term for optimistic rollups especially. But also obviously, ZK roll ups benefit from this as well.
00:06:02.918 - 00:06:31.514, Speaker A: So very exciting little thing that Vitalik put forward here. Definitely go read both of these things. You know, Polynya's blog post and Vitalik's original kind of ERP draft. This is going to be something that I think is going to be more public in the coming weeks because it's been talked about already, like, lightly on Twitter and things like that. But I think once people realize that we can get, like, a nice scalability boost for the existing roll ups by doing this, people should be in favor of this. So we'll have to see how that shakes out. But definitely go check out both of those posts there.
00:06:31.514 - 00:07:08.998, Speaker A: So, I mean, speaking of Polynyard, they had another great tweet. I think it was yesterday, and I forgot to cover it on the refuel. I actually just saw it today, but they said crypto Twitter is like an equestrian club from 1885. A bunch of spoiled and irascible brats squabbling over whose horse is the fastest. Meanwhile, a gentleman called Carl Benz was building this contraption called an automobile. I think this is an amazing analogy to where we are today. So for those of you, you know, who may not get what Pauline are saying here, basically what they're saying is that right now, with all these l one wars going on, it's like a bunch of kind of like, you know, spoiled in irascible brats squabbling over whose horse is the fastest.
00:07:08.998 - 00:07:51.092, Speaker A: Because l ones, as they exist today, are basically horses, right? And by going to roll ups, we're going to basically jets. So it's like comparing a jet to a horse, or like, in this case, like an automobile to a horse is the, is the kind of like thing, is the kind of analogy that Pauline I use. But I actually think the step up from like, the monolithic l one to the roll up modular design is more of kind of like going from a horse to a jet, to be honest. But sticking with kind of like Paulina's analogy here. And then, you know, you, meanwhile, you have a gentleman called Carl Benz that obviously being the Ethereum ecosystem, building this contraption called an automobile. Ethereum is building these contraptions called roll ups, right. And doing the modular design, making sure that we do kind of things like sharding as well and all that sort of stuff here.
00:07:51.092 - 00:08:15.892, Speaker A: And that is exactly what's going on. Right. Because the funny thing is, is that I'm not surprised by the fact that these other layer ones are doubling down on their monolithic design. Like, you know, the two main ones, Solana and avalanche, are both doubling down on their monolithic designs and saying that, you know, that's what, that's the path they're going to go down. Especially Solana, who, you know, they're both fighting roll ups. They're both making fun of roll ups. But this is, to use polynomials analogy.
00:08:15.892 - 00:08:34.752, Speaker A: Exactly. What's, you know, kind of like spoiled and irascible brats do. Because these people, and they founded these layer one chains, they're already rich. They made a lot of money from just kind of like, especially with avalanche from just kind of forking the EVM, right? And, and kind of like advertising low fees, even though the fees are high now. Solana went a different path. I give them that. Right.
00:08:34.752 - 00:09:16.502, Speaker A: They didn't just kind of like fork the EVM. They tried to build something from scratch. But at the same time they're just doubling down on the monolithic one design, which, I mean, obviously a lot of us are placing bets that that's not going to be a long term sustainable solution. And to be honest, I'm, you know, I actually am curious to see how they kind of play, play out how that plays out for them. I think it's going to fail. I think Ethereum is obviously going to win there. But yeah, I mean, essentially what a theorem is building is the automobile to the, to the horse, which is just a really funny way of putting it because you might think to yourself, well, how can these other ecosystems be so blind to something that's so obvious to a lot of us being the modular roll up design? And it's simply because it's just very easy to be blind when you have an ego, right? Or when you have.
00:09:16.502 - 00:09:46.214, Speaker A: Or when you've been spoiled or where you think you're untouchable or where you think, you know, you think you're better than everyone else. And I was saying in the daily Grey Discord channel today, it's funny how like every other layer one, all their founders have absolutely massive egos. And then you have Vitalik, who is like one of the most humble people in the world. Like, I have never seen Vitalik be egotistical about anything. But then you look at all the other l one s. You know, you have like Charles Hodgkinson as the perfect example here. Incredibly huge ego, right? I mean, it's, there's no kind of like secret there.
00:09:46.214 - 00:10:18.122, Speaker A: You have Emin from avalanche, same thing. And atolly from Solana, same thing. Like these guys have something to prove, right? They, they really do want kind of like all the attention to be on them and I think there's a bit of jealousy in there as well. Like, imagine you're kind of like in your thirties, forties, fifties, and you're kind of looking at Vitalik, who is this kid basically when he came up with Ethereum, and now he's still, you know, he's younger than me. I mean, he's 28 or something, 27. I'm 29. And he's basically done more in his twenties than most people ever do in their entire lives, especially, you know, and especially these other people as well.
00:10:18.122 - 00:10:41.494, Speaker A: There's definitely an element of jealousy there, too. So I think that's exactly why a lot of this stuff happens. And I think that by letting their egos blind them, that's going to be the downfall. And there's been lots of l one s that have kind of, like, kind of fallen to the wayside before as well, due to a number of different reasons. But ego played a part as well, so. Yeah, but anyway, I thought this was a great analogy from polly now. So I just wanted to kind of expand on it a little bit here.
00:10:41.494 - 00:11:01.418, Speaker A: So I put out a tweet today and I wrote it. And it was just like a super basic tweet. And I wrote about it in the Daily Way newsletter. And I said web3, not crypto. Now, the reason I said this is because there's been a bit of a push lately to rebrand crypto as, like, web3. And this is not a bad push. This is a good push because the term crypto has a lot of baggage.
00:11:01.418 - 00:11:19.756, Speaker A: Right. When you say to a non crypto native person, they, you know, they either go two way. They ways. They either say, oh, yeah, I heard of that, like, bitcoin thing. I heard of that ethereum thing. I heard it crashed the other day. And they'll really just talk about prices because they're not really paying attention to anything else, or they'll have, like, the visco reaction where they're like, oh, I heard about, that's full of scams.
00:11:19.756 - 00:12:03.204, Speaker A: It's dodgy, it's terrorist financing, all this other stuff. Right. But then if you use the term web3, they probably haven't heard of that term before, but they've definitely heard of, like, web two, web one, or just like the term web before. Right? So from that perspective, it's just like a much friendlier, less baggage term to refer to our industry as. And I know traditionally the term web3 has been used to refer to things like decentralized social media nfts, rather than encompassing all of crypto, like defi l two s and stuff like that. But I think that the term works regardless. And I think that it's, I think Joe Wiesenthal from, I think he's at Bloomberg, put out a great tweet where he basically said that web3, referring to it as web3, allows people to capitulate that have been kind of like bearish on crypto in the past.
00:12:03.204 - 00:12:28.600, Speaker A: It allows them to kind of, like, get involved. So from that perspective, I just think that we should be using the term web3 a lot more than crypto. But at the end of the day, and I made this conclusion in the newsletter today, when you kind of, like, look at how the Internet evolved and the terminology around that, it's quite funny. I think crypto is going to follow the same path. Let's just take the Internet for an example for a second. The Internet used to be known as kind of like arpanet. Right? When it first came out, that was kind of like the first network network of computers.
00:12:28.600 - 00:12:51.504, Speaker A: And it was very inside baseball. There was kind of like no one really talking about it except a few people that are working on it. Right then it was kind of like there was a bunch of other names for it. They started calling it by the protocol, names like TCP IP and things like that. And then it was called the information superhighway. Then obviously, it was called the Internet. And then you had different kind of like subcategories Internet, like in the Internet, like dial up and broadband.
00:12:51.504 - 00:13:25.584, Speaker A: And then it evolved into being called Wi Fi when smartphones kind of like, became, became more popular and, you know, Wifi or 4G or something like that. Right now, these days, if you talk to the younger generations, they either from, from my experience, they either talk about it and say kind of like Wi Fi, or they don't even really think about what it's called. Because the Internet as we know it has become so ubiquitous in these people's lives, especially young people who have grown up with it. I'm talking like Generation Z and below, they've grown up with the Internet. They don't know any other world. There's no pre Internet world for them. There is like the Internet.
00:13:25.584 - 00:13:55.038, Speaker A: There is every, all the online stuff that they, they do, and that's just ubiquitous. It's everywhere. Everything they do in their lives, whether it's at school, whether it's at home, you know, playing video games, whatever, it's all online all the time. They're never disconnected. I mean, the only time that, where any of us are really disconnected is either if we go off the grid somewhere in the bush or something like that, which, you know, unless you're on a holiday, you don't do very often, or you're on an airplane. And even on an airplane, there are Wi Fi services a lot of the time, too. So you really are like, hyper connected all the time.
00:13:55.038 - 00:14:24.854, Speaker A: So from that perspective, the Internet just became so ubiquitous that no one really talks about it in those kind of terms anymore. I think the same thing is going to play out with crypto, where we'll go through a few of these terms, you know, the crypto, web3 metaverse, a few, you know, for these different things. But eventually it'll become just so ubiquitous in people's lives that we won't need to describe it anymore. People just know. It'll just, you know, and we may just refer to it as kind of like the brand names. Like a lot of the Internet is referred to as like, you know, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, all that sort of stuff. You just refer to it as the apps that are sitting on top.
00:14:24.854 - 00:15:18.716, Speaker A: And Monday there might just be like, not a lot of people who actually ever know what ethereum is, right? Like, most people might not even know. But I think the key difference here between crypto and maybe the Internet is the monetary incentive. Like, obviously there are tokens you can buy and it kind of maps to the way that different companies have kind of like, have shares, right? Like if you buy Apple shares and you know, you know what Apple is, right? You don't buy TCP IP shares. You don't buy shares in the Internet protocols, whereas with crypto, you buy shares in the protocols, so to speak. So I think that that's going to make, make it so that people still kind of like, talk about these protocols in different ways and it still be kind of like front of mind for a lot of people. But I do think eventually, maybe it'll take another ten years, 15 years, but we'll get to the point where there won't be debates over what to call this stuff anymore. It'll just be so ubiquitous across, like, every aspect of our lives that will just kind of like, it'll just be second nature to all of us.
00:15:18.716 - 00:15:52.836, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, definitely something to think about for sure. So Kane from Synthetix put out a tweet today where he said, doubling down on my tweet from yesterday. If you are considering building on optimistic Ethereum native deep and optimistic Ethereum native deFi protocol, I will personally mentor you like I did with MJs and Lara finance comment with your project handle, and I will deem you to discuss. I can take on two projects, maybe three. This is an awesome initiative. I think that, you know, Kane tweeted yesterday about the fact that he's just going to try and get as many projects as possible onto optimistic Ethereum.
00:15:52.836 - 00:16:27.140, Speaker A: I think we need more people like this, doing this mentoring, you know, these kind of like Defi founders that have been around for a while bootstrapping these things, you know. For example, Lyra finance is a L2 only protocol. It had never been deployed to layer one before. And they're seeing a lot of great, great traction on optimistic Ethereum. They're an options protocol for those who don't know. So, yeah, I mean, if you're interested, if you're a project, maybe if you're thinking of a project, definitely go visit this tweet and tag it, and maybe Kane can help you with that. So speaking of L2, immutable put out a great tweet today where they kind of like, quoted, you know, ETH can't scale.
00:16:27.140 - 00:17:04.434, Speaker A: But then they said projects applying to build on immutable X has 100 x since six months ago. Huge inflection since they made NFT minting plus trading permissionless in September. Um, come build the future of nfts on the open Internet. This is huge. I mean, look at this, look at this chart right here. Like, since, I mean, yeah, as they, as you said, since six months ago, when they went permissionless with minting and trading, there's just been a ton of projects kind of spinning up on immutable X, which is, I think if I would have had to kind of like, make a guess here, I think immutable X is the most active NFT platform right now besides Ethereum. Layer one, and maybe polygon has a bit of activity.
00:17:04.434 - 00:17:41.484, Speaker A: I don't know how much activity the other chains have. I don't think they have that much. But, yeah, middle blocks has been growing just amazingly. And for everyone saying, you know, ETH can't scale, I'm sorry, but, like, scaling's already here, you know, we all know this, I'm preaching to the choir, but scaling's already here. It's just not evenly distributed yet, as I've said before. But it will be, and it'll come really, really, really quickly. And speaking of immutable X, the immutable apes X, which I guess is an NFT collection on immutable, tweeted out something today that they have released, a tool that allows you to bridge your IMX or immutable x nfts from L2 to layer one and back again with ease.
00:17:41.484 - 00:18:16.288, Speaker A: This is critical. I believe this is very, very critical because there are a lot of people who would like to have their nfts on layer one after they've kind of like played around with it on L2 or minted it on L2. But obviously, like, it's not worth it until the nfts are worth more than the gas cost. So let's say, for example, you buy an NFT on immutable x, or you mint one and you mint it for like $10 or something like that, right? Or you buy for like $10. Or let's say you buy 50 or $100. It's still not worth moving it to layer one at that point because the gas cost is worth more than the NFT. But let's say it goes up in value.
00:18:16.288 - 00:18:41.302, Speaker A: Let's say it's worth $1,000 or maybe it's worth $5,000. Like nfts do this right. Then you're thinking, hmm, I actually want to keep this on l one. I want to put this in my l one wallet. So you move back to l one. And so you move to l one with your nft and you get the full security of Ethereum. No need to kind of like go on to immutable X, which I've discussed before, is a validium, not a Zk roll up yet, but with the volition they'll be up, you'll be able to kind of like chop and choose there.
00:18:41.302 - 00:19:02.288, Speaker A: But this is a great option for those people. And also you can go from l one to l two as well, which is another great option. So if you want to bring a bunch of your nfts from l one to l two because you want to do a bunch of things with them, that's another great option there as well. So really cool tool from immutable apes here. It's at imxtools IO. I guess like check it out at your own risk. I haven't audited it or anything like that.
00:19:02.288 - 00:19:20.280, Speaker A: And DC investor here has asked for more details about the tool. I don't think anyone has replied yet. No, not yet. But we'll have to see how that plays out. But yeah, it seems like this tool is legit. But just be, be cautious always when interacting with new smart contracts. So Slingshot has launched on arbitrum.
00:19:20.280 - 00:19:53.792, Speaker A: For those who don't know, Slingshot is a decentralized exchange aggregator. They've been live on polygon, Ethereum, Mainnet, and now arbitrum so if you are looking to trade on a decentralized exchange, definitely go through an aggregator first, because they should be able to get you better prices than what you would get on other kind of decentralized exchanges. There are real time charts for every tokens positive slippage, and you basically just connect your wallet very easily. At app slings thingshot finance, change your network to Arbitrum, of course, and get started trading with slingshot. Very, very cool to see this disclosure. I'm a seed investor in Slingshot. Just putting that out there.
00:19:53.792 - 00:20:26.466, Speaker A: Maybe some of you don't know that, but yeah, I mean, I've been following them for quite a while. This is a really, really killer team. They build a killer product, and it's really, really great to see them make the move to arbitram. So definitely go check them out. So Seb from Zappa has teased a mobile interface for the Zappa, the Zappa wallet, or the Zappa kind of like interface today. So you can see here that this looks like an iOS app for Zappa. They've been teasing this for quite a while now, but I think this is one of the first screenshots I've seen of it.
00:20:26.466 - 00:21:02.062, Speaker A: I'm super, super looking forward to this because I know Zappa works, works well on kind of like the web on your phone, and that's all fine and good, but the thing is, an app is just always better. Like, in my experience, anyway, for a number of different reasons. Right? You can have like push notification things like that. And I know some of the web browsers on mobile let you do this, but, and, you know, it's just like much smoother. You've got, like a lot more freedom to do a bunch of different things. And also you can have it like sync up with your desktop, kind of like your desktop zapper as well. So I'm very much looking forward to this coming out, and I don't know when it's going to be out.
00:21:02.062 - 00:21:37.276, Speaker A: And I think they're doing, they're going to be doing a wallet as well. I've talked about that before. So it's going to be interesting to see how long it takes until this comes out, but definitely going to be keeping an eye on this. But just wanted to kind of like highlight this for those of you who didn't see it today. So I mentioned this, I think, a few days ago, but this is kind of like the official announcement from consensus that the lattice one now has metamask integrated with it. So for those of you who have a lattice one, you can basically use your metamask, kind of like wallet. Sorry, use metamask with the lattice one hardware wallet now, which is obviously one of the most kind of like requested features for the lattice.
00:21:37.276 - 00:22:00.384, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't have a lattice, you can't buy one. Unfortunately, right now they are out of stock until I think, early December. So you have to wait a week or two maybe, to get your hands on one. But I'm actually so happy to see that more people are buying lattices. As I said, as I've said before, it is the best hardware wallet on the market. And there's really not even a close second place. The only drawback is that it is a bulkier machine than a ledger device.
00:22:00.384 - 00:22:22.382, Speaker A: You can see in the picture here, that's about the size of like my hand. If I was to put my hand on it, it's about the size. I mean, I have my, my one up here, but it's all. It's got cables plugged into it, so I'm not going to grab it. But essentially it's not that big. And you know, when I think about it as well, it's supposed to. It's supposed to be like a device that just sits on kind of like your desk and you can get interacted with it and whatever like that.
00:22:22.382 - 00:22:45.326, Speaker A: And you know, you shouldn't really be kind of like taking your hardware wallets with you. I know that ledger has like a Nano X, which is like a Bluetooth kind of like hardware wallet. So you can interact with your phone and like take it with you. I don't know. I personally would never take my hardware wallet with me. I think that's kind of like asking for trouble. So, for me, you know, I switched between using my ledger and my lattice because it's kind of like hard to switch because you don't want.
00:22:45.326 - 00:23:09.414, Speaker A: You don't want to kind of like make a mistake and go from your lattice. Sorry, from your ledger to your lattice, or from one Hubble wallet to the other and like screw something up. So I started with my lattice and I started a new wallet on there. And it's been kind of like putting funds in there as I go interacting with different things. And it's really great to have metamask integration finally, because it makes interacting with, with things much easier. So definitely go check out the post here for more info on this. But if you don't have a lattice yet, as I said, there should be more stock in early December.
00:23:09.414 - 00:24:13.214, Speaker A: Maybe a nice Christmas present for you to yourself to buy one and if you don't have a hardware wallet at all yet, guys, I'm sorry. Buy a hardware wallet. Like, please buy a hardware wallet and put your crypto on that hardware wallet, because keeping it anywhere else is, is a, is kind of like very dangerous, especially if you're keeping it just in a naked metamask wallet where it's basically, you know, pretty, kind of like, what's the, what's the term looking for pretty? It's like a sitting duck, right? You're just kind of like waiting for some malware to infect your pc and then go to town on your crypto. So definitely don't secure any significant sums in a hot wallet and get yourself a hardware wallet. So an interesting tweet here from Dom today, who's an active daily grade discord member as well. They're very, very good at kind of like explaining different things. But in this tweet, it's kind of like a, I guess like, it kind of like illustrates the feedback loop between, I guess, like, everything that happens on ethereum from kind of like fees being collected, which leads to kind of like more stakers on the proof of stake, which leads to more staked ether ETH, which means to increase security.
00:24:13.214 - 00:24:59.478, Speaker A: And then you have all these different, like, spokes and kind of, I guess, without you, kind of like, if you, if you're watching the video, you'll see what I'm talking about. If you're on the podcast, it's kind of hard for, for you to follow along with what I'm talking about. But it's basically a map with a bunch of circles and arrows pointing to each other. And it basically shows that, how everything on the Ethereum network works in kind of like a symbiotic relationship, as I just explained. Right. As more fees are collected post merge, there's going to, it'll lead to a higher staking kind of like yield, which means that more people will stake their ETH, which means the network security goes up and, you know, and then on the other side of kind of like this chart, it says the value of ETH increases, you know, sorry. And then, and then on the other side, from more fees collected, it goes more ETH burned, which means the value of ETH increases, which means the value of ETH staked goes up, which leads to increased security.
00:24:59.478 - 00:25:53.074, Speaker A: And then you have kind of like the bottom bit of this, of this chart where from more stake as it goes to you, you're allowed to, you can deploy more shards to the network, which means that you'll get more L2 scaling capacity, which means you'll get lower individual fees on l two, which leads to more l two activity, which feeds up to fees collected, which is higher demand for l one block space. And then that fees collected obviously moves up again into what I just described before. And then you have the value of ETH increasing on the right hand side, which leads to a better story value, you know, better defi collateral, more liquidity, blah, blah, blah. Then that leads to more economic utility for ETH, more more economic activity for the ethereum network, which leads to more l two activity, and then it just feeds back in. So this graphic basically just shows the absolutely amazing symbiotic relationship that l one, l two has with the value of ETH increasing and the fees generated. And this is basically been designed this way. This is not a coincidence.
00:25:53.074 - 00:27:11.476, Speaker A: We've designed the network this way because we believe this is the best way to bother scale the network, you know, increase the value of ETH, increase the security of the network, and make sure that the economic activity actually leads to value accrual for ETH. So very, very cool to see this from Dom here. So Lyran from Starkware put out this little graphic where it's showing the DeFi pooling on Stocknet. So essentially what this is going to do is it's going to allow users to sit on Starknet, interact with a DeFi pooling contract, and basically be able to interact with layer one liquidity for on on L2 on stocknet, and also be able to interact with kind of like centralized exchanges and fiat on ramps going from them to stocknet, and then never having to actually touch l one and still being able to kind of like tap into l one through the defi pooling contract. Now, this is something that I've discussed before in the vein of kind of like the bridges and the cross chain kind of stuff, and like Star Quiz, DM, Amm, rari capitals, Nova, all this kind of stuff that allows you to just tap into layer one liquidity and all the stuff happening at layer one without actually having to touch layer one by doing it at L2. So this is really, really cool to see here, this little graphic from Lyran. There's a deeper explanation in this thread, which you can basically go check out or link to the YouTube description, but I'm coming up on time here.
00:27:11.476 - 00:27:50.344, Speaker A: So just the last thing I wanted to say is a tweet that I saw from Mahalo from Polygon, where he basically teased that that Sundeep and himself have just recorded an episode with Bankless and Sundip said that if Polygon ever becomes an Ethereum competitor, he will for sure leave the project. And then Mahalo. Says people who know me know the same goes for me. I've been kind of like, signaling to you guys just how committed Polygon is to the ethereum ecosystem for a while now. Obviously, I wouldn't be an advisor to Polygon if I didn't truly believe that they were a net positive for the Ethereum ecosystem and all that they've done this year. They did their rebrand in February of this year, by the way, so it hasn't been very long. They've obviously existed at this matic network before.
00:27:50.344 - 00:28:13.832, Speaker A: Now they're Polygon, but since then they've had the Polygon Pos chain, you know, explode in value. They've had the Polygon avail network announced, Polygon SDK. They have nightfall, maiden, Hermes. That's all within the span of like the last ten to eleven months. That's nothing, right? Imagine what, where polygon is going to be within the next few years. Like, I am so bullish on the polygon ecosystem. It's not even funny.
00:28:13.832 - 00:28:50.948, Speaker A: And I'm, you know, half the reason I'm bullish is because I know that they're super Ethereum aligned. They're not going anywhere. The polygon pos chain, as I've described before, yes, it may be considered a quote unquote side chain, but it was needed, and it still is needed, until we get to those kind of like, until we get more roll up adoption out there. And it's been very, very great, a great tool for people to use since then. So I'm very much looking forward to listening to this podcast on bankless coming out soon. There's actually another podcast bankless did with Starkware just today, so you can go check that out as well. Uri and Eli from Starkware, which, I mean, if you want to be more bullish on L2s than you already are, because I do my best to make you guys bullish on it.
00:28:50.948 - 00:29:27.770, Speaker A: But if you want to be even more bullish, go listen to that Starkware episode on Bankless, and then listen to the other ones I've done as well. They've done one with arbitrary and optimism, but the Starkware one's the most recent one, and I think they've done one with the matter lab ZK sync as well. Not sure I listened to a podcast with them before, but I'm not sure if it was on bankless or somewhere else. But yeah, just listen to them and you'll get really, really bullish, right? And then maybe go listen to their ultra scalable Ethereum podcast that they did a few weeks ago, which basically breaks down the modular Ethereum design, which I spoken about, obviously a lot, but they broke it down very nicely for everyone. Yeah. If you just feeling like you want to be bullish, I mean, ETH price is kind of nice right now. It's going up a little bit.
00:29:27.770 - 00:29:51.330, Speaker A: It's going up against bitcoin, which is always fun. But if you want to be even more bullish, go listen to all those sorts of things and maybe do it while you're at the gym or something, because then you maybe get out a few extra reps just from how bullish you are. Anyway, I'm going off on a little bit of a tension then there. I'm just going to end it there for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:51.330 - 00:29:53.114, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Bye.
