00:00:04.920 - 00:01:04.896, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, you're watching Defi talks with Defi dad. Hey, everyone. Thank, thanks for joining us. It is Tuesday, April twelveth, 2022. I'm joined here today by a partner and COO at Long Hash Ventures, Shikai Longhash Ventures is, I would summarize it as it's a web three venture fund, and they also have an accelerator as part of the fund. And so Longhash has really been, I think, one of the longest term investors in the crypto space, and it's been a team that I've actually followed long before this interview. So, yeah, just a total pleasure and honor to get to talk with you.
00:01:04.896 - 00:01:07.410, Speaker A: Shikai, how are you doing? Thanks for joining me.
00:01:08.100 - 00:01:15.040, Speaker B: Great. Thank you very much. And indeed have been following your content for some time as well. Dad.
00:01:16.740 - 00:01:17.810, Speaker A: There you go.
00:01:18.200 - 00:01:31.576, Speaker B: And indeed has been super helpful and very glad to be contributing to the web three space throughout this time. And I must say, such an exciting period and also to be here sharing with all of you.
00:01:31.758 - 00:02:18.704, Speaker A: Absolutely, yeah. And I guess what spawned this conversation is recently we finally got to meet and just kind of talk about the market and what we were seeing and all the teams that we're excited to work with as builders. But Shikai actually wrote a post recently about the title of it is three frontiers of web three in 2022. So actually, I'll just really quickly flash this on screen. Here we go. And so here we go. We're going to talk a bit about this today, but then more generally about Shikai's thoughts on what is next for NFTs.
00:02:18.704 - 00:03:39.904, Speaker A: We've lived through this really exciting period over the last few years, where DFI grew from less than, I think, 50 million in early 2019. Total value locked to now it's like 200 billion on any given day. And then what followed that was this explosion of NFTs. And I would say that NFTs clearly have gone mainstream. I mean, we see it being referenced in pop culture. We see it being talked about, know, big name brands across the world, like an Adidas, and of course, all sorts of celebrities that have chosen to buy NFTs and join different NFT communities. But what caught my attention with what Shikai wrote here is just that he's thinking more about how do we make NFTs more useful, and how is that ultimately going to drive growth? How does that fit into the progress that we've already made in terms of all the crypto applications that have exploded over the last few years? So why don't we start, though, with Shikai? Can we talk a little bit about your background, like, how did you get into crypto in the first place? And then I'd love to kind of hear the origin story of starting up thing.
00:03:39.942 - 00:04:15.304, Speaker B: Sure thing. Well, I try to tell it a bit differently every time I tell the story, so let me try a fresh take this time. So all my life, I think I've been looking for ways to have the biggest impact that I can have. Personally speaking. It's more of a personal philosophy to maximize potential, so to speak, and maximize positive impact. So I tried that with various ways. Right, going down a slightly religious path when I was in my teens, going off to the mountains as a monk for a while to coming back and say, you know what, let's go down the biological path.
00:04:15.304 - 00:05:19.984, Speaker B: So I actually took up biology as my area of study and went into cancer and stem cell research. Got published once, but found that it was a bit too slow, and then went into business through consulting. So I joined McKinsey for a couple of years and did a lot of strategy consulting. I thought, okay, through the largest institutions, organizations, and sometimes even governments, and forming the strategy for those could be the most impactful way to spend my time. Ended up actually looking at digital banks, because that was what was not only hot, but actually somewhat useful, say, in Vietnam, where we launched a couple of these digital banks to actually deliver the products to the underbank, to leapfrog the existing infrastructure. So I was looking a lot of the tech stack back then, and of course, came across blockchain as one of the solutions, and it just clicked like, hey, banks should be blockchains. The core banking system is a blockchain, and all the other stuff is built on top of it or connects to it.
00:05:19.984 - 00:06:10.396, Speaker B: But of course, the banks were not ready. At the same time, the whole ICO craze was ongoing, and maybe that validated at least the crowdfunding part of blockchains in crypto. So I went in, hit first, and found that actually. But what actually attracted me to stay and jump in full time is the philosophy and the movement around self sovereignty. A whole user owned Internet building immutable public goods that can persist for many lifetimes, for everybody to benefit from and contribute to. I thought these ideas were profoundly moving to me. And back then, of course, with the whole ICO, a lot of people building infrastructure, but even then, the message was the same, where we need applications, we need useful use cases for these blockchains, and that's why we need things like an accelerator.
00:06:10.396 - 00:06:36.536, Speaker B: So Emma approached me, actually, because we met at McKinsey and said, that, hey, let's do this accelerator. Because we already talked about web three and crypto back then, and she's like, actually, you know what? Let's do it. Let's run an accelerator and actually support new projects, build new ecosystems. And so that was in 2017 ish 2018, and I jumped right into it.
00:06:36.558 - 00:07:00.604, Speaker A: And that was quite a time to jump in. That's when I started working full time as well. And I joked around with friends who weren't working in crypto. If you looked at a chart from the time I joined, the price literally was, like, down into the right. It was hilarious. They used to be like, look, here's the date you joined. It was actually July 11.
00:07:00.604 - 00:07:26.970, Speaker A: I still remember it because I would always market and track the price going downwards through the rest of 2018. But cool. So you get started then in 2018. And what are some of the lessons you took from that time that maybe we'll be reapplying during, I hate to say the B word, if this is a bear market, during this bear market or whatever market we're in.
00:07:27.580 - 00:08:07.904, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. Honestly, I think ironically, and a lot of founders will say this as well, or maybe some investors will say that, hey, the bear market was a great time because that's when there was no pressure of financials. And you could see people just, like, trying whatever when there's nothing left to lose. And you just, let's try whatever works, and let's try whatever can bring in new people and bring in revenue and bring in capital. So I liked that time of experimentation, and it also flushed out a lot of the players, actually, back then. So when in 2018, when we first started, a lot of funds came up. There were, like, ten accelerators in Singapore.
00:08:07.904 - 00:08:52.692, Speaker B: I swear, everybody had their own incubator and accelerator, and we were one of many. To be fair, we were somewhat differentiated because we're supported by the government. So that helped us with some legitimacy. But you can see the moment the barrel became, these guys left. And it's the same with founders and funds as well. You could really see who stuck through, even though they had to tighten their belts and cut staff, cut their spending, change their plans, pivot a business model, or build some products first, do some side hustle. But these guys stuck through, and largely because the mission of what they're building or the potential of it, appealed so much that there was such high conviction for them to start.
00:08:52.692 - 00:09:39.776, Speaker B: And over time, we realized that actually, the people who stuck through this period, many of them ended up figuring something out over time. So, of course, we know the whole makerdao synthetics. Many of these teams actually started or had some early roots in that time. Right. I would say the lessons there is even in good times, right. It's not to forget what are the roots and what truly keeps you here? Why are you here? What makes you stay, what makes the team come together and what keeps them together? These are the questions that got answered.
00:09:39.968 - 00:09:46.150, Speaker A: What sort of fundamentals, then, are you seeking in investing in new teams in 2022?
00:09:47.160 - 00:10:43.220, Speaker B: Right. I would say, actually, the fundamentals haven't changed. Well, I like to say that the first thing we always look for are people who are web three native, and that then trickles down to the entire concept, the mission, the product, the partners, the community that you build, the team that you assemble, and eventually potentially decentralize as well. So the idea of being web three native is that we've built from the ground up to be fully seamless in terms of integration with web three. There were a lot of teams back in 2018, 2019 that were experimenting, and we were also helping to experiment with that were like, hey, maybe let me do this private chain thing. Let me do a corporate B two B service, or let me try to be like a governmental thing, or maybe I don't need a chain. Let's just use some sort of, like, signing mechanism.
00:10:43.220 - 00:11:25.510, Speaker B: And inevitably, those have stalled in their progress simply because it's much harder to, firstly, change the incumbents. And secondly, you're not tapping into this exponential growth that we are currently experiencing in this native crypto economy, be it in terms of different layer ones, the middleware, the applications built on top. The more it's built, the more network effects they are. So that's like the number one thing we look out for. And then there's all the other usual metrics of team and different reputational checks. But one thing we do test for also is the fit of our thesis. And so I think that leads very nicely to what we're about to discuss.
00:11:26.280 - 00:11:55.004, Speaker A: Absolutely. Yeah. And I'll let you sort of lead into that. I'd love to kind of dive into these. Part of the reason I wanted to talk with you is we're not in a market anymore where it's like, number up only every single day. It's a great feeling to, of course, be invested in crypto and watch numbers go up. What we're living through now is a very normal part of the bullish, bearish types of cycles.
00:11:55.004 - 00:13:23.604, Speaker A: But I think what's important is, are we continually creating more utility and more value for more people to be able to benefit from. And of course, when you zoom out from where we are today, it's just mind blowing that even on a bad day, we're sitting around 200 billion in terms of economic activity that is happening across multiple chains, too. Not just Ethereum anymore, but multiple chains are flourishing, creating new cryptographic powered finance applications. So it feels a lot like I was very young when email was really becoming more mainstream. But it reminds me in a way of that, where you're looking at snail mail being our old finance system, and now you have this new finance system powered by crypto assets and then all the other applications that are benefiting from nfts and digitally native assets, but it's faster, it's accessible globally from any part of the world. It's permissionless, so that we don't have to give up all of the same personal identifying data like our names and emails and phone numbers. And so it's progress to appreciate.
00:13:23.604 - 00:14:06.170, Speaker A: But what got me through the last bear market, if we're in a bear market, I hope we're not in a bear market. We'll see. What got me through it, though. Yeah, what got me through was focusing on the transformation that this technology brings and how can I help to propel that forwards. Whether it's building, investing, educating, there's just so much opportunity there. And so, anyways, you've written a lot about these new frontiers in web three for 2022. So, yeah, if you could dive into some of the theses that you've come up with there, and I'd love to learn from it.
00:14:06.620 - 00:14:11.144, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. So I hope it's more of a conversation and the sharing, right?
00:14:11.262 - 00:14:12.490, Speaker A: Absolutely, yeah.
00:14:13.660 - 00:14:48.324, Speaker B: And it could be helpful to start off with some context setting, as you would like to put it. Right. You talked about the market cycles. The other frame to look at it was also even actually, through all these cycles, the building never stopped. We had this period where the layer ones had to be built, and everybody promised to build all these layer ones through the ICOs. And now we're at a point where actually quite a players have built it and they are working. People are building on these chains, and the chains are stable or more or less stable enough and scalable enough to do the things they want to do.
00:14:48.324 - 00:15:44.116, Speaker B: And then we also had defi, as you put it, that has already proven itself to have these benefits that you have mentioned. It's faster, easier, more transparent, real time, inclusive, where everybody contribute to. It's kind of like, okay, great, we have the existence of the universe, the block space that we can build on and we have the financial rails, like we have the financial markets that are here to power the engine of an economy. Then the question is kind of like, okay, but what economy do we power? What kind of assets do we have? Do we have businesses, do we have goods, products, services? And I think arguably it's not really, we're quite early in this. I think what we have are a lot of tokens and increasingly some nfts. But these tokens more or less represent ownership. They're kind of equity, like in these various protocols.
00:15:44.116 - 00:16:19.552, Speaker B: And they don't necessarily represent a good that I would like to have. Or maybe they could be used to gate certain experiences, like entry into a community. But the examples of those are far and a few in between. So I think we're at a point where like, hey, look, we have the infrastructure more or less ready. We have the financial engine that's ready to propel growth. Now all is left to do to just click it in place is to have something real. And in fact, this has been the longest criticism that everybody's been saying like, oh, blockchains are useless, what are use cases? It's for speculation.
00:16:19.552 - 00:17:25.380, Speaker B: And fair enough, a lot of it has been speculation, but arguably a lot of it needed to be speculation because it was a circular economy, right? You issue out ethers or bitcoins for people to secure the chain. And the value of it comes only when there's stuff built on top, or similarly with DeFi, because there isn't an actual commodity to be traded on uniswap, and therefore it feels like, oh, we're just swapping altcoins, shit coins here and there. The impression can be like that, right? So I think we're at a tipping point where now we are ready to change that impression. And the few factors that are coming in are exactly like what I've been writing about. So talking about NFTs, talk about metaverses and we talk about dows. So NFTs can represent the digital goods, the assets that we have in this economy, or it can represent certain rights that you have to then participate. It's a gateway to certain experiences that is in the web, three native formats.
00:17:25.380 - 00:18:38.684, Speaker B: And then where do you go for these experiences or to use these goods and services? You don't want to go back to a web two platform, or rather you don't want that to be the only option, because then you're again bound by the whole problems of web two, censorship and instability and so on. You want that to be a web three native universe where you can consume these goods and services or experiences. And that's what the metaverse is. It's an environment where you can actually live in and hang out and do business and socialize and those experiences and rights are encoded nfts. Then you start to think about, okay, once I'm in the metaverse, then what kind of organizations do I start to have these social ties that I have, these groups, working groups that I have, then we start to look into actually those are dows ways for people to come together by having those signatures on chain, be it in terms of NFT membership or like a shared bank account with a multisig. So all these pieces are coming together to form this digital native, or web three native economy that is built on chain. And you can be amplified further with all of the DFI infrastructure.
00:18:38.684 - 00:18:55.120, Speaker B: Now I know this might sound fairly obvious areas because of course nfts, of course gaming, of course now I'd love to go into some specific areas that we have written about. But before that, any thoughts or comments?
00:18:55.200 - 00:20:19.570, Speaker A: Yeah, no, just all I'd add to that is, I think drawing a parallel again to the birth of the mainstream Internet. When you think back to businesses that existed in the late 90s or early two thousand s to have a website, it was a very small part of a lot of businesses. It was an alternative sort of storefront. But the bulk of their business, if you think about traditional department stores like a Macy's or just any avenue, these Nordstrom's, these are stores that really just created a website to create a property online. Because there was this new thing that everyone was talking about and using, but it wasn't really driving the kind of traffic that they could have ever envisioned would come years later. And I think similarly now with what we're building with Web three, we're talking about that next sort of transition to a virtual world, an AR based world. However you're going to experience it, it's about being able to access the same resources to be able to.
00:20:19.570 - 00:21:10.880, Speaker A: Let's assume everyone in the future has some sort of VR headset, that they become very affordable the way that smartphones have become more affordable over time. Now everyone has an access entry point and assuming that they have Internet, which will continue to, that access will continue to grow. And now you're not just talking about creating like a website, you're talking about being able to interact with digitally native communities. And those communities, I think some of the parallels you've drawn out are dows to me are really like digitally native businesses. It allows you to collaborate with others, but you share, like a treasury. And so in some cases, you invest the money, in other cases, maybe you share those resources to pay the people that work for you. But this is a whole new wealth creation event.
00:21:10.880 - 00:22:58.432, Speaker A: I have no doubt that there will be a top sort of like, university that is born in a digital world. We could have some translation from the legacy players, let's say like a Stanford or Harvard launches a VR based university. But I have no doubt that in the future, there will be educational programs which will have credentials that will allow you to get new jobs, new opportunities in what we're calling the metaverse. And so one big part of that that you've touched upon is if we have money as one construct and all sorts of different parallels to finance that are powered by Defi or defi applications and protocols, one of the things that's missing is just the basics of owning something stuff, digital stuff. If you look around, if I look around the office I'm in, I've got photos, I've got a printer, I've got a hat here, stuff that makes this office personal to me, and stuff that I've accrued over time, for whatever reason, same thing is going to happen in a virtual based world. And so I guess I'm sort of painting a picture of what you'd see in a ready player one, I do believe that is a future that actually offers a better life for so many. Not everyone is fortunate to be born in a part of the world where they're not fighting a war, where they're not experiencing some sort of tragedy or atrocities.
00:22:58.432 - 00:24:05.610, Speaker A: And I think that the Internet has obviously given many opportunities to be able to buy and sell goods and create businesses and services. This is just one more step beyond that. Except it's radical to us, because not everyone has a VR headset and has experience and realize that when you go into a VR headset, when you go into what are like gated metaverses right now, and we're all for this more open source metaverse, that future is going to have all the same constructs of what we love in the physical world, where we have strong relationships with others. We prefer to live in that virtual world. And that virtual world, what I'm calling a virtual world, will really just be the same world to anyone. You wake up, maybe you throw on a VR headset, you teach a class, you work in an agency that's working with multiple people across the world with your headsets on, or glasses. I keep saying headset because that's what we have today.
00:24:05.610 - 00:24:27.832, Speaker A: Anyways, this all goes back to these are early primitives that are being built now that I think really power this very exciting world that we're going to live in and hopefully create more opportunity for that many more people, just like the Internet did, but like on steroids, wealth creation event, like 1000 x of what we've seen previously.
00:24:27.976 - 00:25:25.548, Speaker B: Oh, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I love that we're starting to go towards this wealth creation and new assets, new economies, new experiences that are hopefully more inclusive. Because what I don't think is going to happen is there was this period in the time of, I think like 2019 or so or 20. Yeah, there was like STOs, I'm not sure what you remember, like existing securities, existing real estate, like real world assets and putting them on chain. And there have been many experiments over time, but they have always been very difficult and they have been not as inclusive, partly because you're relying or you're mirroring a lot of the existing power structures and value structures of the real world. Whereas when we're coming to a new economy and the digital economy, there's a chance to recreate what it could look like and what is valued and new commodities.
00:25:25.548 - 00:27:28.760, Speaker B: And this is where some of the ideas in the piece, and one particular one I like to highlight, is the proof of contribution infrastructure for dows comes in. Of all the ones, I think this is currently my pet topic. And when we talk about inclusive, one of the main criticisms that we have heard of web three is that, hey, you're replicating some sort of plutocracy, or you are making it like a hyper capitalist environment, where if I have capital or I have money, I can come in and buy up people's goods and rights, or I can control this new system when it's early and easy to be manipulated, which to a certain extent it is true, but it is only true because we have allowed it to be. So this was very obvious back in the ICO days, where you sold more than 50% of your protocol to people who did no work and only provided capital. And it's becoming less so where like, okay, maybe I only sell a small portion of it for capital, but the vast majority of it should be earned through things like liquidity mining, and in a way that at least is some work, but still relies on capital, or like playing a game, or actually newer things like move to earn or like write to earn, perhaps, where you're actually contributing something useful. So I think this is an area we need a lot more of, and there's so much more potential, so many more ideas that could be born in this world where to make real dows, I think dows today, where there's no a, in that there's no autonomous part, because as long as they're humans involved and you need to have some sort of governance and some sort of decision making, it becomes an organization rather than an autonomous organization. Whereas you could argue where something like a bitcoin is an autonomous organization where people come together and run these nodes and mine, and then you can build stuff on top of it.
00:27:28.760 - 00:28:12.692, Speaker B: So we need more of this kind of autonomous protocol, so to speak, that create new primitives, be it like to capture certain useful commodities. So examples that we have talked about, if somehow we can tokenize time, somehow we tokenize knowledge, attention, or potentially even somehow some real world stuff where things like carbon, I don't know whether that's possible or not, things that are easy for anybody around the world to contribute in a seamless way. And this will then open up avenues or channels for people who don't yet have capital to earn it by participating in dows standardized way.
00:28:12.746 - 00:29:06.616, Speaker A: Yeah, she can have a quick question. So I spoke the other day. I had the chance to talk with a journalist from a more major legacy media company, and she was doing some research on DFI, Web three and so on. And I think as anyone who's new, she had some healthy skepticism about is everything that's being built really being built for the mainstream, or is it being built for a very few? And one of the criticisms she had, which I think we hear often, is it feels like you guys, as in everyone within the web three community, you're building this hyper financialized world. You guys want to speculate and financialize everything. And I didn't say this at the time, but it definitely struck me afterwards. And it kind of plays into what we're talking about now.
00:29:06.616 - 00:30:06.540, Speaker A: The world we live in already is hyper financialized. It's just that in many cases, we're sort of blind to it. And so obviously, this community building these new primitives, we're talking and discussing this and trying to educate others on what we're building and why. But I think with NFTs, for example, I don't feel like NFTs hyper financialize anything. I think it's just we've given digital scarcity to something. And in some cases it does lead to bubbles where people are buying for these exorbitant prices. But again, if you look at the economy that's been built with DFI and NFTs and web three, I mean, it just pales in comparison to the size of the global financial markets, the legacy markets.
00:30:06.540 - 00:31:14.960, Speaker A: So it's funny because part of your thesis that I really dug into was just going back to the basics of how do you make NFTs more useful? And there's a number of use cases. I'd love you to kind of talk through more on that. But my argument to friends has been that it's already gone fairly mainstream. I mean, you've got pro athletes like Steph Curry, who I think Steph Curry owns not only a board ape, he owns like a Linkstow NFT because he's into golf. And this is happening because it's exciting. I mean, people see communities forming of like minded individuals, people who are so like minded they're willing to put money into the game. And what drives that? Sure, there's always an element of greed that drives it, but I think some fail to miss the fact that NFTs and tokens, other types of tokens, they allow you to align your interests that much further than what you would do if you just had a regular old meetup.
00:31:14.960 - 00:31:38.570, Speaker A: Obviously, when you put money behind it and you have a treasury that you have voting rights to, it allows you to do more radical things like try to buy a copy of the US Constitution or try to buy a golf course through links Dow. But what other use cases really excite you as you think about making NFTs more useful in 2022?
00:31:39.900 - 00:32:10.724, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. So I kind of criticize the PFP movement in a way. Not to say that it hasn't available. I do think that, sure, it forms communities, but a lot of the value lies in the promise of what these PFPs are going to then deliver because it's not yet there. Like, oh, we're going to have movies, we're going to be a brand, we're going to have merch, we're going to have comics. People are going to use this IP in so many inventive ways, but we have not seen that yet. And the market's pricing that in.
00:32:10.724 - 00:33:19.320, Speaker B: So I do see that as a risk both to the holders and also to the perception of the industry where like, hey, look, here's another speculative game where which PFP, NFP is going to have the biggest potential and therefore price the highest, and then maybe they exit. Some people are left holding the bags and then is there going to be people who built the real work of giving these communities, or nfts value? So what is value then? And how do we go about building it? And so I thought about it in just two main ways. So you can either break into, you can roughly think of it as like tangible and tangible value, or like fundamental value and utility value. So tangible or more fundamental value is when the NFTs themselves already represent something of value that took effort to create. So here we're talking about things like rich media. So one, I think rising trend is music nfts, because to the very act of creating this piece of music already implies a certain amount of effort that has gone in. I shouldn't care to put all this together, like, to ideate it, record it, and then upload it.
00:33:19.320 - 00:34:17.644, Speaker B: And so if you own a collectible of a music NFT, arguably it has more fundamental value. It already delivers to you a certain experience. And sure, other people can listen to it too, but I liken it to kind of a public good with private ownership, if that's an ironic way to think about it, like a public piece of art that everybody can see in a park, but you have your name engraved on it, and that has certain social value attached to the fundamental value of the art, right? And then the other bit is then the intangible value, or we can call it like utility value. So here it might be the gateway for you to then access different experiences. So here, I think most of the PFE communities already have that, which is you have a gated discord or the gated telegram. Some of them then have these alpha chats or allow you to be whitelisted for future drops of new artists and so on. And I guess over time this will also prove itself.
00:34:17.644 - 00:35:27.780, Speaker B: It will be even more powerful, the better and richer experiences start to form, right? When we have events that are in a metaverse that we really like to go to, or rich experiences that take time to create in a matter of, be it from auditory, visual, all of the ways that we love to experience it. And it doesn't have to be one or the other, right? You could have NFT. That gives you both, arguably, if I own this music NFT, it gives me access to this club, allows you to meet this artist, so on. So these are all ways that NFTs can become actually useful. And now the bar is so low, the moment you have any utility, people are like shouting, hey, look, we have so much utility. And I'm like, guys, we have to really raise the bar here in terms of both creating and demanding that our NFTs to be much more useful and be much more sensitive to that, because you want it not to be a financial product, you want it to be an asset or a gateway to digital experiences and goods.
00:35:28.440 - 00:36:43.368, Speaker A: Yeah, I just took our kids to Disney World, and when we were in Disney World, it's funny, I actually had a lot of, I felt like over the course of six or seven days, I was continually inspired by a few ideas there of how we need to go about growing the crypto space and just lessons to learn from our time there. But one of the things that really stuck out is there are just an endless amount of collectibles there. And so when you look at the NFT space, and I've also been somewhat critical of PFPs, I think they're cool. But my mind explodes when I look at the price of some of them. I'm thrilled for the board ape community. We at four c actually own an ape, and we're grateful for the airdrop, but it feels like everything has grown so quickly and I question whether we can deliver on all that utility. But when I was in Disney World, I'm like, looking at all the things that people are willing to put money into for experiences, for example.
00:36:43.368 - 00:37:22.744, Speaker A: And this is funny because it kind of goes back to the immutability of a blockchain. Many years ago, they used to sell these bricks. When you walk into the magic kingdom in Disney world and you could put your family's name and a little message on it, they actually removed all of these bricks and moved them somewhere else. People paid hundreds and thousands of dollars and they have, I'm guessing there were thousands of these bricks. Wow. And my point is not like, well, if they did it on a blockchain, it would never be changed. And it's immutable, but it's more about, look what people are willing to do with their money because they're able to.
00:37:22.744 - 00:38:37.520, Speaker A: When you give them the freedom to choose what they want to do, when they want to do with their know, there's just an endless amount of other examples. Know, I don't sit around and speculate that NFTs are valuable because if my Disney World ticket were an NFT, I get to keep it forever in my wallet. But at the same time, why do we operate with, why do we always look to have to trust these centralized entities that we pay money to for some sort of good or service, and then we have no freedom, let's say, to resell it or to give it away, or just to do whatever we want with it, because we already paid money for it. And I think that utility is still really powerful. The fact that you can buy a digital good and you can resell it is what gives it value. There's so much criticism about like, why is that piece of art worth 10,000 or 100,000 or $69 million? It's because you're able to sell it to anyone on the planet. That's why it creates this humongous liquidity pool for us to be able to participate in.
00:38:37.520 - 00:39:21.470, Speaker A: And years from now, I have no doubt the NFT market is probably one of one of 1% of where it's going. Some of these might crash in value, but the staying power of the utility that has been opened up, that genie is not going back in the bottle. I mean, we're just going to continue to see more and more people realize that it's nice to have the freedom to do what you want whenever you want with money or goods or digital services or access to digital experiences. And that's, I think, what we're building towards, it's really a freedom that we're building.
00:39:22.640 - 00:39:52.052, Speaker B: Yeah. And it's not just the freedom of creating and owning and then transferring, it's also the freedom to innovate. On top of that, you could think of the Disney bricks where like, hey, look, sorry, we have to shut down this Disneyland or we have to repave the road. It's gone. But somebody else could recreate the Disneyland, fork it, so to speak. Recognize all of these bricks that you have bought or I want to use. If you have ever bought a brick on Disneyland, I'm going to give you the early pass to my new amusement park.
00:39:52.196 - 00:39:52.890, Speaker A: Exactly.
00:39:54.540 - 00:39:59.370, Speaker B: So it's the freedom to then recognize and create value on top of.
00:40:02.060 - 00:41:06.604, Speaker A: You know, we haven't even touched upon it, but the composability that we've seen flourish in DeFi will also flourish with NFT based applications. We've seen all of these new finance applications grow from a lesser subset of Defi protocols, and we'll continue to see that combined with a hybrid of different NFT applications and protocols. And there's going to be parallels to the world we live in. Someone's going to release an NFT based ticketing application which has already been built, I feel like a million times over. But there's going to be those net new applications which are really exciting in the world of Defi, I think Alchemyx was exciting for any because it was just such a radical concept. Like, you take out a loan and it's actually going to pay it back over time if you're willing to wait long enough. And that's cool.
00:41:06.604 - 00:42:02.400, Speaker A: That's where I think people get really excited. It's not just what if we could do this thing that we already do. Actually, Uber to me has always been a great example. It was just such a new innovation to be able to call a private driver, not just like, go get a taxi, but basically have a private driver on demand whenever you want, wherever you want, to know that it's safe to use that sort of transformational change. That change is there in the web three community. The problem is that to be an early adopter still, there's just so much education that has to happen. And in many cases, the barrier for me has been that a lot of the language and concepts translated from finance are very misunderstood by a majority of the population.
00:42:02.400 - 00:42:47.730, Speaker A: We just have a terrible sort of financial literacy across the world, and that will carry forward unless we make really intuitive applications, which I think we are. I think if you can get past self custody or even if you use a centralized wallet, I think you're going to continue to see competition amongst designers to enable you to do really intuitive things with nfts or different sort of defi applications. But Shikai, anything else that's top of mind from that three frontiers of web three in 2022 that you wanted to discuss?
00:42:48.820 - 00:43:25.292, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. We touched on the NFT part, and I kind of alluded to some of the Dow stuff, where more people need to be able to earn crypto in a meaningful way or participate in economy rather than buy into it. The part that we haven't really dived much yet is around games. And I think. Exactly. You talked a bit about the metaverse where like, oh, yeah, we have these AR glasses or VR glasses. And sure, I think that is very likely, but how long is that going to take? Not too sure just yet.
00:43:25.292 - 00:44:09.464, Speaker B: I think VR adoption is growing very rapidly, but it's far from mainstream just yet. But what is mainstream right now is mobile. This is very clear in every country in the world, right. Mobile has taken over Fintech, it's taken over videos, the latest craze of mobile video with TikTok and so on, and actually also games. Mobile games are by far the most popular, accounting for more than 50% of the market and growing the fastest out of all the segments. Everything else is either kind of like stagnant or growing very slowly, or even shrinking in some cases, including browser games. And I can't for the heck of me understand why we are not building more mobile stuff.
00:44:09.464 - 00:44:46.436, Speaker B: Right. The web. Two guys have already figured out, hey, guys, everybody has a mobile phone that's built for mobile. We're kind of stuck in a browser age, which is fine, but for things like games. A lot of it's still trying to go for AA, going for browser based games. We need a lot more the accessibility that comes with mobile. So if anybody's building a mobile experience as a game, as a metaverse, personally, I'll be very excited to speak to any builders on that, and I think it'll be also just so much easier for me to use it.
00:44:46.436 - 00:44:58.360, Speaker B: I want to be able to access the metaverse on the go or to play some games and access just like how we can chat or watch a video or do some crypto stuff on my mobile. Wallet on the fly.
00:44:58.860 - 00:45:42.360, Speaker A: Yeah. Every gaming developer that I've had a chance to speak with who's now building with NFTs and defi protocols, they all sort of just say the same thing, which is I just don't see how we can go backwards once you learn about what's possible here. I can build a game. I can reward users or players. I can offer skin in the game to those who are like early adopters through NFTs or tokens. It feels so natural. We're not here to demonize the legacy gaming industry.
00:45:42.360 - 00:46:22.360, Speaker A: I love playing games, and I'll always have a soft spot in my heart for the likes of Nintendo. I just feel like it defined my childhood and a part of my adulthood. But what's exciting now is it's just a new era. It's like resisting a transition from a brick and mortar store to being able to sell online. It's going to create an alignment of incentive. That's one of the things. By the end of 2022, I am confident that it'll no longer just be a conversation about Axi.
00:46:22.360 - 00:47:23.332, Speaker A: As much as I have all the respect in the world for what they've built and wish them continued success. But there's just so many games that are being built and what's really cool is there's a focus on just building games that are cool and fun to play. There isn't this fixation on how do we hyper financialize video games and everything is play to earn? No, I've clearly seen that shift in like, I'm here to build a game that happens to be a better experience and benefit from NFTs, tokens, whatever. And that's exciting. That pivot I was definitely looking for, and I think that stems from lessons that have been learned through axie. With all the growth they've had and all the sort of trailblazing they've done, we're able to sort of build off of their success. And again, some of their challenges and lessons learned.
00:47:23.332 - 00:47:30.680, Speaker A: But Shikai, anything else there to add in terms of the gaming element that we should be looking for in 2022?
00:47:30.830 - 00:47:56.752, Speaker B: Oh, yes, for sure. So like I mentioned, I think browser base is going to open up a lot more. And I think you touched on the fun element. We've seen probably hundreds of pitches of games already. Almost all of them say that we're going to be more fun than axie. And is it too mean to say that maybe the bar is kind of low, but it's true, right? There's so much more room to go. And most of the games they're saying that we're going to be free to play.
00:47:56.752 - 00:48:53.392, Speaker B: We're going to have some sort of free to play element. So it's a lot more inclusive. So I think what we can expect to see is that the barriers to entry are going to be lower. It's going to be more fun, and hopefully it's going to be a lot more accessible in terms of devices as well. That opens up the target demographic to a lot more people. And to me, this is exciting not because, well, I think everybody should be playing games for some strange reason, but because it's kind of a Trojan horse, as you have alluded to, to then get into web three for people to get a taste of. Like what does it mean to own something? What does it mean to earn an asset and then be able to use that and then to actually trade it as proof that I've earned it, and then that gives me benefits in the future? I think great games are a great way to come in, especially if it's free to play and especially if it's fun, because it's kind of a low stakes way for you to immediately grasp these digital concepts.
00:48:53.392 - 00:49:39.844, Speaker B: Because you talk about owning a digital game asset, people immediately, oh, yeah, of course I own assets. I have in game currency. Of course, nobody questions like, why are you trying to create a new currency? It's for a native economy that you are going to interact with either the developers or other players and intuitively get it because there is an economy in there. So I think we're going to see a convergence between what games look like and what a web three economy looks like. And it's going to meet somewhere in the middle where web three is fun, web three is visual, web three is digital, and then you kind of live on there. It's going to look and feel like a game where all these metaverses are already doing, but with a real economy that's powering it and people actually are living and making a living off of it.
00:49:40.042 - 00:51:18.004, Speaker A: Absolutely, yeah. The games that are being developed, there's going to be elements that translate very clearly from what we've enjoyed in the legacy gaming industry. But I think some are underestimating the stickiness of these future games being developed because of some of the financialization of the game. I've always wondered if some of the early Internet companies, if they had tokenized, would some of them still exist? Would Facebook have been able to ultimately beat out MySpace if there was a strong community of token holders? And similarly, with games which have such a more viral and fun element to it, there's so much loyalty to gaming brands where there isn't any sort of skin in the game through an NFT or a token, but it's going to add an interesting element to it. And I think that's where I have all the respect in the world for Axie Infinity. I mean, they were brave enough to build before others and they found a lot of success and there's really strong roots there. And again, I think people can demonize it all they want with like is it because people are playing just for money or people hold these assets and they're trying to protect their tokens and their NFTs, the value of them.
00:51:18.004 - 00:52:22.650, Speaker A: But I think it just, in a way, again, it creates an alignment of thinking and it does incentivize you to fall in line and to work together versus just coordinating out of the goodness of your heart because you love a game. There's something more at stake there with that financial incentive. But yeah, I mean, gosh, what a wild last six to twelve months it's been meeting these incredible gaming developers. We've met folks from the likes of an EA to Lucas Arts. That was definitely one of my nerd out moments, just to get to talk with someone about having developed Star wars games and why they're so excited for what's available now through NFT based gaming. But chica, anything else that you'd like to share? We probably should wrap up here in the next few minutes, but anything else that's top of mind that you'd want to cover?
00:52:23.100 - 00:53:55.060, Speaker B: I think there's probably one last thing that we haven't really touched on with the Metaverse bits, so I think it's a nice little segue. And also to tie it up with an overarching theme, we've talked about having assets and we talked about gamifying experiences, creating real economies. And in the end, I think I like to remind everyone that Web three is a collective creation. When we think about the incumbent game developers, you're looking to a game publisher to give you this polished experience. But that should not, or maybe shouldn't won't be the case in web three, whereby I would argue that similar to how MySpace is, like you said, a strong community creates value for the product. Similarly, in web three and a Metaverse, the strongest communities will create the most value with user generated content be in terms of spaces that we will stay in, or the activities that you will host, the events and connections that you will have. So I'm looking to things like the Minecraft equivalent, or ways to then gate kind of Minecraft servers that are self hosted, for example, on web three, or things which have a really strong modding community that we used to see on, like CSGO or a warcraft three, or nowadays things like Skyrim and so on are so much modded.
00:53:55.060 - 00:54:53.496, Speaker B: And if we can bring that spirit to web three, where there's an active creator community and active player base or user base that engages with these creations, we are going to be a lot more resilient and prosperous because there's new value being created. And I think to tie it all up as well. We've talked a bit a lot about these financialization and whether it's all right to be capitalist and raise all this money. But to me, it's great to create markets as long as we are creating new ways for value to be recognized. We're creating new ways for people to earn, for people to sell your music, like sell your art, or sell your personality and your time and your social connections in whatever way that you want to contribute. And to me that has always been the ethos of web three. It's not about financializing what you really have.
00:54:53.496 - 00:55:20.210, Speaker B: It's about unlocking the value that maybe previously was not allowed to be unlocked or exploited, taken away by whatever platforms that you were creating it on. And so I think the frontier of web three, and the key to creating a web three economy, now that all the rails and infrastructure is ready, is to unlock all these ways for you to then express and create and engage in a real economy in a digital space.
00:55:21.380 - 00:55:56.040, Speaker A: I love it. And nothing to add there, I think we should just leave it at that. This is such a joy to get to talk with you. I often try to screen, share and show off new Defi applications or learn about new NFT based projects and games. But it's nice to sort of return to the fundamentals, the macro thesis that keep us all incentivized and excited to be a part of this space. I want to remind everyone, too, to follow Shikai here on Twitter. Follow long hash.
00:55:56.040 - 00:56:22.150, Speaker A: You can also learn more about long hash and obviously reach out to them if you're building the next great web three project and looking for funding. And then also to please reach out to us at Fourthrevolution Capital. My team would love to work with you if you're also building the next great web three application protocol game, whatever it is, but Shikai, anything else before we go?
00:56:22.600 - 00:56:55.752, Speaker B: Well, thank you so much again for having me here, and I think your content is great. I think we need both the very specific and concrete. Like, this is how you use something, this is what products like. And also at times to zoom out and look at a macro. This has been such a pleasure and to emphasize again the call to action of. I hope everyone's energized by our conversation today and we'd love to support you both at longhash through myself or Defi dad at Fourth Revolution Capital. So we're here to collectively create web three together and love to support you on this journey.
00:56:55.752 - 00:56:57.436, Speaker B: Hope you can absolutely reach out and.
00:56:57.458 - 00:57:15.652, Speaker A: Hopefully, yeah, we'll have to do this soon. And by the way, we'll be in a green room here in a second. But yeah, everyone, thanks so much for joining us. You can subscribe at Defi dad. And like I said, check out longhash VC or Fourthrevolution capital. And thanks again here to Shikai for all of his time.
00:57:15.786 - 00:57:19.764, Speaker B: Can I plug just one last thing? Because we have our accelerator that's open right now.
00:57:19.802 - 00:57:21.800, Speaker A: Yeah, tell me about the accelerator. Yeah.
00:57:21.870 - 00:57:41.516, Speaker B: Yes. So we are recruiting for the terra ecosystem. So if you're building on terra or contributing to the ecosystem in a meaningful way, say adopting UST, please check it out at Longhash BC. And we're also going to have our next cohort that's going to be announced very soon, so keep an eye out for that.
00:57:41.538 - 00:58:07.636, Speaker A: That's exciting. Yeah, I use quite a few applications on terra, especially. I've been using a lot of still use anchor, Astroswap, terra swap, and, oh, Mars protocol, too. I've got. I need to do a better job of keeping track of my 100 tabs open on my computer. But yeah, everyone, thanks for joining and we'll see you next time. Thanks, everyone.
00:58:07.636 - 00:58:08.000, Speaker A: Bye.
