00:00:00.280 - 00:00:21.862, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano. It has the 4 January 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, bit unusual start to today's episode. I have a chart in front of me, a price chart in front of me. You guys know that I rarely talk about, I guess, like the charts or prices in crypto, because really, the channel is all about the tech.
00:00:21.862 - 00:01:02.918, Speaker A: But I think I mentioned yesterday how I said that I think that we're entering a new phase of the market now. We've kind of completed that transition from a crab market to a bull market phase, left the early stages of the bull market now progressing into what I believe to be the march towards all time highs on BTC and ETH. Now, of course, there are other coins that have already reached all time highs, but I think, you know, obviously those coins are the. The market caps are a lot less. Actually, some of them haven't even ever seen a crypto bull market before. And they just, you know, they're starting from a different place, basically. And I think when I look at what the mainstream audience pays attention to, they really pay attention to BTC and ETH, and that's what the mainstream media are going to report upon.
00:01:02.918 - 00:01:25.878, Speaker A: So once they reach all time highs, that's kind of when we enter the proper bull market. We're still in the early stages, but not, we're not in like the earliest stages anymore. We're not in that transition period. We are definitely in the bull market now. Of course, the reason why I bring this up as well is because over the last 24 hours, there was a quite a big dump in the markets that probably scared a lot of people. You can see here what it, what it kind of looked like. We actually started creeping up at the beginning of the year, 1 January.
00:01:25.878 - 00:02:06.840, Speaker A: I mean, this is the BTC chart from the 1 January. If I go from basically here to the, I guess, like second or 3 January or something like that, BTC went up almost 10%, which is obviously a pretty significant move for BTC, given its market cap. But then I guess, like yesterday or I guess less than 24 hours ago, the price went from, went down about 10%, almost 11%. So it went down further and reached its lowest price since 18 December, if you count this, like wick here on the charts. And that resulted in a lot of other things selling off as well. Of course, ETH sold off a lot of the other coins sold off and a lot of people got liquidated. Now people look at this and they're like, you know, is the bull market over? I was like, no, not at all.
00:02:06.840 - 00:02:43.250, Speaker A: This is totally normal for a bull market for there to be these pullbacks. But also there is an obvious catalyst now where people are trying to trade around, which is the BTC ETF approvals. Because as I mentioned yesterday, no one knows if this is going to be a sell the news event or, you know, nothing happens and we just continue up because it's actually bullish. Or, you know, we sell off and then we kind of go sideways for a little while and then we go up sort of thing. So right now the market's in limbo and it's trying to play it either way. I think that the market tried to play it as a bullish thing, obviously from the first to 2 January. And then I guess like this was just a trader led move and all the traders were like, hmm, okay, there's no follow through really here.
00:02:43.250 - 00:03:02.380, Speaker A: We're still in this kind of like sideways range for BTC. You know, let, let's kind of like take the risk off. And then obviously there was a lot of leverage built up that got liquidated in that process. Now, if you, if you go to the daily chart on BTC, you can actually see that it's been in this range for a little while now. I mean, for maybe over a month. It's been in this kind of defined range here. After having that massive move.
00:03:02.380 - 00:03:53.064, Speaker A: I mean, what did it do? It went from basically in the 13 October, it went from, what is it, 26k ish all the way up to about 45k, which is a 70% move on BTC, which is obviously huge given BTC's market cap. But then, since then, it's kind of peeded out at gone sideways again. And as I've mentioned to you guys before, in bull markets, BTC ETH, any asset can go sideways for quite a while before continuing up again because it hits these, these kind of resistance levels. If you're into kind of looking at charts and stuff like that, it hits these resistance resistance levels where people basically say, okay, well, you know, BTC is safe around here. I can kind of scale out of it and go chase some other things while BTC goes sideways for a bit. And then eventually it just starts moving up again. But of course, the next milestone milestone for BTC really is, I guess, the all time highs, right, which is technically 69,000 for BTC.
00:03:53.064 - 00:04:19.544, Speaker A: That was set in November of 2021. I expect that to be reached sooner rather than later, maybe. Q two, Q three is kind of my guess at this point. And I know I'm speaking a lot about BTC here, when obviously, like, I'm all about ETH and I don't even hold any BTC, but it's, you know, it's not, you can't deny that BTC is what leads the market out of bear markets. Right. It is the least riskiest asset from a portfolio allocation perspective. It is the thing that has the narrative around the ETF right now.
00:04:19.544 - 00:04:44.210, Speaker A: And as I've said, that's going to drift over to ETH once the BTC ones are approved. But that's kind of what we've seen here. We've seen BTC lead and then everything pump around it. I mean, even ETH, people like to make fun of ETH, saying it hasn't gone up that much either has gone up just fine. I mean, yes, it hasn't gone up like, obviously, like a lot of the other things out there, because simply its market cap is a lot, is a lot, a lot bigger. And also, it doesn't have the same catalyst that BTC had. So it did lag BTC a bit.
00:04:44.210 - 00:05:33.420, Speaker A: But if you take eats, move from the bottom and you go, like the bottom, what was it the long time ago now, June 2022 to today eats up 150%, right. And then you go BTC from its bottom to today. Its bottom was a, in November of 2022, yet to today, it's up around 176%. So really, I mean, it's only up a little bit more than ETH from its, from its bottom, right. So I think that ETH just bottomed earlier, which means that it recovered earlier than BTC did. But really now the question on everyone's mind is, okay, once the BTC ETF's are approved and if it isn't a sell the news eventually or, and BTC just continues sideways, are people now going to go into ETH in anticipation of that ETH, spot ETF or let's spot ETH ETF? And that's the open question that no one knows the answer to. I think that if you're a trader, you're obviously playing that, but if you're an investor, you're just buying the assets that you like.
00:05:33.420 - 00:05:52.660, Speaker A: At the end of the day, obviously, I can you to buy ETH. I know a lot of you continue to buy ETH and you have a long term mindset. You're not trying, kind of trying to, to trade, trade ETH or trade around ETH. I know, you know, a lot of you would be doing the thing of trading your ETH for other assets in order to stack more. Ethan, that's totally fine. There's nothing wrong with that. I mean, I used to do that all the time, especially during Defi summer back in the day, in my.
00:05:52.660 - 00:06:10.252, Speaker A: My d gen days, as I like to call them. But obviously, there's increased risk there. So I didn't do it with my, with my kind of whole stack. I did it with a part of my stack. And I've always said that if you wanted to play the djing game, what you do is you take 10% of your stack, and that is your dj and stack, and you're happy. I mean, you're not happy, but you're like, you're not. You're not upset if you lose that, because that.
00:06:10.252 - 00:06:55.164, Speaker A: And you lose all of that from bad trades or getting liquidated if you want to take on leverage and stuff, because it's only 10% of your overall portfolio. But I guess, like, what hurts people or what gets people kind of ruined is that they keep increasing that percentage. You know, let's say you start with 10% and you start winning, and you're like, okay, well, now I'm winning, and now this 10% is more like 20% of my portfolio because it's worth more. But instead of going back into ETH or back into, like, stable coins and taking profits, people double down and they start trading out of the other assets that are lagging into these assets, and then they start over trading. And that's how you get yourself wrecked, along with leverage, of course. But also, there's other ways to make money as well, through airdrop farming. As I mentioned before, the airdrop hunting channel in the datagrade discord channel is very, very active.
00:06:55.164 - 00:07:18.132, Speaker A: So if you're interested in farming airdrops, there is a lot of alpha shared in there. Honestly, so many projects get shared in there that I've never heard of before. But people obviously want to farm it for. For an airdrop. You should definitely join the delegate Discord channel if you want to check out that channel in there. People are very helpful as well. But, yeah, I mean, there's so many different ways to make money in this ecosystem, and I think that you really need to just think about risk at all times, really.
00:07:18.132 - 00:07:57.980, Speaker A: And, you know, you can use 10% as a Djen stack or maybe even 20%, whatever you're comfortable with losing, basically. I mean, maybe you're comfortable with losing half of your portfolio if it means that you have a 10% chance of, you know, tripling it or something like that from, or tripling your eat stack or something. I know people do that all the time, but it really depends on, again, your risk appetite, but also your experience level, because the more experienced people are going to know what to look for, but like the complete noobs, they're not going to know that they have no experience in the market, so they're just going to get pump and dumped on. I mean, that was me in my first cycle in crypto. Crypto, there was a lot of people in their first cycle. And to be honest, you probably need that to learn because a lot of people, they don't believe that that can happen to them because they're like, oh, yeah, I already know. I know all the tricks.
00:07:57.980 - 00:08:27.308, Speaker A: But it's not, it's not just about knowing the tricks, it's knowing how to handle them and knowing how to handle your emotions. That's what makes a good investor, that's what makes a good trader. It's always about keeping your emotions in check. Like, for example, you could invest in something and you could have like a really, really strong thesis on it, and it could be lagging the whole market. And then you think to yourself, you know, maybe I was wrong about my thesis. Maybe I should trade out of this. And I know maybe some of you out there are thinking about, about ETH like this, because ETH has, I mean, as I said, I don't think ETH has necessarily lagged the market, but ETH has maybe not performed as well as you thought it would.
00:08:27.308 - 00:09:10.804, Speaker A: But the problem is, is that maybe it does over the next few months, maybe ETH finally kind of starts performing. And if you trade out of it into something else, then you're just, you're just chasing, right? So I think that it comes down to discipline, it comes down to controlling your emotions, and it comes down to your risk appetite. And I think everyone's different in that regard. There's not going to be, you know, one size fits all there. And it definitely depends on what you're trying to get out of crypto. Are you trying to preserve your wealth by buying, you know, ethan, BTC as stores of value and you don't care, you know, if they, if they go up quickly or not? Or are you trying to increase your wealth? And if you're trying to increase your wealth exponentially, maybe you're only starting with a small amount of money and you want to increase that. You want to ten x, that, you want 100 x, that well, then obviously you need to take more risk because you're not getting a ten x from BTC or ETH anytime soon.
00:09:10.804 - 00:09:33.812, Speaker A: You know, a ten X on BTC would be $430,000 BTC. A ten X on ETH would be a $22,000 ETH. Right. As bullish as I am on ETH, and I think that it can get to that point one day. It's not going to happen anytime soon. So when you go down the risk curve and you're like, okay, here's this thing that's got $100 million market cap. If it ten X's is only a billion dollar market cap, which, which relative to other things in crypto is quite small, then you take that risk.
00:09:33.812 - 00:10:00.514, Speaker A: But. But picking the right one and then holding it for the ten x is extremely difficult. Like, I'm not trying to downplay the difficulty here, but that's the kind of game, different games people play in the markets. Yeah, but anyway, I've spent enough time talking about the markets, but I just figured it was worth mentioning, given that we are on the cusp of the ETF's being approved, I'm hearing possibly Friday we're going to get news that the ETF's are approved, which is tomorrow. But we'll see. I mean, the deadlines next week. So doesn't matter if it's Friday or, you know, next week.
00:10:00.514 - 00:10:23.610, Speaker A: Honestly, I think that the market is just. Just ready and people are just, like, ready to get. Get this over and done with because it's just been so long now, and it feels like it's been forever. So, yeah, that's going to happen. And also, I felt like because of this dump that we saw, people were, you know, doubting the bull market. Like, oh, is that it? Is that over? Did we, you know, did we dig too deep and we kind of, like, struck the bell rogue? Like, I use that analogy. Maybe I confuse people.
00:10:23.610 - 00:10:42.502, Speaker A: Then I use that analogy with my friends. I want to talk about the markets. I'm like, sometimes people just dig too deep. Like the dwarves in Lord of the Rings, and they hit the balrog, and then the balrog is like this monster that dumps the market and wrecks all the leverage because people got too greedy. Right? That's how I kind of imagine it in my head when people. When people talk about these sorts of stuff. But yeah, maybe.
00:10:42.502 - 00:11:01.088, Speaker A: Maybe a silly analogy there, but I love Lord of the Rings, if that wasn't obvious. But anyway, moving on from the market stuff, there is a bunch of other things to get through. I mean, not too many things to get through. That's why I figured it was worth talking about the market, market updates, because there's not that many updates today. It was a bit of a slow news day. Obviously people are still on holidays. I guess it is still the holiday period.
00:11:01.088 - 00:11:27.952, Speaker A: But let's kick it off with a announcement from Devcon, or I guess like from Diva, which is the Devcon unicorn. Devcon is the biggest Ethereum conference. It is the only Ethereum conference run by the Ethereum foundation, but it is the biggest. And we have Defcon seven happening this year between November 12 and 15th. We already knew that, but what we didn't know was the location, which was announced along with a bunch of other details in this blog post. Now, of course, you haven't seen this yet. The location is Bangkok in Thailand.
00:11:27.952 - 00:12:04.222, Speaker A: So they did tease that it would be in Southeast Asia. People were speculating, you know, Vietnam or Singapore or something like that, but they have chosen a Bangkok in Thailand here for that. Now, I am like 90, 95% certain I'll be going to this, given that it is relatively close to where I am and given that DeFcON is the biggest Ethereum conference. And I mean, if you're going to go to any conference during the year, it would be devcontrolling, honestly. And I mean, it's like by November we could be in the, you know, raging bull market. So I can imagine it's going to be very, very busy as well, which is cool because you get to meet a lot of people. But yeah, I've never been to Bangkok myself.
00:12:04.222 - 00:12:31.494, Speaker A: I don't know if any of you have. Maybe you can share your experience of what the city's like in the, in the daily way Discord channel or in the YouTube comments. But I'm excited to go because, I mean, I definitely love traveling. I haven't traveled nearly enough. I definitely want to do more traveling. And at the end of the day, like, if I can travel and do Ethereum conferences at the same time, that makes it, that makes it really, really awesome, obviously, for me. Now, also, the, in this blog post, the Ethereum foundation details that the reason they pick these locations is because they try to be as inclusive as possible.
00:12:31.494 - 00:13:46.350, Speaker A: Like at the end of the day, we know that crypto is dominated a lot by the US market and I guess, like by the european market as well. But there are a lot of developing markets around the world and maybe more developed markets, but places where that you otherwise wouldn't have thought of, like Bangkok in Thailand, for example. Right? Or other, other similar places like that, that have these burgeoning crypto ecosystems that deserve to have conferences in their cities in order to be seen and heard, in order to get amongst that culture, in order to get those people more involved with the Ethereum ecosystem and community so that they don't feel disconnected from it. Because at the end of the day, and I always say this, I think, I think I've said this like hundreds of times on the refuels over the years, crypto, not just ethereum, but crypto is a global movement. It should not be limited to the US or Europe or, you know, or any particular geography or a geographic location. I should say it should be everywhere around the world because this technology that we're building, I mean, at the end of the day, we're trying to build it for people that don't have access to it. I think that the original, I guess, like, values of crypto, of basically allowing people to essentially be their own bank sort of thing and allowing them to do it cheaply, allowing them to access a financial infrastructure that they otherwise wouldn't have access to, that is the real value prop here.
00:13:46.350 - 00:14:28.202, Speaker A: Now, of course, that it's taken a while to get there, and it's still going to take a few years to get to that point because of things like transaction costs and ux hurdles and also regulatory hurdles as well, unfortunately. Like, if you want to get people to onboard into crypto, they have to do it via fiat. And in order to interact with the fiat system, you have to go through, you know, the governments that manage that, and you have to go through all the regulatory bodies. And it becomes a pretty, it becomes like a clusterfuck, basically, right? With lack of a better term there. Um, but the real end goal, and this isn't going to happen anytime soon, I think it will happen maybe in the next decade or so. But the real end goal is for crypto to be its own native economy where you don't have to onboard from fiat to crypto, right. You don't have to trade your, uh, us dollars for a us dollar stable coin.
00:14:28.202 - 00:15:43.036, Speaker A: You don't have to trade your us dollars or any other kind of fiat that you have for ETH or BTC. It basically just becomes a circular economy where you get paid in stable coins or you get paid in, in ETH or you get paid in BTC or something like that. Right? That has always been the original goal, I think, of these things, is that to get paid in that crypto of money so that you could just exist entirely outside of the existing system and you weren't beholden to this existing system, which honestly is, is, is really a broken, not just from an efficiency perspective, but also from an exclusionary perspective where there's so many people that are excluded from these financial systems for one reason or another. And that's genuinely what we tried to improve upon in crypto, you know, and that's what I was talking about yesterday when I mentioned Vitalik's blog post about making ethereum cypherpunk again. Um, we know we kind of stray away from those ideals a lot because of the fact that crypto is so speculative and the casino side of it just gets all the attention. But at the end of the day, if we play our cards right, if we develop this technology right, we can get it to the point where it becomes a circular economy where transaction costs are negligible and we can service the world in a really, uh, in a really easy to use fashion and give value to people in, in places that are not like the US, that are not places in western, uh, european where they do have access to all of this infrastructure, even though it's inefficient, they still have access to it. Right.
00:15:43.036 - 00:16:03.612, Speaker A: We're really targeting basically over more than half of the world, at least, that doesn't have access to this sort sorts of stuff and trying to help them there. But anyway, enough of a rant about that. You can go check out the details about Defcon for yourself. As I said, I am pretty much like a 90% chance of being there. So I'm hoping to see a lot of you there. But there are other conferences that I'm going to during the year. Anyway, ETH Global in Sydney.
00:16:03.612 - 00:16:32.960, Speaker A: I'll definitely be there in May. I'm not going to eat Denver this year, this year. But I will be at most likely be at permissionless in Salt Lake City in Utah, which is run by bankless and blockworks. Other ones I don't know if I'm going to go to, but I will keep you guys posted on that. But anyway, go check out this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so you guys have probably heard a lot about timing games recently in the context of MeV, and I did mention it on the ref I think a few weeks ago.
00:16:32.960 - 00:17:07.460, Speaker A: And this is basically the games that validators play in, in order, or I guess like MEV extractors, not, not the validators themselves, but like the MEV extractors play in order to essentially. Well, I guess maybe I should step back. Yeah. The MeV extractors and the validators together play in order to increase the profitability of a block. Because the later that you submit your block to be proposed on the network, the more potential profit that you have from these timing games. Now, it is a complex thing when it comes to MeV. It is one of the more complex features of MeV.
00:17:07.460 - 00:17:33.480, Speaker A: It's not something that I like, totally understand. I'm not going to say I'm an expert on it or anything like that. But the reason I bring it up today is because Tony has another one of his amazing websites out today called timing pics. So on this website you can actually track different charts and different stats around this. If you kind of look here, you can see what the missed slots look like for each staking provider. You can actually select them up here and the bid selected by that second provider. So the default right now is Coinbase.
00:17:33.480 - 00:18:03.100, Speaker A: And you can actually see the missed slots percentage has, has gone up here because of these timing games. And the bid selected by, by Coinbase has kind of changed here. And this basically started happening in December because you had to play the game now because I think ptp.org kicked this off and then the other staking providers were like, okay, well, we're losing money now so we have to play this game. So if you actually select the other ones, like Lido here, you can see it's kind of not changed that much, honestly. But it kind of like has on the, on the bid selected. But you can select anything.
00:18:03.100 - 00:18:36.222, Speaker A: You can select largest pools, Kraken, rocker pool. I mean, I'm just selecting them on my screen here for those of you who can't see it. And you can kind of see how different, how different things have changed here and around timing games. But if you want to learn more about timing games, you can read TLDR on Tony's website, which I might read out for you. Actually, it says here timing games involve validators delaying their block proposals to increase their MEV rewards. This tactic gives builders extra time to enhance their blocks, leading to more mev for the validator. As a result, those entities engaging in such games might be able to offer higher APIs, attracting more stakers and users.
00:18:36.222 - 00:19:09.758, Speaker A: This site aims to keep you informed that the latest in timing games and how they're affecting the consensus layer. So that's what I meant when I said before, that it involves both the block builders and the validators. Because the validators are doing the timing games, they're the ones that are waiting to, that are delaying their block proposals. But by doing that, the MeV block builders, or the block builders, I should say what they get to do is essentially have a more profitable block that they submit, they have more time to build their block, and then the validator gets more, more profit out of that. So it really kind of is a. I struggle to let a symbiotic relationship, but it kind of is. I think it's not.
00:19:09.758 - 00:19:33.558, Speaker A: I want to be clear, this is not something that's necessarily good for the network, to be honest. It's. It's definitely another negative externality from MEV extraction. But it is happening, and it does involve both the MEV block builders as well as the validators here. And not all validators are engaging in this. I mean, definitely, I wouldn't expect solo stakers to be engaging in this because it doesn't really make much sense for them, for them to do that. And solo stakers are not, not kind of like a monolithic entity or anything.
00:19:33.558 - 00:19:58.020, Speaker A: You can see here, it hasn't really changed actually, on the charts for solo stakers. But it is no surprise to me that Coinbase is doing it and other big providers are doing it. I mean, if you look at p two, p.org which, which kicked this off, you can see kind of here, this is the bid selected kind of graph here. The seconds in slots are the more out the way. What this chart shows is when the bids are selected in the slot. And you can see here that in btp.org
00:19:58.020 - 00:20:48.044, Speaker A: started this pretty early in November. You can see that the, the bids got, get selected later in the slot, whereas for Coinbase it was basically pretty, pretty standard and I guess like pretty random here. But then here you can see that the bids are selected basically in the, I guess like the longest amount of time possible, and that has actually resulted in missed slots for Coinbase, which means they're missing blocks. So, yeah, I mean, it remains to be seen if that it becomes profitable strategy over the long term missing blocks for uh, in order to basically increase your chances of getting a more profitable block. But we'll have to see how that shakes out there. Now, there is another post here from Terrace, uh, Terrence, which does, which he, um, published on Twitter, where he said, my latest post offers an early analysis of validator timing strategies, post EIP 4844. It explores potential interactions between validators and builders, both as independent and vertically integrated actors.
00:20:48.044 - 00:21:12.472, Speaker A: This topic is still evolving, but worth exploring further. So if you're interested in validated timing games in the context of ERP 4844 and how that would affect it. This is definitely the post for you. It is a bit technical, but still very, very interesting stuff here from Terence. I think it's great that they're already thinking about this because timing games isn't something new. It's been around for a while and it's been. And people have been aware of this for a while and it's been an active kind of research topic for a while.
00:21:12.472 - 00:21:50.362, Speaker A: But what's new is a lot of the staking service providers engaging in these timing games now in order to give themselves more profitable blocks. Because if they don't engage in them, the other, the other staking providers will. And the other staking providers will take the more profitable blocks and make more, make more yield and then potentially get more stake. So it becomes a kind of thing of you have to play the game like the winning move is to play basically. You have to play the losing move is not to play. And you're forced into it, which again, this is basically the common theme of MeV. You're forced into it basically because let's for example, say that you don't run MeV boost at all as a staking service provider.
00:21:50.362 - 00:22:39.484, Speaker A: You're leaving so much, so much yield on the table that other providers are going to take. And then your apy that you can offer looks really bad compared to these other staking providers. And that means you're not going to get stake and these other providers will, which means that your business is suffering. And this is a direct result of MeV Boost, right. As a direct result of MeV generally. But as I said, MEV forces actors into doing the most financially, I guess, like relevant thing or financially kind of logical thing, even if there is an expense to network stability or network kind of fairness sort of thing. So that's why MeV is very hard to, I mean, I wouldn't say fix, but it's very hard to reason about and very hard to come up with solutions that don't actually introduce more our negative externalities into the network.
00:22:39.484 - 00:23:18.276, Speaker A: Because if you do that, then it just becomes a cat and mouse game. And maybe it really has been a cat and mouse game generally, but I think that the end state needs to be something that, where, I mean, MEV still exists, but a lot of the negative externalities are basically minimized. That is the ideal end state. And that is the whole point of all the MEV research, all the MEV development and potential fixes going into the network. But we'll have to see how all of that plays out over the longer term. But anyway, I'll link all this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so I remember I talked about Ajna on the refuel quite a while ago because it was an interesting DeFi protocol that I came across and ended up investing in.
00:23:18.276 - 00:24:14.386, Speaker A: Just a disclosure that I'm an investor in them, where they're trying to do an essentially fully decentralized lending protocol or peer to peer lending protocol without things like oracles or any other dependency. So they're trying to be fully on chain, basically trying to do what Uniswap did, but for like a lending protocol. Now, unfortunately, they had a bumpy start where essentially they had a security issue with Azure when they deployed it to Mainnet and they had to kind of pause the contracts. And basically it's been paused for, for a little while now, but they are relaunching soon. And Greg, the founder of Ajna Hill, one of the founders of Ajna, put together a great tweet detailing all about the history of Ajna, how it came to be where it is today, and you know, and the fact that it's going to be relaunching next week on Ethereum, Mainnet and other layers here. So if you wanted to learn all about that, you can go read this tweet here from, from Greg. But again, as I said, like this is something that I consider to be very innovative within the Defi space and I'm pretty excited about it.
00:24:14.386 - 00:25:02.322, Speaker A: Just sad that they had a bumpy launch, basically, but that can happen to any project, obviously, with, with any kind of security flaws or bugs in, in the contracts, in the code. But essentially I'm looking forward to seeing this go live next week, hopefully without any more security issues so that we can see this kind of play out and see if it actually is, is able to live up to all of its promises. But yeah, you can go read the tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So finally, here we have something new from a Wookiee. And for those of you who don't know who is, he is the founder or one of the founders of Gitcoin and now does, I mean, and basically the king of public goods as well, I should say. But today he has announced something called the Regen Learnings XYZ Research Group, which is a group of researchers learning in public plus publishing insights to advance the cause of web3 public goods.
00:25:02.322 - 00:26:00.366, Speaker A: So if you're a public goods maximalist or maxi like I am, this is something that you should definitely bookmark and keep an eye on because it will get you up to speed on the bleeding edge of public goods funding, all of the different people that are involved with it, all the different initiatives that are going on and the re and the research basically at the bleeding edge of public goods funding here. And there are a bunch of links in this post, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. There's also a telegram group, group you can join, which is here, which will be in the blog post that I, that I kind of link here. And there's also a more detailed post on the git coin governance forum, basically covering exactly what this is and how, how a Wookiee kind of imagines it going forward. And there's kind of a work in progress backlog as well here. Now, you guys know that I am a public goods maxi, and I am obviously someone who enjoys the fact that we have so many public goods initiatives now. You know, we have Gitcoin, we have optimisms, retroactive public goods funding, we have the protocol guild and a bunch of other initiatives out there.
00:26:00.366 - 00:27:13.262, Speaker A: But I think that we're at the point now where essentially we have all these initiatives, but we really want to research how to maximize the impact because there's been a lot of debate, especially around optimism's retroactive public goods funding, which if you look at the optimism price today, the op price today, and look at the amount of tokens that are being given out as part of the round three, which finished a couple of weeks ago, it is over $100 million that it's being given out to, I think about 500 projects that were eligible for, for rewards and that is a lot of money. Right? And that's not just projects. As individuals as well, myself, I'm one of the individuals on there, but that is a lot of money. And now obviously people have been debating about which projects are actually public goods, which projects deserve that funding. And some of the projects on there actually had massive VC funding, so they, should they be getting anything? And I did speak about this a few weeks ago when it became like a thing that people on crypto Twitter were talking about. But my general view is that we're not going to get to an answer or something that's workable unless we put in the work to research all of the different avenues and all the different viewpoints on these things and where people are coming from and also creating a standard around it too. Because on retroactive public goods funding, it is an opt in thing where essentially you have to disclose, if you are VC funded, you disclose if you've had previous funding.
00:27:13.262 - 00:28:05.928, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, people can lie about this or basically just lie by omission, by essentially not including the fact that they're VC funded. And then a lot of the people that are voting, like the badge holders, maybe they don't, aren't aware of this, and maybe they, they don't do the research because there's so many projects in that they have to, that they have to go over, that it becomes hard for them to research into all of it. And maybe they say, okay, well, I like this project because, you know, I get a lot of value out of this. I'm just gonna, I'm gonna vote for them and not know that these, this project actually has massive VC funding. But then the question becomes that should these projects not get money just because they had VC funding? I mean, maybe they took VC money because they needed it, because without it, they wouldn't be able to even build their project to begin with. Right? Because public goods funding is not long term sustainable yet, I would say. I think that the only long term sustainable one that I've seen so far that works at some sort of scale is probably the protocol guild.
00:28:05.928 - 00:28:25.954, Speaker A: But the protocol guild is very specific. It's not a general thing. Right. It's only for ethereum core devs and researchers. Um, and, and so the, the scope of it is very narrow. Whereas if you blow out the scope to basically cover every public good like gitcoin and optimism does, uh, with the retroactive public goods funding, then you run into these issues, basically. So I think it definitely is an open question still.
00:28:25.954 - 00:28:44.386, Speaker A: It definitely is an open discussion. And if you want to be involved with this, those, those discussions, you should definitely go check out Regen learnings XYZ. I'll link all of that in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, get a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the disco channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:28:44.386 - 00:28:46.114, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
