00:00:00.320 - 00:00:22.630, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 14 February 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just a quick heads up here. You've probably been hearing about Dank sharding lately. A lot of the smartest folks in Ethereum are talking about it. I've spoken about it on the refuel before, and you're probably confused as to exactly what it is.
00:00:22.630 - 00:01:02.198, Speaker A: There doesn't seem to be an explain like I'm five about it yet. I know Polynyar wrote a blog post about it, but that is definitely not an explain like I'm five, nor did they intend it to be. But if you are still confused about Dank Sharding, why people are excited about it and you want to learn more, then definitely go to this kind of like events. Or if it's already happened, you can probably watch a recording of it. The EF research team is hosting this educational seminar with researchers and core devs on Dank sharding on February 14 at 1430 utc, which is in the future from when I'm recording, but not by too much. By the time you watch this, it's, it's, it's more than likely already over. But the thing is, you can view the agenda here.
00:01:02.198 - 00:01:42.132, Speaker A: This link will be linked in the YouTube description and I'm sure there'll be a recording for you to kind of like have a look at after. So I am sure this is going to eliminate a lot about Dank Sharding. It's going to maybe not give you an explain like on fire, but at least kind of like give you more information to go off of and I guess just on at the highest level here, dank Sharding is just the name for a new kind of like sharding design that Dan Crad Feist, a researcher at the Ethereum foundation, came up with. And a lot of people are very, very excited about this. It's a simplified sharding proposal. It allows for much better, I think, interoperability from what I understand, a much better scalability for L2s. And you know, as I said, like the smartest people I know are excited about it.
00:01:42.132 - 00:02:03.060, Speaker A: So I'm excited about it. But just wanted to kind of give a shout here because I know people are wondering and want to want to learn more about this. And as I understand it more, I will try and relay that to you guys. Like I am still in the dark about it, to be honest. I'm still trying to wrap my head around it as well. It is definitely very technical, but you know, it's also very, very new. It's basically only a few weeks old at this point.
00:02:03.060 - 00:02:25.396, Speaker A: So yeah, we're just gonna have to let it simmer, let it kind of like digest a bit and we'll get there. We'll get there. I'm sure we'll all be able to kind of like understand it sooner rather than later. And this is a good step, this, this seminar here. So I'm definitely going to be probably asleep when this happens. So I'll be rewatching it or at least watching the recording once that's done. And one other thing about I guess like core core development was this merge community call that happened.
00:02:25.396 - 00:03:12.960, Speaker A: So this is the third merge community call that happened. You can see the agenda here of what was spoken about and there's a recording available as well on the Ethereum Cat Herders YouTube channel which is linked in the GitHub kind of like issue here. And I'll link this in the YouTube description. Yes, as I said, this was the third community call about the merge. These, the goal of these things is to obviously keep the community updated with what's happening on the mer with the merge, especially the community, I guess that is part of running infrastructure, doing kind of like anything like developing and things like that. Because the merge impacts not just, I guess like obviously, you know, end users in terms of kind of the fact that like the network will be proof of stake instead of proof of work, but you know, it impacts like a wide set of stakeholders. I would actually argue the end users who are just using the network are least impacted by this.
00:03:12.960 - 00:03:38.360, Speaker A: Developers are impacted by it in some ways. Like for example, the block time being 12 seconds flat. Like it's always going to be 12 seconds, whereas with the proof of work it's, it's kind of like probabilistic. So there's like a target block time, but it's on average about 13.2 seconds. But it can vary, whereas with proof of stake it's always going to be 12 seconds. And you know, there's a few other kind of like idiosyncrasy, idiosyncrasy things there.
00:03:38.360 - 00:03:51.344, Speaker A: I mean, you know, one of them, that block time thing was mentioned here in the agenda. But yeah. Anyway, go watch the recording. I haven't watched it yet. I plan too soon. But these community calls are always very good and gives you more context around the merge. All right.
00:03:51.344 - 00:04:39.634, Speaker A: So client diversity, this is a topic that I have been speaking about a lot on the refuel lately, and this has got to do with client diversity on the consensus layer, aka the beacon chain, not so much the execution layer, which is, I guess, like what we all enjoy with Ethereum today. Now, there's a new website called Pools Invis Cloud here, which basically tracks the, I guess, like, validator count and usage type of a popular staking service providers. So you can see here that there's an overall kind of like statistics that's saying the estimated validator count is 274,628 with an estimated prism usage of 66.9%. Now, obviously that's too high. That's over the two thirds threshold, which is pretty much in critical territory there. This is definitely not what we want to see. And, you know, I've discussed kind of like, why this is a bad thing before.
00:04:39.634 - 00:05:08.858, Speaker A: There's also an in depth discussion on this website as well, like written down here that you can go get, you can go give a read, and there's a bunch of links to different kind of resources as well. So definitely check that out. I'm not going to rehash it here because I've talked about it too much lately, I think. But yeah, you can see who the biggest offenders are here. Now, obviously, Coinbase has a very large presence on the beacon chain. They have almost 50,000 validators, which is almost one fifth of the network, which obviously is about 20% there. So it's quite a large stake in the beacon chain.
00:05:08.858 - 00:05:53.418, Speaker A: And you can see actually it's 24, 24.23% exactly. Now, their prison usage is 92%. Now, let me put this into context for you guys. If the worst case scenario was to happen, like I talk, like, like I've said to you guys before, is basically two thirds of the chain, which is, you know, prism finalizing on kind of like, sorry, finalizing on a bugged kind of like client because there was a bug in prison or something like that, you know, and then it kind of reverts later. The prism users stand to lose a lot here right now. It's funny because, like, would the community go into the minority chain in this case instead of the majority, even if it was the prism client's fault of the bug? The social consensus around this gets very murky.
00:05:53.418 - 00:06:31.254, Speaker A: But, you know, if, if they did, Coinbase would stand to lose a lot here. And this isn't their ETH, this is their user's ethnic. So they're at very high risk by using so many, so many kind of like prism clients here and they definitely need to change. And I just think that they're not aware of how, how much risk they're taking on by doing this. I think because, you know, Ethereum proof of stake is very unique with its client diversity and with having multiple clients, whereas pretty much all other proof of stake implementations aren't multi client friendly. I think Coinbase kind of like just defaulted to being like, okay, well, we know what prism is. We're just going to use prism and to get them to change because they're such a large organization is going to be difficult, which, I mean, I get that.
00:06:31.254 - 00:06:56.490, Speaker A: And then, you know, the same is true for Kraken here, which has about 15.6% of the overall validators. They're also at, you know, 94% of prism usage, so more than coinbase at 92%. And you can scroll down a list here. Lido is a lot better. They've only got 42% prism usage and they account for 11% of network. Binance is a bit better than Kraken and Coinbase at 76% with 10% usage.
00:06:56.490 - 00:07:38.582, Speaker A: And, you know, you can just scroll down the list here, but you can see, you know, this red bar that pretty much most of these providers are just way overweight on prism here and they've just kind of like completely ignored using other, I guess, clients. And I spoke about rocket pool the other day, how they're doing really well in the client diversity department, but unfortunately they're not a big part of the network yet. Right. They're only 0.1% because they only launched recently, but their prism uses it only about 10%, which is, which is awesome to see. Right? Like I highlighted this the other day, doesn't matter how small they are, it's very awesome to see that. And there's a bunch of other, you know, much smaller operators here, but on, you know, net, for the most part, obviously, because we have this kind of like overall percentage here, the prism usage is too high.
00:07:38.582 - 00:08:34.092, Speaker A: Now, the whole point of this website, these resources, you know, these kind of like educational drives, and me bringing this up all the time is that we're trying to get that prism usage down as much as we can and every effort that we do matters. I believe, you know, I've spoken about how in the background I'm aware of a few people reaching out to these providers, you know, filling them in on these risks, getting them to kind of like change from prism to another client, or at least all the kind of like validators that they spin up going forward aren't prism validators, and there's been some progress there. But obviously these organizations being very large, they have processes they have to go through, they move very slow, and you have to basically convince them, like, why this is a bad thing or why they stand to lose money. Because, you know, if you don't do that, then they're just not going to care. So there's a lot of that going on in the background, I think, you know, I remain optimistic that we can get the prism usage down to at least under 60%. That's, you know, that's what, 6.9% from here.
00:08:34.092 - 00:09:05.372, Speaker A: I remain optimistic that we can get to that. But it's going to be like, realistically a very, very heavy lift to get prism under 50%, right, let alone to what we'd love prism to be out or at least any client to be at, which is under 30%. Now. Is it impossible? No, it's just you got to look at what's practical, what's, you know, what fits in with reality and way to focus your efforts. So I think right now the efforts are just focused on getting prism as low as we possibly can. Right. Even if that's only to 60% in, you know, the next six months or something like that, then that's, that's fine.
00:09:05.372 - 00:09:59.236, Speaker A: Maybe in twelve months when we, you know, I, twelve or so months when we have withdrawals enabled on the beacon chain, maybe people will feel a lot more comfortable changing clients because right now people don't want to take the risk because you can't reenter staking if you, if something happens, like if you accidentally exit yourself from, from, sorry. If you want to exit yourself from the validator set, you can, you can exit, but you can't, you know, you can't withdraw that ETH, you can't restake, you can't activate your valid again, whereas when withdrawals are enabled you can do this. So a lot of people, what they want to do is they want to exit, then change clients and then re enter with that kind of like new client because they don't want to run the risk of getting slushed or losing any ETH. And I totally understand that. So maybe we see the needle really move on this once withdrawals are enabled on the beacon chain. But I'm hoping that we can get to at least 60% or less prism usage here before that happens. And it really depends.
00:09:59.236 - 00:10:50.438, Speaker A: You know, the funny thing is if Coinbase and Kraken just kind of like reduce their prism usage by 1015 percent or something like that, I think it should actually get us down to, you know, pretty close to, haven't run the numbers here, but they've got such a large presence on the chain that anything that they do, even if it's 510 percent less prism usage, is going to have a massive impact on the network. And, you know, this brings up another kind of discussion around centralization of stake. I mean, I didn't realize Coinbase was so high. 24% is, is pretty high, let's be honest. Right? That's in almost 10% higher than the next highest, which is Kraken, which has 15%, which is, which is too high as well. But I've wrote, I've written about this in the newsletter before where I basically argued that I don't think centralized exchanges, having a large stake is necessarily a existential risk or like a really bad thing. I think they have a bunch of incentives not to kind of screw with the chain.
00:10:50.438 - 00:11:32.206, Speaker A: Of course, you know, if Coinbase was to purposely try and attack the Ethereum chain, not only would they most likely get slashed and lose their customers ETH, they would suffer an incredible amount of kind of like bad press, and their business would directly suffer because of this. Their stock price would tank, you know, because they're a public company now. There's not many, you know, they have to be very, very careful. So obviously we shouldn't rely on altruism, but there are a lot of kind of like crypto economic incentives in place both at the protocol layer and both, you know, and the social layer, because I think that the social layer obviously plays a big part here and is incredibly important. And anyone who says that the social layer or humans don't have any say in this is wrong. Humans are the last line of defense. The layer zero is humans.
00:11:32.206 - 00:12:10.994, Speaker A: They're the last line of defense against any kind of attack. So, you know, even though they have a large stake, is large stake here, I think that it's relatively okay. Now. Is it okay in the face of face of nation states? If a nation state ordered coinbase to attack the ethereum network or just, you know, coinbase cracking and both being us based, I mean, even like a few other here, us based, if they were, if they kind of like ordered them to do that, would that, would that happen? I mean, probably like an attack would go through. But again, the social area of Ethereum is global. The protocol itself has ways to kind of punish bad actors and this attack would fail. They could only attack once.
00:12:10.994 - 00:12:50.490, Speaker A: It's not like on proof of work where you can keep attacking because your asics you know, keep existing with, with proof of stake on Ethereum. The attackers get slashed, they're there, all their validators get ejected, and, you know, most of their stake is gone, so they can't repeat the same attack again. So that's a really nice property of Ethereum's proof of stake, but it shouldn't ever get to that. It shouldn't ever get to a point where we need the social layer. And that's why there's always kind of, like, protections in place. And that's a big reason why let's get prism down below, you know, 60%. Let's make sure that no client has such a huge market share, because there are five really, really awesome beaker and chain or consensus layer clients that you can use.
00:12:50.490 - 00:13:35.374, Speaker A: There's no reason, or no reason in particular to use prism over another client. And not to say that prism is a bad client, but it's not like the prism client is like, ten times better than the next client. No, there are small improvements that can be made over time. There are small efficiencies, there are small differences between the clients in terms of kind of like, performance, but they're pretty much all, like, for, like, in terms of, in terms of performance. And really, unless you're trying to get the absolute maximum amount of reward that you can out of staking with your validator, and I'm talking like, the tiniest differences, like a 1% difference sort of thing, unless you're going for that, there's no reason to pick the majority client at this stage. So if you're spinning up a new validator, you go for something other than prism right now. I mean, I, every time I spin up a new validator, I go for something other than prism straight away.
00:13:35.374 - 00:14:02.854, Speaker A: Like, it doesn't matter which other client it is, just as long as it's not prism. Even though I started with prism, by the way, like, I was, I started with prism because there was such a, such a big name. Everyone knew about them, they were so trusted. And that's why we're in the position we're at now, because it's just, you know, it can be very hard to keep track of four or five clients. I understand that. And kind of like, people's bandwidth in this space is very low. So, you know, you just hear prism, or a lot of the guides are focused around prism and lighthouse, especially not so much the other clients.
00:14:02.854 - 00:14:22.002, Speaker A: And, you know, Prism got, got to this state because of that. Now we can reverse this. It's not like this is how it has to be forever. We can reverse this and that's what all the efforts going on are going to do. So I recommend checking out this website. It gives you a lot more information about this than I just did. And encourage your staking service provider, encourage the exchange you're staking with.
00:14:22.002 - 00:15:05.078, Speaker A: If you're staking with them, encourage anyone you know to get off prism for now and to use one of the other clients and not be, as I said, not because prism is bad the client, but because them having 66.9% of the network is bad for the network, for every participant of the beacon chain. So yeah, definitely go do that. That's kind of like my only ask of you from, from here, but I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. All right, so David Mihal has updated his l two fees dot in fo website with a really, really cool, a bunch of metrics here, which basically shows the amount of, I guess like dollars that each of these l two s is paying ethereum l one for its security. So you can see here the one day security costs of different l two s.
00:15:05.078 - 00:15:31.534, Speaker A: Arbitrum is currently paying $53,000 a day to secure itself on ethereum l one. And I guess like this links to more details on l two beat as well. If you click through here, which is really cool, then you can see dy Dx paying about 30k. Optimism, twenty five k. And then you have a long tail here of others and how much they're paying each day. Now obviously these security costs are going to go up or down based on layer one gas fees. This is dollar terms.
00:15:31.534 - 00:15:53.406, Speaker A: This is not in ETH terms. So if the gas fees are high, I mean, right now they're actually quite low. They're hanging around 30 to 40 kw, which is what, three times lower than they were a couple of months ago. So this would be three times larger. And it's also influenced by how much the l two is being used as well. Right. And how often these, these proofs and these call daid is call data is being posted to l one.
00:15:53.406 - 00:16:23.452, Speaker A: But you can see, you know, this may be negligible right now. Like, I don't even think, I mean, I think the top three add up to about one hundred k and then the other ones maybe 100 day right now. And if you actually go to just l two fees dot in fo. If I click through here, sorry, not l two fees info crypto fees dot in fo, you can see ethereum's one day fees are $16.6 million now. Right now, which is actually on the low side. I mean, well, it's gotten quiet out there, guys, like, not just on chain, but just everywhere.
00:16:23.452 - 00:16:46.604, Speaker A: The crypto ecosystem seems, quote unquote dead right now, which, I mean, makes sense because the markets have been, quote unquote dead. I don't think it's going to last for long. I do think that we're going to. We're going to keep going here. But it's just funny how, like, how volatile, not just the crypto markets are, but kind of like the crypto system is in general. But anyway, back to what I was saying. So $16.6
00:16:46.604 - 00:17:28.580, Speaker A: million on layer one right now with, on a theorem, layer one in terms of fees being paid and on l two fees, I guess the total. Sorry, the total that the l two s are paying to l one to secure themselves is about 111,000. So that is a very small part of the total fees being paid on ethereum, l one, but that's okay. I said to you guys, it would start off slow and small with l two s, and then it would ramp up over time and over the long term, I'm talking a few years. At this point, most of the l one transaction fees will be replaced with l two securing themselves. But right now, l one has, what? 70, 80, last time I checked, $90 billion locked in, in defi, billions of dollars of Dex. Dex volume happens every day.
00:17:28.580 - 00:18:14.638, Speaker A: And that leads to a lot of Mev, leads to a lot of arbitrage, which is, which is a form of Mev. And as I've explained to you guys before, the people doing Mev are happy to pay whatever in fees as long as they can inch out a bit of a profit. And obviously, a lot of people still do stuff on l one as well. So until we get, like, more adoption at l two, until we get more and more people migrating there, until we get a lot more, I guess, like Mev at l two, or at least Mev opportunities at l two, which there really isn't any right now because they've got centralized sequences. I think l one will still be, you know, still be kind of like the majority, sorry, l one native transactions will still be the majority of the fees being paid, which is totally fine. I mean, at the end of the day, ETH still being burned no matter what. But I think it's going to take, like, a few years for l two s to take over, but they will take over eventually.
00:18:14.638 - 00:18:44.590, Speaker A: And, you know, just like it took a few years to get to the l one fees that they are today. I mean, it took more than a few years. It took from mid 2015 when ETH launched, to, I guess like the high fees started persisting around mid 2020. So it took like five years, probably not going to take five years for the l two s to really ramp up and, you know, be responsible for millions of dollars a day in transaction fees on l one, but it's going to take a little bit of time here. It's not going to happen overnight. It's definitely going to take the marker heating up again because that's when all the activity heats up and things like that. But yeah, still cool to see this website.
00:18:44.590 - 00:19:00.114, Speaker A: I'm going to keep track of it. I want to see one of these l two s break the $1,000,000.01 day security costs. One day. That'd be really cool. I'm sure it'll happen on a volatile day when we have like, you know, retail froth and mania back in. But for now, we're just plotting along, you know, while we wait for that to happen again.
00:19:00.114 - 00:19:23.006, Speaker A: All right, so Pratik here put together a really great thread on Starkware. So this is a mega thread. You can go and check this out linked in the YouTube description. But there is so much happening in the starkware slash stocknet ecosystem right now, it's actually quite crazy. There's also a newsletter that I've highlighted before from Swagdom as prime. It has a weekly newsletter on, on the stocknet ecosystem and I'm actually subscribed to that. And wow, there's a lot happening on there.
00:19:23.006 - 00:19:46.862, Speaker A: You may not hear about it too much on Twitter, but there's so much happening in the background. There are so many people building on there. And it's actually just really amazing to see how quickly adoption is happening there. Because as I've said to you guys before, I want to see Starknet succeed for lots of reasons, obviously. But the number one reason is because it can prove out the non EVM l two thesis, because EvM l two s are cool. I love them. Like, they work really well.
00:19:46.862 - 00:20:07.150, Speaker A: They're obviously in super high demand. But like, we shouldn't just stop there. We have this amazing technology with L2s, with optimistic roll ups, with ZK roll ups and all that and everything in between. Let's take advantage of it. And that's exactly what stocknet is doing. They're basically saying, well, no, we don't have to use the EVM, we don't have to use solidity. We can use our own language called Cairo.
00:20:07.150 - 00:20:47.490, Speaker A: We can use our own, our own kind of computing system. We stocknet, and we can create a non EVM generalized platform using Zk rollups, which is, which is obviously awesome. Not to say that the EVM generalized platforms aren't equally as awesome, but I particularly like to see adoption of this stuff happening, because the EVM stuff we already know is going to get adoption. There's no doubt there. The EVM stuff, I mean, the EVM is the biggest kind of thing in crypto right now. All the l one s are using it, all the side chains, everything's using it. So we don't have to say oh, is this going to get adoption? It is, but we do want to kind of like see if the non EVM chains, whether they be l two s or other l one s, do get adoption.
00:20:47.490 - 00:21:07.306, Speaker A: And it seems that they will. It's just going to obviously take longer, but we will get there. But if you want to learn more about all of that, check out this thread from Pratik. It was a really great one. I really enjoyed reading it and checking out all the resources. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, so Feina here had a really great thread on everything happening in ethereum, l two generally.
00:21:07.306 - 00:21:36.680, Speaker A: So not just stocknet, but like everything happening on all the l two s that we all know and love. You know, optimism, arbitrum, the polygon, zksync, starkware, immutable. There's so many right, right now, which is pretty crazy. But in this thread there's a, there's a bunch of links to things that have happened, I guess, in the last week or so, week and a half or so, you know, covering all the kind of like Altus that I just mentioned. So if you want to dive even deeper into the l two stuff, get more involved with it. Definitely check out this thread after you've checked out critiques thread. This will keep you busy, guys, for a while.
00:21:36.680 - 00:22:09.574, Speaker A: I mean, it's funny, like sometimes I'm like to myself, okay, like, what am I going to do today? Like I wake up and I go to my computer, I've finished checking Twitter, and I'm like, what am I going to do today? Then I look at my chrome tabs and holy shit, guys, there's like hundreds of chrome tabs. Because what I end up doing is I dive into these things, I open up what's interesting and I say, okay, I'm going to add this to the read later list. Like once I'm done, it what I need to do today, I'll read that later. And obviously builds up over time because you never get to it. I try to get to it on weekends when I have a little bit more time, but it doesn't happen. All this stuff happens. And I actually have a very, very short attention span.
00:22:09.574 - 00:22:29.686, Speaker A: Like, extremely short. It kind of like, sucks a lot of the time because I'll be reading something that I'm like, oh, shiny, and I'll go over there. But it, you know, I mean, it works for me, I guess, like, to some extent. But don't feel bad. The point of what I'm saying is, like, don't feel bad if you have, like, all these tabs open, you haven't gotten to them yet. Just keep them there because, like, eventually you'll get to them. Like, eventually I do get to them.
00:22:29.686 - 00:22:48.590, Speaker A: And I actually, to a point where I closed most of them, you know, I read through them, I was like, okay, that's cool, that's cool. I'll say that for later, blah, blah. And, you know, I'll go back to that later. And then I, you know, and some of them are actually just killed because I'm like, I'm never going to read this because they were really long. I'm like, nah, I don't need, I don't need to read this. And I need a TL doctor. And sometimes it's a TRDR, which, which, which helps a lot.
00:22:48.590 - 00:23:23.710, Speaker A: But, yeah, don't feel bad. If you don't get to everything, like today or tomorrow, like there's going to be, you know, sometimes the tabs sit in my in chrome for months for me. And then I go back and I read it and I'm like, oh, is this even still relevant anymore? And the thing is, a lot of it still is, especially the l two stuff because the l two ecosystem is moving really quickly. But there's a lot of fundamental knowledge there that is being built on slowly in the background and learning about this and kind of like, taking it all in is really, really positive. So, yeah, as I said, don't feel bad about it. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out and just kind of like, do it when you have time. Don't force yourself.
00:23:23.710 - 00:23:39.794, Speaker A: Don't try to be, don't get anxious about it. Don't be like, oh, my God, I need to do this. I need to do this now. You know, just take it easy. Let it kind of like, sit in because if you rush through it, you're not even going to absorb the knowledge. So just let it sit in, let you know, take it all in, do it one at a time. And don't try to like overwhelm yourself because that never works.
00:23:39.794 - 00:24:28.366, Speaker A: Alright, so Etherscan put out an update over the weekend that they've got like a long overdue addition to the gas tracker, which now estimates the cost of transaction action. So you'll have seen this on other gas trackers out there before, but you can see here that Etherscan shows you low, average and high gas prices for various actions on Ethereum, such as an openSea sale, a uniswap v three swap, and a USDT transfer. So there's a few other screenshots here. Nosis safe multi six arbitram deposits, which is really cool knowing how much it's going to cost you to deposit to l two, which is quite cheap right now at about, at 40 gweights it's less than $10. So if you're thinking about depositing into l two, now would be the best time to do it, probably. I mean, I don't see gas prices getting much lower than this. Maybe we go into the twenties again, maybe if the market really gets quiet and like literally nothing is happening, maybe we go to the single digits again.
00:24:28.366 - 00:24:54.146, Speaker A: But I'm not counting on it. So now is probably the best time to do that. But yeah, I love these kind of things because, you know, sending ETH on Ethereum is the cheapest thing you can do. But like, it's the most boring thing you can do. And most of the actions on the ethereum network aren't really kind of like sending ETH around. Most of them are smart contract interactions. So knowing the cost of popular smart contract interactions is much better than knowing the cost of just a simple ETH transfer.
00:24:54.146 - 00:25:32.648, Speaker A: So yeah, I love these kinds of tools. And that's just available in the Ethereum gas tracker section of the Etherscan website, which you can go check out for yourself. Right? An update out of element finance. Over the weekend they introduced something called voting vaults, which is a new governance primitive from the council protocol. So what you can do with voting vaults is stake governance tokens in compound aave uniswap l one s and l two s and still participate in governance. And they're calling these governance Lego PC. Now this is really cool, because I've spoken about this before about how there needs to be a way for people to be able to use their assets but also participate in governance without having to withdraw those assets.
00:25:32.648 - 00:26:22.966, Speaker A: So for example, if you put up your assets as collateral and rv and you're borrowing against it, and then you want to use those assets in governance. A lot of the time you can't, because they're in Aave, right? You can't sign that. You have them because you've deposited them into the Aave smart contract and they're technically no longer in, you know, I mean, they are yours because you have the IOU for it, but they're in the smart contract. They're not in your own wallet. So with voting vault, you can now do both. You can have your assets in RV or wherever, where whatever support, whatever protocol is supported and still participate in the governance for these various things here, which should lead to better kind of like governance participation, you know, less voter apathy, all those sorts of things there. But, yeah, I just think this is a really cool primitive and something that I've wanted to see for a very long time now, because obviously voter apathy is wrought within crypto.
00:26:22.966 - 00:26:41.102, Speaker A: Like, it's, it's pretty. If I had to pick one bare case for, for governance, it would be the voter apathy. And I'm not even just talking about crypto governance. I talk about. I'm talking about in general, like, in Australia, we actually have a law that you have to vote. Like, by law you have to vote or you get fined for it. I know in the US, no such thing exists.
00:26:41.102 - 00:27:15.386, Speaker A: It's, it's not a law to vote. You can just, like, not vote at all. Um, and in Australia, people that don't want to actually vote do what's called a donkey vote, which, I mean, I think, I think it originated from people literally drawing donkeys on their ballot and putting it into the, on their, on their piece of paper and putting it into, like, the ballot box. Um, but like, the. Literally, it refers to, like, not actually, you know, we have ranked choice voting in Australia, but it refers to not actually filling out the form at all with any of the numbers and just drawing something on it. Sometimes people will drop, you know, the stupidest things on it, but that's what it is. Like, you register when you go there to say, okay, you voted and doesn't matter after that.
00:27:15.386 - 00:27:58.364, Speaker A: Now, that leads to a high voter turnout, obviously, and there's a culture of, like, high voter turnout, and. But then in other places, the voter turnout can be low. I mean, you know, and if you're living in a democracy like that, it kind of, like, defeats the purpose, right? Like, you want to have high voter turnout because you want everyone's voice to be heard, whereas within crypto protocols with governance. It's, it's much, much worse because most people aren't holding these tokens to participate in governance. They're holding the tokens to speculate on. And obviously, you know, in, in governance systems in real life, there's no kind of like token that you hold. Technically, the token that you hold is like an NFT, which is your citizenship, or we, you know, if you're a citizen of a country, then you can vote in the elections or even a resident in some countries, I believe.
00:27:58.364 - 00:28:49.272, Speaker A: But that's kind of like your NFT to vote. It's not like you have to go buy some, some shares or some tokens or something. You don't have to buy, you don't have to buy shares in the government that you, you know, of the country that you're in to be able to vote, whereas it's very, very different within kind of like Defi, I guess, like in Daos in general, is where you can't actually vote unless you have the governance token now, you know, am I bearish on that long term? I don't have, I'm undecided. Am I bearish on it right now? Yes, because of the fact that there's so much voter apathy. Like, I could talk about this for a long time, this plutocracy. There's voter apathy. There's literally like, it's so bad that like 90 plus easily percent of the tokens just do not ever participate in governance, which means you have basically a dictatorship of just like a few small parties and they could just be whales that hold a lot of tokens influencing the whole protocol.
00:28:49.272 - 00:29:40.446, Speaker A: So anything we can do to kind of like remedy that or at least help that a little bit, which, you know, these voting, voting vaults is one way of doing it is good in my books, but I'm still undecided if, like, I'm bearish on governance the way we're doing it right now. Long term, I would actually like to see like nfts be used more within governance where you, if you're kind of like, if you're kind of like done something for a protocol, if you've participated in a protocol, maybe you've actually got funds in Aave, but you don't hold any aave tokens, well, maybe you should be able to participate in governance as well. Like, you still have skin in the game. You still kind of like, want, you know, aave to be, I guess, like a protocol that functions correctly, that that is governed correctly, but maybe you just don't want to hold the token. There's plenty of people who do that, right? I mean, I do it with Maker. I have my funds in make. I don't own any MKR tokens, so I guess from that perspective, I'd like to see more experimentation here, but voting vault is also a good step there.
00:29:40.446 - 00:29:50.774, Speaker A: But anyway, I think that's it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
